 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of The Tim Ferriss Show. I am thrilled to have my guest with me today Paul Conti MD. Paul is a graduate of Stanford University School of Medicine. He completed his psychiatry training at Stanford and at Harvard where he was appointed chief resident and then served on the medical faculty before moving to Portland and founding a clinic. Dr. Conti specializes in complex assessment and problem solving as well as both health and performance optimization serving patients and clients throughout the United States and internationally including the executive leadership of large corporations.  The Invisible Epidemic subtitle How Trauma Works and How We Can Heal From It. You can find him online at drpaulconti.com and also at pacificpremiergroup.com. Paul so nice to see you my friend. Dr.  Thanks so much for having me. It is great to see you too. I appreciate it.  And I have been looking forward to this conversation in my mind's eye for some time because we have known each other for a while. We met through our mutual friend Peter Attia  The Invisible Epidemic. We were doing the math beforehand before we pressed record around two and a half or so years ago. And I was so thrilled that you were putting your experiences and your approaches into book form. The fact of the matter is most of the time when I have every friend acquaintance and their cousin and grandma telling me they are going to write a book or asking if they should write a book I spend most of my time dissuading people from writing books. A because I think there'ill be just redundant or not a great value-add. And then on top of that I really just do not want to be forced to read them. And my feeling with you is very much the opposite. You are such a deliberate thoughtful and skilled practitioner. And I also of course value you as a friend but I have had a chance  and I am not going to disclose details necessarily  but I have seen you really intervene and quite likely save lives. And I cannot say that for many people. So it is a real honor to have you on I have been looking forward to doing this for a very long time. I have the highest opinion of you  just to establish that up front. And with all of that let us jump in. And I would love to hear also because my memory needs refreshing but for people listening how you ended up in psychiatry? Dr.  Thank you. And I want to thank you for your support when I was really figuring all this out and deciding I really want to write a book and it is such a leap to take that your support and encouragement about how that would be a worthwhile endeavor and could really make a difference was so helpful to me two and a half years ago and before then too. So I am so appreciative of that. And it is sort of part of my circuitous route that I had no pre-medical classes in college and I had a business career and at some point in time I realized that what has unified my interests across time was really about people. So I studied history and political science and art and I was very interested but ultimately it was really into people. And that is what was also fueling my interest in business was the people I was engaging with. And what were they like and how do they have these thoughts that got them to where they are at? And it was that sort of unifying element that led me to go back to medical school and say Okay I am going to learn about human biology and just learn something about human beings. And it was there that I realized like oh you can take this medical knowledge and you can take the sort of life knowledge of whether it is history or politics or sociology just knowledge about human beings. And you can put that together with an individual person who is sitting in front of you and talking about them like the specifics of their life and their experience. And you can put all that together and really be helpful to people like really make a concrete difference that you can see that there is a change. And that was ultimately so appealing to me and I felt like I could get that through psychiatry. And I think I found that to be the case. I am so grateful for the vagaries and the idiosyncrasies that ultimately led me to be able to see all of this and choose it as a career.  Many follow-up questions but we are going to kind of flash-forward to current day and then we are going to flash backwards. So I want to read a little snippet from the foreword in your book. And I think you will recognize this. Then I am going to ask you to add context. Dr.  Okay.  Why did not you bring a real doctor?' I asked the nurse. Paul replied by saying I am an Italian from New Jersey.' And that is when I decided I was willing to talk to him. My dad is an Italian from New Jersey so I figured I at least knew what I was dealing with. Whose words are these? Dr.  Those were the words of Stefani Germanotta who is also Lady Gaga on our first meeting. I think what I would describe as I think our auspicious first meeting.   The Invisible Epidemic. Of course you did not start off with clientele or clients patients like her. Could you tell us a bit about since we have mentioned the title a number of times your own personal history with trauma if you would be open to sharing? Dr.  In the first part of my life say up until around early twenties I did not have major trauma in my life. And in some ways I was fortunate to get through the big developmental milestones without major trauma. And it gave me a sort of view of life that was then deeply challenged by a sequence of traumas that sort of came in the second part of my life and seeing how they made me feel differently about things because I had the sort of foundation of confidence in myself and also in the predictability of the world that if I am engaging and doing the right things the good things are going to come back to me and how differently I felt. One after my brother's suicide which was the first of a series of quite traumatic things that unfolded over a number of years the challenge of that of realizing that while I am trying to figure out my way through this and like how to go on with life and how to support my parents and the people around me while I have an awareness that like I am different. Now I am seeing the world differently. And all of a sudden I remember I feel a little bit like Am I cursed? Is my family cursed? Is anything going to be okay? Maybe bad things always happen. I was so off balance and in way kind of impacted impaired even by all of this and realizing that Well can I even trust how I am thinking? Because I am thinking differently then I am trying to use the brain that is thinking differently to figure out what is different. And there was something quite scary about that that I could also then I could see when I became a psychiatrist play out in the people I was trying to guide or advise or take care of that they also often had thought differently about themselves. They stopped seeing that they could make their way in the world that they had good things to offer or that they could even stay safe. And that for me like really caught my attention that Hey there is something going on here that is very deep and also very insidious.  Thank you for sharing. And I just want to echo some of what you are saying in my own personal experience with depressive episodes which I have had as a mainstay of sorts for most of my life. And it can be very terrifying and certainly disorienting say in the middle of a depressive episode to be aware that you are looking at the world through a distorted lens but to have no confidence that you can correct that lens. It can be very terrifying because you feel like the prism through which you are looking at reality is broken and you are aware there is a problem but you cannot look through that broken prism to fix the broken prism or so you might believe and it can be extremely disorienting and sometimes destabilizing for sure. And I wanted to ask if you might be willing to speak to some of the other traumatic events and to place us in time starting with perhaps your brother. How old were you when your brother committed suicide? Dr.  I was 25 at the time 25 years old.  And are you willing if you are willing to share would you be open to mentioning some of the other things that happened to you? And the reason I am asking about this is not to inflict pain in revisiting these things but rather to share your personal experiences because there are very likely going to be people listening who will identify with different parts of your story. Dr.  I understand and I think it is helpful. The context is helpful. And I think it speaks to the impact of repeated traumas. That not long after my brother's death one of my best friends a person I grew up with died died very unexpectedly. We were in our mid-twenties. Several years down the road my wife was injured and injured quite seriously. I lost another very close friend under very tragic circumstances a couple of years after that. There were other traumas that were interspersed that were not at that level. So there is a sense of continued negative things happening. My mother became ill with pancreatic cancer and died not that long after her diagnosis. And that was very painful for very many reasons including the feeling that my brother's suicide and the impact upon the family had maybe predisposed her to getting sick which there may be some truth to that there may not. We cannot know the answer but that oppressive feeling of like there is one bad thing after another and I cannot control any of it and amidst it if I am not really grasping to get to keeping a hold on my sense of self that I could potentially lose that too or a sense of my place in the world. The idea you described of say what amounts to learned helplessness. That says I see these bad things. I see what they are doing to me but I do not think I can change any of it that there was a real danger of that throughout that whole period of time.  And if we focus on this term we have used now a number of times trauma how do you suggest people think about or define this term? And I will probably do this quite a bit in our conversation just to ensure that everyone understands the way in which we are using certain terms but how would you suggest people think about trauma and if there are subsets or different types of trauma perhaps what those are? Dr.  I would describe trauma as anything that causes us emotional or physical pain. That surpasses our coping mechanisms that makes us feel then overwhelmed often overwhelms our nervous system both body and mind and then really leaves a mark on us as we move forward. And trauma can be acute. A single traumatic event an assault a car accident an injury in combat. Trauma can be acute. It can also be chronic. So the chronic impact of say ongoing abuse or ongoing neglect or even ongoing marginalization. And we see so much of this has come to the forefront whether that is gender identity or it is racial. How many people are trying to exist and doing their best to not just to thrive but doing their best to survive amid circumstances that are constantly telling them that they are less than or that they are at special risk? That is chronic trauma. And vicarious trauma comes from really this wonderful fact that we can be empathic and empathically attuned to other people and we can feel what they are feeling. That is a wonderful thing that we can do that for one another but it also makes us so susceptible to other people's suffering and pain and we can lose the boundaries of what is us and what is them? I am not the only physician to say that at times especially in the intensity of the training period would have to really stop and say Okay wait a second. What is happening now is happening to someone else not to me. Because if I do not maintain that boundary I am too overwhelmed to help them but if one is empathically attuned which many many people are then we do not bound ourselves from other people's suffering. So there is acute trauma chronic trauma and vicarious trauma. And of course an overlap there can be an overlap between them too.  I would like to  since we are also you and I catching up ourselves as friends not just doing an interview. Dr.  That is great.  I would love to share. It is really really great to see you. And I would like to share an experience maybe in the last category. I do not want to give it a capital T but I have had a new experience and I have never passed through this type of shift in myself I do not think. An acquaintance I do not want to say friend but someone I know had a horrible family tragedy not long ago. His teenage daughter was killed in a head-on collision with a large truck like a Mack Truck. And for reasons that I do not think were necessarily determined her car just swerved ever so slightly into the incoming lane and dead on impact. And since that news I get exposed to tragedies every day. I mean if you look at the news you buy the newspaper there are tragedies everywhere. So I do not know why this had such a disproportionate I do not want to say disproportionate but such a large impact when I am exposed to tragedy of other types all day long. But I have had extreme anxiety while driving almost every day since that happened. Dr.  Right. I can understand that.  And I do not want to take necessarily an anxiolytic just to mute the anxiety or to suppress the symptom but in a case like this just because perhaps it is maybe easier to tackle than something like the childhood abuse that I experienced when I was really young how might someone approach this with or without professional help? And maybe this is not the forum in which to discuss it but I would love to hear any thoughts you might have because I have never experienced anything like this before. Dr.  Tim I think it is a great forum for it because it speaks to a common problem and a general principle in approaching the problem. We have to divert our attention from our instability and the unpredictability of the world around us. Like on some level we know that anything could happen and we are not safe from moment to moment from tragedy. But we have to sort of set that aside where it is kind of in the periphery of our mind and that is what lets us be able to go on and live our lives.  Right. Dr.  And things will happen sometimes that really resonate with the person. Now here it may be that something makes you really identify with this person even though they are an acquaintance and say not one of your closest friends. Or it just may be that something about the story or even something about your own condition the fertile ground inside your mind when you hear the story. That makes it resonate with you. And then in this that is a very classic aspect of vicarious trauma. Then it resonates and you feel as if like that is happened you get some shadowing of what that must feel like for that person. And then it shakes your sense of stability and predictability and this ability to control the world around you and be safe. And that starts making you feel insecure vulnerable. It is a natural response and the thing to do about it is to validate it. That is really the primary point I would say in response is to validate it because what people most often do is the opposite. It is unpleasant. It feels so bad that the person wants to say So there is something wrong with me. Why am I feeling this way about this? It did not happen to me. This is not someone in my close family. And we try to somehow invalidate what you are experiencing instead of saying No it is understandable. This is reminding you of something that you do actually know is true but it is bringing you to the forefront of your consciousness the vulnerability the unpredictability difficulty controlling the world. And if we validate that and realize Okay I am not learning anything new from this but I am feeling something very strong and I want to honor that I am feeling that. And then to be able to put words to it with someone that you know and trust and to be able to say that helps to pay down some of the anxiety and distress that often gets worse if the person is trying to shove it down and invalidate it. What is wrong with me that I am feeling this way? It just grows that tension inside.  Yeah. Right. That makes perfect sense to me. You have sort of a catalyzing event and then you have  so let us just call that one  I hesitate to use this term like one problem. And then if you have a very self not defeating but self-critical judgemental response to it now you have quite another problem. And as I am thinking about this I have not really spoken to anyone about this but I recall at the time you have me wondering like Why did I respond to this in this way? And I think that the circumstances temporarily  the circumstances at the time had a lot to do with it. I think a number of very difficult unexpected things that happened in my life I then also got the news in a somewhat I do not want to say frantic but very urgent text from a mutual friend of this acquaintance and when I called there was some type of help that I was potentially being asked to provide and I could not provide it. And so  Dr.  I see.   I found it very jarring in that respect. So I wanted to share that as an opportunity for discussion. Dr.  If I could say back Tim that makes me think about the sense of vulnerability and in the sense of I cannot even do anything to help. There is such a sense of vulnerability that then gets reinforced by that. And often people do want to help even when there is nothing someone can do to help and then the person feels bad. They cannot make anything better make the person feel better. And that adds to that sense of terror really. If we sort of validate within ourselves I am doing what I can do. I can be here for this person. I can listen. I can let them cry or be upset around me. That is what there is to do then that can take away from the sense of desperation and vulnerability and I want to help but I cannot because that critical voice that you referenced is very very common in people who are conscientious which is most people are conscientious people capable of feeling someone else's pain. So that critical voice comes to the force so readily it is reflexive which is where the shame comes from. And there is a whole cascade of as you said secondary problems to the initial negative thing or the initial problem.  Thank you for listening and for talking through it. How would you describe the current state of treating  successfully or unsuccessfully or anywhere in-between  trauma? What is the sort of current standard of care and what do you make of some of the tools in the tool kit? Dr.   by and large abysmal. And I think that is not because the people in the helping roles do not want to do their jobs or are not capable of doing their jobs but we have evolved a system that purveys mental healthcare largely without attention to the actual human being. And this is a huge problem. If you think about the shortening of visits. How much can you really talk about who you are or what is going on in you in the kind of brief often rushed and infrequent appointments that we have in our health system? And an over-reliance on medicines which leads to a paradigm that just wants to basically take a symptom inventory.  Right. Dr.  So well tell me an inventory of your symptoms. And I used to say this sometimes when I was teaching where I would give an inventory of symptoms of a person who had a rock in their shoe. And then often at the other end of that would be like Well what do you think is going on? And people would often say Attention deficit disorder. Because the person's not paying attention to things or distractible. But if we just take symptoms we will get it wrong.  Absolutely. Dr.  And we will get it wrong a lot and getting it wrong is it benign? It is not that Oh no help is given. Because we got it wrong. Now it is actually that harm is done. And the symptom inventory make a diagnosis or several diagnoses and then throw by and large medicines at the diagnosis just does not work. And what we end up doing is like so much in the American healthcare system we spend so much but we are at the bottom in terms of industrialized countries of outcomes and that is because we waste so many resources by not looking in-depth at the actual problems. And I think we do a very poor job at identifying and processing trauma for all of those reasons.  Are there any places this could be a country a city it could be specific clinics that stand out to you as being on the opposite end of the spectrum  either highly effective or at the very least more effective with addressing trauma? Dr.  I have some information and data about what is going on in some of the European countries but not enough to comment really with any authority. I think that most of what goes on in America ends up being a very low bar in a very formulaic purveyance of care. There are exceptions. So for example The Bridge to Recovery which is a place that Peter has talked about and I think is a place that really sets an example of how to be different and of course it is a residential facility and not everyone needs to or can go to a residential facility but that route of approach of really understanding the people and understanding developmental trauma even if the reason the person is coming to care is not specifically the developmental trauma but realizing that people we are all a whole. We are a whole person with our feelings memories that evolve in us over time. And so they do a wonderful job of looking at the whole person. They are certainly not the only entity that does that including individual practitioners. But by and large it is hard to find systems that will treat trauma from a holistic perspective.  How do you find the proverbial or metaphorical rock in the shoe? And by that I know you were giving sort of an illustration of an exercise when teaching but beyond symptom inventory how do you begin to unearth the causes at play with someone? Dr.  What I find so interesting about this is it is actually not that hard if you can build a rapport with someone where they feel like Okay you are not looking to fault me and you are not looking to stigmatize me and you are actually interested in me interested in what is going on in me. So I would not say to everyone I am an Italian from New Jersey but the thought of Hey this is   That is not your opening salvo? Dr.  It is not my consistent opening salvo. But when someone you could tell is in pain and you are thinking Look is there a route in which we can connect? And Stephanie is an Italian from New York there is a similarity that can then establish a rapport that can lead the person with whom I am trying to establish the rapport to really feel like I can talk to you. I can talk period. I can talk openly. And it often leads to right where we need to go. Because people often are aware of what is going on inside of them what triggers them what is going on in the tape that is playing in their head all the time. How do they feel badly about themselves what is their internal dialogue about themselves? And when you let people start talking very often they will talk about it even if they never have before. They might have had treatment for depression in 15 different settings never talked about trauma. I mean by the way I see this a lot that is not just a theoretical example because no one's asked about it and been open to it and that reinforces the idea of shame and stigma. No one's asking about this even though we are ostensibly here to talk about my mental health. That reinforces the messaging of stigma and shame. But if you give people an open venue to talk it is remarkable how it can come to the fore be processed or validated or challenged however it may be. It is just an openness to it which involves a milieu that allows for that to happen which is something other than very very rushed like Okay we have 15 minutes let me hear your symptom inventory so I can write a prescription and then the next person can come in. That is never conducive to openness and sharing. But if we make environments that are open to that really good things happen.  I would love to ask a question that might pop to mind for listeners as well. And as just a backdrop I have thought a lot about trauma. I would not consider myself a domain expert but I had experiences of sexual abuse when I was very small and consistent regular abuse for several years from two to four at a babysitter's house. And so I thought and read quite a bit related to trauma but I think it is important to note and please correct me if I am not getting this right but that you are not a hammer looking for nails with trauma in the sense that you cover a very broad spectrum of different conditions issues wants questions with patients. And it seems to me that there is probably a potentially damaging just like the symptom inventory is not neutral necessarily it can result in very bad outcomes. I have done some reading on controversy related to say suppressed memories. Dr.  Right.  So I am sure there are therapists who actually do a lot of damage by trying to fit a narrative of trauma to every patient that they have in some way. Dr.  Absolutely.  And so I would love to just hear you comment on the good the bad and the ugly within the discipline let us just say or skillset of treating trauma. Dr.  The first thing I would say is I never made a conscious decision to say Hey I am going to be a trauma person. I mean what I saw was Oh this is running through everything that I am doing. And at the time I really first started seeing it I had an open general practice and I was seeing  what are the commonalities across people that I am seeing? Socioeconomic demographic background diagnosis what are the commonalities? And of course I saw how often substances were playing into what was going on. And I saw even more strongly than that how often trauma was playing into what was going on whether that was depression or anxiety or insomnia or even the evolution of psychosis or the triggering of bipolar episodes. I mean there was just so much that was keyed to trauma and that is what really captivated my attention and then grew my interest in my research and clinical approaches to it. I think it is there and it is quite pervasive but it of course is not the answer to everything. And yes if you have the hammer and you want to see all nails then that is what we see. And I think we have to be very very careful because we often as human beings we develop allegorical ways of understanding things and we can do that consciously and also unconsciously. So the idea of recovered memories from the perspective of Oh that person had no idea that that thing had happened and now they know that it has happened is something we just must be skeptical about in a way that is careful. I do not mean skeptical in a way of trying to invalidate a person but being careful because if a story that is not actually true becomes that person's touchstone for truth that is not good for that person. And it can be very damaging for others who then may be falsely accused of something for example. Most of the time and I have been doing this for 20 years and I would say the vast majority of times when someone is now talking about a memory that they have not talked about before it is not because they did not have that memory before it is because it was riding in the boundary being above and below consciousness. And they know that that is there but they do not let it into consciousness or let alone put words to it. And then there is a way in which the memory or the experience the person has talked about fits with their internal world before it came to the fore. As opposed to in a sense coming out of the blue which we just need to be more careful about for the sake of that person who may have had that come out of the blue because maybe that is true but maybe that is not. And if it is not it is not helpful to them. And it is potentially risky to others if that makes sense. And the more that we work against stigma  again I am saying this because I believe with all my heart that it is true that your willingness to talk about your own trauma is so powerful. It is so powerfully helpful because you are pushing against reflexive stigma because trauma makes reflexive shame and reflexive stigma and that is what makes people go underground so to speak with their trauma. And that is where confusion comes in. The misery gets compounded confusion comes in because people are alone with something that is terrifying them. And they are alone over time and their own brains can evolve in ways that maybe sometimes are helpful but maybe sometimes are not helpful. So the more that we work against stigma and shame and say Look what is there that is happened to a person that that person should not be able to talk about with trusted others? Whether that is trusted friends and family or clergy or people in helping fields a person should be able to talk about what is going on inside of them because it is burying those unhealthy seeds so to speak that then compounds original trauma into something that can end up being far far worse with a whole cascade of problems. Could be depression could be substances could be self harm could be an eating disorder. There is so much that gets compounded when the original trauma gets pushed outside of consciousness and outside of communication.  It brings to mind for me something and I am paraphrasing here that someone named Gabor Mat shared on the podcast quite a few years ago. And again I am not getting this word for word but he spent a lot of time working with opiate addicts in British Columbia and elsewhere and he is fond of saying We should not ask why the addiction we should ask why the pain. And certainly in my exposure to addiction my best friend from childhood died of a fentanyl overdose. And my brother's best friend from childhood died in a drunk driving accident lot of substance abuse where I grew up on Eastern Long Island. And my uncle actually recently died of  I am not laughing because it is funny but alcohol-induced cardiomyopathy. His wife my aunt died of Percocet plus alcohol so I have seen a lot of addiction and what Gabor says really resonates with me.I would love to if you are open to exploring some of the tools in the toolkit and I am not implying that you utilize all of these modalities in your practice but for those people out there who are wondering  and we are going to talk about the framework of the book and how you put it together and what people who do not have access to Paul Conti might expect to learn and be able to apply from the book but before we get there  in the last handful of years as you know I have been hoovering up a lot as an enthusiastic amateur and have found certain things personally very helpful like IFS Internal Family Systems that I found very helpful. I have helped fund some studies with different formats of therapy like CBT or  DBT dialectical behavioral therapy? Dr.  Yes.  And then I am hoping I think I have already funded or my foundation has funded a study involving these acronyms get really tricky after a while co-joint or conjoint something that is conjoint and similar to CBT but the idea being that you are using in this case MDMA-assisted therapy for not just the individual who experienced trauma and I think in this case it is veterans but also the spouses. So there are all these different approaches. People may have heard of EMDR which I do not have much experience with but all of these various tools in the toolkit. Are there particular  and this may not be a good question but I am curious so I will ask. Are there particular modalities frameworks tools that you have found to be particularly helpful in working with individuals who have trauma in their background? Dr.  There are many arrows in the quiver and CBT is an arrow in the quiver DBT is an arrow in the quiver medicines can be an arrow in the quiver. But where it all has to start is a search for truth because trauma changes our emotions about things our feelings and emotions about things. It then changes how we think and what our memories mean so we need to look at What is the person's narrative about trauma if they are identifying that there is trauma and if not What is the narrative about self? Because unless we understand that then it is like you are trying to solve a math problem but you do not know what the equation is.  Right. Dr.  We are not going to pick the right tool we are not going to get to the right place. So because there is so much reflexive shame and then a cascade that comes after that and a lot of times that involves a decrease in role performance where now the person does not  they are not performing their role say as a parent or as an employee or as a friend as well then the person begins to think of themselves in a different way. And the first thing to get at is What is the person's narrative? So someone who may present and say Oh I have really got physically hurt in my last relationship but I mean this is always what happens so it never goes any differently. I mean instead of looking Okay let us look at the trauma from this thing that happened to you in your last relationship you have to look at Why is the person approaching the whole question of relationships from a place that says things will not be okay for me? What are the lessons that that person has learned that are not actually true? And you have to go back to when did the person start thinking of that. I mean if people do not  I mean I am saying it for effect but people do not pop out of the womb thinking No one's going to treat me well I do not deserve to be treated well. I always get hurt in relationships. Where along did that conception come into play and how much does that person also maybe feel they do not deserve anything better? Where did that come from? And if we go back and we look at the formation of a narrative that then furthers and perpetuates trauma then we can get at changing it. But then you have to get at what are the pain that the person felt the emotions involved. You have to go to a place that is emotional. But if you go to that place where the actual events the emotions the change in conception of self or conception of the world then you can come through and say Okay what tools does it make sense for us to apply? because there are the arrows in the quiver that you noted and a lot more. But the question is knowing Hey when does one make sense versus another? And I try and write a lot about strategies antidotes in the book. And I think in a sense they are good ideas but  I think they are good ideas but they are good ideas only if they are applied in the right situation to the right person. So it goes back again to understanding the person what happened to them and what is their narrative of themselves and what the world can or cannot be for them.  Well let us get personal and I will be the one to get personal just as a way of exploring this if you are open to it. Dr.  Sure.  It is hard maybe it is impossible to say I feel X because of Y. I mean if it were a scientific study it would be very hard to get to conclusive results. Nonetheless there are certain events in my life and abuse experiences and so on that I think have formed my worldview or informed my world view. I do not want to put it all on that there is probably  there must be more to the story but I would love to talk about hypervigilance for a second. Dr.  Sure.  This is from your book. When people suffer from trauma however their threat sensor becomes hyperactive and hypervigilant convincing them that things are dangerous and wrong right now constantly. It is like a threat sensor recognizes that it was unable to prevent the initial trauma and now it is trying to make up for it by being active and loud all the time. This is how I feel a lot of the time and I have approached it from different angles. I have used heart rate variability training to start from bottom up in other words not starting with the language and the concepts and the stories but starting with the physiology. I have found that quite helpful with Dr. Leah Lagos and I feel like I have made progress here. But nonetheless I do feel like my threat sensors are turned to high volume most of the time. And so I have these fundamental stories. And since I suppose our stories become filtering mechanisms for what we notice and remember I can point to long laundry lists of evidence that support what I am about to say. I am not saying they are true across the board by any stretch but the world is fundamentally unsafe it is unpredictable people should earn trust but start at a baseline of being distrusted or viewed with some suspicion. And these positions that I have established for myself I recognize cause a lot of anxiety anger stress that is unhelpful in my life. I recognize  I am fully aware of this and I beat myself up with respect to my apparent inability to reformat my hard drive. Dr.  Uh-huh .  Do you have any antidotes for hypervigilance? Do you have a way of thinking about it or approaching it that we could discuss? Dr.  I come back to the first step being to assess and validate. Think about the things that you said. There is fundamental truth to some degree.  Yeah. Dr.  I mean the world is not an entirely safe place. We cannot control everything so it is like too much of a good thing. And that is what hypervigilance is. Because we are not saying we should have no vigilance I mean there're threat sensors in all of us that are supposed to be firing in the background. You hear a loud noise you pay attention. It is supposed to be in the background. But recognizing that probably what has pushed say that vigilant sensor in you up to a much higher place on the scale is the impact of trauma which takes reasonable concepts and then builds a whole story around the extrapolation of the concept to some end that is unhealthy and maladaptive. So take your driving example. So you are prompted I think from  you are predisposed say from prior trauma to have something that hits home really increase the level of tension and vulnerability inside. So one way of looking at that is to validate and say Look I do actually know that it is not completely safe to drive so I try and I say Have a safe car and drive carefully. I know all of that. But because I hear an example of something really tragic that occurred while driving then that vigilant sensor wants to build the whole story around that and wants to say That is going to happen to you. The chances of that happening are so high. And now it starts capturing your attention and it starts reinforcing itself. And then if you are thinking on top of that God what is wrong with me that I keep thinking that? that calls attention to it too and further reinforces it. But by validating that Hey I am an empathic person that heard about a terrible tragedy and the circumstances of that tragedy are going to resonate within me and make the hypervigilance in me attach to that. I know this I understand this I can step back to say reality testing of saying I do actually know that there is some danger to driving I do actually take precautions. Me learning about this tragedy is not actually making me less safe.' And maybe it has me reflect Is my car as safe as I want it to be? Is there actually something I can take away from it? And if I cannot let me feel a sense of grief for this person's loss and feel a sense of sadness but make a conscious boundary that that is actually not about me or my risk in the world. I did not learn anything new and I certainly do not want to then be beating up on myself because I am what hypervigilant from prior trauma and empathically attuned? And that is a place where another example could do where medicines could be helpful. And again I am not saying this because I do not know enough of the specifics but sometimes a little bit of medicine for a short period of time can help push back the extra attention and the extra vigilance to the point where things can then go back towards normal. So there is so many psychotherapy and medication tactics that can be used but it starts with what is the truth of this what is it actually telling a person what does it mean to them what is the narrative about it and how do we ground ourselves to the truth of it as opposed to shame and self-recrimination even feeling bad that you feel bad?  Just for clarity the medicines in this case say prescription medications could be used to reintroduce my psychology and physiology to a state of non-hypervigilance so I can recalibrate and recognize it as a possible state. And that is done without the intention of chronic administration or never-ending administration. It is given for a short period of time. Maybe it is short I do not know. I guess that is relative but  Dr.  Right. That often is effective and you can go so to say top down from brain to body but you can also go  as you were saying a couple of minutes ago you can go bottom up from body to brain because tension in the brain makes all sorts of problems in the body. And one very strong example of that is the impact of muscle tension. So there might be muscle tension for example between the ribs and now the person feels a little bit short of breath. Well there is muscle tension in the GI system and now the person is having IBS symptoms or muscle tension in the legs and now there is restless legs symptoms and if we are  we can go the other way of looking at the body and ways of trying to relax the body and decrease attention to the body because that decreases the signaling that goes back to the brain. What we do not want is a cycle where brain is tense sends those signals to body body gets more tense sends those signals to brain that gets more tense. And you can see we can be in a vicious cycle there. So we have a mind-body connection. Whether we choose to pay attention to it or not it is still there. And often if we are not paying attention to it it is not that that is neutral either but that can be quite negative. So looking at the whole person where do you hold your attention how do you experience your tension how much in the way of words do you need to put to this how much in the way to physical interventions should you be doing should there be any medicines? But again we are looking at the person that becomes very specific to you as it should be.  I would love to ask a question that is specific to you. And this might be a bit of a left turn but I think it would be  I am personally very curious. If we could go back to your brother's suicide and I know it is probably not the easiest thing to talk about but that is a  I mean it sounds like  it is hard for me to conceive of a larger event at least in the vicarious trauma category. What are the things that helped the most in terms of coming to terms with that or healing from that to the extent that you have? Dr.  I will start by saying I had no mental health education or experience at the time so my initial response was like We are very healthy. I mean I felt like it was my fault I should have known I should have been a better brother. I was probably fairly depressed myself and drinking too much and all sorts of other things that I was still going along with life but feeling very oppressed and feeling oppressed not just externally but inside. So this idea that trauma changes how we think about ourselves and then we are trying to recognize that is like looking at the mirror and saying Is that me? But you do not really remember what you looked like yesterday.  Right. Yeah. Dr.  So that was very scary and a lot of the ways in which I handled it were not helpful or healthy. So ultimately when I think How did I get through that? it was  Interconnections with other people were absolutely indispensable that there were people around me who cared about me who were then reflecting back to me like No you are a good person and a terrible tragedy has happened to you which is very helpful because they could see me because they knew me and they knew me before the tragedy. It was me who could not see me. And they were basically communicating that Something awful has happened but you are the same person you were before and that is a capable person and a caring person. And that was immensely helpful to me. And some of that was through friends and family. And also I went and got some psychotherapy which people were not really doing. Where I grew up people did not go to therapy.  Where did you grow up? Dr.  Outside of Trenton New Jersey.  Mm-hmm . Dr.  And it just was not in the culture so for me going and getting therapy even was like something  do I feel embarrassed about that? Do healthy people ever do that? Is that just for crazy people? That was how it was thought of so I had to do something that I think did have some bravery to it of saying Hey I have got to be honest with myself. I am not doing okay and I am getting help from people and there are people who care about me but there is professional help too. And I just found a therapist and she was very very helpful to me in that basic grounding way. So the impact of others was so helpful because otherwise I think I probably there is a good chance I would have never seen myself the same way again in a way that could have just been worse and worse and worse. And that is ultimately what led me to is this kind of come to a full stop and look at how I was handling my life. And there is silver linings. I do believe if we work hard enough towards them there can be silver linings to anything no matter how bad it is. And the silver lining was I looked at myself and I wanted to go to medical school but thought I am too old. Why? Because I was 25. Like that is not too old but I thought it was or I could not leave my job because I was making a good income. And if I went to medical school I am going to pay. And all these things were in my head and people were saying to me You are too old. You cannot walk away from your job. And it is going to cost. There were so many things that I realized  do not matter. I have my life. And I am healthy enough that I can go do what I want to do. Now go do those things. And it was actually quite helpful to me and I decided I am going to leave my job. And even though I have not taken a single pre-med course I am going to go apply. And it led me to feel emboldened but I had to get to a place where I could see myself as a worthwhile and capable person. That is how I saw myself before his suicide. But there was a whole period of time when I did not see myself that way. And it was really other people both personally and professionally that were sort of for me a bridge to a place I was not going to be able to get on my own. And I think that is the case for many of us. And when people do not have access to people who care about them people who can help them unfortunately there is a lot of secondary tragedies that come of that because we are interconnected as human beings and we are not kind enough and helpful enough. I write about compassion community and humanity and these basic principles that I think we should be following because I do not think they are rocket science I think they are simple yet we do not follow them and then we are not there for each other in ways that I think we want to think that we are but we often we are not living that in the world around us.  Thank you for sharing. And  Dr.  You are welcome.   you have turned into one hell of a bridge yourself. Dr.  Thank you that means a lot to me to hear. Thank you so much.  Yeah. It is true. I would love to hear you because I have not seen the latest and greatest I saw V1. I saw version one of the manuscript. And I mean you saw my  I read it with great interest and gave you probably more feedback than any reasonable person would want. Dr.  I needed it. I needed that feedback.  It was strong. I am sure it is grown and developed. What is the format of the book? Could you lay out the basic structure of the book? Dr.  You were very very helpful to me. And the few people that I asked to look over that original manuscript really guided me in the same two ways which was towards having more of a voice that is like just the natural voice when I am maybe talking to someone and I can tend to become a little too academic right? As opposed to like look that is not how I want to be. So I am trying to write in a way or I have tried to write in a way that is just it is plain and clear and thereby hopefully effective. And the other recommendations were about incorporation of stories of the things in my own life or in my work which is part of my life that really emphasize the concepts. And that is what the book is like it is meant to be read by anyone and everyone who has an interest in the subject material. And it is very personalized about me and the examples in the world around me that illustrate the concepts. And with that in mind there are four parts to it. So the first is what is trauma and how does it work? So that is talking about the definition of trauma and the facets of post-trauma syndromes and how they impact people. So the cascade of henchmen of trauma starting with shame and all the others that come along with shame. So that is the first part of the book. The second part is the big picture. So that is the part that is the sociology of trauma. Of looking at look how is this happening in the world around us? Which my goodness has come to a fever pitch with the pandemic and just a spotlight on systemic racism and racial injustice in the world around us. And also on this erosion of faith in our socio-economic foundation. Can you work really hard and get ahead? How does that work now compared to how it worked 50 years ago? So that is the second part of it. And in the third part that is where it is sort of called an owner's manual for your brain. Where I am trying to really look at how does this work in the brain? What is the difference between the logic systems and limbic or emotional systems in our brain? How do we find meaning in our memories? How do our memories change when our limbic system changes the emotion tied to memories? How does trauma cascade through mind and body? So that is the third part of the book. And then the fourth is like how we can beat trauma because again I do not want this to be esoteric in any way shape or form. The idea is that this is well grounded in the practical of like what can we do and change now? Which means it has to be there have to be things that we can employ and that we can employ individually and in small groups of people and then larger groups of people which brings us back to some things that well actually the majority of it really comes down to like simplicity. And there is a common sense to it that I am advocating for in the fourth part of the book. But I am trying to use the whole book to get us to the place where like these doable practical things are really at the forefront of our minds and the person reading the book can feel I can do those things I can do them now and I can advocate for them in the world around me. And that is what really brings it the idea that we are going to have knowledge and the knowledge is going to make change.  Are there any particular stories in the book  I am sure there are  that we have not discussed that have resonated with proofreaders and those who have had a chance to read it? Do any come to mind? Dr.  I will start with  so my favorite story my favorite part of the book maybe my favorite story ever in my own life which I had shared. I do not know if I will remember it was a while ago but you really did like this. And that made me feel good about the validity of it   I believe it. Dr.  Because it is a positive story. Like there are stories that are about how people get to the point where like really bad things have happened and that is part of us understanding but there are stories about overcoming too. And my Uncle Rango who was such a dear beloved person in my life is someone whose early life did not look like things were going to go that well. He had a sixth-grade education and not a lot of guidance and support and then was drafted in the Second World War and experienced some horrible horrible things during the war. But through those experiences developed a sense of self that said I am a conscientious person. I am a strong person. I am a person who can do difficult things. And who can do difficult things for reasons that are so strong that one cannot look away from them and a person who can do those things should not feel ashamed of themselves. Should feel a sense of pride amidst the recognition of tragedy. And even with a sixth-grade education and the limits that kind of lack of exposure to the bigger aspects of the world and even of how our minds work was able to really understand that and have a very very good life. And part of why he had a good life was the silver lining of the trauma that he experienced in the Second World War because he came out of it with a sense of self that said You know what? You are not a delinquent loser. You are the opposite of that. You are someone who leads men to safety when they are otherwise likely to be killed. Who does  and I will not sort of give away the story  but does something incredibly difficult that haunted him his whole life because in his opinion I do not understand what else there could have been to do but what he did because that was what was in front of him. And he did not see it as his fault in a sense that would have brought him shame if that makes sense. And that is why I think it is my favorite story. And even before when I was younger I was able to put all this together I could see reasons that made me feel proud and made me see hope in that. Even when I was quite young his story was very empowering. Even though we did not know the details he never would tell us the details but we knew what he had come through and that he was this decorated war hero and we felt proud of him because he felt a sense of pride in himself.  That is right. I do remember Uncle Rango. Yeah I do remember how could one forget? Could you speak to or define selective abstraction? Because this is a thing that might be worth digging into. Dr.  Selective abstraction is when we take one detail from a big picture and we construct the story of that whole big picture around the detail. An example it is probably a common example but even in my own life is like I can come to work and I can have a good day at work and feel like I am doing good things and I am helping people. I generally can feel good about things. But then if I cannot find my keys when I am leaving and since it is really happened and then I am frustrated now and I am frustrated with myself. And when I finally find my keys or I get people to help me find my keys the narrative that is going on in my head is like What a loser. I mean you cannot even find your car keys to drive home. What the hell is wrong with you? And that is the story. And then I can get home and my wife could ask me How was your day? I am like Ah it is a terrible day because I am incompetent because I built the story of the whole day around what  the salience negative. The thing that triggered in me my own susceptibility to thinking I am not good enough and what I am doing is not worthwhile enough and look what is wrong with me? And that is selective abstraction. Because that was probably 10 minutes of my day but my brain builds a whole story of the day which is my story of myself around that negative thing.  Selective attention is a hell of a thing right? You buy a new car and all of a sudden everyone's driving the same car but of course those cars are already out there. You are just paying more attention now. Dr.  And that is so big because this is all about salience biases. What are we paying attention to? And trauma makes us pay attention to the negative. That is why we think the world is less safe of a place. Or that we are less competent people. This is the danger. We use selective abstraction and salience biases and attribution biases where something negative happens that I am going to attribute it to me. And I see this all the time where something negative may happen next door. A person had nothing to do with but they feel that it is their fault. Because we get enough of this in ourselves. And we literally forget who we are or what we are worth which is why people will stay in jobs that they hate when they could try something different or they will stay in abusive relationships when they could end the abusive relationship and not enter another one. Where does all that end up? It ends up in learned helplessness and learned helplessness pushes people towards more trauma and very often towards death.  Could you say more about that when you say towards death? Dr.  Because the accumulation of trauma makes people more and more desperate for ways of coping. It is like you and me had talked about drug addiction and we talked about the decrease in role performance and the shame that comes along with it and the stigma Nobody decides I am going to use drugs because what I want to do is ruin my life. No one makes that decision. So if we look at as you were saying Dr. Mat was saying Look at the pain in the person where did that come from? And not always but a lot of times where drug abuse and drug addiction comes from it comes from pain and suffering and a desperation to feel different. So more pain and suffering means people are more likely to repeat maladaptive patterns that lead them to more trauma. And they are more likely to feel desperate for soothing in a way that can for example pave the way to substance use. Because the blind  imagine like a set of blinders that it starts off they are outside our peripheral vision. So they are not affecting us at all but as time goes on they can encroach more and more and more as a person has more trauma less healthy coping mechanisms a more negative view of self a more negative view of the world and then the blinders come in and at some point the blinders are so narrow that all the person sees is basically a helpless and hopeless picture. And that is where a lot of suicide comes from. And where a lot of accidental deaths come from. So often the goal is when I think about what are we doing in trauma treatment and the image that is in my head a lot is we are trying to take those  I imagine a set of blinders a person who is just peeking through with one eye and we are trying to pull them out so they see the breadth of truth. The breadth of their perspective allows that person to again see truth and remember  oh like an example. I absolutely understood at one point in time that violence is not acceptable in my life. I understood that. And I do not believe that any less now than I did then. But boy I kind of forgot it in the middle. Because the person forgot that they could have a life free of violence or that they deserve a life free of violence. That is where this narrowing of blinders and the change in emotion and how emotion impacts our memories and tells us what our memories mea. The memory of something happy with other people can go from being a memory that says Right I can do anything and I can interact with people and they like me and want me to be around to a memory of something that is impossibly lost for the person. And again that is not true but if you see it as impossibly lost it is unless there is some process that leads you to a place where you remember what is true that you forgot.  This brings to mind for me one tool in the toolkit and it is more of a category but it is one I would love to hear your current thoughts on. I do think and I will get to the punchline in a second that it is very dangerous to view anything as a panacea or a fix-all of any type. And it is particularly common with what I am going to mention which is psychedelics. But as we are talking if we for the time being include MDMA in the category of psychedelic just to make it a little easier to discuss even though one could argue it does not cleanly fit in that category. But as an empathogen it is remarkable to me how patients say going through the MAPS trials phase three trials and so on can recontextualize memories that for decades have had a fixed emotional tenor. And suddenly they are able to go back and with a decreased fear response unwrap that memory recontextualize it as an adult with better coping mechanisms and sort of re-install it so to speak. It is really a fascinating replicable phenomenon for a lot of patients. How do you think about if you do it all psychedelics their use abuse roles misapplications what is your current thinking? Dr.  My understanding from the research the really consistent reports tell me that there is something immensely powerful here that has the capacity to do an immense amount of good. But we have to be careful with anything that is even moderately powerful let alone very powerful. And that we are figuring out how to deploy these kinds of tools to do something amazing. And I say that in like the full meaning of that word. Because what they seem to be able to help people do is to look at trauma from the perspective of truth without the reflexive shame. that' If someone else hurt me what is wrong with me? Why am I being hurt? Like that is the reflex and it generates shame. Imagine how our perspective is already immediately altered. If trauma arouses shame then the trauma itself immediately alters our perception mechanisms that we can use to understand the trauma and navigate our way through it. And I think that goes hand in hand with this idea that we value so highly as human beings the outer parts of the cerebral cortex. The parts that are uniquely human. The parts that let us for example have a language. And the five senses which I know I understand they are not uniquely human but these are the parts though of the outer cortex of the brain our ability to plan and to project into the future. And we value these so highly but we do that in a reflexive way. Why do we value that? Just because the end point of the cortex is the farthest the brain is grown outward. That is the part that abutting up against our skulls. But like we do not do that with roads. I do not say if a road is going somewhere I want to go that Oh but it is better to keep going. Maybe that road dead ends in a muddy place I cannot get out of. What may be happening is that there is a brain stem  that is the earlier part of the brain the first part of the brain that is about the basics of survival. Temperature regulation sex drive appetite. And then at the other end of the spectrum there is the cortex that is about the things that we need in order to sort of keep us alive. And that may be like what the five senses are about for example. It is about in a sense vigilance and it is about keeping us alive. And that is important but it may be that the brain stem which is about just staying alive and the cortex which is about staying alive in a different way  by monitoring and navigating our environment  are less interesting than what is in between. So that is where the amygdala is  Grand Central Station for negative emotion and the emotion that impacts vigilance. The hippocampus which is about memory what is the hippocampus connected to? The amygdala. So the limbic system and emotion is so important to how we remember things and the meaning we put in memories and to the insular cortex a part of the brain that it may be that the insular cortex is really about life lived or life felt and understood and that these medicines along with psychotherapeutic tactics can do this too. And judicious use of standard medicines can help do this where we are living more in the part of the brain that can actually understand and assess what life is about. And it may be that the psychedelics altering the Default Mode Network and changing how the brain is communicating where the seat of the brain's existence consciously and unconsciously is at opens up the ability to get out of the cortex and into the part of the brain that says Gosh something terrible happened. What is that and what does that mean? Without all the reflexive loading of guilt and shame the million thoughts we may have had that can perpetuate guilt and shame and the narrowing of perspective.  That is an excellent way to put it. It is almost as though before we consciously think about trauma for many of the people who have suffered trauma if not most there is almost a bootup sequence in the background which is what you are about to think about or talk about was your fault because you are flawed colon and then you have  and if that is the canvas upon which all subsequent thoughts are painted you can predictably experience a very challenging interpretation of yourself and of events. Dr.  The thing gets reinforced. Because that challenging interpretation gets reinforced the next time you think about it and the next and the next and the next.  And you talked about the Default Mode Network. I mean this is obviously a topic sometimes a controversial topic of conversation among the neuroanatomists and researchers looking at psychedelics. There are a number of aspects also that as we are talking are of great interest and of course a lot more research is needed to delve deeper and even confirm the sort of therapeutic implications of what I am about to say. But one is sort of bottom up which is neurogenesis. So if certain psychedelics like psilocybin is found in psilocybin mushrooms or synthesized for that matter has neurodegenerative effects in places like potentially the hippocampus and elsewhere. And at least anecdotally seems to have some effect on TBI in veterans for instance is it plausible that any type of sort of neuronal and you would probably be able to speak better to this than I would but more eloquently certainly any sort of chronic damage or atrophy or mal adaptation from a neuronal perspective from chronic depression also respond favorably sort of bottom up by bathing in some of these compounds for a period of time. I do think it is quite likely that there is something there from just a mechanistic sort of neuronal perspective. The other is that as we are talking about this overlay of I as we talk about or think about trauma when you have hypothetically let us just say decrease in activity in the Default Mode Network and certainly if you experienced ego dissolution in any capacity where the entire sort of skin encapsulated concept of I begins to loosen its grip on your perception if you then revisit trauma if there is no I or less of an I it becomes harder to blame yourself if not impossible for what you are witnessing. So you have the ability also to become an observer who is not just less prone to self judgment. This is not always the case but in some instances you are incapable of self judgment and it is very peculiar but certainly in the reports out of say sessions from Johns Hopkins and elsewhere it is remarkable to see what these compounds can do. And it is very tempting to view them as the holy grail which will solve all of our miseries and pains. And I think that is I feel like I am talking too much but I will finish in a second that it is very tempting with anything new to overestimate the applications. And some early studies can also seem to overstate the efficacy. And this is seen in medicine and psychiatry over and over again. I wanted to ask you we can come back to this topic of course because my listeners know I am happy to talk for hours about this. But I am curious on let us just call it more conventional side. And with the caveat that we are not providing medical advice I am certainly not a doctor. I do not play one on the internet but this is for informational purposes only. And it is a conversation between you and I. In the case of say hypervigilance because within the conventional pharmacopeia there are incredible drugs available. And Western medicine despite the tendency these days for a lot of folks to poo poo Western medicine I mean it is the most effective healing system ever devised by humankind full stop. And I am curious so within that massive list of options and all of the available options what are some of your preferred options and feel free not to answer this if you do not want to but if we were looking at a case say of hypervigilance and you wanted to put someone on a short cycle or I should say a finite cycle of a compound or compounds what are the top of the list and how do you go about selecting for someone? Dr.  Sure. Maybe I will come at this by saying the first thing to say is we have all these arrows in the quiver and the empathogens are potentially these new wonderful arrows in the quiver but we need to understand them. And there can be a tendency to overestimate benefit and underestimate risk. So there is research going on that says that these can be just fantastic tools in the quiver but we need to understand them better. And as that research is coming along what I believe we should also be doing is looking at the arrows we already have in the quiver that we are not utilizing effectively. And that includes all the psychotherapy modalities that get underutilized because we are just taking inventories of symptoms and trying to treat a symptom and call it good. The same is true of medications that if we are really paying attention to people and to what is going on in them we can then actually target symptoms but we are targeting symptoms and understanding what the big picture is like.  Right. Exactly. There is a purpose there is an outcome beyond suppression or there is a target there is an intention beyond just alleviation of symptoms. Dr.  Right. So if you told me that now after the tragedy that you learned of that you have an increased sense of tension in you all the time then I would look to maybe an SSRI kind of medicine a medicine that could improve your distress tolerance because that extra tension is in you all the time. If you said No it is actually only in me when I am driving and I am getting a little tremulous and I am sweating we might think about another medicine that can block the impact of that extra tension on you physically because that is reinforcing. And then you get into that mind-body body-mind vicious cycle.  What class of drug would that be? Dr.  A beta blocker for example would be a possibility in that scenario. Or if you told me Everything is okay but I am really having trouble getting to sleep because I cannot get this out of my mind. Then I would not suggest a sleeping medicine because I would think there is nothing wrong with your sleeping system but sleep is being blocked because your distress system is amped up. And when your brain's trying to sift down into a peaceful place that is the time that the intrusive thoughts about this new trauma come into your mind. So can we use something that in a time limited way like right around bedtime decreases the distress signaling in your brain so that you can fall asleep as opposed to a heavy-handed intervention which we would say Well let us put you on some sleep medicines when it is not really your sleep system that is broken it is your distress that is higher.  Just because I love the details of this kind of thing what class of compound or drug might fit that last example the distress signaling prior to bed? Dr.  This is one of the interventions and it may actually be the intervention I have got to think hard about that that has the most success. If not it is in the top three which is using medicines that are called anti-psychotics but that is a terrible name. It is like just because these medicines are  just because they are used for that does not mean that is all that they do. It is such a misnomer to name something by what its first use is. I do not call a dollar a baseball card buyer even though that is probably the first thing that I bought with a dollar. So it stigmatizes the medicines. And then they do not get used for this but low dosing of those medicines blocks what are called D2 receptors blocks receptors that are around distress transmission. And very low dosing is often immensely helpful in situations where there is a lot of distress signaling and that is impacting sleep. So I cannot count the number of people I have seen who cannot sleep. And they have tried quote-unquote every sleeping medicine. And sometimes they actually seemingly have but they are not going to sleep then because to say Oh they have a sleeping problem is just pointing out the obvious that they are not sleeping. That is not a medical conclusion but to point out their sleeping system is not broken hence no impact from the 15 sleeping medicines but their distress signaling is now increased because of some new trauma or triggering of an old trauma or vicarious trauma then we can solve that often very readily. And that leads back to you were talking about the empathogens and the idea of neurogenesis. And it may be that neurogenesis is very helpful in certain parts of the brain it may be that neuronal pruning is helpful in other ways too. What we are really trying to understand is what positively impacts connectivity. And that may be neurogenesis in certain parts of the brain but it may be changing balances of neurons and maybe it is neurogenesis of inhibitory neurons. So things get complicated enough that how we can look at that though in a practical sense because we are not the core neuroscientists. How we can look at that practically is saying what we are trying to do is alter brain connectivity whether we are using psychotherapy or a hug to a person that you care about or we are using medicines or we are using Western medicines or pathogens. What we are trying to do is change the sequence and patterning of brain connectivity from one that is stereotyped in a negative way. And like you said that reflexive shame ones that primes the audience before the curtain goes up to say The play's going to be bad and you are going to hate it. So when we shift that we are really shifting connectivity and that is how we can see old things in new and true ways.  What is so wild also and these are just occurring to me as we are talking what is so wild about some of the empathogens and also certainly psychedelics many psychedelics is the phenomenon of hypermnesia. I mean where you will be able to recall the say in my case for instance the brown corduroy on the couch when I was two or three years old and immediately recognizing that that is a real memory. I have photographs I can go find them. I just have not seen them in decades. And it is really remarkable. And it is so easy with neomania to focus on even though many of these compounds have been used by humans for millennia they are new in their popularity as it exists today. And it is easy to discard things that could be very very effective either as monotherapies or perhaps even in tandem Although you have to be careful obviously with combining things. When we take a look at the anti-psychotics since that is not at least categorically something I am familiar with what are some of the frontline anti-psychotics what are the compounds and the names? I am just wondering if there are any I would recognize. Dr.  There are probably two dozen or so of these kinds of medicines. The ones that are very very potent for actual psychosis are in general not what we are using. There are some older medicines. So even chlorpromazine which is  it is the generic name of Thorazine.  I was going to say Thorazine is probably the only one that I am familiar with. Dr.  It is been around. That is the first one it is been around for somewhere around 70 years now. And it is what is called it is a low potency medicine meaning that it does not block those receptors very much but even a little bit of blockade can make a huge difference. So a medicine that was used in like 800 milligrams 1000 milligrams to treat psychosis very often 25 milligrams 12 and a half milligrams maybe 50 milligrams can decrease the distress signaling enough that the rumination at bedtime the distress that causes so much misery then can go away. So it is the example I would say because in low dosing it is overall everyone has to make their own medicine decisions with the person prescribing to them but it is overall a safe and low side effect medicine at low dosing and often remarkably remarkably effective. So that would be the one that I would really highlight. And I think then we are decreasing the distress signaling which creates stereotyping of our thoughts and feelings. If we are thinking the same thing over and over again and then think about how that would predispose to blocking memory. I mean if you think of prior trauma and there is a reflex and immediately feel shame and responsibility Oh my God. How did that happen? How did I let that happen? All those things that we beat up on ourselves how are we going to remember details? It may be that the connectivity changes in more peaceful states of mind which could be through an empathogen or not. Again the research is bearing that out lets a person know and remember and understand more because that is not blocked by trying to have calm thoughts in the midst of a hurricane. You are more likely to have calm thoughts in the midst of a calm setting. And as important as that is outside of us it is got to be at least equally important inside us too.  Absolutely. In what category does lithium belong? Because I have also read quite a lot about I suppose as a monotherapy for something like and please fact-check me on something like I want to say bipolar but maybe I am getting  we are looking at 1500 milligrams or something like that but I was sent some reading related to a very low dose and there are different types of lithium. There is lithium carbonate lithium orotate there are many different forms but of really low dose like 5 milligram 10 milligram pre-bed. And I am wondering if that plausibly would have any similar effects or if it is exerting its effects differently. I am not familiar with how lithium works. Dr.  The most helpful way to approach lithium as being two entirely different medicines depending upon dosing. And maybe an even better way to look at that is a medicinal dose versus a supplement kind of dose. So lithium in high dosing is a very effective medicine for bipolar disorder. And there are a lot of medicine choices now so we can nuance that to try and minimize side effect and get a very effective medicine regimen with low side effect. But for a long period of time there were not a lot of other medicines and then high dose lithium monotherapy was what happened most of the time for bipolar disorder which can be is often very effective but has a lot of side effects. That is lithium as medicine. And that is also a reason lithium often has a stigma around it because it was used for bipolar disorder in a way when we did not understand as much about it oftentimes the illness was out of control by the time it was treated which can happen now but it was more so the case then so that led to lithium having a stigma around it. But everyone has lithium in them to some degree. We all do as human beings. So there is lithium in all of us. And what seems to be the case and again it is hard to do great studies about this because it is just so big to try and do but what seems to be the case is that more lithium including more lithium in the groundwater. So small amounts of lithium but that are lithium that are higher in all of us seem to sort of make everything better. It seems like there is less depression there is less violence. There may be less dementia. And one could think of putative mechanisms if you think through how lithium impacts ion channels in neurons in the brain we can think of how that might make sense but we do not know that for sure but what we do see and I have seen this over and over and over again is that in the right person and again you have to be guided towards it because there could be side effects from it and it can negatively interact with other medical conditions. So if a person is getting the medical guidance to safely take low dose lithium that often in a way that really is looking at it like a supplement can often be very helpful to the person including an increased sense of calm an increased sense of peace. So for mild problems around sleep a little bit of lithium can be very helpful for bigger problems. Once a person is getting ruminative and really cannot sleep and the cat's out of the bag and it is going over and over and over again then usually we are then beyond where a supplement of lithium is likely to be helpful.  Lithium is fascinating to me. Dr.  I agree.  I recall at some point being sent a piece it is an older piece. I believe it was in The New York Times and the headline was something like Maybe We Just All Need a Little Bit More Lithium. Now understanding the limitations of observational studies or what you can do by torturing the data. I understand the shortcomings when something is not controlled and placebo-controlled and randomized and so on. Nonetheless I recall this piece pointing to groundwater levels of lithium and there being an inverse correlation of hospital admittance related to homicide suicide psychosis et cetera. And at the very least I found it very thought-provoking. How would you think about for instance and I know this is a little bit of inside baseball but I am so endlessly fascinated by all of this. And I have heard very mixed things but trazodone is a sleep aid and maybe you could speak explain what that is. My understanding is that it is an SSRI but that it was never effective as an antidepressant because people just fall asleep and therefore but like many drugs in our pantheon was repurposed for sleep. I do not know if that is accurate but I would love to hear your opinion. Dr.  Sure. First thing I should say in the interest of full disclosure I think I am the person who sent the lithium article from The New York Times.  You know what? You might have sent it to me or you might have sent it to Peter. Dr.  And Peter sent it.  Right. Of course. Of course. Dr.  So I want to say whoever sent that article was brilliant and prescient but no it needs the full disclosure. I think it was me because I do believe in that. I mean as you said it is very hard to do these population studies but there is some good data that points us in the direction of all that being true and to the very low risk of low dose lithium. So then you have a higher likelihood of a benefit you have a high likelihood of some benefit with low risk. So that being said the trazodone question specifically is yes. So trazodone was found to be so sedating for most people. And it seems like there're probably some genetic idiosyncrasies because some people do not find it sedating at all. So there is probably just some idiosyncrasy there but most people find it very sedating which obviously works against the use of it as an antidepressant. But what was found is it is actually quite a safe medicine and again we want it to be prescribed and there are some risks to it. It is not entirely safe but by and large with appropriate prescribing it is quite a safe medicine that often is sedating enough that it can really be helpful to people for sleep. So when it does not work or if the dose has to be too high then it is sedating it makes sense to shift away from it. But it is a good tool to have or a good arrow in the quiver pharmacologically because it does help a lot of people with little to no side effect you have got to get the dosing right and see can the right dosing for sleep be also non-sedating enough for that person so they do not have a hangover from it essentially the next day?  Is there any I suppose this is true with just about anything but addiction potential with trazodone can it be physically addictive or is it more so a psychological risk if any? Dr.  Yeah. There could be a psychological risk because anything that we are sort of leaning on so to speak to some degree we can really habituate to and come to rely on but that is different than the mechanisms of physiological addiction which are not present in trazodone.  Would not apply. What does the D in D2 stand for in the receptor that you mentioned with respect to I believe it was the anti-psychotics? Dr.  Dopamine. Dopamine. Yeah. Dopamine is like a currency. People say What does dopamine do? It is like saying What does a dollar do? It depends on where we are spending it. And in these particular circuits dopamine then becomes a currency of distress. And if there is enough of it a currency of psychosis because sometimes people think of dopamine is pleasure so why are we doing anti-dopamine things? In these particular circuits that is not what dopamine is buying it is a currency of distress and we want to play that down.  Ah man I could talk to you for hours and hours. We have done it before. Dr.  Thank you.  Yeah. I find it so so endlessly interesting. And what makes it also so fun to spend time one of the additional reasons it is so fun to spend time chatting with you is that you are not isolated in an ivory tower working with hypothetical cases. People come to you for help and solutions. So you are an active clinician who is working with real patients. I have a note here and I am definitely going to need you to help me elucidate this but stress-diathesis model. Am I saying that correctly? Dr.  It is stress-diathesis which also gets called a vulnerability stress.  Diathesis. Oh boy. I knew I was going to fuck that one up. Dr.  It is one of those words we like in medicine because it sounds smart but all it really means is a genetic vulnerability which is why that is also called a vulnerability-stress model which means we all have genetic vulnerabilities to certain things. Because you might be depression for me and panic attacks for you or vice versa that our genes give us a predisposition towards. And then the stressors. So that is say maybe the nature of it but then the nurture part is what can bring a potential problem to the forefront. So you think about a post-trauma syndrome. We are all protected or vulnerable to different degrees say at conception based upon genetics. Now we do not understand that fully but we know we have different risk profiles and then it is the stress or the nurture part of it what we experience in life that can determine what comes to the fore. And this is also where the multiple hit hypothesis of post-trauma syndromes comes to the fore that it may be that something really traumatic happens to a person and they do not have a post-trauma syndrome. Then something else happens then something else happens. And we might think well they are pretty genetically protected but the stress can take its toll where maybe the third fourth fifth sixth hit even if it might be a relatively minor one compared to those that came before it now create a full-blown post-trauma syndrome.  You know we could go in a million directions. Outside of your book which I am going to mention again are there any particular resources that you might recommend for people who are interested in learning more about trauma from credible sources? Dr.  Sure. I think NAMI which is present throughout the country it has local branches throughout the country N-A-M-I that NAMI can be extremely helpful. We can often find resources and have links to it.  What does that stand for? Dr.  NAMI is the National and here's where I first have to pause and check because I do not want to get a word wrong. National Association or Alliance you know what I mean? I do not know what the A let me just maybe we will start that again but let me  it says National I knew there was something a little bit it is the National Alliance on Mental Illness. That is what is  it is on. So maybe do you want to  start again?  Yeah sure. Yeah go for it. I will ask you again. So what does NAMI stand for? Dr.  So NAMI stands for the National Alliance on Mental Illness and NAMI often has resources and links to support mechanisms in the community. And I think can be very very helpful. The book The Body Keeps the Score by Bessel van der Kolk is also a very very helpful resource. Anything that helps a person to find some inner peace inside of them. Something that takes away from the swirling inside of us that can happen post-trauma and the swirling from the social circumstances around us anything that helps us get away from what is keeping us in the same loops that lead us further from truth whether it is the truth of our own trauma or the truth of the trauma going on in the society around us. The response to the pandemic the impact of systemic racism the erosion of faith in our socioeconomic model these can be seen .  Existential distress related to climate change and things like that for instance. Dr.  Right. These things can all be seen through a political lens and because they get politicized it takes people away from actually looking at what is really going on here? How is it impacting how I am thinking and feeling? What is the truth of all of this? Anything that takes us away from getting lost in the politicizing of things and more towards the apprehension of the true existential nature of these things. So there are a lot of helping resources and things that we can do to get us into a calmer place inside. And I know that is a kind of a non-specific answer but there is so many routes of proceeding towards that that I want to mention that too.  Absolutely. Paul Conti. Paul Conti Dr. Paul Conti. C-O-N-T-I.com pacificpremiergroup.com. We will link to all of these things everything we have mentioned in the show notes. The new book which I highly highly recommend everybody pick up take a look at it get it for people who need it  The Invisible Epidemic subtitle How Trauma Works and How We Can Heal From It. I am such a fan of yours. I do not say that lightly. We have spent real time together. I have seen the results of what you do. You are an in-the-trenches practitioner. And I am just so glad that your work you personally and this book are going to be available to more people. So thank you for  Dr.  Thanks so much Tim. It means a lot.   taking the time. Absolutely. Is there anything else you would like to say or any request of the audience any suggestion anything at all that you would like to say in closing comments before we wrap up for today? Dr.  I think the one thing I would say is that our lives and the world around us can seem to us to be very helpless and hopeless at times. We can feel helpless and the world can seem hopeless. And that is not the case. I cannot describe the number of people I have seen worked with who feel that way and really are at risk when they are feeling that way and come out to a different place. That if you are feeling that way that probably means that those blinders have closed in and closed in and closed in. And there is help for that. There really and truly is. And if you are not getting help the first second third time keep trying. There is help there to be had. And it can make just such a difference because the narrowed blinders represent a risk to us that comes from trauma and that we can absolutely do something about and change.  Perfect place to wrap up. And so nice to see you Paul and  Dr.  Thank you. You too. Thanks so much. It was fun. I knew that it was going to be fun.   yeah yeah. absolutely. Yeah. This was a really really enjoyable conversation very dense. To everybody listening once again I will put links to everything we talked about in the show notes at tim.blogpodcast. You can just search Conti C-O-N-T-I and it will pop right up. And until next time be safe be aware of blinders we all have them. Pay attention to your stories because you are the author not just the reader of those stories and they craft your reality. And as Paul said you are not alone. This is part of the human condition and there are people and tools and help available. And there are things that work. So thank you for being here Paul and thanks everybody for listening. Dr.  Thank you for having me.   