 How is everybody doing? Thanks for joining. I am wearing a C4 shirt for people who might be interested. You can check out C4 Foundation. We are going to do a QA as promised and the QA will alternate from livestream which means the chat box where everyone is chatting at the moment. You will be able to submit questions. Why do not we start with perhaps a few of the questions that were pre-submitted? So I have a list of questions that were submitted and I will do my best to take a stab at those questions and we will just go back and forth until I run out of time. That is about it. So let us jump into it. We see people from all over the world here from many different countries Scotland from the Netherlands. Any other people here from outside the US? Let us see. I think we have CMDX. I wish I knew what that was. I do not know what that is. So perhaps somebody can tell me. Devon England Montana Vancouver Island London Canada SoCal Berlin Montreal. Great. Germany Ireland all over. So let us just jump in to this QA and I will say this one more time that we have questions that were submitted in advance. We also have live chat and I will alternate going back and forth between the two. Hopefully we will have some fun and I will do my best not to provide completely idiotic answers. I cannot give any guarantees on the questions though. Although I think most of these questions are quite strong. So let us just go to a couple of softball pitches and then I will jump in to the livestream. Number one this is from Sera S-E-R-A Hey Tim. What is a 2021 updated version of your morning routine? It is actually quite consistent I think with past morning routine. The basics are 20 minutes of meditation first thing in the morning. That is generally going to be some form of transcendental meditation. Then brushing teeth doing the basics of self-care and getting downstairs to have pu'erh tea usually pique P-I-Q-U-E pu'erh tea and I will alternate black and green or coffee of some type and as long-term listeners will know I am a huge fan of both Four Sigmatic Mushroom Coffee and Laird Superfood Creamer. I had both this morning in fact. From that point on it really depends on the day. So I organize my week in a thematic approach meaning rather than taking the five types of activities that I need or want to cover each week and spreading them throughout each day I tend to have a day dedicated to different types of work. So Tuesday will involve lots and lots of phone calls or at least that is when I will batch my phone calls with my team and with other people. So very frequently I will not do any type of journaling on that day but start walking and talking. So I will get a lot of my sun exposure on Tuesdays and so on and so forth. So it really depends on the day. There could be writing following decaffeination. There could be exercise. So twice a week I will get into this next I do some form of acrobatic or inversion training in the form of typically AcroYoga and that leads to the next question from Mark Chavez What is your current exercise routine and what cool exercise equipment or gadgets are you using? So my weekly routine right now was really I suppose first forged in quarantine. So during quarantine began doing AcroYoga twice a week via Zoom with someone named Jason Nemer as the instructor and practicing with my girlfriend provided us both with physical contact additional physical contact and play several hours of additional contact and play per week but also gave us a fantastic way to move because there are forms of exercise that really do not entail a lot of movement through space. AcroYoga happens to include all the elements both acrobatic and therapeutic. So we would do say 45 to 60 minutes of inversion practice which would include forearm stands handstands and so on and there are many different training tools to use for that. Then do what is known as L-basing where I am on my back holding my girlfriend in the air with my feet and hands and we have different roles and responsibilities in that dynamic and then doing some version of thigh massage often with traction towards the end of that workout. It is the combination of these sympathetic activation and parasympathetic off-ramp that I think leads to a great sense of well-being physically and emotionally for the rest of the day. So twice a week. Let us just call it Tuesday. Thursdays I would have acro in the morning. That would be right after the pu'erh tea or coffee. Then twice a week currently and this is post-ng. So I do bouldering and also top roping. I have not done my lead climbing cert yet. So I am not lead climbing and have really been enjoying doing that. The two combine very well. Acro is really very much pushing-based. So you are going to be pushing away or stabilizing with a pushing movement of some type with both your arms and your legs. Of course in rock climbing you do have pushing in the legs but it is largely pulling otherwise. So I find that that tends to balance out the say antagonistic muscle groups so that you do not develop if you approach it in a moderate way which I am you do not develop the repetitive stress pain and injuries that have plagued me for most of my life by the virtue of overdoing things or I should say the vice of overdoing things. So even though my body might be able to handle climbing three or four times a week I am limiting myself to twice a week and that has been fantastic. It has meant that despite the fact that I had complete shoulder reconstruction of my left shoulder in the early 2000s and elbow surgery on my right elbow more recently I have been able to train without extended pain. Of course little nicks and bruises and so on. So we have climbing twice a week. We have acro twice a week and then we have weight training typically of some type one to two times per week. This is nothing fancy. It is something along the lines of say an Occam's protocol in The 4-Hour Body or kettlebell swings. It is very basic. It is generally going to be 20 to 40 minutes and it is for the purpose of injury prevention first and foremost not performance enhancement. Last but not least walking. I walk a fair amount on Tuesdays during calls. I would say I walk for three to five hours minimum and do my best certainly when I have access to trails and so on to walk for a minimum of an hour per day. I find that walking is not just physically therapeutic but psychoemotionally incredibly therapeutic. So that is what the exercise routine looks like. So we checked off two of those. Let us try a few questions from the livestream. So we will look at a couple of questions from the livestream here and it might take me a moment to select because there are many of them. All right. Edgar Inoue I think is how we pronounce that. Question What is your process to determine if you are going the right direction? Sometimes we might get lost in trying to accomplish things instead of thinking about what is worth working for. Really this is an energetic canary in the coal mine for me in the sense that if you find yourself low energy which is very often accompanied by depressive or pessimistic thoughts then I will do a number of things including 8020 analysis and really some form of streamlining as outlined in The 4-Hour Workweek but I will very frequently take the 8020 analysis and apply it in two columns and those are the say 20 percent of people in activities that are producing 80 percent or more of my peak positive emotional states and then on the other side peak negative emotional states or negative adds and negative subtractions and I will look at that. Really it is just using a simple rubric like how quickly do you fall asleep and how do you feel when you first wake up. When you first wake up is there a feeling of dread of Oh fuck! I have to slog through another day of not really knowing where I am going or is it a different feeling? So for me as Jodie Foster once said I believe could be a misattribution but In the end winning is sleeping well something along those lines. So it is really how do you feel right before you go to bed or when you go to bed and how do you feel right when you wake up. If something is off I believe you know it. It does not need to be put into a spreadsheet and analyzed. Then the question is figuring out where to focus and to that point I am actually going to hop to another question here in front of me which might be related on some level. This is a question from Steve Schwab and this might seem like a hard left turn but I do not think it is. So Steve Schwab's question is I have constant thoughts about the meaning or meaninglessness of life and discomfort with death. Therefore I distract my life with work. Do you have any recommendations on managing these thoughts? I wanted to bring this up because let us say you are having the experience of a malaise. You are having trouble falling asleep or you have a certain level of anxiety about the unknown or you wake up and feel that you are without direction. I think those feelings are often combined with these difficulties or challenges that Steve is outlining. So do I have any recommendations on managing these thoughts? I am not going to start with an answer to that. I will start by saying that for the last several months I have had constant thoughts about the meaninglessness of life and quite a bit of discomfort or angst around death. So what am I doing? So in this case I am not going to provide an answer necessarily because I also think that is a very personal thing but I will tell you how I am looking to reboot the system and hopefully navigate that. Number one is I am going to reread Viktor Frankl's book Man's Search for Meaning which I have been meaning to reread for a very long time. I also have a book a friend recommend called Smile at Fear. I cannot vouch for it yet because I have not read it. The author I am going to butcher this name Chgyam Trungpa. That is C-H-O-G-Y-A-M T-R-U-N-G-P-A but Smile at Fear. The title should find you the book. I am also going to read biographies of people who found meaning. Really I do not know how much of it is finding meaning versus choosing meaning and I do not think there is any inherent single objective meaning of life that should guide your steps and decisions. It seems to me that it is a personal decision of sorts. Perhaps that is with a vocation. Perhaps you feel called to something. Perhaps you pursue something but I am looking for models of people who have done that. So I think biographies will also hold an important position in my trying to navigate this particular period in my life. So there you have my answer in a way to both of those. All right. So let me scroll down see what other questions we have in the livestream. Andrew Robinson If you were asked to give a commencement speech what would be the core message? The core message would be you are the average of the five people you spend the most time with. So pick them very carefully and prune very carefully over time because some friends are for a night some for a season and some for life. All are welcome. There is a place and a time and there are certainly many benefits and enjoyments to be had for all but those categories can change and not everyone is forever. All right. Two additional questions in the stream. Let me take a look at it. I may pause a bit. All right. This is from Johnny Miller Are any of the MAPS or Johns Hopkins studies that you are aware of looking at the therapeutic effect of holotropic breathwork? What do you view as the potential and opportunities for breathwork? So for those who are not familiar MAPS maps.org is a nonprofit that is the driving force behind the phase three studies for MDMA-assisted psychotherapy. Let me rephrase that. So maps.org is a nonprofit that is the driving force behind the phase three studies for MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD. This very often involves veterans victims of sexual abuse et cetera. MDMA has been shown to have tremendous promise. There is a huge cover story that is the cover of The New York Times print edition discussing MAPS and Rick Doblin's work and so on in this area. Johns Hopkins at least in this particular reference is looking at psilocybin which is the psychoactive or one of the psychoactive compounds found in psilocybe mushrooms or magic mushrooms for treating things like nicotine addiction end of life existential distress in cancer patients et cetera. So I am not aware of any studies being sponsored by MAPS or being conducted at Johns Hopkins that incorporate holotropic breathwork specifically but I think there is tremendous certainly and this is not a discovery of mind or anything novel from me. There are I believe very interesting applications of breathwork both to therapy and somatic awareness somatic release. That will be true in something like Hakomi therapy H-A-K-O-M-I which I think is a fantastic adjunct to any type of psychedelic-assisted therapy. It can also be used and certainly this is true in holotropic breathwork which is so named because the tropic portion refers to turning towards holo wholeness turning towards wholeness right? So you would have heliotropic flowers for instance that turn towards the sun. Holotropic would be turning towards wholeness. It was created much like the drumming of Michael Harner. This would be a separate example. Holotropic breathwork was created by Stan Grof who is a psychiatrist or psychotherapist originally from the Czech Republic who is looking for an alternative to psychedelic compounds after they were illegalized during the Nixon administration. You can use intense breathwork such as holotropic breathwork to experience non-ordinary states of consciousness what some might call altered states of consciousness without drugs and there is value in this certainly. My recommendation to anyone who approaches me and asks about psychedelics is often unless it is contraindicated for them and there are some contraindications that they experience something like holotropic breathwork first because A it is legal and B it does not involve any drugs which can provoke a lot of anxiety in many people. So I view that as a precursor or a prerequisite almost to engaging in any type of psychedelic therapy but I am not aware of any studies. I do believe that Jamie Wheal W-H-E-A-L is involved or maybe involved in some studies related to holotropic breathwork and that is not the only breathwork that can be used for all of the purposes that I have been describing. There are many others. All right. Let us jump to another question in the stream and thanks for joining everybody. This is fun. I enjoy this. Just see a note from Gonchin Careful with pseudo-shamans though. Yes. Be careful with pseudo-shamans and rent-a-shamans or yogawaska practitioners. If anyone calls themself a shaman in fact I would anyway generally that is a red flag and you should probably steer clear of them because the well-trained indigenous practitioners or those who have spent decades working in specific lineages in my experience without exception do not call themselves shamans. They have a particular term usually pulled from one of the native languages like Quechua Spanish or fill in the blank to describe what they do. So if someone runs up to you with a voucher for discounted shamanic experiences run the other direction. Okay. Question from Reese Zenino In a recent podcast you talked about joint pain. Have you tried fish oil moxa sticks or acupuncture? What has been the most effective tool for you? I have tried all of these things. Moxa I found interesting. Moxa or moxibustion moxa sticks this is really using radiant heat at the joint above the skin. So you are taking a burning stick and holding it near the skin definitely not on the skin. What I have found most helpful for certain types of joint issues like elbow pain for instance from climbing is A modulating volume. So there is a dose that will make the exercise a poison as Paracelsus would say. So if you exercise too much you are going to suffer the consequences. So one is really just finding a cadence of exercise that works where you can still adapt and get stronger without causing chronic tendonosis et cetera. That is number one. Number two is working the muscles that act in opposition. So if you are climbing and doing a lot of pulling for instance you are going to be working the flexors of the forearm tremendously. So you would want to do some complementary exercises with the extensors and you can use any number of devices for that. You could use also a bucket of rice. There are many exercises that rock climbers use involving a large bucket of rice which I found helpful. VooDoo floss created by my friend Kelly Starrett I found tremendously helpful also to use after climbing for the arms specifically although it can be used for many different parts of the body. So people can look up VooDoo floss I am sure on YouTube to find videos of Kelly demonstrating how this can be used and otherwise contrast therapy hot cold. So I have a hot tub. I also have a sauna. You could certainly just use a hot bath. If you are fortunate enough to have two baths you could have one hot and then one full of ice and at an extremely cold temperature. So I have a chest freezer that I have converted into a cold plunge. Be sure to unplug the freezer so that you do not electrocute yourself. Based on some recommendations from Kyle Kingsbury modified meaning really just caulking to fully waterproof the freezer to make it a cold plunge. So I will go hot cold hot cold hot cold. Usually let us just call it three minutes in each and this is well-documented for recovery effects. Then nutrition. So those are a few of the things a few of the levers that I have pulled most recently at least to address or rather prevent elbow pain and this also applies to my shoulder. Last but not least I would say technique before volume. So in the case of rock climbing I do foresee a point where I will be able to train three or four or more times per week. Right now my technique is so inefficient and my joints or more accurately my tendons and ligaments have not strengthened at the same pace as my musculature so I am being very very cautious but there will be a point and I hope to climb for many decades where I will be able to add volume to that. All right. Let us take a look at some more questions. All right. So I get this question a lot Do you know of any psychedelic retreats that I can recommend? I cannot do that of course because as much as I wish I could immediately whatever I recommend would suffer as one listener called the hug of death and they would get more applications than they could accept. They would attempt to increase capacity and then quality and customer service would go through the floor and it would be a complete disaster for everyone involved. So let me take a look at a few questions that are then in front of me here. Frank Chen Who or what has consistently brought you joy in the past six months one year three years five years? Well I would say if we are talking who my girlfriend is the first who comes to mind and then of course we have Molly Pup my companion my second girlfriend and then that is one and the same. It is a joke folks. I am saying Molly is my other girlfriend and then best friends et cetera. So that is self-evident I suppose but the what has consistently brought me joy in the past six months one year consistent joy period in the last year or during COVID I have found to be tremendously challenging but I would say two things come to mind and that is extended time in nature where I do not hear the noise of mankind and I say that right now because I am sitting in a house where we have construction on almost every side and it is driving me cuckoo bananas. Extended time in nature and that involves also rocking. So taking a weighted backpack. I use GORUCK for training purposes and just going for long hikes in old-growth forests if at all possible. Of course nature anywhere I think is very medicinal but tall trees big canopies particularly calming for my system. The Japanese might call it tree bathing and then also learning more about the plants and animals so that you can click the dial a few notches on the resolution of what you see because of course until you have labels for things until you have names for things it is very difficult to distinguish them from the background of say your visual experience. That is why children need to learn infants and toddlers and so on labels so that they can distinguish between chair table wall and so on so that they are not just patterns of light and color and shadow that are somehow I suppose what should I say? Indistinguishable. To do that you need names you need labels. So I have taken walks with field biologists. I have taken walks with biologists of several different types just through common public trails to learn to be able to identify different trees. That is where I started because at least on the East Coast where I first did this the biologist said to me Look we could try to learn flowers and there are going to be hundreds of different wildflowers and you are going to have tremendous trouble separating one from the next and it could be very frustrating or I could teach you eight trees and you will be able to identify 90 percent of the trees that you see here. I found that to be good advice. So those are two things. Time and nature often moving not just sitting still but that is personal preference and then learning the plants and animals the flora and fauna of that given area. All right. Let me see what other questions we have in the livestream. Daniel Viba I am not sure if that is how you pronounce it but that is how I would read it Any plans for different projects over the next two to three years? I think there is a decent chance that I will finally write or rather finish because I am actually pretty far through it the screenplay for The 4-Hour Workweek which would be a Best In ShowZoolander comedy of sorts but it would all be based on true events and there would be a lot of philosophy and a lot of I think practical takeaways along the lines of something like Fight Club. So that is my pet project in the back of my mind that I have not yet finished and I really should finish. So I envision that probably being a major project for me or at least a project. I do not want to make bare that it needs to be a project for me in the next two to three years. I would like to do more in the visual medium. All right. There is a recommendation from Josh or Joshua Armstrong Also check out Viktor Frankl's Yes to Life. It is a compilation of lectures he gave before publishing Man Search for Meaning and I found it to be more actionable as direct advice. That is great advice Joshua. So thank you. I will check that out because I am all for actionable at the moment although the conceptual stuff ultimately can soak in and help with your view of the world that then informs other decisions but I will check out that collection of I guess transcribed lectures basically. Okay. Let us see. There is a question here Any research on the effects Just to revisit this because it is come up from a few people. Any research on the effects of psychedelics combined with breathwork? Increased synergistic effect. I suspect that it depends on the compound but absolutely it is very common that breathwork is administered to people on psychedelics and there are different versions of this. One is referred to as power breathing and has a multiplicative effect on the dose. So for instance if we consider a normal hit of LSD to be 100 micrograms if you were to give someone 50 micrograms and then have them do the equivalent of Wim Hof or holotropic breathwork from say after the point of administration minutes 30 to 60 my expectation would be that many people would subjectively feel it as if it were between 100 micrograms and 200 micrograms. So that is worth being aware of. All right. Let us look at some other questions. Of course I am not recommending that anyone use any illegal compounds. So I am not a doctor. I do not play one on the internet nor am I your lawyer. So everything we are discussing here is for informational purposes only. Okay. Let me take a look here. There is a question from Debbie Debbie Weil or Weil I am 69 married and have six grandchildren definitely not in your target demographic but still a big fan. Thank you Debbie. I appreciate that. I do not think I have a target demo. So maybe that makes everyone my target demo. So I appreciate you being a fan. Question. Why are you still hesitating about having children? I am not hesitating about having kids. Actually I hesitated for a long time because A I was not convinced that I would be a good father and I needed to have some conviction around that before even contemplating having kids because I think it is inherently a selfish choice or a self-interested choice. You are having kids because you want to have kids. As far as we know they are not choosing to have you as a parent. So I really wanted to do a lot of self-work and go through quite a lot of therapy many different types of therapy for childhood trauma et cetera before even considering that as an option. It seemed like the only ethical way to approach it. Secondly some of my hesitation has been around my genetic predisposition and it is a genetic predisposition. I have seen this in my family certainly to depressive episodes and whether or not I want to pass along genetic code that could predispose someone who did not ask for it to experience depressive episodes on a regular basis but at this point for many reasons I am in the process of seeing fertility doctors and basically doing the pre  let me try that English again. I am in the process of seeing fertility docs and going through the preflight checklist so to speak to ensure that all systems are go and then I think we are off to the races. So TBD on outcomes but that is the current plan. So I am no longer hesitating in my mind.  Watch Kumar about how to become a fake shaman. This is actually excellent advice. So anyone who is listening to this I would strongly suggest that you watch a documentary called Kumar. I do not want to ruin it. So just watch the trailer K-U-M-A-R-E and if you want to train yourself to look on the bright side if you want to have a degree of optimism while simultaneously learning to defend yourself more effectively against charlatans this is a great documentary. It is a real fun watch and it is also one hell of a nail-biter. I will leave it at that. Let us look to some of the questions here in front of me. Bogdon Bulgarian if that is you  oh no Bogdon the Bulgarian what a great name. So Bogdon I may abridge your question a little bit but I think it is a good one and it is one that I get a fair amount or I have seen a fair amount. Here it is You have mentioned that you believe your hard-charging beat-yourself-up attitude actually held you back rather than helped you get ahead. Can you explain more about why you think that is the case? It seems a lot of successful people spend their 20s and 30s grinding super hard to get to where they are and it is only once they have achieved success that they take the point of view I should not have been so hard on myself.' Do you think that you would have overcome all the obstacles you had if you had been more self-compassionate even in your 20s and 30s? So this is a great question and on one level it is impossible to answer right? So I cannot run a Monte Carlo simulation on my life and say If I had behaved in these different ways or viewed myself in these other ways that the outcomes would have been the same or I would have reached the same degree of financial success but I do think that the word successful is worth underlining here and that is why I said financially successful and I modified it in that way. Here's what I can say is that a lot of people who compulsively focus on professional achievement have demons whipping them in their back and that there are exceptions certainly but many of the people who achieve outsized financial success success in any measurable way that can be socially reinforced and appreciated and lauded on magazine covers and so on have super powers and equally super deficits and that many of them after making millions of dollars or billions of dollars remain quite tortured and unhappy. So I just want to say that as a preface. That word successful is very dangerous. So I would encourage everybody when you use that word successful at the very least to throw a modifier in front of it like financially successful or even better financially independent or post-economic or whatever the concept is that you are seeking to describe. To this point I cannot speak for my experience because I have only had the life that I have had but there are also counterexamples. So whenever someone says I cannot do or I could not have done X because I am Y or I had to do X or I have to do X because I am Y one of the first questions that I always have or that comes to mind is are there any counterexamples right? I could say for instance and the phrasing will change but I am successful or people are financially successful because they have a beat yourself up attitude in their 20s and 30s that leads them to grind super hard.  are there counterexamples? There are. I actually have quite a few friends who did not self-flagellate to my knowledge and were not malicious to themselves did not constantly focus on their flaws who have had outsized financial success. So is it necessary? No I do not think so. Is it common? Yes. So then the question is should you risk it? If you are in your 20s and 30s should you risk being self-compassionate? What I would say is I see very little downside. So if you are someone who is even asking this question you are probably not being self-compassionate if that makes any sense. So you already have some edge of beat-yourself-up attitude if you are even asking this question right? If I look at what I have achieved just by adding a little bit of softness a little bit of slowness a little bit of spaciousness to my life through say meditation 20 minutes in the morning. That is it. Forget about self-compassion. That just gets too squishy for a lot of hard driving McKinsey I-banker aspiring folks who just want to conquer the world. So let us not use self-compassionate but what about meditating 20 minutes in the morning? This will help you to become more self-aware. Let us start there. Forget about compassion. If you have the ability to pause even for a few seconds before reflexively responding say in anger or in anything if you have the ability to be more self-aware so that you can regulate more effectively will that make you more effective or will that make you less effective? I think it will make you more effective. These things will naturally lead I think to some degree of self-compassion right? So if we deconstruct it that way I would have to say A I have yet to find someone who has cultivated any of these behaviors who has said I have lost my edge I lost my drive completely I cannot achieve anything anymore and I really regret it. I have never met anyone who has said that. This includes people in their 20 and 30s. This includes  I am repeating because I am tongue-tied at the moment and we are recording this. So this is also true for people in their 20s and 30s. The second thing I would say is that when you take the edge off a little bit and because this is also a concern in therapy. People do not want to go to therapy because they are afraid they will lose their edge. This is very true for people like comedians or entertainers oftentimes or they do not want to meditate. They do not want to journal because they might lose their edge or whatever that is. In my experience you do not lose your edge you become more aware of the psychological clothing you put on the stories that you tell yourself et cetera that produce that edge if that makes any sense right? So you become aware of the recipe that you use for the edge and you could view that like a  the analogy that I have used with one person is it is like a jacket that you take off and you put in your closet. You still have that jacket. If you need that edge you know where to find it and you can put it back on and you can get out and you can scorch the Earth or you can conquer the world whatever it happens to be. If somebody for instance I found a stalker came out of the woodwork and really bothered me and there was a risk that they were going to be a threat to someone in my family so I went into my wardrobe and I took out my killer cloak and I put it on and I quadrupled my edge and I was able to solve the problem let us just say. Then I can take off that cloak and put it back in my wardrobe and not wear it 247. There is a time and a place for it but it is like a smoking jacket right? That is the analogy I use with this friend. I said It is a smoking jacket. It is cool. Great but you wear it when you are smoking in a lounge. It is a very specific use case. You do not fucking wear it to Starbucks. You do not walk around all day in your office wearing a smoking jacket. You would be a weirdo and it is just not necessary. So that is a very very long answer to your question but hopefully that is helpful in some capacity. Here's the other thing. It is not all or nothing. It is like when female friends of mine say If I lift weights I will get really bulky will not I? I said That is not going to happen overnight. You are not just going to turn into some show pony with quadzillas in 48 hours. So train do some resistance training and it is going to be incremental and if you do not like it stop. You are not going to become a Buddhist master monk overnight if you start meditating or considering some of these topics by reading books like Radical Acceptance or Awareness by Anthony de Mello for instance. All right. There you are Bogdon. Hopefully that is helpful. Okay. Question from John and then we are going to jump back into the livestream. John says You have covered an experiment with a number of different eating approaches time-restricted eating faster 30 grams of protein in the morning slow carb keto et cetera. What is your current eating plan or schedule look like? I am back to slow carb. I have tried so many things and the slow carb diet generally speaking is going to be my preferred method of eating. I am not doing much time-restricted eating. I think that there are I am sure benefits. I am sure because they are documented. There are benefits to time-restricted eating but right now I am trying to add muscle mass and strength with a lot of the training that I am doing. So I am not using time-restricted eating and there are people who will say you can use time-restricted eating or intermittent fasting to enhance anabolism. I just find it easier to follow a normal more or less three-meal per day slow carb diet in pursuing that. Then from a fasting perspective I still try to do and aim to do say a three-day fast meaning a 72-hour water fast once per month and then at least a single one-week fast per year. So that is my current regimen and if you have not fasted before please do so under medical supervision. Speak to your general practitioner beforehand please because not everyone tolerates fasting terribly well and you can listen to my podcasts with Dr. Dominic D'Agostino D apostrophe A-G-O-S-T-I-N-O for all the detail in the world you could possibly want on fasting. He is one of the country's top experts. All right. That is John. Let us jump in to the live questions here. I will see what I can find and I appreciate everybody chiming in. You guys are funny. All right. Let us see here. Okay. I think we got more coming in. All right. Here's a question from Daniel Any particular thinkers or writers you found very helpful regarding child-rearing and preparation for fatherhood? Obviously the general work with acceptance self-love et cetera about rearing children. So Daniel honestly I have not begun to read those books because once I let that genie out of the bottle I am going to read a hundred of them. My general feeling is spending time with my friends who I consider to be excellent parents and excellent partners and I do look for them to check both boxes is the best preparation that I can do in addition to all the self-work that you mentioned. I think that if you try to make yourself the most compassionate aware person possible obviously with boundaries I think I will be a strict parent on a lot of levels and you trust your biology. We have been giving birth and raising children successfully for a very very long time well before What to Expect When You are Expecting came out even though I hear that is a very good book. So I am not overly anxious or insecure about parenting because I do think that a lot of switches will be flipped as soon as really we get into the process of getting pregnant giving birth and so on but I will keep you posted. All right. Recommendation to Daniel. Might not be exactly what you are looking for. This is from another commenter but the book by Gabor Mat Scattered Minds touches a lot of important topics on importance of early development. All right. Let us jump back to the questions I have here in front of me. Here's one from Max. Max asks Do you have any advice for dealing with ontological shock like that of the realization of your childhood abuse a sudden and dramatic need to rewrite the existing narratives of your life and identity? I am struggling with this. So thanks for the question Max. I want to take a close look at this term that you used which is a good term ontological shock and this is a shock of knowing. Actually is it a shock of knowing? Let me look that up. I always mix up epistemology and ontological and all these things. Since I have the luxury of looking things up right now I am going to take a look at this. Ontology yeah nature of being. All right. So let me just read it then. All right. So let me do a retake on that. All right. So I want to take a closer look at this phrase ontological shock. I first heard this phrase from Roland Griffiths at Johns Hopkins with reference to what some people some patients can experience after their first mystical experience on higher doses of something like psilocybin. So what is ontology now? The branch of metaphysics dealing with the nature of being. Two a set of concepts and categories in a subject area domain that shows their properties and relations between them. So it is really a nature of being a nature of knowing. This is how I think about this. The ontological shock that someone can experience in a psychedelic session would include being unable to reconcile new experiences of reality or new experiences of non-ordinary states of consciousness that seem hyper real. How do you take this experience and then reconcile it with your normal ordinary way of being in the world? It turns out that it can be extremely difficult and very jarring for people. It can take in some instances weeks or months or years to readjust if you do not have help. This is not something that happens all the time but it is something that happens with some frequency. Then you have we could call it ontological shock say of the realization or the surfacing of memories related to childhood abuse as an example or any type of abuse or trauma for that matter. I have found a number of tools very helpful for this. I do find IFS Internal Family Systems to be very helpful created by Dick Schwartz. I did a podcast episode with Dick Schwartz where we actually did a live session of IFS to really demonstrate and showcase the characteristics of that method and there are IFS therapists around the world. So I would suggest taking a look at that podcast to see if it is something that might be of interest. The next that comes to mind and this applies in many areas is The Work by Byron Katie and it is really a series of questions form of self-inquiry that allows you to interrogate your thoughts or examine and cross-examine your thoughts or beliefs beliefs being thoughts we take as true. So The Work by Byron Katie you can find online and many worksheets and so on can be found for free on her website. The other that I will mention and let me just get this right. I think it is free already by Bruce Tift but I am going to double check that and it will just take me a second folks. Okay. I was close. So the last book I will mention quickly here actually there are two. One I already mentioned Radical Acceptance by Tara Brach B-R-A-C-H. She is also been a guest on the podcast because almost all of my guests on the podcast have some connection to my life meaning I invite them on the podcast because of a personal curiosity or personal challenge or personal goal. So Tara Brach has been on my podcast that could serve as a teaser if you want to consider Radical Acceptance which is a fantastic fantastic book. The last book in this particular answer  wow! Got to sound like I am drunk. I think I am just tired. The last book that I will mention in this particular answer is one by Bruce Tift T-I-F-T. The book is Already Free and the title is worth saying twice Already Free subtitle Buddhism Meets Psychotherapy on the Path to Liberation. I found this book to be akin after reading say the first 50 to 74 pages to taking off a 100-pound backpack you did not even realize you have been carrying. I think that that in combination with Radical Acceptance really offers a synergistic one-two punch that could help a lot with many different types of ontological shock. So I will leave it at that and I wish you good luck. It is a difficult experience and that does not mean it is a valueless experience. Sometimes we experience breakdowns so that we can experience breakthroughs. I know that sounds very clich but certainly I have come to believe that in my own personal experience. All right. I am looking at some additional questions now here in the livestream. Chloe Carol Have you finished reading Overstory yet? Yes. I have finished reading The Overstory which for those who do not know is a Pulitzer Prize winning novel. It is incredibly good. It is incredibly long. You need to give it time to tie the different threads together. I thought it was a beautiful book. It has certainly increased my interest in trees botany plants which one might expect. I recommend it to everyone. It contains a lot of beauty and a lot of brutality. For anyone who is right at that it will make sense and I think there is a tendency to shield ourselves from brutality which makes a lot of sense in part because it is easy to succumb to what someone on my team called doomscrolling particularly during COVID when every news headline every article seems optimized to cause a panic response or a rage response. That is I think a form of unfiltered unselected brutality that is to be avoided right? That would be stress in the form of distress. Then you have stress in the form of the opposite which is eustress E-U like euphoria so positive stress. Weightlifting would be an example of this. The rock climbing that I am doing would be an example of this. These are stressors or sunlight leading to a suntan that you want stressors that produce an adaptation. I think selecting painful truths or certain types of brutality and becoming familiar with them particularly if there is the combination with beauty as you would find in The Overstory allows you to inoculate yourself a bit and what I mean by that is if you constantly shield yourself from the difficult from what you perceive to be the negative when you are for factors well outside of your control forced to encounter the negative the difficult the destructive you may find that you are more fragile. You may find that you are increasingly having trouble withstanding the onslaught if you have not trained yourself in some fashion with the combination which you can find of beauty and brutality. Perhaps that is a strange way to put it but I do believe there is something to that. All right. Let us keep going. A lot to see here. Let me keep  Ricky asked me Are you sure you are not drunk? I am 100 percent sure I am not drunk. I also recorded a very long very fun podcast just a few hours ago. So I have already been talking for say three hours today. So I think there is something to that. Everyone who is listening should try talking for six hours and then seeing how their speech evolves or devolves over the day. Still looking for questions here. Somebody asked When this ends? Not sure. I mean we have gone for an hour. I will probably go for a little bit longer especially since apparently my brain function is faltering but I will probably go for another 20 to 30 minutes. Let us call it 15 to 30 minutes. All right. Let me take a look. Here's a question. What am I laughing at the most these days? Someone also asked about evening routines. In the evening very often my catchup time with my girlfriend is well dinners. We do have date nights twice a week and I think it is very important to block those out. Otherwise life will just crowd out that time with people you care about. So we have date nights twice a week. One is tonight. So I will be certainly not be staying on for hours in that case. Then we have a hot tub or sauna which is just a great way to physically let go and then we will very often watch a short TV show of some type. Right now that is Schitt's Creek. That is S-C-H-I-T-T apostrophe S Creek which is absolutely hilarious. The episodes are extremely short. We are about I want to say three quarters of the way through season two and it is outstanding. It is really well done and the characters are all uniquely hilarious and it is easy. It is very easy. So I would say that is one example of where I am laughing the most these days. All right. All right. I am going to check a few more here in front of me. Let us see if I can answer any others. Here's a question from Robert Metcalfe When you get into an unproductive thought or emotional loop are there any particular practices quotes reminders that you would turn to for grounding and clear thinking? I will be the first to confess that I get into unproductive thought or emotional loops all the fucking time. So if that makes anybody feel any better this is an ongoing challenge and so it goes. That is okay. Particular practices quotes reminders. Practice number one would be Morning Pages as described by Julia Cameron. There is a Morning Pages Workbook that I use. It is literally on my kitchen table right now and you can learn all about that just by searching my name Tim Ferriss and Morning Pages and I wrote an entire blog post on how I approach that. So I will not rehash it here but that is definitely one of my go-to practices. Quotes? I have a piece of wood that has a quote laser etched into it. It is not so much a quote as a proverb but it is a Polish proverb and it' Not my circus not my monkeys. Now why would I use that? Very often because my unproductive thought or emotional loop is triggered by some bullshit that gets foisted upon me like a hot potato. I would say in combination with Not my circus not my monkeys the expression Your lack of preparation does not constitute my emergency which was said to me once way back in the day when I was getting started because I was trying to rush someone to do something and it is simply a reminder that if you allow everyone else's to-do list to become your to-do list you will have a life replete of emergencies and that just produces a daily experience and a life of cortisol which I do not think any of us want. Now granted you need cortisol. If you did not have it you would die but you do not want to have a life that is dominated by stress hormones. So those are a few and then last but not least and I know I have mentioned this already in this episode and the fact that I will mention it again should tell you that I view it as valuable the book Awareness by Anthony de Mello. It is a constant source of nourishment with incredible after effects. I find myself really to be at peace for two to three weeks after reading Awareness with fresh eyes and I always find a new nuance or a new takeaway from this book even though I have read it probably 12 times at this point something along 10 to 12 times. I would say minimum. I have an entire shelf in my guest bedroom at home that is full of copies of Awareness to give to friends who come to visit and that is how strongly I feel about the benefits. Let us go back to the livestream. Anybody have any questions? Any questions? Any questions? Okay. Comment from Justin Steward Ted Lasso is a good one too. I polled my followers on Twitter and Facebook and so on. So a few million people asking for an easy feel-good series to binge watch and Ted Lasso L-A-S-S-O came up repeatedly. It was probably one of the top three. So that is also on my list. Even in this chat there are many plus ones for Ted Lasso. All right. Matt Ridley asks How much time do I set aside for reading each week? I tend to read before bed as a way to wind down and very frequently I would say once or twice a week I will try to read. This is often if I am feeling anxious for whatever reason or rushed but without a clear explanation I will meditate have my tea or coffee and then lay down on the couch with my dog and read for 30 to 60 minutes. So I would say if you total it all up I am probably reading for three to five hours per week. If I am traveling it will be significantly higher. All right. Let me take a look at questions. Let us see. Question here How active are you in lobbying Congress' decreased restrictions on psychedelic research? Well there are many challenges in the arena of psychedelic research. Certainly one is the federal scheduling of most of these compounds. Suffice to say I am active on almost every front related to psychedelic research. Question from  looks like Greek. Unfortunately I cannot read Greek phonetically so I apologize. Have you given serious thoughts to writing fiction? Yes I have and in fact I have been writing short stories in fiction and I have been doing that in the mornings before inputs often on the weekends and it has been tremendously liberating and it is quite similar to rock climbing in fact and I think part of the reason I enjoy both is that you might have an idea of where you are starting the first few moves and then you get up on the wall and unless you have specced out the entire route you need to improvise and you begin to problem solve and play with puzzles on the way up. I quite enjoy that which is very different from my experience of nonfiction. Nonfiction is more like for me at least carpentry. It is a lot of research preparation laying out the outlines knowing where you are going having the data in front of you. This is much more similar to playing with building blocks or finger paints or something like that not to in any way denigrate fiction. Great fiction I find almost impossible to comprehend as a craft. I do not know how someone like the author of Little Big for instance writes the way that he writes. I just do not know how it is done. It really boggles my mind but I am taking it step-by-step bird-by-bird as one might say which is also one of my favorite books on the craft of writing and fiction which is really also a great book on the craft of living Bird by Bird by Anne Lamott. All right. Let me take a look here. All right. I am going to go back and I think I am going to wrap up in a few minutes because my brain is clearly lagging with my slurring and I promise you no drug involved. Maybe I need more drugs. All right. Let me take a look. All right. I am going to read this question from Andrew Robinson not because my answer is a great answer. Although I think it may be helpful to some people but it is an important topic. So Andrew asks How do you overcome the fear of being misunderstood? It seems that you have made many decisions in your personal and professional life example given opting out of a more typical career path after Princeton extreme experimentation quitting startup investing and most recently supporting psychedelic research. They might be confusing at first even for those in your personal life. Anything other than fear setting that comes to mind for helping you manage how others whether personal friends or the general public may perceive your decisions? So this is a topic that we could explore for an entire episode but I do the first principles are important because you can come up with all sorts of strategies and tactics but underlying those are some assumptions or beliefs and those are in a sense the first principles. So for me I suppose there are a couple of things to consider that first you should assume you are almost always going to be misunderstood or I should say if you assume you will always be misunderstood because think about how difficult it is to understand yourself. How many people listening right now can say I understand myself perfectly? I certainly cannot say that. I do not even know what understand would mean in such a context but there are misunderstandings left right and center every day probably every hour every minute as we sit here engaging in this live QA certainly. If we then just assume that understanding as a concept is hard to wrap our heads around with a lot and that even if we could wrap our heads around it we are going to be constantly misunderstood. That removes a lot of the pressure to make yourself understood if that makes any sense. So if the secret to happiness is low expectations as I was told by one of my Danish friends when I asked him why Denmark rated as one of the happiest countries on Earth then perhaps the key to overcoming the fear of being misunderstood is just to assume that everyone misunderstands everyone and that there is no point that it is pissing in the wind to try to prevent people from misunderstanding you. So that is point number one. Point number two is that we dramatically overestimate how much people are thinking about us. People think about themselves. Most of us spend the vast majority of our time in the me me me movie where we are the lead actor or actress. Everyone else is supporting cast and we are ruminating and perseverating on all sorts of nonsense. We occasionally stumble upon something important but mostly think about trivialities related to our own lives our own goals our own fears what other people might be thinking even though in truth everyone else is also in their own solo act. That I think can be tremendously freeing. When you assume that everyone else your family closest friends et cetera are also somewhat compulsively self-referential and thinking about themselves most of the time. They are just not thinking about you most of the time and that can be instead of being depressing very very uplifting and reassuring. So you can feel free in a sense to do what you believe the next right thing is because it does not really matter. They are not thinking about you. At least it does not matter on that level. You can also focus on communication and expressing needs and expressing your motivations without attachment to the response that comes. That takes practice. I have been very fortunate to have felt a lot of support not necessarily for every decision but I felt support for marching to the beat of my own drummer if that makes any sense. So those are a few thoughts related to not overcoming the fear of being misunderstood but reframing the fear of being misunderstood. I hope those are helpful. You could also read Make Good Art or better yet watch the commencement speech Make Good Art by Neil Gaiman G-A-I-M-A-N and it does not address this perfectly but it speaks to vulnerability and I think that vulnerability whether it is a fear of vulnerability or a wish to be more candid with those around you that is the connective tissue between those two recommendations. Okay. I think that is going to be it guys. I think I will take a quick look at some of the questions that we have in the livestream but I think this is probably good. I think this is probably good. I think it is time for me to maybe go get some exercise. Here's a complementary comment from someone I saw a bumper sticker that goes Do not worry about what other people think. They do not do it very often.' Exactly. That summarizes one of the key points I was trying to make very very succinctly. Then a question on sleep. I will take a stab at this Tips resources hack for improving sleep? So I have written about sleep quite extensively in Tools of Titans. I will mention just a few things. California poppy is very helpful for me at least with sleep and I do not want to take melatonin on a daily basis. I just do not feel good about taking things that consistently that affect hormones without cycling off. So I will use melatonin occasionally although it often leaves me feeling groggy. There are people who will take say phosphatidylserine. If your head tends to spin or remain very active when you are trying to go to sleep there are some people who will take phosphatidylserine otherwise known as PS which I did take say last night before bed to try to prevent or I should say lower the release of cortisol which then can result in spikes in blood glucose. So those are a couple of supplemental interventions. Magnesium L-threonate is a version of magnesium that is preferentially absorbed in the brain. That can also be quite interesting but the greatest determinant of sleep quality or I should say determinants for me are A restricting caffeine intake in time to before midnight because the quarter life of caffeine is about 12 hours which means if you consume say 100 mg of caffeine or 200 mg but let us go with the 100 because it makes the math simple a quarter of that will still be present 12 hours later. So if you have 100 mg of caffeine that will be one Vivarin at noon you will still have 25 mg of that caffeine in your system roughly obviously we are dealing with averages here at midnight. Okay? So minimizing caffeine intake in volume and then also in time I think is a huge and I know is a huge determinant of sleep quality because I track my sleep quality with something like the Oura Ring. I do wear the Oura Ring O-U-R-A which I find to be extremely helpful to establish your baseline and then look at what interventions actually do to your sleep quality and types of sleep that is phases of sleep. Second is exercise and sun exposure. So when in doubt just get more exercise and sun exposure before lunch and without fail that will increase my sleep quality in terms of percentage of say restorative deep sleep and also speed to sleep. That is the onset of sleep. Last is temperature. So one modification that I would make to what I wrote in Tools of Titans is I now use a cover on my bed from Eight Sleep which I find to be tremendously helpful for both speed to sleep and quality of sleep. So temperature is really one of the primary levers that I like to pull. So I sleep as cold as I can without suffering and that solves all sorts of relationship issues and potential strife around fighting over the thermostat also. So there are many benefits to using something like the Eight Sleep bed cover which I do. So those are a few recommendations that you could consider playing with but you need to be able to certainly evaluate whether or not your interventions are working. You could do that subjectively how you feel certainly but some metrics will be helpful and that is where something like the Oura Ring comes into play and can be combined with a device like Eight Sleep which also offers some metrics and markers on a nightly basis. With all that said there is a question here. I am going to leave it as a cliffhanger. There is a question about how I learned Japanese through Judo textbooks and so on. Confusingly The 4-Hour Chef this book that I wrote which was the hardest book to put together is in fact a book about accelerated learning and it goes into how I used these textbooks and how I deconstructed characters for Japanese in some length. So I will leave it to people to explore The 4-Hour Chef if they want to dig more deeply into that and it talks about accelerated learning not only for let us say factual knowledge or declarative knowledge like memorizing characters and foreign vocabulary and so on but also procedural knowledge skills shooting a basketball or any thousands of other things knife skills in the kitchen et cetera. So all of those things are deconstructed with the framework DiSSS and CaFE and those are two frameworks that you can apply to learning just about any skill I have not found any exceptions. So with that thank you everyone for joining. It is been really fun to connect with everybody on this live QA. Hope you found some of it or any of it valuable. I wish everyone a wonderful week and wonderful weekend and take care and take care means not just take care of other people but take care of yourselves. If your cultivation of compassion does not include yourself then it is incomplete as my friend Jack Kornfield would say. Until next time until next time what? What do I want to say? Until next time have fun be safe and thanks for tuning in.   