 I must say we were talking about this while we were doing a little bit of pregame but the expectations are going to be very high. You have been on the podcast several times. Some of your episodes are the most downloaded of all time across 600 or so episodes now so we will need to get to a lot of tactical practical and we are going to discuss a lot of I think sensitive topics. We are going to get into some juicy territory for folks talking about couples money all things in betwixt and in-between and or maybe it is in-bet  is it betwixt and between? I cannot remember. I am trying to get to old-timey but let us just jump right into it because you and I have had many conversations offline we have had many conversations publicly and there is a lot more to explore. As a starter what are some of the most memorable money conversations that you have had in the last few years? Because it is been a bit since we had our last conversation on the podcast so a lot has transpired.  The last time we talked we talked about prenups and what that was like walking in.  Yeah.  I remember giving you a call and I said Hey we could talk about this on your podcast and you said Wait you will actually share the details? I said Yeah and that was very juicy because nobody talks about this kind of stuff publicly.  Right.  After getting married and going through that process with my wife I thought Okay great. Done deal wiping my hands together Oh we are all good? and then I started speaking to other couples about their money. I remember speaking to a number of couples. The first one that I spoke to was a couple where one person had over 500000 of debt. He was a vet. By the way interestingly the people who I speak to who are in the most severe debt are veterinarians. It is very interesting. He was very nonchalant about it. Ah no big deal. Like We will find a way. No problem. His wife felt totally constrained and constricted. There is nothing they could do. They were putting off moving because there was this huge looming ghost in the middle of their relationship. I got interested and I started speaking to more and more couples and I remember talking to another couple where there was a young woman and she had paid off something like 50000 of debt which was very impressive but whenever her husband said Let us go on a trip the first thing she would say is Oh we cannot do that. We cannot do that because my debt and so I said to her When you finally pay off your debt do you think you are going to magically change the way you think about money? and she was silent. She said Yeah? with a question mark at the end. Yeah? which means no. People tend to have this very  it is a false belief that one day when they pay off their debt or one day when they make a certain amount of money they are going to magically change the way they think and act about money and the fact of the matter is that does not happen and so that is why I got interested in speaking to couples and they let me in to their conversations their private conversations about love and money.  Can I just share a quick personal side note? I am not drunk. I am not overcaffeinated people if you are wondering why I am such a loose cannon already today but I thought you would appreciate this because we have had a lot of conversations like this. I am in a house right now with a brand new washer and dryer but a few weeks ago I was agonizing over whether or not to get a washerdryer because I would been doing wash and fold and paying kind of by the load to get clothing washed and folded. It was pretty inconvenient and I was talking to someone about it and I was spending a lot of time considering whether I should continue using wash and fold or getting a washerdryer. I mentioned the cost of the washerdryer and so on and so forth and I said For that I could do this number of wash and fold sessions and that I expect would take X number of weeks or months and really I am only here for a certain period of time and at the end they were like Tim I think you can just spring for the washerdryer but the amount of time that I spent like running this calculus and weighing the pros and cons was a great illustration of a terrible investment of resources   Well it is deep in you and I think when you think back to 4-Hour Workweek and some of the analyses you did you can tell you love the spreadsheet and you love comparing certain things. It is in you and for I think a lot of sort of tech-oriented guys in particular it is in them and we all have something that we just we will  it is not painful to us to sit there and compare things. We will do it forever. I will give you an example from one of the people I spoke to. This one really blew my mind. He goes Ramit I love to get a good deal. I said Okay. I can already tell where this is going by the way and it is not good but I said Okay. He said Whenever I order groceries online I hate the idea of overpaying. I said Really? He said So I open up two tabs. I have Whole Foods on one side and I have whatever competitor on the other. Ramit you are not going to believe it. Sometimes they charge 15 for organic groceries but over here I can get it for 7. I said Wow. By the way what is your net worth? Tim you want to guess?  I do not want to even hazard a guess. What was the   8 million net worth. Now it is very easy for us to laugh and even he laughed as I just sat there silently staring at him but what is revealed there is that it is not a certain number that is going to change the way we feel about money. If you are listening to this right now maybe you have a partner maybe you have had a couple arguments about money or you just do not see eye to eye on certain things the easiest way that we rationalize it is to say Well if we just get that promotion or if we just save this much then everything will be perfect but my friend who I spoke to who has an 8 million net worth listening to him you know it is not about the dollar value. It is not and nothing will change that feeling unless he personally works on it along with his partner.  All right. I want to plant a seed. We are going to come back to specific questions. I want to ask you what the prying bar looks like what tools you use when talking to couples that you have found illuminating and helpful questions that people then who are listening might use. Before we get to that my question is and we do not have to spend a ton of time on it but why did it take you so goddamn long to start a podcast?  Yeah. All of my podcast friends including you are like Are you stupid?  You should have done this 10 years ago. I am just slow. You know I am just slow. I do not know. I do not know what else to say. I have no good excuse really.  I do not buy that bullshit excuse so you  there has to be some calculus involved here that somehow led to you doing the podcast.  Well I asked you.  Yes.  Okay so I asked you a lot. Over the course of many years I was like Hey I am thinking about it and you had some great advice for me Record this many episodes et cetera. The thing that I love about your podcast is you really love interviewing all these different people from across the spectrum. I do not. My nightmare is waking up and talking to a bunch of people who wrote some book. I am like Ah I do not really  all right. Let us cut this short. I got to go but what I do love is talking to ordinary people about psychology and money and in particular the difference between what we claim we want to do and what we actually do Hey I know I should be eating healthier but I do not. Why not? Let us get into that. No judgment but let us try to peel the onion and try to figure that out and part of that is just myself. I had a lot of things I claimed I wanted to do but I did not really follow through and when I finally figured out that I could just talk to people and ask them about their money and they would trust me enough to share real numbers then I started to be like Wait a minute this could actually work. After trying it a couple times I realized I could do this for four hours a day every day and I would love it. That is why I decided to try it out.  You also there are certain things that you would be willing to do four hours a day that are utterly puzzling and hilarious to me. Just for people who are like That sounds like a politician's answer. I do not buy it I do not buy it Ramit. I will tell you this is also someone who has done very well in business and in life that is Ramit who loves to feed the trolls. You will send me extensive threads of just toying with trolls from email.  Because Tim when do you get a chance to meet someone who walks up to you in this case on Instagram and the first thing they say is Fuck you and I go Are you having a bad hair day? Let us discuss. What kind of burrito do you like? and then the responses are just truly unbelievable. 50 percent of them right off the bat they go Oh I did not even know someone actually reads this account which leads to another question Why on earth would you write into the ether if you did not expect anyone to write back? I do not know. Do you not find that fascinating?  I do find it interesting and this is just to lend credibility to your answer. This is just you choose your sports in a unique way and   Just so everyone listening let us make sure we capture that. Tim lent  he just said Ramit is credible because he spends hours a day interacting with trolls on Instagram. Tim I do not know if that is helping me out here man.  That was a bit of a journalist reframe. Let me  so what you are saying is  by the way a pro tip to anyone who is ever interviewed if someone says Oh so I guess what you are kind of saying is A B and C do not just say Yes quickly to that because they will take that and they will quote you as saying whatever they just said. They are trying to write their piece in advance by paraphrasing you. Be very careful. Those are your words Mr. Sethi not mine. However let us come to the questions. What types of questions what are some specific questions you like to ask or that people can ask each other or in the context of a therapy session that they might use that you found useful?  First question I always start with is In the last 30 days can you think of a specific situation where you were not on the same page financially with your partner? This is a great question for a couple of reasons. Number one 30 days limits you otherwise people often feel like they have to give you their whole life history and I do not need their whole life history truthfully I only need a little bit just to advance to the next question. That is number one. Then being on the same page is pretty gentle. Some people get in fights and some people they just disagree about Who should pay for the check at dinner? and so it does not have to be this massive 10 out of 10 argument but I do want to hear where they were not aligned. From there it just kind of flows because people instantly can remember something from the last 30 days and they love to talk about it. Then the next question I ask as I get into it I will ask them What is your rich life? Now this is a concept that I have been talking about for about 15 20 years on my site and that is the idea that you do not have to cut back on lattes life is not about competing who can be more frugal there is more to life than optimizing cell C3 of your spreadsheet but I want to hear people talk about what their rich life is. I had a young woman whose rich life was I want to shop at Whole Foods without counting the prices of whatever I buy. Okay that is fine if you are just starting out maybe you are in 25000 of debt. She was professionally extremely successful so with that I kind of push her. I say Okay let us say you could do that tomorrow. How much would your shopping cart cost? She said Ah like 100. I said Push it. Get something really nice. 150? I said You make X hundred thousand dollars a year. Let us dream a little bigger and this is a huge topic that unfolds because again another interesting insight about couples most people have never thought about what their rich life is individually much less what their rich life is together.  Question about this woman so if she is making hundreds of thousands of dollars per year in fact maybe I am missing something obvious but she could very easily afford to spend 150 at Whole Foods so did she just feel as though she could not or she would not allow herself to do that or did she feel like she needed tens of millions of dollars in order to without guilt spends 150 at Whole Foods? How did that conversation unfold?  People's feelings about how they are doing financially are highly uncorrelated with their actual financial status. I spoke to a couple on the lower east side in Manhattan and they were living in a one-bedroom and they were saving a lot of money. Their income was 330000 a year and I said to them How do you all feel you are doing? and they said We do not know. We have no idea. Are we doing well? Are we doing horrible? We do not know! And that is one of the problems which is no one talks about money. You have no idea how to benchmark yourself particularly if you live in a city like Manhattan where spending is different than living in Chicago for example and so they had no idea. When you take a couple look at some basic metrics What is your savings rate? What is your expenses? What is your housing costs? and I said to them You guys are doing really well. You should give yourself a pat on the back and they would go Okay. Yeah yeah yeah. So anyway we got this question about our accounts. I said Hold on a second. Let us celebrate for just a second. You have done really well and I think there is a lack of celebration with couples because there is just so much uncertainty around it.  Yeah. I would imagine there is a lot of positional economics also in a place like Manhattan where it is like if you have three friends who are doing or appear to be doing substantially better than you are then you will evaluate yourself very differently than if you are in your peer group doing the best even if in absolute dollar amounts you are making less in the latter instance right? I have to imagine that is also a big part of it. So if you live in a place that is highly competitive with many successful people like Manhattan your reference point is going to make celebrating in some respects more difficult.  I think that is true and I think that Americans love to compare themselves to their neighbors. Love it. Well Americans love to do a few things that are completely irrational. They love to think that if they do certain things it will make them happy and then they do the exact thing that will make them unhappy. We love it. We can go into all this but think about the typical couple living in some suburban city. Think about the conversations that are happening about money regarding their neighbors. Well how did Leah and John go on vacation for the third time this year? Maybe we should be going on vacation for a third time this year and it does not have to be living in Manhattan. You can be living anywhere. What is going on there? The answer is that money is opaque. Money is unclear because you might have a different savings goal than I do and also there is a lot of secret sources of where money comes from. Oftentimes you will find that parents are funding certain things. Oftentimes you will find that people are in debt. Oftentimes you will find someone's actually just really wealthy and they make a lot more money than you think they make.  Or they are really in debt and they have the picture of financial health but they are funding it by sort of lighting their credit on fire.  Yeah. That is also possible.  Yeah. Let us come back to rich life. When you ask someone about their rich life what their rich life looks like so you gave us an example of the disconnect between someone's sort of objective financial status and then the Whole Foods shopping. What would be your answer? How would you personally answer that? Just so we can have an idea of models of what a more fleshed-out answer might look like.  I would say that I want to travel for six to eight weeks six weeks consecutively at the end of the year. When I fly I want to fly in this exact airline seat and when I travel I want to stay at these three different hotels and I want to bring one or more family members with me when I travel and cost is not the first second or third issue when I take these trips. That is an example. Another example would be I don'00 a.m. every day. That could be an example. Just so everybody knows I finally boiled these down into what I call Ramit is Money Rules so it is almost like a personal value statement. I will give you a couple of them. Some of them are kind of boring and some of them are super permissive. Before I start I just want to remind everybody these are my rules not yours. They should sound kind of crazy if you are listening to them. One of them is always have one year of emergency fund cash. Okay fine. This you could make it six months or a year whatever. But here' never question spending money on books appetizers health or donating to a friend's charity fundraiser. Now each of those is very meaningful to me because I did not grow up being able to afford appetizers so now if I eat out with a friend or whoever I say Look whatever you like on the menu just order it and that feels amazing. What does it cost me an extra 20 bucks? but it feels incredible. Then there is some really big ones like anytime I take a flight over four hours business class or be able to pay in full for large expenses including a wedding dream honeymoon or even a house. Okay those are really big rich life dreams and rules. Most people who are listening like Hey I am not going to pay all cash for a house. Totally fine. What I would challenge each person as they think about their rich life is I would love for them to say You know what? Every week I love fresh flowers. It feels a little indulgent to me but it just makes me feel so good and so I am going to buy fresh flowers for myself every week. Beautiful.  Yeah. It is I am kind of smirking as you say that because I am going to tilt this. I am not sure if you will be able to see it but   Oh look at that.  I have a it is a   A beautiful sunflower.  Yeah there is a bouquet of flowers right in front of me and that was actually a recent decision. It is like flowers each week completely changes my experience of my home.  Why?  Just having a symbol of life and vibrancy also of change and having something to care for. If you are changing the water it really just fundamentally changes my experience of space and aesthetics in the home and it is such a simple thing so that is why I am smiling.  I love it. You know what? Every time I ask people their rich life and I probe their first answers are never what we ultimately settle on but as we start talking about it and we spend a lot of time really probing and pushing Why that? Well what if you dreamed a little bigger? and they also smile the whole time because no one has ever asked them What is your rich life? and really asked them why. Never. Usually if it is something like a handbag something tangible most people start off by saying like this Well I know. I mean I guess I would like a purse. It does not have to be like the fanciest purse but I would like this handbag and like Maybe once every decade it could be like a nice one and I go What if it was every year and what if it was that brand the most beautiful version of it? and their eyes light up because no one has ever talked to them about the thing that deep down they love what I call their money dial. Instead it is kind of seen as frivolous particularly things like handbags which I do not agree with. I think you could buy a beautiful handbag for the craftsmanship for the functionality or just because you want it and their partners are watching this.  For those people who cannot see Ramit right now he is winking at me. So I know what to get you for Christmas.  Thank you very much.  Please continue.  And I am hoping as I am asking these questions that their partner is seeing and can model this. Because you will usually find that when one partner is nervous because they think that it is frivolous that there is a reason for that that their partner has said something multiple times in the past like Well you do not need a handbag like that. You do not need that kind of car. And yeah you do not need it but we are here talking about your rich life to start. We are going to get to the spreadsheet stuff. We are going to get to your spending plan but let us just start off with your vision of what a rich life is. That is exciting.  If we rewind just back to the blueprint here not so much a blueprint but your series of questions within the last 30 days where have you not been on the same page?  Yep.  Financially what does your rich life look like? What are some of the questions that follow or could follow after that?  Usually when I find that one person is an overspender and they admit it themselves I ask them Have you ever said No?' And what I mean by that is have you ever said No' to your family who is asking you for money? Or have you ever said No' to your partner when they asked for X Y Z? Have you ever said No?' And almost always they say No I have never done that. So you realize at that very moment that there is a deeper issue than just money. It is being a people pleaser. It is not being able to set effective boundaries things like that. And we get into that. I also ask people How big of an issue is this on a scale of one to 10? And this is a really interesting response I get.  In this case what is this?  within the last 30 days?  Yeah.  Yep. Okay. Got it.  And almost always they will say It is like a five out of 10. It is not that bad. Now remember they have gotten on a podcast with me where they are sharing real numbers. They are sharing fights and challenges they have had for years and they are going Oh it is a five out of 10. So I know that there is something going on here. I say Okay five out of 10. What do you think happens if you both disagree about how much to spend at brunch on Saturdays? What do you think happens when you have kids and then when you decide to move to a different city and when you have 25 years of this going on? What happens? And they go Oh. Yeah that is like a nine out of 10. I go Yeah. And what do you think happens at nine out of 10? And they realize that when people say We got divorced because of money it was not fighting over 7 at Target but it started there. And it calcified over 25 years.  That could be the title of your next book. It could be 7  Small Disagreements and How They Lead to Big Divorces.  Oh you are the best at titles Tim.  I will take my customary 15 percent. That is very reasonable because we are friends. Any other questions that you would like to cover?  No that is where we start. That gives me a lay of the land. And I can walk you through an exercise that I do with them. It may be helpful if you think.  Let us do it. Yeah.  All right.  Great.  So this is one that I actually started with my wife and we were talking about our rich life. And it is hard when you start talking about your rich life because you do not even know where to start. Many of us have spent our entire lives being told what we cannot do with our money so when you ask people what they want to do the answers are fairly facile. The Whole Foods is an example. So what I did was I said Okay let us take separate pieces of paper and let us write down in the next 10 years what is on our bucket list. And let us just write it down. And we took 10 15 minutes. And the way that I thought of this was I was inspired by Stephen King's National Book Club Speech. Now he was living in a trailer with his wife and he was running out of money. And he got a job offer to be a teacher. And his wife said to him Will you be able to write? And he said No I will not. But at least it will allow us to pay the bills. And she instantly said Well then you cannot do it.  Wow.  And so that chilling moment and then fast forward just a little bit in the future he signs a massive deal for his first book. A massive deal. He gets the check. He brings it home to his wife in their trailer and he said We sat there we looked at the check we talked about what we were going to do with the money and we cried. He said it was one of the most beautiful conversations of his life. And I love that. I love the idea that money can be this thing that lets us do more not less. It lets us dream bigger. It lets us be more adventurous more generous. So I started off with my wife. I said Let us just write down our bucket list items. Okay. So we come back after 15 minutes. She had some interesting ones. She wanted to learn another language. That was just individually for herself. Together I think I wrote down I want to design a house with you because she is very creative and we are both into design. And we wanted to have a beautiful 10-year wedding anniversary in India. We know the exact place. We know all the people that want to bring with us. Great. We are talking about this we are loving it. We are having a blast. And I said Let us pick a couple of these and let us put a dollar value to them. So we picked the 10-year wedding anniversary. Okay. And I said Okay pick a number. There is no way to know the right number but just pick a number what you think it will cost. So she just takes a second and I take a second. And the numbers that we picked were hilariously different. My number was something like five to 10 times bigger than the number my wife picked. And she looked uncomfortable visibly uncomfortable.  Yeah. I was going to ask you if there is an asymmetry of wealth I would imagine the person who has fewer resources may be very nervous about actually speaking honestly or adding big items or offering big numbers.  Well you are totally right. Most people are afraid of dreaming about the rich life at all. Because they feel that once they write it down or tell someone if they do not achieve it then they are a failure. But in my opinion that is just going through life playing defense. And I would rather play offense. So what I said to my wife is like Look neither of us know what this is actually going to cost. We just made these numbers up. But if we are going to choose a number let us go with the bigger one. Why? Because we have a lot of time. We have eight plus years to save and invest for this. Two I think we can do it. I know what we can accomplish together. We could do it. And three would not it be magical to be able to take all of our friends and family the people who cannot afford it? Just go to the airport and the ticket will be there for you. Would not that be amazing? And so really coming back to that vision instead of Well it is actually going to be seven percent return. And I do not know if dah dah dah. No this is a vision exercise. So she begrudgingly said Okay. I will say that one year later my wife has done an amazing job working on her money psychology. And we revisited this. And she said Oh yeah now I know without a doubt we can hit that number easily. And that is when you are really aligned with your partner where the two of you are rowing in the same direction. It is not one person saying Come on! but it is both of us saying Oh yeah we could do this.  So may I ask you a very personal uncomfortable possibly uncomfortable question and then you can tell me?  Okay.  So we can also cut this out if we end up not using it. So you said We can hit the number. Was there a discussion with some of these items of how each party contributes to that big goal? Even though you are not getting into immediately the nitty-gritty I understand it is a vision exercise but since you are using the example I figured I might as well ask. Because I bet this is something that it is going to be an inevitable topic that people have to navigate.  Okay. I am glad you asked and I will definitely share how we did it. So I think that the reason that we came up with these joint goals like a 10-year wedding anniversary is that we both want to contribute to it. We want to contribute proportionally based on income but we both want to contribute to it. The thing about my wife wants to learn a certain language I am not contributing to that. She makes   What language just out of curiosity?  Finnish.  Okay. Cool.  Yeah. She is taking a class she is doing a great job.  Nice.  And she decided to get her own tutor. And that is her thing and she is covering that on her own. And I am thrilled. I have my own stuff that I pay for. Again we have our joint accounts and our separate accounts but I will say that the reason that I wanted to have this exercise is that when we meet once a month to talk about our finances we have something to look forward to. We have an exact number that we are saving and investing together for. And we look at it. It is almost like one of those progress bars. Okay. We are four percent of the way there. Oh my gosh we are now eight percent of the way there. And we can see that this goal which was so big originally we are actually just chipping away at it day by day. That is magic.  So the once monthly meeting to discuss finances I want to hear more about this.  Yeah.  What is the format?  Okay. So you and I talked on our last podcast about checking in and you had some great suggestions for some questions. And we have used those and adapted those for our own relationship. It is one thing to do a relationship check in. But I also think another really valuable check in is a financial check in. And so the way that we do it is we have a spreadsheet that we have built. It is custom for us based on what is important to us. So we have our expenses that are in there. In the course of a 30-minute call we will look over our expenses. And the call by the way is with a third party who walks us through some of the numbers. The expenses take five minutes because really most of our expenses are planned for. Okay. I will give you an example.  Except for your handbags.  Except for the handbags. That is right. Well those are going to be an incoming gift from Tim Ferriss soon enough. Tim I will send you my   My private-labeled handbag line. I cannot believe you have told the world!  That is right. So here's the thing I think about expenses. I think most people they spend time all their time looking at expenses. And it is really depressing. This is the wrong place to spend a lot of time. What we did instead was we said Okay our groceries are basically the same every single month. Whatever. Rent is basically the same every single month. There is a couple of areas that are variable. So we actually sat down at the end of the year and we planned out. How many trips do we want to take? How much is each of those trips? And we got pretty granular about it. We also know that some surprise expenses come up with things like gifts. So we planned it out appropriately ahead of time. This is how many people we are going to give gifts to. This is the amount we are going to gift. Charity same thing. And so those are baked in. So on a given month yeah we might be a little bit over on food. We might be a little bit under on gas but it is basically within parameters. After five minutes of that we spend way more time looking at our rich life goals. So we have about five rich life goals that are actively being saved for. That would be the 10-year wedding anniversary. And so each quarter each month or quarter we have money going into those goals. And then we have a backlog. You can never have too many rich life goals because at some point we are going to hit one of those goals. What is next? Guess what? We got our backlog ready to go. And so that backlog could be hiring somebody to do X Y Z for us. It could be taking this special trip buying a new car this type of specific car and model. It is all there.  What would be your true but most embarrassing backlog rich life goal to share on this podcast right now?  Oh my God. This is horrifying. Let me think. Okay. So once I sat down and I asked my friends I was like What is the next level for you? The rich life next level? And so one of them was like I want a jet. And one of them was like I want to take a trip to Tahiti or something like that. And mine was I never want to have to pack a suitcase again in my life. And they were like Are you stupid? That is like 50 bucks. But okay I will tell you what it is. Now the suitcase part I do not want to have to carry luggage when I travel.  Okay.  And that is relatively inexpensive. You can ship it for like a hundred bucks. I just do not want to. I want to walk out of an airplane free and not sweating because I have a bag that I am carrying around with me. I do not know. It feels a little indulgent to me but it is like a hundred bucks.  Okay. So shipping luggage as opposed to transporting luggage?  Correct.  Yeah. I know a few people who have done that for many many years. I know one also who hates to select clothing to travel with. So he wears black shirt tan cargo pants every day. Kind of Steve Jobs with a Limp Bizkit twist to it. And same shoes. And so his assistant will pack I guess they are gallon Ziploc bags or something like that with each day's outfit because he hates doing laundry also. So he just has all of these versions of the same outfit. And so if he is going on like a 10-day trip there'ill be 10 gallon Ziploc bags with each day's outfit.  This is not what I thought was going to be his rich life but God bless you. All the best.  That is why it is his rich life Ramit! All right.  Okay so that is what we do. So we start off with the expenses. It is like five minutes. We spend more time on the rich life goals. And then we have an open backlog of questions. There are sometimes things like Hey we have got this trip coming up. Do we want to stay here or there? Or should we get this or that? Things like that. We have a document a running document that we just track these questions on. And usually within 30 sometimes 60 minutes we are good to go for about a month. That is roughly the structure. I would encourage it for anybody. And I want to add a twist for people. When you do these meetings it can be really depressing because talking about money for most people is really negative. Why did you spend this much? We do not want that at all. We want this to be a positive experience. So I would encourage if possible go out to dinner. Or if you have children and you have the ability to maybe get some help for one hour two hours take advantage of that. This is supposed to be a positive experience where you can say You know what? I really want to talk about money in a way that benefits both of us. And I would love to get your input. What can we do to make this a great environment for us to have this conversation? Do that and you are going to be way more set than having it with dinner on the table and people screaming. That is not going to be conducive to this type of meeting.  So let us say that you both want that to be the case. Let us just assume. And this is not from my personal experience just to be clear. But I would imagine there are cases where you have a couple and one person is an overspender. Maybe it extends further than that. Like you said maybe they are a people pleaser. They do not have clear boundaries with other folks. But nonetheless the hemorrhaging is coming predominantly from one side. What type of conversation would you recommend for people in that type of situation?  This is really hard but this is the most common of all. To have these conversations it is usually one person effectively dragging the other person to the meeting. That is not a good place to start. And I will tell you what the typical approach is and then what a better approach is. The typical approach is to say Hey we really need to get a handle on your spending. This is not working. So let us talk about money. Okay. That is never going to work. So just stop that right now. Another approach would be to say Okay I built a spreadsheet model. Look at tab 16 it will show you all the math. And right now we are compounding. Do not do that. Nobody cares about compounding. You have not earned the right to talk about math at this first conversation. The third and I think much better approach is to say You know what babe? I have been listening to this podcast episode and they were talking about money. They were talking about a rich life. And I guess I never thought about it this way. There was one woman who said she wanted to be able to go to Whole Foods and just spend without looking at the prices. You have mentioned that right? What would that feel like to you? For me a rich life would be to be able to get in the car and drive. And if we see a place we like we can just stop there and we can order whatever we want without looking at how much it costs. I would love to do that with you. So what would it be for you? I would love to know. Let us just pause right there. Notice that in that conversation that we just had a couple of things I did and a couple of things I did not do. First I set the context. Why am I bringing this up? Feel free to throw the Tim Ferriss show under the bus. Oh I was listening to this show. Some guy came on Ramit Sethi. I do not know. Okay. Do that. Give them a reason. Number two I was genuinely curious. Hey I know you have mentioned Whole Foods. What would that be like for you? I find in couples that have trouble they have rarely asked the other partner a question a single question in months if not years. Okay. That is number two. Notice what I did not do. I did not talk about   You mean questions about money or just questions?  No. Anything. Anything. One of the young women in my episodes she revealed that she had an alcoholic father. And she and her family had had to walk around on eggshells because of him. She said If we are really getting real that is how I was raised. And you know what happened? Her husband started talking over her. Well yeah that is why I really want her to have the courage to be an entrepreneur. I said Man are you listening right now? Did you know about that? He goes No. I go Would you like to maybe ask her any type of question about this bombshell she just dropped? Which by the way reveals everything about the trouble they were having. And he struggled to ask the question. His question to her was How do I help you achieve my goals?  God. Wow.  I was like Okay we are going to start at ground zero. And so   Tough case. Tough case.  A very tough case.  Dr. Sethi.  But you know what? I think sometimes people in relationships they do want it to be successful but they need a little modeling. They need to see what it looks like to actually ask a single curiosity-based question. And so we worked through it and eventually he said this is the question he asked which I was so happy about. He said What do you mean? That is all it was. It was as simple as that. What do you mean? I said We have been talking for an hour and a half. That was the first time you have asked a single question of your wife. And I loved it. So this curiosity thing is another thing that happens. And as you get into these conversations with people you realize boy we have these patterns that we have been repeating for months oftentimes years. And if we need a third party to help us or if we can just switch locations let us go to a nice dinner and talk about it listen to this podcast suddenly you can turn the leaf and start that process of building a new relationship with money.  Okay. So I could not agree more. I have had to train myself to be better at this. If at some point though you need to get to the ER to triage and stop the financial hemorrhaging you can go directly through the worst neighborhood yelling and screaming to the ER. You can also take a detour through the amusement park and make the entry a little easier. But eventually you get to the ER. And the fact remains that one person is spending a lot more than the other. When they get to that crux or at the point that that is to be the topic of conversation how have you seen people do that successfully in the past?  You are right.  Actually let me ask a better question. Because that implies a bunch of things need to happen and maybe they do not. How do you see people successfully solve that situation? That is a better question.  Ultimately if they are going to solve it together they both have to want to create a vision a North Star together. It is extremely unlikely. Basically I have never seen it where one person drags their partner and makes it happen. It does not happen. It can work for a while. But the rest of your life fighting about everything from the cost of Starbucks and a candle to the cost of who is paying for our kids' college it is just a dreadful life. And that is exactly why people end up getting divorced among many other reasons when it comes to money. What I find is that of the people who change successfully one there is a desire to change and that is why I ask them Why now? It is never about the dishwasher. It is them realizing that Oh we do not have the tools to do this or oftentimes it is them with their son or daughter who will make a comment and they realize that their toxic money behavior is actually being picked up by their kids. That is a really common one.  Any examples?  One young woman said to me that her son came up to Mom and said Do not tell Daddy about buying this and there was a lot of hiding money and spending in their relationship just like there had been with Mom's parents. So it is passed down generationally. And when I pointed it out to them I said You two could probably make it work over the course of your life. You are both very resourceful you are high earners but how do you think your children are responding to this? And their faces went completely white and they looked at each other and they knew. They knew. They said Oh yeah my son already knows about this. He told me the other day Do not tell Daddy about spending.' And so that was the thing that got them to make the change. By the way it is not enough to just want to change. Everybody wants to have this smooth relationship with money where we can be abundant and live our rich life but I also find that there is a combination of wanting to change psychology and use tools and systems. So psychology a lot of us think that it is weird to have a meeting about money once a month or once a quarter. It is weird. You know the way that most people are raised? Is you do not talk about money until there is a fight. That is the predominant worldview on money and couples in this country. And so when you shift it and you say Yeah you are going to have a standing agenda. You two are actually going to have a Google Doc. One of the most common reactions I get is That sounds like a job. It sounds like work. I go Yeah. That is because at work you are measured on certain things. You are trying to bring some of that into your relationship. You can still love your partner and sleep next to them but you can still have a running agenda. So that' changing that psychology. The second is using these systems. Usually when I find that people are  I am speaking to these couples who have some type of big major money problem. They are not aligned on basic financial principles and they are not using basic systems. Things like they do not understand compounding. So one of them goes Well let us just spend our money because we do not know how long we are going to be here for or We will never make enough. And I point out If you guys started saving and investing properly today you would have 6 million. They go What? So that is number one. Two is just using things like Do we have a shared spreadsheet? Things like that. I had another couple that was extremely financially sophisticated. They were in the realm of being CPAs. And I asked them How much money do you think you make? What is your net worth? And the answer between the two of them was off by millions of dollars. Remember these are highly sophisticated people. So I said Why is that? And the answer is that they are so sophisticated they had all these exceptions. Well this one is here but this is liquid and this is not. I said Guys you have got to go back to first grade. Create a one-page Google Doc. Basically write on it with crayon This is how much we have. This is how much we owe. This is how much we have invested.' And they had to kind of accept that even though they are super advanced at work in their personal life they need to start back at ground zero.  Can you think of an example of a serious fight  it does not have to be from your personal experience but in your experience with all the readers and various couples and so on  something that was a nine out of 10 in severity that had a really simple solution that worked.  Yes.  Does that make sense?  Yeah.  Like something that had been intractable right? This couple had been smashing their head against a brick wall or against  they would been smashing each other's heads together and at an impasse. And then lo and behold there was a simple solution.  There is a couple who lives on the Upper East Side of New York.  All right.  The complaint was He has been starting a business. I need him to contribute 100 a month to the household for food things like that. They have two children. And he said Look I am putting everything I have got into this business. So she was very upset because she is like Look we are going in the red every month. Now I asked him a couple of questions. I said How much does your apartment cost? The rent was 3800 a month. What they were making was 70000 per year.  Oh wow. Okay. All right.  Yeah. So what is going on here? Now they have this   That is pre-tax? That is pre-tax?  Yeah that is correct. They have been fighting about 100 per month. That has been a debate in their household for something like nine months. And there were a lot of tears there were a lot of real agonizing conversations but you know what their real problem was? They were bankrupt in two months and they did not even know it.  Wow.  So this is a really difficult conversation we had. And the solution was very very tough which was she had a conception of how she was going to live. Her family lived very close to her she could visit them every day but the truth was they needed to move out of the city and likely move out of the state and go to a much lower cost of living. Now imagine how it feels to have your entire world that you have constructed and the plan for you your husband your children and then on this call you realize that is not going to happen. It is devastating. It is very tough. And so they put me in a position of trust to be able to talk to them. And one of the things I told them was Look it does not mean that you have to move away forever. There are lots of things you could do with this company  make it successful increase your income  but you cannot ignore that this is the real problem in the relationship. Ignoring it will not make it go away. It will just get way worse. It really goes to show that there are things that we can agonize over for weeks or months or even years in our relationship. But sometimes the true problem is way out there in left field.  What did they do? Do you have any idea?  I will follow up with them soon and I hope to do follow-up episodes where we find out what actually happened.  Post-mortem. It could be the second podcast.  Yeah.  What are some of the other situations that you have run into? And actually I would be curious after our last conversation related to prenups although we covered many topics not just prenups was there any feedback or subsequent learnings from people who heard it or people who read your writing that you found interesting puzzling thought-provoking or otherwise?  Well the first and most important reaction that I got was people recognizing that prenups are not just some rich asshole trying to screw their partner. I was really happy about that and I want to thank you for letting me come on and kind of share my own personal experience because the only way most people hear about prenups is from TV and it is super untrue and dramatic the way that it is portrayed. And so I saw a lot of comments on Reddit on my Instagram DMs people saying Hey I had no idea that is how it actually works. So that was very gratifying. Again as I said in the episode most people do not need a prenup. But if you do if you are coming in with a preexisting business or a disproportionate amount of wealth then it is worth talking about it and a prenup is something you agree on.  Or side note if you may inherit any asset from your family also.  Yeah. Totally.  So it could be real estate could be a house. It could be anything. Also a consideration.  I read a lot of Reddit and sometimes I see these conversations where one person goes My partner wants me to sign a prenup and I think that they are an asshole. I am going to break up with them. And then of course there are hundreds and hundreds of comments and once in a while I will see someone reference that episode. And that makes me really happy. Whether it is that episode or another place that someone's really talking about this stuff I think there is slowly being a shift where people are starting to recognize Hey this is not just assholes. So anyway that   And for people who  I am sure it is easy enough to find but we will create a short link. It is not legal advice folks but it is a fun conversation and very very detailed. tim.blogprenup. We will just make a short link for people who are interested so that'ill go straight to that episode. What other tools questions exercises resources anything that you think might be beneficial to listeners of this episode? The broad topic being couples and finance couples and money. What other ground might we cover?  Let us talk about what I call the 100 challenge. And this is for people who tend to struggle spending money on themselves. Now I can help people with their investments. I can help them change their money psychology. I can often fix their businesses. But if there is one thing I cannot fix it is cheap. I cannot fix cheap people. If you are cheap I cannot help you. I am sorry.  Well you can help them but you cannot fix them unless they want to be fixed.  Yeah but here's the thing. They never want to change it. So cheap people they write me. Tim this is the one group of people I have just decided I cannot help them because they write me   Now there are levels and there are levels right?  Yeah. Yeah that is true.  We are talking about NBA all-star cheap meaning  maybe that is not the right metaphor to use but you are talking  maybe you could just give some examples of what we are talking about.  I mean they   Throw out the car deal because we did not get the floor mats. That kind of cheap?  No no no not that not that. Although I do not think my dad thinks there is anything wrong with that.  So I guess that is a true story.  I am proving my own point as I say this. It is people who write and they say Hey we have saved a bunch of money but I cannot bring myself to spend it. And so I have developed all these variety of techniques and I say What will you do with the money? Dah dah dah dah. And they acknowledge that it is irrational but when I give them something to do about it they ultimately go Oh actually it is fine. They do not think that it is that big of a problem. They minimize it. So I am going to give everybody a 100 challenge here to try to preempt this problem. Before you become a cheap ass you take this challenge right now and you can take that fork in the road towards a rich life instead of whatever cheap place you are about to go to. So here's the challenge. In the next 48 hours I want you to spend 100 on something you love. You cannot spend it on kids you cannot spend it on pets and you cannot spend it on charities. It has to be on you. Now if you are a high earner you can take that number and you can multiply it. So for example if I am going to Tim I am not giving Tim the 100 challenge. Tim's challenge has a lot more zeros on it okay? And so you can decide   I can finally get that Botox I have been eyeing.  You can decide what the amount is but the point is it should be meaningful. It should make you think and it should make you go Ooh wow. What am I going to spend that on? And this is just one little way one method to start shifting your life towards spending on the things that are important to you. A lot of people they are 30 40 50 they go I do not actually know what I want to spend on and I find that to be a tragedy. I think it is a tragedy to live a smaller life than you have to. So here they are with hundreds of thousands even millions of dollars in the bank and almost as part of their identity Well I do not  I am fine. I just eat at Taco Bell. Listen I ate at Taco Bell a long time myself. It is great okay? But what else can you do with your money and really dream into something bigger more meaningful? It could be luxurious it could be adventurous whatever the case may be. That is what I want for you doing this 100 challenge.  If that were posed to you and I am sure people have asked you this what would or what have been some of your answers?  Ooh good question.  Besides the luggage concierge AKA FedEx.  Yeah. Great question. So my number would be bigger than 100. I would probably do 1000 to 5000 and in that price range what I would do is I would  there is a few things that I have done. So one is I would take a last-minute trip wherever just to see a friend. I am going to get on a plane and go wherever they live in the world and just hang with them. It could be as short as two days it could be five 10 days. That is very abundant for me. Two is I love clothes so I would go and buy the most beautiful coat or sweater that I have had my eye on. Boom. I always have a list of things that I am like I will get that next. And three I love convenience. So it would be for example hiring a travel agent and saying Okay this is the type of trip I want. Give me the entire itinerary laid out. That is what I would do. What about you?  I was going to say I came across an amazing cashmere onesie that I think would look amazing on you. So I will send the link.  Wait wait wait. I need to tell you something about this because  okay years ago  do you remember that site gilt.com?  I do. I do. Yeah.  G-I-L-T.  Gilt Groupe.  Gilt Groupe. Exactly. So at one point I signed up and I mentioned it in my email list and I became one of their top referrers overnight. And so basically I had unlimited money on Gilt for years. So at one point they were selling meat so high-end meat so I would just order meat and just send it to my sisters. I am like Hey keep your eye out in the mail today. Just crazy stuff. And so one day I said You know what I really need from Gilt Groupe is a cashmere blanket. That is what I need. Okay. So I go on there and it was there and I ordered it. Okay Tim this blanket comes all right. Of course it is beautifully wrapped. And I open it up and it is the size of  slightly larger than a facial washcloth. And I go This cannot be because it was folded into itself. It was very very premium. And I go This cannot be. I must be missing one of the unwrapping things. So I keep turning it and pulling at stuff. Nothing. And I go back and look at the size. The size is correct. And I was like What in the hell is this stupid thing? Okay. It turns out it was a cashmere swaddle blanket for a newborn. Yes these exist. I was like This is crazy. Who the hell would buy this? So I do not have that cashmere blanket Tim. I returned it. But somebody out there actually bought it.  Well that is why I thought the cashmere onesie with the crotch snap release would be perfect for you. So TBD. I do not want to give too much  TMI on the podcast. This is family programming after all. What would mine be? Well I actually  I mean this might be cheating but I kind of know in the sense that I have something like this which is something I have already committed to although it remains to be seen whether the travel is going to work. But to have an incredibly gifted musician and teacher come spend a week with me to do intensive hand drumming training at least twice a day.  No kidding.  And it is not cheap but it is not collecting Ferraris. It is something that I think  I do not think I know  even five years ago I probably would have hesitated to do for whatever reason perhaps putting it in the frivolous category. Well I think  let us be honest right? You said I need a cashmere blanket. You do not need a cashmere blanket you want a cashmere blanket.  Correct. And nothing wrong with that. Great.  No there is nothing wrong with it. But I think for me I would have criticized myself for the expense and the travel and everything else involved because I think in part just did not grow up with a lot of resources. Certainly enough we had shelter and warm clothes and everything else but that would be one example.  Okay. So many things I love about that. First of all the fact that you have a clear vision of it. I love that. The second that it is meaningful to you. That makes no sense to me but I love that it makes perfect sense to you. I love that. The more dialed in your rich life becomes the more incomprehensible it should become to everybody else. So that was beautiful. And then the other thing I love is that it really kind of becomes part of your identity. You and I have talked a lot offline about growing up and the way that we grew up was totally different than Silicon Valley and all this kind of stuff that we have become a little bit more exposed to and you take that with you. I certainly have taken it with me. I do not want to just drop money frivolously on everything but if there is anything I would say that is impressive about what you said it is that you have changed your identity from where you came from which was great but now you are at a different place. And it is also great to honor that and say I can still be the Tim that grew up over here but I have achieved a lot. I have been fortunate. I have been lucky. I have worked hard and I get to reap the rewards of that for myself and for the people around me. I think that is an amazing answer.  Thanks man. It is also one that I have tested. So this would be the second time that I have done it and I think it is worth noting probably that this is not the 90-percent-of-your-net-worth challenge this is the 100 challenge or the fill-in-the-blank challenge which is enough to make you perhaps a little uncomfortable if you are used to being frugal but it is not enough to do any real damage so you can actually test. And so I tested it. There are other things I have tested that have not been replicated but in this case  for instance there are some really fancy meals I have gone to and where I am like No I am never going to go back to that place. I do not need to do that twice. I do not think it was worth it. In this case I decided it was worth it. It helped me further develop a skill which then persisted after the fact. The teacher himself is amazing and he is just fun to spend time with. And some of the experiences we had like doing an impromptu duet jam session at a friend's house with a bunch of wine are memories I really really cherish. So that one made the cut.  Love it.  And therefore here we go again. Round two.  Yeah. This is what I want everybody listening to be able to do is just like Tim he tried out a fancy restaurant. Hey tried it once. It did not break the bank. Cool. I did it I do not need to go back there again. On the other hand I tried this thing. Boom. Great. That is so different than a life of frugality which is often coded for fear. The fear that if I go to this Michelin-starred restaurant once that I am going to trip and fall and have to go back there every single day for the rest of my life. That does not happen my friends. And you can just as well say no to things once you have tasted them but you can also say yes to other things. And I love that. So for couples this is doubly hard because it is not just you but it is your partner. I remember speaking to one couple and they had not gone on a honeymoon yet even though they were married and they were talking about where to go. And one of them goes Yeah let us go to I think it was Indonesia. Let us go for four weeks. We will have a blast. And his partner says Four weeks? That is kind of long. We will get bored right? Two should be enough. Now think about listening to a couple where one person is actually excited about a honeymoon and the other's first reaction is to minimize their partner's dreams. That is really common. They were not intending to basically stomp on their partner but they did. And so I just kind of gently said Hey why do not we try this again? And this time let us both get excited. You are excited over here. Let us get excited as well. And instead of going into a downward spiral it went into an upward spiral. Hey what if we did that? Oh my gosh. And what if we also rented a car and we did this? And you could see and hear the energy change. So again if you are going out for your first conversation with your partner one of the things you might agree on is Hey today just for the next hour let us agree that we are going to pump each other up. We are not going to minimize each other. We are just going to pump each other up. That is all. And that can profoundly change your interactions about money.  What other advice  so we talked about the 100 challenge is the next 48 hours has to be for you. You cannot dodge it and deflect it to another entity whether it is your partner your kids your dog. There is that. What other tools exercises questions do you have for people who have trouble spending money? And now that might sound strange but ultimately money is this  it is this piece of symbolism that we trade for something else whether it is a feeling or an experience which is usually upstream of yet another feeling. You interviewed a couple as I understand it that saved millions of dollars but they seem unable to enjoy it. They have not had a vacation in the last decade. People who struggle over small expenses. Well what are some other tools in the toolkit or questions approaches that you use in cases like that? And this might sound really strange to people like it is rarefied air. They might be like They are taking this conversation in a direction that will not relate to anyone but that is in my experience not true. I think the developing competency and comfort with translating dollars into value whether that is through investing or spending which is oftentimes another type of investing I think is a skill that you develop. I do not think anyone has it innately. So this applies to many more. But since I believe you have interviewed this particular couple what other tools do you have in the toolkit besides the 100 challenge?  So first I have a lot of compassion for them because everybody teaches us how to save but nobody teaches us how to spend. Spending is a skill. And my dream is to take someone who is made money and take them out in New York for two or three days and show them how to spend money commensurate with the level that they are at. Now please do not DM me and ask me to take you out in New York or L.A. I am not doing that anymore. Tim if you want to do that  I think you spend money fine but please do not DM me and ask for   I will make a confession just real quick. So I think I am actually  it has been very hard for me to learn how to spend money. Very challenging. And in fact  I am interrupting so do not lose your train of thought. But the reason I am interrupting is that literally this past weekend was the first maybe the first time ever I have done a proper weekend in New York City with my girlfriend.  Really?  Yeah.  Wait. Is this about to happen? Are you and I going to have a romantic adventure where we are going to go to a Broadway show together?  I am open to that. I literally just did this though this past weekend.  How did it feel?  It felt fucking amazing. And it was outstanding and we had so much fun and it brought us closer. And there are things we would do again and some things we would not do again but ultimately it was affordable. And why are we collecting all these MMs if not to ultimately use them in some fashion? And that is not to say you do not save. I mean I have spent my whole life saving. But as you said you are getting the first piece of the puzzle but then you have to figure out the rest of it. And so please continue.  Thrilled to hear that. And it does not matter whether the amount is 10000 that you save or a much larger amount. Invariably if you have been saving andor investing for a while you will ultimately have an amount where you have to decide what to do with it. And most of us spend our entire lives focusing on just the saving part. But I think probably every single one of us has a parent or a relative or somebody older than us who does not know how to enjoy their money. And they still drive around town to save money on gas. And you say Look you have got enough. What are you going to do with it? And then ultimately they will say something like Well I guess I will just give it to my kids. Your kids do not want the money. They want you to have a good life. They want you to spend it on the things you love. And so that is why I am so passionate about this. So a couple of things that   In fairness some of the kids want the money. But a lot of kids also want their parents to have a good life.  Okay. I did not make an allowance for those people. They are counting the clock. Oh that is sad. So I have found that you cannot tell people who struggle with spending money Hey guys you really need to spend more money. It goes in one ear and out the other. It is not even a factor in their life. That is why I spend so much time saying What is your rich life? It is very much the same  you cannot tell someone who loves chocolate cake Cut out the chocolate cake. Instead we say Hey let us add a little bit more delicious chicken. Let us add some really good asparagus. Yeah you still want the chocolate cake. Cool. But it is probably going to just naturally become a little bit less of a part on the plate. So when I talk about their rich life when I understand the texture the color I do not want them to say Travel. I want them to say I am going to Indonesia for four weeks with my beautiful wife. We are going to sit in seat 2A or 2D. And this is where we are going to stay. And this is what we are going to do. And we are even going to have a food tour and we are going to do this and that. Now it is vivid vivid enough that they get excited about it. I also use the stick where I say Okay. Right now you are 38 years old. This was a couple that I spoke to. And said By my calculations by the time you are in your 60s you will have over 26 million. When are you going to start spending your money? And they looked at each other and he goes Well probably when I retire. And I just point-blank said to him I do not believe you. Do you believe him? And the wife said No I do not. Of course I do not believe him. He cannot even spend his money right now. And so what I encouraged them and what I showed them was would you rather end up at 60 with some amount of money or would you rather end up at 60 with just a little bit less money but a lifetime worth of experience? Ultimately when I am speaking to people like this who find it difficult they are just afraid afraid that they will lose it all. And as I probed him you know what he told me? His dad had lost all of his money late in life. So you often find these family challenges that they cannot escape from.  How did he lose his money? Do you remember? How did his dad lose the money?  It was in another country and he made a series of bad investments and bad deals and lost it all. So they have constantly lived with this fear as by the way all of us do based on the cues we were raised with that I could lose it all or that I will never be rich or that the rich are all evil. And those are some of those invisible scripts that we have to work through if we want to work with our partner together towards a rich life.  Where should we go next?  Let me share just a couple of my biggest fascinations that I have taken away from these couples. These are the patterns that I have noticed which really surprised me because I thought there would be a couple but not these ones. The first pattern is that people will work for years and years and years save their money but never think about what they want to do with it. One couple they said that their rich life is that they want to own four cottages eventually. And I said Cool what do you want to do with that? They go I want it to throw off passive income so that eventually we can buy this beautiful RV and go camping with our family. I said That sounds cool. How old will your kids be? From the sounds of it their kids would be 65 years old by the time they could do this. I said Can I make another suggestion? What if you rent an RV you go for two and a half weeks and you do it 18 months from now after you have saved the money to do it? They had built up this vision of that they had to buy four cottages and then buy an RV to go camping with their kids. The kids would damn near be dead by the time they could do that. Just go rent the RV and go and see if you like it. Okay. So that' we save and save and do not think about it. The next is we often have a ghost in the relationship. Oftentimes there is a third party in this relationship and I encourage them to name the ghost. One of the couples named their ghost Franny and Franny is the one who is always concerned about debt because she had debt always afraid of what can go wrong. And so not saying that you should try to smother Franny or ignore Franny but rather acknowledge Hey Franny I hear you. I do have my debt payoff plan but I have also decided I am not going to wait and spend nothing while I am paying this debt off. I am going to be reasonable and have a balance. Another pattern is that people create a story for themselves and then they live it. But this story can often be popped like a balloon with just a few questions. So somebody will say something like He is good with money. I am not. And I will go Is that true? And then she will go Oh yeah yeah. I go Hey out of curiosity have you read my book? No. Do you think if you were to read this book that you might be able to get pretty decent with money? And that is a beautiful moment because suddenly that person realizes that story they have been telling themselves may not be true. I mentioned that people minimize the problem. They will say This is a four out of 10 but a four out of 10 left alone in a couple especially when there is kids and a mortgage involved it turns into a nine out of 10. So whether it is emptying the dishwasher or spending on Starbucks. This one really surprised me  stress is not correlated to the amount of debt. Stress is not correlated to the amount of debt. So there was a couple that had about 600000 of debt educational debt. They were two of the most capable calm people I have met. They were awesome. They had this huge amount of debt but they had a plan they were aligned and they were clearly in love the way that they were talking about taking care of each other. That really showed that the amount is not necessarily correlated to the stress. And finally people often do not treat finances in their relationship like a business and they think that it is weird to have an agenda or a plan. As I mentioned there is nothing weird about it at all. I have always been a fan of just doing things that might seem weird but if they work for you they work for you. And so for any couple listening if you have some weird thing you want to do but it works for the two of you fantastic. Do not let anybody including me tell you not to do it. Just focus on where you want to get to together with your partner.  Do you have any other recommendations for people listening who want to further explore developing the skill of financial comfort? Which I do think is a skill. I think it has many different component parts. We have covered a decent amount already. Are there any other recommendations you might have resources that you think would help people develop a higher degree of comfort having these conversations? There are books like Crucial Conversations or Crucial Confrontations I think is the follow-up to it that can help with these types of things. But any other thoughts whether they be exercises resources anything else?  I will give you two. One is I am a big fan of the Gottman Institute and my wife and I took a class there for an entire weekend. And it was very time-consuming and energy-consuming but it was really worth it just to put a stake in the ground that says Our relationship is important to us. We are setting time aside for this. So that is one. And two is I often ask couples to write down what kind of couple they want to be. What do they want people to think of them? And we all know this. We all have a couple friends where when we think about them a few words come to mind. And I ask them. Oftentimes they will say something like they are generous. They are fun. And then after they have written down this typically very glowing document of what they want to be known as I ask them How do you reconcile that with the conversation we have been having about spending money at Target or the pizza place? And it becomes very clear that there is a discontinuity. That is okay. Now we say How can we rewrite our actions to match up? If you claim you want to be generous can we just tip an extra 15 percent and just start being known as generous because we are generous? And suddenly they realize Oh my gosh I created this thing but I have not been living up to it. And it only takes a tiny switch to completely change that.  Yeah. The tipping example is a great one. It is like look if the bill is less than  I am just making this up. Even if the bill is small if you just make the commitment to always tip five bucks it is incredible how far that'ill go. If you buy a coffee and you tip five bucks you just made someone's day. And it really can change how you think about the positive power of money. That is such a small thing.  I am so glad we talk about that. My wife and I added that to our line item of expenses the same as gifts charity. We added tipping and we added a number that was big enough that we have to go out of our way to tip larger. It actually is pulling us towards tipping more not just reflecting what we normally tip. And the same as you we recognize that a 20 tip to somebody else is incredibly meaningful. Incredibly. And we would rather just work harder and earn more and be able to easily do that. And so when we talk about being generous and charitable and adventurous this is what money can do for you and can do for the people around you.  Just as a quick personal note. And I have mentioned this before which usually I hate when people say that on any podcast because I am like Well I do not want to be the Johnny-come-lately getting this for the 20th time. But it just goes to show the power of the experience. I have mentioned probably 15 times on this podcast that at some point when I was 14 or 15 working as a busboy Billy Joel would come into this restaurant where I worked and he would have a coffee read a newspaper and he would tip 20 bucks for his coffee. And that blew my mind. I mean 20 bucks was a big deal to me. And he also took time to chat. I worked up the courage one shift  I have not told this part  over two hours because he would take his time to walk up and ask him how he met Christie Brinkley because they were together at the time. And that was incredible. For those who do not know incredible power couple I mean and I wanted to ask him. So I worked up the courage. And he turned to me and he talked to me for a few minutes. And to this day I remember that experience so vividly. I remember what I was wearing. I remember the table he was sitting at. I remember all of it. I remember which side of the table. And in that moment I remember thinking Wow. One day if I could just be so rich and successful that I could tip 20 for coffee. That is the craziest thing I have ever seen in my life. So you think about the effect that had on me this really small thing which I am sure he is done 100 times so he would have no memory of it. But this chance encounter small things really can make an impact. So I am glad you mentioned tipping.  That is awesome. And now for everyone to be able to hear all the millions of people listening to this to be able to hear that yeah you can tip 10 percent 20 percent 100 percent. Nobody's stopping you from tipping more. And many of us find it easier to tip or to spend money on others but you can also do the same for yourself and there is no shame in spending extravagantly on the things you love. That is the classic way to create your rich life.  Hear hear. And if people go to tim.blogprenup which will be created by the time this airs and people listen to our previous conversation we talk about the levers and 10X-ing on very specific things and how you can think through that. But for this episode we are coming to a close. Ramit Sethi Twitter Instagram ramit R-A-M-I-T. His new podcast I will teach you to be rich by Ramit Sethi. You can find it wherever fine podcasts are served. You can find it also at iwt.compodcast. I am glad. Better late than never. You are finally in the audio game and I have been looking forward to you entering the fray. So I have no doubt that it will be outstanding and encourage people to check it out. Is there anything else you would like to share? Any closing comments requests of people who are listening anything you would like to point folks to before we come to a close?  Yeah. I would love to hear from all your listeners Tim whether they want to do it through Twitter Instagram DMs whatever. I would love to hear how your first conversation goes with your partner. This is a real beautiful crux of a moment. You get to start this conversation. It will last you years and years and it is you and your partner creating your rich life together. So let me know how it goes. I would be so curious to hear from you.  And if you are not in a couple I am going to volunteer you Ramit to also get feedback because I know you have means for contending with this for people who test the 100 challenge in the next 48 hours after hearing this. And then I will get the highlights and the lowlights via screenshots and text messages from Ramit. And I am going to go order that cashmere onesy for you on Amazon Prime.  Oh cannot wait.  And then you can wear the infant swaddling cloth on your head. You might be able to fashion that into something maybe a kerchief for your suit. And look forward to hanging again soon man.  Yeah. I cannot wait to see you in person.  Yeah. It will be really fun to see you in person. And anything else you would like to add?  No I just   You feel complete.  I do you feel complete and I want to thank you for the warm welcome podcasting land. You have been a fantastic mentor and you have just been a good friend and been patient as I spent the last seven years trying to find a concept that I was really excited about. But now that I have found it it feels right and I am very excited about it.  Yeah. I am excited for you. I am excited for your listeners as well. I will teach you to be rich by Ramit Sethi. Check it out iwt.compodcast or you can just search Ramit Sethi on the interwebs and podcasts and I am sure it will come right up. Ramit thank you as always for hanging. Great to see you.  Thanks Tim.  And to everybody listening we will also have links to everything we discussed in the show notes as per usual at tim.blogpodcast. And until next time thank you for tuning in.   