 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs this is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of The Tim Ferriss Show. My guest today is Sheila Heen that is S-H-E-I-L-A H-E-E-N. Sheila is a New York Times best-selling author founder of Triad Consulting Group and a deputy director of the Harvard Negotiation Project at Harvard Law School where she has been a member of the faculty for 25 years. Sheila specializes in particularly difficult negotiations where emotions run high and relationships become strained. She often works with executive teams helping them to resolve conflict repair professional relationships and make sound decisions together. I also have a lot of drama in my own life that perhaps we will end up exploring but back to the bio. In the public sector she has provided training for the New England Organ Bank the Singapore Supreme Court the Obama White House and theologians struggling with disagreement over the nature of truth and God. We will almost certainly come back to that. Sheila is coauthor of the New York Times bestsellers Difficult Conversations subtitle How to Discuss What Matters Most. And Thanks for the Feedback subtitle The Science and Art of Receiving Feedback Well . She has written for The Harvard Business Review and The New York Times  as a guest expert and contributor to the Modern Love column  and she has appeared on NPR Fox News NBC's Power Lunch and shows as diverse as Oprah and The G. Gordon Liddy Show. She has spoken at the Global Leadership Summit the Nordic Business Forum the Smithsonian Apple Google and Microsoft. Sheila is a graduate of Occidental College and Harvard Law School. She is schooled in negotiation daily by her three children a problem I look forward to having myself. And her website is Triad Consulting Group. You can find both Triad Consulting Group and Sheila Heen on LinkedIn. Sheila welcome to the show.  I am so delighted to be here.  I thought we would start with the foreword of Difficult Conversations which is written by Roger Fisher. Could you please describe for us who Roger was?  Oh golly! How can I capture for your listeners who Roger was? Roger was just an incredibly inspirational person. So he fought in World War II and he was in both the Atlantic and the Pacific theaters. He was actually a weatherman so they would send up a plane they did not have weather satellites so they would send up a weather plane to check out the weather over Germany. And then they would radio back to say whether you should send out the mission. Being in the Air Force during World War II was not a super survivable place to be. And when Roger came back from the war he found that he had lost several college roommates friends. He was the only one who came home in his immediate social circle. If you go to Memorial Church on the Harvard college campus the walls are etched with names of Harvard students and graduates. So some of them did not graduate before they died who have died in service of our country. And it would be fascinating just to stand there and talk with him. He would point to names and say This guy was so funny this guy was just the most generous person I would ever met. And I think that that experience really motivated the rest of his life. He came back and dedicated his life to trying to find better ways for us to manage conflict in the world. And his passion was international relations right? So he would sit down and read the paper in the morning the newspaper of course was how we got our news back even when I turned up on the scene in the '90s and he would find a conflict and he would just start working on it. And then he would fax his advice off to the leaders involved and they would be getting these faxes from some guy named Roger who had some kind of interesting ideas. So every once in a while someone would call him back. And that is how he got involved in border disputes between Peru and Ecuador. That is how he got involved in South Africa with the ANC and the white government just before the constitutional talks. It is how he got involved in Ireland. And it is also how he came to write Getting to Yes which is the negotiation book that really became a foundation book in the field of negotiation and conflict resolution.  So you mentioned entering the scene. How did you enter the scene with respect to negotiation and conflict resolution?  I grew up in Iowa and Nebraska and through a series of sort of serendipitous accidents I ended up at Occidental College in California for college. And when I was applying to law school ultimately I was trying to decide whether to go to Stanford or Harvard because of course I did not get into Yale which is true of almost every person who is listening to this podcast. So we all have that in common. And one of my college advisors said to me Harvard is the bigger and kind of scarier choice' I hear you saying but they have this negotiation thing and I just have an instinct that it might be up your alley. And probably partly because it was the bigger and scarier thing but also because I felt he knew me pretty well. I decided to come to Harvard I did not know anybody. And of course he was right. I took negotiation my very first year of law school and just fell in love with the field. I just thought Wow! I could learn something new every day for the rest of my life.  What did you love about it?  I think partly that it was so interdisciplinary. So when we are trying to understand something we are reaching in all directions. Behavioral economics neuroscience psychology social psychology. You are really reaching in all directions just to understand the human aspects of working relationships and problem solving and what gets in the way. And that means as each of those fields advances and we understand more in each of those fields well we get to capitalize on that to think well how would this apply to how we manage the inevitable conflict in all of our relationships well professional relationships and personal relationships. So I am learning every day not only because of my own shortcomings which become sharper and clearer every day it seems but also because I get to stand on the shoulders of so many people who are like Hey this is really interesting. And I think to myself Wow! That is really interesting I wonder how that applies. And you are off and running again.  So when listeners hear the phrase difficult  or I suppose term although it is multi-words I never know what to call something that is two words a phrase or term in any case. Tomato tomato. Difficult conversations especially since I discuss business so much on this podcast and have guests on who specialize in business they probably think of a certain siloed breed of difficult conversation. That may be the first thing that comes to mind. But I would love to hear you tell the story. I only got the skeleton overview of this in reading for this conversation of your trip to Los Angeles to renew your passport. I do not know if that rings any bells but if you would not mind filling in the color for that we could start there.  Yeah let us start there. Well on the business side I will say that difficult conversations come at you from every direction. They are with your subordinates with your peers with your boss with your partners and vendors et cetera. And often you see them coming down the pike or you are wondering whether to have them. But every once in a while they ambush you kind of out of nowhere. And I think that is what happened to me that day in Los Angeles. Where was I going? I guess I was going to Spain because we were going over to teach negotiation and I was still a student but I had been invited to go and be part of the Harvard Negotiation Program that was teaching a week in Madrid. So we had to go over to renew my passport and I was working that summer in Los Angeles. So I went down to the Federal Building which is near UCLA and did whatever I did there that we are all probably familiar with. And then I got in the elevator to come down and I was on a pretty high floor and the elevator filled packed. And on the way down to the lobby a guy in the elevator just started ranting saying the most just upsetting and vile racist stuff. And my mind has completely blanked out on exactly what he said. But I do recall that I had never  I am a sheltered kid from Nebraska. I had never heard even some of these things before and he was going on and on and on as we clicked slowly down the floors in a packed elevator of people from all over the world and it was silent. And by the time the doors opened on the lobby and everyone sort of with relief spilled out of that confined space where you just felt trapped and unable to breathe. I was shaking and I was thinking Oh my goodness! What could I have done? What should I have done? I did not know what to do and was I responsible for saying something or not? And what was interesting was that it has stuck with me. I am like shaking now I am thinking about it. It has stuck with me all these years. It was not aimed at me clearly I am white. Yet it stuck with me so viscerally that I ended up writing my third-year paper about it. To graduate from Harvard Law School at that time you needed to do a pretty big research paper during your third year. And I decided to do it on that interaction just to better understand what was it that was happening? What was I experiencing? What was I noticing? What were my diagnoses for what was going on? Should I have spoken up? Who was I trying to influence or persuade? Or even if I was not going to persuade him of anything was I speaking up on other people's behalf or was I just speaking up for myself so that I could come out of that interaction with some sense of self-respect for sticking up for something? And what was I risking in any of those interactions? What would be my purpose and what might be at risk? And I think I really see in that paper a few of the germs of what later became the book Difficult Conversations. Simultaneous to that unbeknownst to me I was writing that paper for Bruce Patton who is a co-author on Getting to Yes and was supervising the paper. And unbeknownst to me at the time he and Doug Stone were already themselves working on what were we learning about difficult conversations. So by the time I graduated and they offered me a full-time job to join them at the Negotiation Project we were all kind of thinking about or wrestling with some of those same questions.  So I want to bring in a third player so to speak. There are many different types of difficult conversations. And then I am going to ask about how to tie them together. Theologians struggling with disagreement over the nature of truth and God. Now this seems like the type of disagreement that could go on and maybe in fact has gone on for thousands and thousands and thousands of years. So it would seem also that there are clearly difficult conversations where not only is it incredibly hard to get to a right answer or a resolution. There may not even in fact be a right answer so to speak. Now that could be very different from resolution maybe there is a resolution just no right answer. So my understanding is that you write and speak on how every difficult conversation has the same underlying structure. What do you mean by that? What ties these things together? How are they similar?  Yeah. Great question. By the way I spent I think it was about 15 hours locked in a room with six theologians with disagreements over the nature of truth and God and I have got that all figured out now so   Nice. Nice. I look forward to reading that book!  Yeah exactly. Well I am not going to tell you guys. I should pause there because there is one of the theologians Dominic said something so profound in the course of that conversation that it stuck with me all these years. Part of what emerged from the conversation was if we are made in the image of God what does that mean for each of us? What do we each think that means? And one of the things that came out was the idea that if our souls are partly the nature of God maybe it is that we have thousand-watt souls. But as human beings we only have 40-watt bulbs. We are able to plug into that so we understand and show so little of the light that is possible there. And that image really has stayed with me. That maybe part of the journey of getting better at difficult conversations and getting better at understanding humanity and our relationships with each other and our own limitations and understanding each other. And I think that learning happens between us that the way that you learn about yourself the way you might learn about God or the universe or the nature of life is in that space between you and me. And that is where the struggle often is. But you asked a more analytical question which I will also I will also respond to.  I am happy to go way far into the ether with the other types of questions. But we can also just get a toehold with the analytical if we want to start there.  And that is been one of the things that is been really fun about this field is that it is both incredibly rigorously analytical. And it has to do with who we are and what we think the meaning of life is and the emotions that we carry into all of our conversations and relationships whether we are aware of them or not. So when we first started working on the book Bruce and Doug and I that became Difficult Conversations. The working title was actually The 10 Hardest Things to Say and How to Say Them because we figured I do not know there is probably eight or 10 or 12 different types of difficult conversations right? And then a conversation with your boss would be different than a conversation with your partner or your spouse. And that would be different than a conversation with your teenager which has probably a volume unto itself. And so we will just figure out what those different types of conversations are.  That implies conversations with your teenager.  Fair enough. Or conversations where yeah where listening to anything you say it is a one-sided conversation. So we figured we will just figure out what those different types of conversations are and we will have a chapter about each. And this is great because people buy books with titles like that. This was a fabulous plan. We quickly ran into a little bit of trouble because we realized that we were wrong. That actually it did not matter who you are talking to and it does not matter what you are talking about. The same kinds of things show up in our internal voice in any difficult conversation meaning the internal voices what we are thinking and feeling but may not be saying to each other. And those fall into three categories. So the first is that we are each thinking about what is happening what has happened what is happening right now and what should happen. So this is sort of the story we tell about the facts quote-unquote facts because it is really an interpretation. And that includes what I am right about who is right but usually what I am right about. Whose fault it is that we are having this problem? And also what your intentions or motivations or character why are you being so impossible? Why are you being so stupid or difficult? And those are the three pieces of the story that I am telling about you. But by the way you are telling the same story about me. Well a different story with the same elements. You are focused on what you are right about and whose fault it is which is clearly yours though you think it is mine. And why the other person's acting this way. So that is one level of the conversation but there are two more things going on beneath the surface. The second is that by the time something becomes a difficult conversation we are each usually struggling with a whole host of feelings of frustration betrayal confusion guilt shame anxiety. And what do we do with those feelings? Often we do not address them directly. They simply infuse the conversation they are the energy that drives the conversation and feelings get translated into blame and arguments and accusations. And if we do not talk about them often we are not getting to the heart of what is going on because even in business by the time something becomes a difficult conversation typically we have got at least two problems. One is the surface problem. Like is this timeline realistic? We are arguing about that. Is this the right strategy going forward? Who is right about that? But there is a second problem beneath that which is how we each feel treated by the other. Which is that I have been telling you that these timelines are not realistic forever and yet you keep blaming me for missing them because you are just not willing to listen. And if we do not address how we each feel treated we might resolve the surface problem but the deeper problem is going to turn up in a different form next week or next month. So you have got the what happened conversation we call it in the book. The second is the feelings conversation. And then at the deepest level is what we call the identity conversation. And the idea here is that if a conversation feels difficult chances are there is something the situation suggests about you that feels troubling or at stake. Or maybe a little bit true or maybe infuriatingly wrong. But it is not just that we are arguing about money it is always about more than money. It is about whether I am respected or competent or a good person or worthy of love even. And that is part of why these conversations feel so high stakes.  So the identity component there is the What happened? component there is the feelings conversation as you mentioned. Then the identity is how it affects how we view ourselves how others view us or how we view others.  That is right. And so here's a simple example for people who have trouble saying no. Well that does not seem that hard to say no more often. You have probably gotten that advice a million times right? But it is not that you do not know how to say the word no it is that chances are you think of yourself as somebody who is very loyal or generous or would never abandon a friend in need. Well if that is true then any time someone asks you for help turning them down for that help is not just saying the word no it is doing something that feels in conflict or intention with who you want to be in the world. And someone letting you know that you let them down will be a much harder conversation for you than for someone who just does not happen to have that identity story about themselves. The guy in the office next door has no trouble saying no to everybody which is of course why everybody comes to you because they know you will say yes. So that also helped us understand why is it that some people have trouble with some conversations and the same conversation is easy for someone else. And it is partly because of whatever the story is that you tell about yourself and who you are trying to be.  And once you have an understanding of the three conversations which is in a way it is kind of a meta anatomy of each conversation right?  Yeah. It is like the underlying structure of any difficult conversation in the world.  So once you have that x-ray vision and you are able to look at conversations through the lens of these three conversations does that then turn into a checklist or an approach? How do you translate that into thinking about how to address or prepare for a given conversation?  I think that that structure mostly serves as landmarks. So I think that the way that we often we will well if you are like me prepare quote-unquote prepare for difficult conversations that we lie awake worrying about it. And maybe we turn on the light and jot down a few talking points. And then we think about how they are going to react and then we think about our rebuttals to their reactions. And we are sort of charting a path like I am going to say this and then I know they are going to say this so I will respond with this et cetera. We are charting a path through the woods to try to get to the other side. And by the way then we turn out the light and realize yeah I do not know that this is worth even bringing up. And now we are back at the beginning trying to decide whether it is even worth trying. The problem though with the path charting is number one it sets you up to do a lot of talking and very little listening. And the second is that if you are wrong about anything the minute that something surprising happens you are knocked off your path and you are lost in the woods.  Decision tree fallen.  Shit. You are not following the script. And so I think the reason that understanding that the underlying structure helps is that it gives you some landmarks. So no matter where you get dropped into the woods you can think whether we are saying it directly or not we are wrestling over blame and whose fault it is that we are in this situation. So that is the first reason that structure is helpful. The second reason it is helpful is that the answer is not just to say everything you are thinking the more transparent and aligned you can be between your internal voice and your external voice the better. However that does not mean you should just re-explain even louder why you are right and why this is their fault. You do not just dump that sort of toxic internal voice into the conversation. That is not going to help. Instead the first negotiation is really a negotiation with yourself to move from being focused on what I am right about and you are wrong about to getting curious about why we see this so differently. So I do not have to pretend I do not think I am right I still think I am right. But given how obvious it is that I am right what the hell is going on with you that you do not see it? That is really interesting. If I can get curious about that then it actually shifts my purpose in the conversation and the purpose of the conversation is not to hit you over the head with how red I am it is instead to understand why you see it so differently and why we see it so differently. So I need to show my part too.  Could you offer some sample language or tell a story? Either one is fine could be hypothetical or just provide some language for getting curious. Because there is a spectrum of options to choose from. Some of which might be passive-aggressive some might be aggressive-aggressive. And with the understanding that you are not invalidating your conclusion you are just hitting suspend on voicing that conviction that you have of being right and getting curious. What might it sound like to get curious?  So one of the things that we work on in our negotiation course at Harvard is separating empathy and assertion and being high on both in any given conversation. So you both want to be high empathy and curious and you want to have skilled and clear assertion. Here's how I see it let me see if I can explain it in a way that is clear even to myself as I pull apart why I see it the way I do. The mistake that we make and this is I think a little bit of what you are alluding to is that sometimes we conflate those two. So I will think to myself I know I am supposed to ask a question so I will phrase this as a question. Why would you think that?' Which is not really a question. Why would you think that? That is the dumbest thing I have ever heard  with a question mark at the end. And so what happens is we ask quote-unquote questions that are really disguised assertions thinly disguised assertions. And you are much better off just saying Gosh that seems crazy. But what do you see that tells you that that is true? And just naming that I actually do not agree or I cannot imagine that pulls apart the assertion and just says it clearly. And then I can ask a genuine question which is But gosh! I mean most of the time you are a pretty smart guy so why would you like help me understand that? And then my curiosity becomes more pure more clean actually. And so passive-aggressiveness is actually unspoken feelings frustrations or assertions that then leak through us pretending to be curious.  So if everyone's reasonably dysregulated let us just imagine   Let us just imagine a world?  Let us just imagine a world in which this calm surface that we all maintain at all times sometimes falters and two people are getting heated. Maybe it is the second or third time that they have had the same disagreement or argument. What can someone say to down regulate that and get to curiosity? You already gave perhaps a few examples but any other thoughts on how to language that?  My guess is that you are familiar with research by John Gottman up in Seattle?  I have some familiarity but please provide an overview.  An overview and just a connection to the question that you just asked. He invites married couples into his lab and he invites them to talk about an issue that is stressful between them to have a difficult conversation essentially. Hooks them up to heart monitors and videotapes and all of that. Then he says that he can watch for five minutes and predict with their different numbers based on his different studies but 90-ish 90 92 percent accuracy whether they will divorce within three or five years. Part of the reason I name this is that for me it really says it is not just that we have difficult conversations in our most important relationships. Those conversations are the relationship. That if we find a way to have them productively or constructively then the relationship will thrive whether it is a personal or professional relationship andor is where we start to disengage because you just do not get it and you will not listen and the relationship starts to fray. What Gottman is listening for are what are the indicators that he is listening for that tell him which direction it is going to go. One of them is that as a conversation gets heated and starts to escalate one of the spouses will often make a joke but the purpose of the joke is that it is an invitation to step outside this argument and to see it for what it is to see what is happening which is that this is the conversation we usually have and how it usually goes. So often it is a little bit of an inside joke but humor  by the way I listened to your conversation with Anne Lamott who I absolutely adore.  She is a treasure.  She is a treasure. And what does she call it? Laughter is carbonated   Holiness.  Holiness yeah. So laughter also in the brain just gives us a little bit of instant perspective that we suddenly see the absurdity of our own behavior in many cases. So it is an invitation to just name what is happening. It is like a meta move. For instance with my husband who also teaches negotiation by the way   I would love it to be a fly on the wall for some of those.  Yeah you can imagine. So we fight about how we fight. That is the fight we usually have.  This is like my friends' kids. My friends are therapists and their kids are like Stop therapizing me.  Exactly.  Stop therapizing me.  Exactly. So we are like Yeah you are not listening. Oh well those difficult conversations huh? Yeah. So that is the fight we have.  Stop putting your BATNA in my face!  That is right.  That is the Best Alternative to a Negotiated Agreement folks. Inside joke.  Exactly. That was very nice inside baseball joke. Yeah. Waving your BATNA around in a romantic relationship is not usually a successful strategy. You know there are a lot of people who would find me very appealing. One of the jokes that he and I make when we have the wherewithal to do it is like Why will you not just admit I am good and you are bad? That is what this is about right? It is about who needs to apologize whose fault this is et cetera. So as things escalate your ability to just name that underlying dynamic sometimes makes the other person laugh and you can step out of it for a moment. Then that gives you the opportunity to say Look obviously we have had this conversation several times. I am not understanding why fill in the blank. I am not understanding why what I am suggesting does not make sense. Help me genuinely help me understand that. Or I am not understanding what you are most worried about here. That often helps. It needs to be a genuine ask. You cannot say like What are you worried about? Because that is really a hot question. It is like you should not be worried about anything. Why are you being so stupid as to be worrying about something? As long as you can step outside see oh I am not being curious right now. And I do not have to pretend that I agree to do it. I think that is really the key. And I do not have to say there is no truth but from where I sit I can only see some of the pieces of the puzzle. You have the other pieces of the puzzle. Putting those pieces on the table for discussion is how we figure out what we have to work with. Then at the end of the day we still might not agree about this but it might open up new options for how we handle it.  Can I just say it is rekindling this great interest in negotiating but it is not quite negotiating. I mean it is negotiating but it is like negotiating reality through in part choice of language. I remember reading Getting to Yes. I remember reading Getting Past No which I also really really enjoyed. Then of course Difficult Conversations I think provides very flexible framework and approach for engaging with many many different situations many different people many different challenges but just the phrasing that you used with the pieces of the puzzle that is something that someone could copy and paste and use themselves. I just took notes because it is a non-automatic pattern interrupt if that makes sense. Whereas and I will own it I have a history of some degree of fire. Although I have worked on it for a very long time now but I think I am prone to want to speak very directly not waste calories and just get to the point and in doing so I might ask a question like What are you most worried about? Or Why are you worried about this? But the tone and the brevity of the question everything about the delivery is   Not a question.  Like For fuck sake why are we doing this again? That is really what I am saying.  I think that is really What is wrong with you? Like I have a list of possible things wrong with you that I have collected over the years but I am just curious which one it is this time. Yeah I try to have a few questions in my back pocket to reach for because in the moment of course you do not feel like being curious at all. So help me understand what you are worried about or what might be at risk here. What am I missing? What am I missing is actually a great question partly because they are going to be so thrilled to be able to tell you. They are going to take that invitation but genuinely they can see things that you cannot. It reminds me I sometimes tell this story about my eldest son. His name is Ben. He is 22 now but when he was about three we were driving down the street. We stopped at a traffic light and we were working on both colors and also traffic rules because at the time we lived on kind of a busy street in Cambridge. So we are stopped at the light. And I say Hey Ben. What color is the light? And he says It is green. I said Ben we are stopped at the light. What color is the light? Take a good look. And he goes It is green. And when it turns he says It is red. Let us go. Now the kid seemed bright in most other ways. So I just thought like what is going on with him? My first hypothesis is maybe he is color blind which then that would be my husband's fault. At least I thought at the time it is my husband's fault. I have since been informed it would have been my fault. So I started collecting data. I am running a little scientific experiment of my own. So I start asking him to identify red and green in other contexts and he gets it right every time. And yet every time we come to a traffic light he is still giving me opposite answers because I get a little obsessed with this. My second hypothesis by the way is that he is screwing with me which I certainly had some data to support. This went on for about three weeks. It was not until maybe three weeks later and I think my mother-in-law was in town. So I was in the back seat sitting next to Ben and we stopped at a traffic light. And I suddenly realized that from where he sits in his car seat he usually cannot see the light in front of us because the headrest is in the way or it is above the level of the windshield windscreen as they say in Europe. So he is looking out the side window at the cross traffic light. Now just think about the conversation from his point of view. He is looking at the light it is green I am insisting that it is red and he is like you know my mother seems right in most other ways but she is just wrong about this. The reason that that experience has stuck with me all these years is that it is such a great illustration of the fact that where you sit determines what you see. When you are in the front seat in a position of leadership and I have been driving for however many years at that point I have never had an accident. I have got the resources I have got the map I have got the view of the road and somebody in the backseat pipes up to say something that does not make any sense at all. It is just so easy to dismiss it and move on rather than to say Okay. It does not make any sense. Help me at least understand what you are looking at. Because often people on the backseat can see something coming at you that is going to sideswipe you because they are closer to the customer. They are closer to suppliers et cetera. I have to say that experience is also coming back to me these days as I think about the conversations that we are having about race. Because from where I sit as a white person in the United States I see a lot but there is a whole lot that I do not see or that I do not interpret the same way. The idea that I have been missing things all these years and not seen things that have been systematically unjust violates my sense of identity and I feel ashamed. Yet that shame should not keep me from learning more about what else I do not see. And I think that is one of the reasons those conversations are so hard and so important.  In a situation it could be any context it could be race-related it could be with a child not necessarily in the car context but in a situation where there seems to be a clear disconnect in the sense that the two parties are seeing things not just differently but perhaps seeing different things. Are there other tools or suggestions for how to sort of open the aperture so that both sides get a better understanding of what they are seeing completely or incompletely?  In chapter two we talk about a tool that actually comes from colleagues of ours at the business school at Harvard Business School and MIT. Don Schn and Chris Argyris created something called the Ladder of Inference and it just maps the way that our brains take in and process information. At the bottom of the ladder is sort of all the data all of the things we can directly experience. When I was telling the story about Ben it is partly that he has information I do not have. It is actually available to me technically it is just that I would not tend to look there. So at the bottom of the ladder is what is available to me and what is available to others. Some data will not be available. I was not there when you had the conversation with a board member or whatever so you have information I do not. At the first rung of the ladder up of the data available to us we each select a tiny sliver of it to pay attention to. So we might be in the same meeting but I am listening for the things that affect me and are going to ruin my weekend. And that is just not what you are listening for. You are listening for the things that are going to affect you and your weekend. So in some sense we are attending different meetings in terms of what we are paying attention to and what we remember. And then one more rung up after data selection is interpretation. What do we make of it? How big a deal is it based on our past experiences which probably are different. What does this represent? Or what do we predict about it? So we are reasoning and interpreting about it. And then we come to conclusions. Then when we get into a difficult conversation we tend to trade conclusions. That was a great meeting versus that was a total waste of time. This is a good idea. That seems like a good idea but we have tried it before and it is never going to work. So part of the reason that curiosity and understanding why we see it differently helps is that it helps us to unpack the lower rungs of the ladder to understand where we diverge. Was it that we each noticed the same thing but we have different predictions about how that is going to go in the future based on or how big a deal it is and whether it is important enough that we have to address it right now. Those are interpretations. Part of what I am listening for in a difficult conversation is I am just trying to understand what do you see and how do you interpret it? We each have implicit rules about how the world is supposed to work. Do we have different implicit rules here? Then it helps me to put those pieces puzzle pieces on the table and try to fit them together understanding that some of them just will not fit and that is okay. That is okay. But now I understand why what you make of it.  I do not know if this is an opportune time but it is not an inopportune time to ask you what is meant by a statement against interest speaking against interest? What is that? How does one potentially use it?  A statement against interest is telling you something that if I was completely self-interested I would not admit like that last answer was a little bit rambling and confusing. But if you have the ladder and you can  if you have the illustration it is much easier to explain. It is owning or admitting something that is not in your interest it might hurt you. An apology is a statement against interest in many cases. The reason that statements against interest can be so powerful is that it is the fastest way in the research it is the one of the fastest ways to build trust between people because the other person thinks well I guess they must be being honest because otherwise they would not say that. We talked earlier about not just taking your internal voice that is focused on blame and what you are right about and dumping it into the conversation. The shift from I am right to why do we see this differently should also be accompanied by a shift from blame to what we call joint contribution. Joint contribution assumes  like we each did things and they might have been totally reasonable things. Nobody did something wrong but we each did things or failed to do some things that got us here. And it does not have to be 5050 but if I am willing to own and be accountable for my contributions to this problem that makes it more likely that you will be willing to do that as well.  Look I think Tim we should have talked about this a while ago and I should have brought it up earlier because it is been bothering me for a while. So I apologize for that. But I wanted to talk about  fill in the blank. Owning my part of it up front which is often avoiding or delaying a conversation is like really common contribution to a problem that is festering. Signals. This is not about blaming. This is just about understanding what is going on and trying to make it better.  Are there other examples you might be able to share in doing homework for this conversation? You mentioned apologies. Certainly there are good and bad apologies.  Yes there are.  Helpful apologies. And I actually might want to come back to that. This is something I am very much trying to get better at. I do not think I am the worst in the world but I am definitely not winning any gold medals at the moment in that department.  Can we dig into that?  Yeah sure.  Now you are sorry you brought it up are not you?  Ruh-roh.  Tell me more about how you think about apologies and what makes one good or bad effective or actually ineffective.  Well this is timely for me. I think part of the reason I have been looking forward to asking you about this is that coming back to the ladder of inference I think that perhaps I am not paying attention to the right elements of apologies because my self-assessment is that my apologies are pretty good.  My apologies are amazing!  They are fucking amazing! I did not want to be too strong.  You should be much more appreciative of how good that apology was yes!  I would like to thank the Academy. I think I am honestly simply not seeing what in this case my partner is seeing. What I have noticed is that content almost does not matter or the content matters but if my tone is implying I do not have a lot of time for this and is of a certain intensity or volume that the words really just do not matter. So there is some dysregulation that I think needs training on my side.  So the message is not that you are sorry it is that will this apology make this end?  I think probably that is probably right. I am like okay I see this could drag on for a while. I am willing to suspend the conversation of who is right and who is wrong and I am willing to apologize if this just terminates   Means we can be done. Yes..  If we can just move on to something else and stop this particular conversation.  Oh that is such a great insight.  I am not totally a knuckle-dragger about it. You would think after reading all these books so on that I would be acing this but I think that also I often jump from  I think my girlfriend wants me to feel how she feels more than she wants me to understand in some analytical way what is causing what I view or what maybe we both view as an issue if that makes any sense. And I just in the world generally do not operate with that as my primary lens. Those are some of the things that contribute. Sometimes I ace it. Sometimes the apology works but it is not consistent. So I am looking for some rules some guidelines some language anything that can help me get out of the remedial class and into the more consistent normal class.  We are all in the remedial class honestly  the apology works.  Right. Yeah.  And that suddenly made me think oh that is actually probably a piece of it which is if I am apologizing for my own purposes to accomplish my own purposes maybe that is antithetical to an apology. Because we could probably make a really cool list of the different things that make an apology less than apologetic or less than satisfying. So one might be it is really Can this be over yet? Another that I often make the mistake of doing myself is Look I am sorry you felt that way. Which is basically You should not have felt that way and what I did was completely reasonable so the problem is still you and your oversensitivity. I think that part of what makes an apology meaningful is that you are genuine in owning something that you have contributed to the problem and that you are acknowledging the impact that it had on them. So that third piece of the what happened story is about why are you acting this way and the advice the shift in that category is from  hold on a sec. And the shift in that category is from I know why you are doing what you are doing or the flaws in your character that are problematic to separating intentions and impact which is that it is quite possible and most of the time we had good intentions or we had no intention we just were not thinking about it and it had a bad impact. I think that when someone feels we owe them an apology maybe they want two things. Maybe they want us to sort of own and take responsibility for whatever we contributed to the problem and they also want us to really see and care about the impact that it had on them like to really fully understand it rather than to explain it away or continue to believe that it was their problem. Maybe those are the two key elements to an effective apology.  If you were to give me the crutches and walk me through this any suggestions for wording languaging this? Also if I am reflecting on everything we are talking about I think another weakness of mine is almost certainly that I in some cases provide an apology that checks both of those boxes. And then within 10 seconds I say and which is the sort of counterpunch. Not counterpunch or justification or this is why it is  yeah I think this is an over-sensitive reaction. So I have the apology but then I cannot leave good enough alone and then I add some type of rebuttal or a kind of light body shot to it and that just completely removes any benefit of or most of the benefit of the apology. I think that is probably something that I also do. I get some of the first part and then I just keep talking when I should shut the fuck up for at least 15 minutes.  And the 15 minutes maybe gives you perspective on whether you need to say it. But I do not want to actually accept that you do not need to say it. Maybe you do.  Tell me more.  Because if you are still feeling unsatisfied like there is more here that is at the heart of it for me that does not feel like it is been acknowledged. You might have done a great job of acknowledging her or the impact on her finally as she would say. And there is something that feels unfinished for you. So sometimes it is that from an identity point of view you want her to understand that you had good intentions and were not trying to hurt her or upset her or whatever. It might be that you feel she also contributed to this and you do not feel like she is taken responsibility for her part of it. And in ongoing relationships personal or professional Part of what is hard is that you know this drives me crazy and you did it again even though you just apologized for it a week ago. So maybe your apology is not real because you are still doing the same thing. That is the wrestling. John Gottman in his marriage studies suggests that two-thirds of what we argue about today we are still going to be arguing about five years from now. And for those of us who have been in really long we were arguing about them five years ago and 10 years ago. So it is more about the ways in which we are different and how we manage that. And so if you are feeling like Oh I have got to add something it may be that you feel one of those two things. Either the impact on you is not acknowledged. Maybe three things. Impact on you does not feel like it is acknowledged. You do not feel like she is owning her part her contribution to the problem. And or you just want to know that she knows that you had good intentions that you were not trying to be a jerk because that would be against the story you tell about who you want to be in the world and in the relationship. I do not know. What do you think about all of that?  I think those are all pieces of it and I will give you a little bit more of the script.  Okay. Awesome.  So if you were like Tim give me your script for a very uncomfortable evening right before bed what is the perfect recipe?  Yeah.  Well I will give you a bit of the play-by-play and then we can go from there. So the way this often manifests is my partner it is very important to my partner that she can speak truthfully and not people please. And I support that. I think that is very important. Sometimes how that shows up is I feel like I cannot share my truth. And if I do she feels compelled to apologize and then feels resentful that she was looking for an apology and ended up apologizing herself. Does that make sense?  Yeah.  So she will speak truth. I will often apologize. I am not saying I do it well but I will apologize. And then I will say And I do not feel complete for these following reasons. And if you have the right to share your truth I feel also that I should have the same right. Here's my truth. And then she feels the need to apologize for that. And that sits very poorly because she is like Well wait a second. I was feeling X. I came to you. I just wanted a clean resolution or some demonstration that you are curious and interested in my experience and then possibly an apology. Now I ended up apologizing. And then just to complete this nightmare fairytale  it is not a nightmare. I am being dramatic but then I will say I do not need nor am I asking for an apology. Right? So that is not on me.  Okay wait wait.  This may or may not have happened recently. So it is very fresh in the mind.  Yes. Yes. So wait wait. Rather than telling us about it would you be willing to play both roles? Say what she says.  I can try.  Say what she says and then switch roles and say what you say back because this will give us the rhythm of it even better than the analysis. So how does it start?  She is actually very diplomatic and has generally speaking incredible emotional regulation. So she will  when it goes well or when it goes better I would say she will ask something like Could we set a time to talk for a little bit? And then we set a time.  Okay. So hold on. When she says I will be her Can we set a time to talk?  And I will say Sure.  Yeah right. You say Sure. What are you thinking to yourself and feeling?  Oh shit. Here we go again.  Yeah exactly. Good.  But that is okay.  But that is fair enough.  That is okay.  No I am not saying that that is bad.  Yeah.  It is just that yes of course and you are already worried about it is part of what we are exploring.  Yeah.  So keep going.  Yeah. I mean I think I am avoidant in that way or I am just like God life is busy enough. I do not want to deal with this right now. But I will set a time or we will set a time. We will figure out a time. And in those cases when I know there is an end time also this is very important for me and I know I am still on the analytical side but like if a conversation erupts spontaneously and I am like This could go for three hours if this does not end right?  Yes.  This could go indefinitely. I get very agitated or I could just to own it I make myself very agitated just to own the state. Okay. If it comes up spontaneously then I am already looking for the exits.  Mm-hmm . Mm-hmm .  Okay. And then she will very often say something like When X Y and Z happened I make up the following story. I am not saying it is true. I am not saying you are wrong. But the story I make up she is very good about this which really removes a lot of the defensiveness from me at least. The story I make up is A B and C whatever A B and C might be.  Is that you fill in the blank because you wanted or could not stand blank blank blank. Is that what the story sounds like?  Yeah. Or I mean You did X Y and Z because you do not think about me and you make unilateral decisions about these types of things and that my input is not important. I am making that up but it could be real.  But that is the general template. Yep.  Yeah. It could be a real example. And   And what do you feel when she says that?  It depends on the instance. So I would say that there are some times when I immediately feel badly and I recognize that she is right right?  Yeah yeah. Totally.  It is totally on point.  Me too yeah.  I was just a dick. I am sorry. I was busy or over-caffeinated underslept who knows? Maybe all of the above. And so there are times I am like You are totally right. And then there are other times where I think I am often so concerned especially if it is right before bed I am like Oh God I have got to nip this in the bud. This cannot go on for an hour and a half.  Because I will not be able to sleep. Yeah.  Yeah exactly.  Yeah.  Where I will  let us see what would I say? I might say something like  think for a second. I will tell you what is going through my head just to give you a window into it. Let us go ahead. So what I am trying to verbalize which maybe you can do a better job of because you have had front row seats to so much of this. I am very hesitant to say I am sorry I made you feel X because I do not believe we ever make someone else feel a given way. And I think that is a very disempowering phrasing to use with yourself or anyone else which is why I said I made myself agitated right?  Yep.  Because there are people friends of mine for instance like my friend Matt Mullenweg. He is like the Buddha sitting on a lotus flower in the middle of a hailstorm at any given time. He is so calm. I do not think he would respond the way that I did. So I want to own that there were probably choices and maybe some genetics involved. So I am very  I do not want to say I am sorry for making you feel X. So usually I will say something like I am sorry if I was not thinking if I was not choosing my words carefully enough. And I said something in a way that came off as A B or C. And I will say something like that. And if I just stopped there it would probably be fine.  Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah. But you cannot leave well enough alone because what feels unfinished?  Well what feels unfinished is I generally operate in a world with people who have a very high degree of toughness and resilience and grit. And I am not saying she does not have those things. She does but the people I spend a lot of time with are very most of my closest friends are very thick-skinned. And so I do not feel like I have to be delicate around them or walk on eggshells. And I resent when I have to do that because it turns a 20-second conversation into a 20-minute conversation. And fatigue is something that I have grappled with my whole life extreme chronic fatigue. And I think it could have something to do with having had Lyme disease twice growing up on Long Island and East Coast how that works. But who knows? I have no idea what the reasons are but I am very sensitive to that. So I will say something like that. And then I will very often ask something like Is there more? Right? Which is from Harville Hendrix and Helen LaKelly Hunt Imago work and so on. You can see we have done a fair number of workshops and read a fair number of books. So I will say Is there more? And we will do that for a bit. And then I will usually feel tension in my body because I feel like the exchange is completely one-sided. And I have my own perspective on what happened and maybe why it was reasonable. Maybe why in fact it was really generous and charitable and super light like touch. Actually   You should have heard what I wanted to say.  Yeah right.  Yeah.  Right.  If you thought what I said was harsh it was much less harsh than what I wanted to say. Yes.  So that is the script.  Totally.  That would be an example of how it unfolds. And I should say I am not convinced that I am right and she is wrong. That is not what I am saying.  No.  But I am convinced that these exchanges very often end up feeling unfinished and presenting a bitter aftertaste for us with some regularity right?  Yeah.  It is not all the time. I think overall we are doing a really good job as a couple and doing all the stuff right? But we are meeting things head on and I do not think we are avoiding much. Nonetheless these exchanges I find very draining.  Yeah. Well I can imagine.  So any words of wisdom recommendations would be most appreciated because one option is if I just want to preserve the peace if I just want her to feel better then I will not share my side.  Right.  But then I just sit there seething I am like A why the fuck do we do this right before bed? B now I get to sit here and one of us gets to share our truth. And then I get to censor myself which for a lot of reasons from childhood experience and trauma and all this stuff we do not necessarily have to get into self-censoring in that way is just  it is not an option for me. It is very corrosive.  Mm-hmm .  So that would be an example of   Yeah that is a great example.   how things can pan out.  There is so much. There is so much there that we can unpack. One observation is and I am speaking partly from my own experience being married to someone where we have very different norms for how harsh or direct to be. And so the fight for us and I hear it a little bit in what you are describing is the fight is a little bit about what is the normal level of sensitivity or insensitivity? How thick should your skin be or my skin be? And you are struggling a little bit about the norms and the meaning you each make of them. And also in that moment of like Do I just shut up and try to sleep? But the problem is that my internal voice is saying like Oh I cannot believe you brought this up right before bed. I am not a bad person. You were totally overreacting. My friends would not be upset by this. And so the exchange is all empathy on your part and no assertiveness.  Yeah.  And then but you know from experience that if you share the assertiveness part you are back in for the next four rounds which is exhausting. And if I were you I would be flooded that whole time just emotionally adrenaline cortisol et cetera which is not helpful right before bed.  Not helpful.  And is hard. So your looking for the exits is totally understandable. Particularly given your childhood experience to just find a way out that feels safer in terms of how you feel. And you know analytically you are not unsafe but emotionally it is all there. Actually  who I adore she and I had a really interesting conversation last year about growing up in households where there is yelling criticism et cetera being really hard and also we were talking about the fact that getting yelled at does not tend to phase her. So she has the tolerance to stay in a situation for quite a while because she loves and adores her dad but he was tough. He was harsh. And she learned  the meaning she makes of it is like Oh well I can survive this. This is okay. I do not feel unrespected or unloved in the personal context here. And I can put up with it because I have experience getting to the other side of it in exchanges with him. And that that has built  well or grown her a thicker skin. And I do not know if that feels true for you also which given what you have endured I do not have the time to get upset by smaller things.  Yeah. I think with just athletic coaching and general feedback not so much from my parents but   Coaches can be tough. Yep.   most of the training that I have done I actually not just tolerate but do really well with from coaching. Not abusive but I like direct because it is fast.  Yeah.  And I am sure I also like positive reinforcement more than I might recognize but it is never been a  soft and positive has never been my default.  Yeah. So the meaning  yeah.  Yeah. Both in receiving feedback.  So the meaning that you each make of a tough harsh curt whatever exchange is really really different.  Yeah.  And this is true by the way it is true with my husband who years ago when we were first married my sister my youngest sister lived with us for six or seven months. And when she would leave a dish out he would grab the dish and go to the bottom of the stairs was three floors so a condo tall condo. And he would yell up the stairs Hey Stinkbug. That is what he called my sister Stacy. Stinkbug get down here and take care of your damn dish. And that was so not my reaction. My reaction is pick up the dish feel resentful put it in the dishwasher and seethe.  Right.  Because in my household there was not a lot of open conflict. My parents would think for a long time before they would come and then we would have a conversation and I might get spanked by the way. My grandmother gave my mother a board of education paddle. But it would never be done in anger. It would be done as a very deliberate choice right? To teach you something. And so there was not a lot of open conflict or harsh harshness. My husband grew up just in a very different household where there was yelling and sometimes harshness. And so like you and your girlfriend we make very different meaning out of those two things.  Yeah so where do you go from there?  Yeah. Well so maybe I will make an observation about her startup and then an observation maybe an option for your decision point. So her startup is so skilled. This is the story I make up.  Yeah she is very good at it. Yeah.  Really good at it. And with that she is buying space to dump her internal voice into the conversation because she is saying why you are doing what you are doing it sounds like is part of it usually. You do not care. You made unilateral decisions because you do not think about me.  Right.  And I might suggest that if she focused more on the impact on her rather than your why you were doing what you were doing even though she says this is a story makeup this is a story to make up about why you are a horrible person.  Right.  If you want to escalate a conversation speculating about why the other person did what they did is one of the most reliable ways to make them defensive and angry.  Yeah right.  So she is doing a good job of caveating it to say I know that I am just making this up. And at the same time hearing it cannot be easy. So just the story I make up maybe is helpful but she might get further with you if she just said Look you made that decision without consulting me at all. And I was both surprised by it dismayed. I wondered whether you thought I had nothing else I needed to do or why you did that especially since you know that that bothers me. That might be easier to respond to because she is not speculating about your intentions which are actually invisible to her.  Yeah. That is a good point.  Then when you are on the  so you are basically flooded and her story about you is the worst possible version. At least it is when it is me.  Yeah.  Selfish and a jerk and do not care about me. On the backend I wonder whether the Internal Family Systems IFS work might be helpful. It is related to the And Stance which we talk about in difficult conversations which is look there is a part of me that just wants to go to sleep and thinks you are right that I should have consulted you knows that you are right. And there is a part of me that feels like I do want to stick up for myself a little bit.  Yeah.  And I wonder whether you understand whatever it is you need to say. I wonder whether you see me this way because that would be upsetting. Or whether it is just what you worry about. And so I think you can use that language of a part of me just wants to go to sleep. And a part of me feels like if I stay silent I am replicating the silence I had to hold as a kid sometimes. And that does not feel good for us either. Where there is a part of me that wonders whether this is going to work because I do not know if I  I do feel like I am walking on eggshells. And I think we got to figure that out.  Yeah.  So whatever it is that is the part that will not let you sleep.  Yeah. The giving voice to the parts is a good suggestion. And for people who do not understand the reference just quickly.  Yeah.  So IFS Internal Family Systems founded by Richard Schwartz. He may be Dick Schwartz.  Dick Schwartz yeah.  The podcast notes I have had him on the podcast is a framework for not just interpersonal communications but also therapy and trauma work where you identify different aspects of the self. That is the Internal Family part that is the reference. And it is very very powerful for trauma work. That is where I have the most familiarity. So for people who want more on that they can just search my name or IFS at tim.blogpodcast. That is a good idea to name it because it also buys a little bit of time and it provides a window into the felt experience without leaping directly to an argument.  That is right yeah.  It is kind of announcing the players on the stage before the players start talking.  Yeah. There is a way in which you are stepping into what we would call the third position to a balcony to name what is going on.  Yeah. Could you say more about that third position?  Yeah. So we talk about really skilled communicators and negotiators developing first position skills second position skills and third position skills. So first position skills are how self aware are you of what is going on for you what meaning you are making of things different emotions you are bringing to the table or identity issues et cetera. And can you share them clearly and skillfully? Second position skills are how good are you at stepping into someone else's shoes and imagining the world as they see it and finding a way to get yourself to genuine curiosity? If I can get from That is crazy to I wonder why you think something like that which feels crazy. Well that is at least a step in the right direction. So those are empathy skills. And also letting them know that you understand or that you are working to understand it anyway. And third position skills are Can I step up above the fray and name what is happening? That is what the couples are doing in the Gottman work which is to just admit I am good and you are bad. That is what is really going on here. You are naming our usual escalation pattern. So in the book we talk about stepping to the third position starting a conversation from the third position which is I know that you and I struggle with a difference or I know we feel differently about how we talk to each other for instance. Or I know that it makes me crazy when the dishes are not done before everyone goes to bed and food sits on the table which I think is disgusting. And I know that after dinner you just want to relax. And so when it is your turn to do the dishes the food does sit. And I wonder what we should do about that. So you are naming my  there is a difference between how I prefer things and how you prefer things. And the conversation is about just better understanding that and what we should do about it. That is a promising way to start a conversation. It is also related to what we call the And Stance. And there are a couple of different kinds of ands. There is what we call the You Me And. I know you prefer it this way and I prefer it another way. I know that you find it hard when I am harsh or direct or make unilateral decisions. And I find it hard when you accuse me of being selfish when I do that since I do not think that is really what is going on. What should we do about that? I know you feel upset and betrayed and let down by me. And I feel wrongly accused and upset and betrayed that you would think that of me that we can both be upset at the same time. So that is the You Me And. Then there is another thing called a Me Me And and this is much more what Dick Schwartz I think is talking about which is that I love you and admire how skillfully you have brought this up and care that I have once again upset or hurt you. And I am also mad at you for bringing it up now and I am worried and frustrated that I do not think I am going to be able to sleep. And I feel partly wrongly accused or misunderstood at least. And so I feel conflicted. And the feelings if we are going to step into the feelings conversation part of Difficult Conversations often there is a headline feeling or there is a feeling I think I am supposed to have right now but underneath that are a whole bundle of conflicting and mixed feelings and sometimes sorting them out. And I think this is part of what Dick Schwartz is helping people do with IFS which is to sort out the parts of them that feel differently. I love you and I am mad at you right now.  Yeah. So it is not just a soupy murky mess.  Yes.  Yeah.  Yeah. We sometimes give people two chairs and put the positive feelings here. And in this other chair put the negative feelings there say what you want to say to them. And when you move between chairs you need to spend time in each chair and when you move between chairs use the word and not but because usually we will say I love you but you are driving me crazy. And   It negates the first statement.  Yeah. They say But is the great eraser. So it feels like the first part is just easing in. The second part is what this is really about. When in fact often both things are equally true which is why and helps.  So I have to ask and this is not meant to provide myself with supporting evidence for my lesser behaviors   But if it happens to that would not be terrible.  But if it incidentally had that effect I would not cry about it. Did the Hey Stinkbug come down here and clean your dishes did that work?  Yes it did because John's reputation in my family is and with most people who know him is he is got some rough edges. He likes to be a little bit provocative. Once you get to know him and understand his really beautiful generous heart and there is a little bit of a persona that he puts on for his own entertainment as well as hopefully others you really adore him. And so they hear it and make meaning of it as it is actually intended.  So you are saying set expectations. This is important.  Maybe set expectations but also learn over time. So actually it is interesting because I am on the more sensitive side with my husband so he is harsher than I am much of the time because of just the families we grew up in. I stand on the other side vis-a-vis my co-author and business partner his name is Doug Stone Doug is much more sensitive than I am. And so I have the fun of feeling frustrated at how sensitive he is sometimes. And I mean we have been very close friends and collaborators for 28 years or something probably coming up on 30 years now more than 30 years since 1991 30 years. So every once in a while we will have an argument or really be frustrated genuinely frustrated with each other. And what he says happens when that happens is that he basically goes home and thinks like Well it was a great friendship but I guess it is over. Like I am going to erase you from my speed dial favorites. And I guess I am going to have to figure out how to move on and find someone else to collaborate with. Because for him an argument it would have to be so bad to get it out in the open. And for someone to be frustrated with him is a huge identity issue for him. So from his perspective it is over. And then an hour later I will call him and he is like Why are you calling me? We are not friends anymore.  You are like It is just Tuesday again. I know we do this once a week.  I mean it actually is relatively rare but I am still thinking like What are you talking about? Of course we are frustrated with each other that is normal and we will figure it out. I probably am not really seeing what you are trying to tell me or why this makes sense. So the meaning I make of it is good friends can talk it through. And the meaning he makes of it is good friends do not have fights.  So what do you say? And you have known each other for so long   Yeah.   maybe you skip the formalities but what do you say after one of these flare ups? What would your best self say?  My best self would not have called an hour later I would have waited a little longer so that I can see my part of it. My best self when she shows up tend to start with what I think I have contributed to the problem.  And how do you introduce that?  Which is often that when I get frustrated the place I tend to go is bossy dictatorial like Look we do not have time for this. This is what we are going to do. And as an oldest sister it is really a strength of mine to be bossy. When people say I am bossy I am like Well if you would listen to me your life would be going so much better so I do not see what the problem is. But I think I see my own patterns and I am willing to own them. Like Look I know that I am feeling maybe freaked out or anxious that we are not going to finish this on time. Let us imagine we are working on a chapter that is not working And by the way we are reworking Difficult Conversations now as we speak we are doing a third edition. So I have got my book here with all my notes and markups and   Oh yeah look at that.  What have we learned since what did not we include what is missing et cetera. So when we are writing together Doug is really good at taking things apart and letting them be messy for a while because he has a sense or we both have a sense like this is not quite right but we cannot figure out what is wrong with it. He is really good at taking it apart and taking it apart and letting it be messy again where we do not see the way out from a writing point of view it makes me very anxious.  Yeah I know the feeling when you have taken everything out of your closet off the hangers and put it in the middle of the floor and you are like Well now what the fuck do we do?  Exactly. It is like Look the chapter had 10 things that were really working about it and one or two that we sensed were not quite right so why did we have to throw out the 10? But sometimes you have got to throw the 10 you have got to kill your darlings because otherwise you are not going to see what it is that is wrong you have got to rebuild it. And he is really good at being more comfortable with the rebuilding the tearing down especially. And so I will maybe start with Look I know that part of what is driving me is I just am incredibly anxious I am totally freaked out that we are not going to figure this out. So I will just own what are the feelings that are driving me to be so insistent about what we need to do. So there is some first position like self-reflection and what am I contributing to the problems stuff going on that I will be willing to own. And that usually people  one of the strongest norms in the research literature is reciprocity so if I attack you you are going to attack me back.  Yeah. And if I am willing to own my part of this I make it easier for you to be willing to own yours. If you do not how do you bring up someone else's contribution? Sometimes you can do it as a request Hey I do not know if this would be possible but would you be able to fill in the blank? Implicitly I am asking you to change something because what you are doing now is not helping from my point of view but I am framing it not as a Would you knock it off? But instead Would you be willing to do something different? And that sometimes helps especially when you are talking up in hierarchy Hey boss if you could give me a heads up before the meeting I could probably be better prepared to answer your questions in the meeting. Would that be possible rather than ambushing me? But you do not add the last Rather than ambushing me part. Yeah.  One approach that I have read about this is also I think a weakness of mine is presenting things as a shared problem not immediately offering or asking for a particular solution. Could you speak to that and maybe give an example or just elaborate?  I think that that is  and actually we dig into this a little bit more in The Feedback book.  Mm-hmm .  The Feedback book has a chapter on relationship systems   Thanks for the Feedback.  Thanks for the Feedback. It has a chapter on relationship systems and the way that in relationships working relationships or personal relationships often we each have feedback for the other about how we think the other person needs to change like You have feedback for me? That is hilarious because the problem here is clearly you. And obviously that is part of what is happening here as well. Because the problem is not that there is something wrong with me or something wrong with you it is that the combination of the two of us is a little bit of a struggle on some front. So that is a shared problem for us to figure out if we are going to continue to collaborate live together be in a relationship what should we do about that? And I do think that a lot of difficult conversations are about the argument who is the problem here? And if instead it is the combination of us is part of what we are each struggling with that is a much better frame.  Yeah there is no target that can become defensive right? It is objectified in a way.  Yeah. And it is each of us standing on one side with the problem in front of us rather than standing across from each other pointing to each other as the problem.  Could you speak to blame absorbers versus blame shifters and maybe there are some other categories I do not know but those two?  Yeah. So one of our observations is that when you make the shift from blame to thinking about things in terms of contribution it is not just that you are using a nicer word blame assumes that somebody did something what they did did not measure up on some yardstick of what was appropriate what was professional what was expected what a good person would do right? And so they fell short in some way or did something wrong. And therefore the question is how should they be punished? And occasionally punishment is formal like they are fired but more often punishment is informal who is in the doghouse? Who has to make it up to who? Who has to apologize? So it is no surprise that people try to avoid being tagged with the blame but they also try to avoid being tagged with the blame because in most situations It was not just me I was reacting to what you were doing. And so contribution shifts to come from a really different assumption which is that Wherever we are at right now which is a problem we each did or failed to do some things that got us here. And that going forward if we want to improve that understanding what we each contributed is the way to actually change things and improve them. So I think that looking for What am I contributing to this problem? is part of what empowers me to know what I could change or try to do differently. Now this I want a little bit of a tangent which is background for your original question. You want to state your   Yep.   question because then we will   Well I was just going to ask if a perverse maybe that is a strong word but an exaggeration of that is the blame absorber?  Yes. So if we are talking about What do we each contribute to this? I think that each of us leans in a particular direction. Blame-absorbers are quick to see what they have screwed up. So the first place they are going to point the finger is at themselves like I should have seen this coming. I should have said something earlier. I cannot believe I let myself get into this situation again. And blame shifters are the opposite they are going to see everybody else's contribution first like I am late because the traffic was terrible. Because my kid would not put their shoes on. Because Zoom was not working correctly et cetera. So their first instinct is to point a finger away from themselves either to the situation or to other people. And you would think Gosh it would be great to be a shifter because nothing is ever your fault. But the experience of being a shifter is basically an experience of being victimized by the world and everybody else in it because you do not see your part. And so it is actually very disabling.  Yeah.  If you are an absorber I think we are all taught to be absorbers particularly as leaders like Take responsibility the buck stops here. The problem is that if you are a true absorber in doing so often you let other people off the hook you take responsibility for everything. Like my mother tends to be an absorber. Like if there is an argument at dinner she will think Oh I should have served something else. Or I am sorry. She apologizes when the weather is bad when I visit. It is like Mom I do not think you were really responsible for the weather. Oh she told me recently we were talking about this and she said Oh I am not really an absorber I am just a social absorber. I know that is what I am supposed to say but inside we both know it is your fault. So absorbers and shifters often will find each other in relationships or in the workplace because it is the perfect relationship right? We both agree it is the absorber's fault. But over time what happens is the absorber gets fed up and tired of being the one who always apologizes and tries to fix things and takes responsibility and being the bad guy. And so it is a stable system until it is not. So part of the reason that this is all important is just to reflect on your own pattern what you see first and contribution balances whatever you see. If you see your own part first well remember it is not all you if you cannot fix this by yourself you cannot be the hero and fix something by yourself you need to think about what would other people need to change if we are really going to have change and vice versa of course. I think this is related to those roles of hero villain victim.  Yeah for sure. Do you want to speak to that?  Yeah. In the back of my mind I was thinking about the ways that these two things overlap which I have been thinking about recently because the hero is often of an absorber who says I am going to come in and save the day. If I change this  and I am a good leader who takes responsibility. Now it could also be that the hero is a shifter nothing's ever their fault because they are only a good guy this is related to identity. So it would be interesting to hear how you think about that. The villain role nobody wants. And when people attribute negative intentions to you or that you are the problem nobody wants to play that role in the conversation. That is why starting from the third position helps like This is just the difference between us nobody is the villain here or nobody's the problem.  Yeah. And for people who want more context on this one option might be a podcast episode I did with Jim Dethmer D-E-T-H-M-E-R. And I think he likely refers to this from someone else I cannot remember the originator maybe you do but the Drama Triangle.  Yeah the Drama Triangle.  And puts these three perspectives into practice for problem solving. And his website is I think it is conscious.is or something along those lines. But if you look up the Conscious Leadership Group and Jim Dethmer I am pretty sure they have PDFs on their website that people can find related to the Drama Triangle which I do find interesting. I find practicing that where sometimes you are instructed to stand in each spot and verbalize each of those perspectives to be very challenging. I do not have much of a flare at least not intentionally for the theatrical but my girlfriend would probably disagree but I find it very difficult  intellectually I find it useful to think about and journal on but to actually practice live by standing onto those spots in front of someone like a therapist I find it incredibly hard find it really challenging.  Yeah it can be really hard. It is interesting for me because when I listen  when you are a third party like in this conversation and you were describing your conversations with your girlfriend I am a third party listening to that. Any of us when we are a third party listening to someone else's conflicts it is easier to hear in it like Oh I see what they each think that they are right about. I see what they are each contributing to the problem. I can hear the ways in which they each feel accused of being a bad person or having bad intentions. And they are each really wanting the other to understand the impact that this has had on them. And they are each full of frustration and hurt and confusion and anxiety and adrenaline. And maybe they are wondering Am I a good partner? Am I a good person? Am I worthy of love? Am I broken in some way that needs to be fixed? I hear the other person wanting to me to fix myself. It is not just they want to fix me they think I should fix myself. As a third party you can hear all of that and you can also hear Ph I hear someone playing the victim role here that in storytelling human storytelling often those three roles show up. Any Disney movie is going to have a hero a villain and a victim or set of victims.  Yeah.  And we each can fall into those roles in how we tell our own stories as well. If you want to get better at this often listening to other people's stories and asking them questions about Well what do you feel like you contributed? Or what do you feel you are right about? And what does the other person think they are right about? The most common pattern is actually We each actually might be right we are just talking past each other. Right? Your girlfriend might be right   Yeah.   that she well clearly she is right that she felt hurt or overlooked or this is not how she would like to be whatever talked to et cetera. You are right that you did not do it on purpose and that it was not that big a deal in the grand scheme of life. And   For me right?  For you. And that if you are going to be in relationship with her it actually is a big deal for you guys to figure out how to navigate right? So if the problem is between us it is a shared problem of how we will figure this out.  Yeah.  So I think the challenge is that in our own conflicts it can be so much harder to see.  Yeah.  Like when you are standing in that place describing to a therapist it is really hard to see our own patterns. And that is the challenge of getting better at difficult conversations.  You mentioned the Disney movie having all three which is so true. And I cannot remember the source but I remember listening to someone and they were talking about how we create drama in our own lives because we want our lives to be the most interesting movie imaginable no one wants it just to be a snoozer. So we create these stories and figures and so on. And I was just thinking to myself Maybe all of our stories have hero villain victim. And if you cannot find one that is who you are that is the role that you play. And maybe that is a way of backing into it.  Oh that is beautiful. I also find it sometimes that useful if I think How in the world do they tell this story? Can I tell their perspective putting them in the hero role?  Yeah.  Because they do feel like they are the hero of their own story in most cases.  Have you ever seen it is an old movie it is an Akira Kurosawa film Rashomon?  Yes.  Rashomon. Yes if   It is wonderful.  If anyone listening has not seen Rashomon  I want to go see that again it is an entire film where the same events are told through the eyes and perspectives of different people in the film. It is a beautiful film.  It is a beautiful film. I will add one more film if you are curious about hero villain victim   Please.   which is Shattered Glass.  Never heard of it.  So it is about Stephen Glass who made up those articles. He wrote for The New Republic was that it?  I cannot recall.  I keep forgetting. And so it is a   Big scandal.   big scandal. And Hayden Christiansen was he the guy who played Anakin?  I am more of an Episode IV kind of guy. So it could very well be but that actor   That actor  of course I brought up a movie that now I cannot remember clearly to describe but the point of it is that he Stephen Glass in real life was so good at playing the victim that he had colleagues and friends stepping into cover for him when people got suspicious who would say to the editor in chief like Why are you being so mean? Why are you doubting him? Of course this is true. Why are you coming down on him so hard? He is very sensitive. And he was so good at playing the victim that he had other people enlisted as heroes who would intervene to help cover for him. And it is a fascinating and beautifully done movie.  Shattered Glass.  Yeah.  Do you come away feeling depressed? Is it a beautiful but downer of a movie? What should people be emotionally prepared for?  I came away feeling fascinated.  Got it.  I came away feeling fascinated with the way in which he so effectively managed those conversations for so long. And the way that he cast the editor who started to be suspicious and ask harder questions and demand to see his notes and Tell me when this happened they cast him as the bad guy. And so it is been also helpful for me when I feel like I am being the bad guy because I am being too harsh or demanding or suspicious or something is that just the story that is being told are my questions and concerns justified? Because I can be very vulnerable to not wanting to be the bad guy. Yeah. And it causes me to not want to have conversations sometimes.  Wow. Well Sheila if you would be interested I think we will probably need to do or I would like to do a round two at some point we have many more things we could speak about.  Oh yes for sure.  And we have only covered a small percentage of the terrain. Difficult Conversations is the book that has come up many times in this conversation how to discuss what matters most.  The Science and Art of Receiving Feedback Well. Your consulting group is Triad Consulting Group which people can find a triadconsultinggroup.com. Is there anything else that you would like to say any closing comments requests of the audience anything at all that you would like to add before we close this round one?  Oh gosh. Maybe just if you are having difficult conversations in your life with yourself and with the people around you that you are not alone. And that they are part of being human and being in relationships but they also are an indicator that you care a lot about what you are doing and you care about the people that you are doing it with. And so in many ways it is a sign of health. And so for me that is been part of what is been so rewarding about this work is that you meet someone and you get to know them pretty well very quickly because we go straight to the edge of what they are coping with and not sure how to handle and struggling with. And for someone who is naturally pretty shy myself I have found that such a beautiful and rewarding open door. So for you Tim just in this conversation and also for everybody that I have had the privilege of working with over the last 30 years it is like they let me into part of their life that really matters and the conversations that matter to them. And if that is where we live together in our relationship I am there I am totally there.  Well Sheila this has been so much fun and very helpful. I took a lot of notes and there are many things I will be following up on and maybe some lines that I will rehearse later in the mirror before I go on stage.  Yes this evening.  Into this evening.  Yes.  And this has been tremendously helpful. I hope we have another opportunity to continue the conversation. And what a gift to be able to spend time together so thank you so much.  Thank you.  And to everybody listening as always we will have links in the show notes to everything that we discussed all the books all the films all of the everything any particular concepts any names at tim.blogpodcast. So you can just search Heen H-E-E-N and this episode will pop right up. And until next time measure twice cut once with those harsh words do some thinking   Nice.   try to take the third position. And thanks for tuning in. ADDENDUM   Hi Tim. It is Sheila. As I thought about our conversation afterwards of course I thought of all the things I wish I would have asked or had insights I wish I would have thought of at the time. And that is normal. The good news and the bad news of difficult conversations is that they are usually happening in ongoing relationships over time. And so it is not so much about having exactly the perfect script or thing to say in the moment as much as it is about having an ongoing conversation. So in the spirit of an ongoing conversation I thought I would offer a couple of thoughts I had afterwards just in case they might be helpful to you. So the first is that one of the questions that sits underneath many many difficult conversations it is sort of the background music to the conversation or maybe a low hum ominous hum below the surface is the question Is this going to be okay? Are we going to be okay? Is this conflict going to mean consequences? Or even the end of the relationship? When someone raises something important to them with someone else part of what they are asking is Is this the kind of thing that we can talk about talk through and resolve together? Particularly given Gottman's research about two-thirds of our conflicts in long-term relationships are not really resolvable the task is not to resolve them once and for all it is to figure out a way to handle them or navigate them and manage them together that feels okay and good. And I think part of what might be happening when your girlfriend comes and says Hey can we talk? is she is saying I want to raise something that is happening that is actually not okay with me. And if I were in your shoes and maybe if I was in her shoes I would be thinking And what does this mean for us? Is this going to work? Are we going to be able to figure out how to navigate this together? And you might be feeling like Gosh what you are asking me to do is to be perfect and I have already demonstrated that that is not going to happen. So if I continue to sometimes misstep or be an asshole is that going to be okay? And so I think that is going to raise the stakes for both of you in the conversation. And I wonder whether there is a way to turn down the heat or maybe the volume on that question at least for a while. A second thing  and I have a thought about how to do that but let me add a second thing that I have been thinking about that is related which is when she comes and says Hey can we talk? the implicit topic or purpose of that conversation is singular. It is about her topic. And when you ask the question Is there more?  which by the way is a fantastic question and it may unintentionally reinforce that the whole purpose of this conversation is about your concern or feeling hurt or impacted by me. And in addition Is there more? is like it is putting everything on the table all at once like leave no stone unturned. It is like you are doing spring cleaning every evening that you have this conversation rather than just a light spot-dusting in the relationship. And I am not sure you need to do a spring cleaning every evening. And so I wonder whether we can do a couple of things. One is reassure each other that that question Are we going to be okay?  Yes we are going to be okay. And we are going to figure out how to handle this to sort of turn down the power on that conversation or the heat. A second is can we expand the frame on what your conversation is about beyond just her topic? Because if it is just her topic then when you cannot help yourself and you add your perspective it feels disruptive or off-topic. I think actually the frame of the conversation should be Hey I noticed something today that I want to talk about that is one of those places where we have some rub or some friction and I want to tell you about it. And can we expand it to say Oh great. I am really interested. And then I would love to share what was going on with me in that moment. So the purpose of our conversation is not just hearing you out so that you can speak up and not people-please which I totally support  I love that about how you support that with her  but also And then I will add what was going on for me and we can kind of figure it out together. So it is framing the purpose of the conversation as just understanding. Maybe there'ill be an apology in one direction or another but maybe it is just about Ooh. Cool. This is one of those moments. Let us just unpack it a little bit and notice what is happening and talk about if neither of us changes a whole lot what could make this better? What small things might be able to make this better? And so you might do a 60-day experiment that when she comes and says Hey can we find a time to talk? Your automatic response should be Ooh. Yes. Awesome. I cannot wait. And I cannot wait to hear what you have noticed. And I will add what I noticed in that moment. And maybe we will better understand this. And that actually hopefully lowers the stakes and changes the frame to be a little bit more inclusive and also treats it a little bit more like a spot-dusting I suppose if we are going to keep that metaphor. And at the end of 60 days just see whether the tenor of these conversations has changed. The last thing that I will say is of course the timing of when you are having the conversations as we talked about a little bit is kind of disastrous for you. And I am sure that when she says Can we find a time to talk? You are picking the end of the day because obviously you both have a ton of other stuff to do during the day. But I wonder whether that is exactly the wrong time. I know it is always the wrong time for me. So often I hear the advice from long-partnered people like Do not go to bed mad or Do not let the sun go down on your anger is something my grandmother would have said. And that seems like good advice except that in practice it is horrible advice because the end of the day is exactly the time especially if we are irritated with each other it is exactly the time when like I have been carrying around and adding to the list of my partner's flaws and problems. And I am tired. I am irritable. I have exactly zero energy or patience to do the hard work of listening. And it is hard work to listen to someone tell you something that you have done that has upset them or to feel misunderstood and to try to properly accurately understand each other. That is actually hard work. So the last thing I would add to your 60-day experiment should you decide to accept this mission this mini-mission would be not to have them at bedtime but just to find a time maybe when you are each at your best in terms of energy and to treat them as like quicker check-ins earlier in the day to try to understand for each of you what is going on there. And over time to start noticing those patterns. At the end of 60 days if you like we can get together and talk about feedback and we will see how it went. Anyway Tim thank you so much for the conversation. I so enjoyed it and I cannot wait to hear what happens next. Good luck. Interview with Sheila Heen on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Interview with Richard Schwartz on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast So many of us destroy our aliveness through pretending. I was not going to pretend. Jim Dethmer Jim Dethmer is one of the world's leading voices on conscious leadership. He is a co-founder at Conscious Leadership Group co-author of the 1 best-selling book on conscious leadership The 15 Commitments of Conscious   