 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs this is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of The Tim Ferriss Show where it is my job every episode to interview world-class performers from different disciplines to tease out the habits lessons and so on that you can apply and test in your own lives. My guest today is none other than Sir James Dyson. Sir James Dyson is the founder and chairman of as you guessed it Dyson. Through investment in science and technology and working alongside Dyson's 6000 that is 6000 you heard me correctly engineers and scientists he developed products that solve problems ignored by others. Sir James was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 2015 and appointed to the Order of Merit in the 2016 new year honors. He was awarded a CBE in 1996 and a night bachelor in 2007. James is the founder of James Dyson Foundation inspiring the next generation of engineers through scholarships engineering workshops university partnerships and the annual James Dyson Award an international student design competition. In 2017 James established the Dyson Institute of Engineering and Technology where undergraduate engineers pay zero tuition and earn a full salary while completing their degree studies and working on real life projects alongside world experts in Dyson's global engineering research and technology teams. James is the author of the brand new book Invention subtitle A Life the story of how he came to be an invention himself and built Dyson leading it to become one of the most inventive technology companies in the world. James welcome to the show.  Oh it is very nice to meet you too. I look forward to our discussion.  And I have many questions. And I come to this conversation as not just a fan and admirer but consumer and user of your products. I have a Dyson V11 Animal about 40 feet from where I am sitting. I have hot and cool purifying fans throughout the house because my girlfriend and I otherwise fight over the central heating. And I want to cover some familiar ground just to establish context for people. But we will bounce around as I mentioned before we started recording. And I thought we would start with a name and to ask for some context. And that name is Jeremy Fry. Could you tell us who Jeremy Fry was?  Yeah he was the scion of the chocolate family the Fry's chocolate family but was an inventor. In fact his father who worked in the Fry's chocolate family was also a better inventor than he was businessman. But anyway so I do not think their shares in Fry's reversed very much by the time they sold them. But no Jeremy was an inventor and was the chairman and founder of an engineering company. And I went to see him to ask him for money actually because I would done a theater project which used the same architectural roof system that he had used in his own factory. He would pulled the entire factory roof up by himself with pulleys and ropes because it frayed light aluminium structure a Buckminster Fuller type structure. And I designed a theater shaped like a mushroom for the theatrical impresario Joan Littlewood. And I knew he was a millionaire so I wondered if you would be interested in funding it. And he said I am not going to give you any money at all but I can see you are an ambitious designer. Said Why do not you design some things for me? And that was when I was still at college so I spent three further years at college. And then he offered me a job and I went to work for him making and selling and designing a boat that I had designed for him. His invention but I would engineered it for him. And over the years I only actually worked for him for about five years and then I branched out on my own. But I came back and we had a joint company together for a few years. Developing a wheel boat a boat went across the water on its own wheels propelled and floated by its own wheels. And also we did the vacuum cleaner together and a very interesting wheelchair together electric wheelchair.  How old were you when you first approached him for possible financing which he rejected? But what was the age you would have been 19 20?  I was 20 21. Yes exactly. 20 21.  And what did you initially go to a university to study? Was it design? And if it was design within what fields were you hoping to focus?  Well that is very interesting question. I did classics at school Latin Greek and ancient history but I also did art. And of course I enjoyed art much more than Latin Greek and ancient history. And I wondered if there was a career in art. And so I went to art school as an experiment more than anything else. In my first year I discovered that there was this subject called design. And in the mid '60s 1965 design was not something that was talked about or publicized in the press or magazines. And there was no good design in shops either. So I did not know what it was. And when I was told about it was it intrigued me. And I managed to get into the Royal College of Art to study furniture design. Actually I quickly switched to architecture because I thought it was more exciting and more intellectually challenging. That is not to put down furniture designers it is just that it intrigued me more. So I spent two years doing architecture. That is how I came to do this Buckminster Fuller type building. And that is how I came to meet the chairman of an engineering company. And that is what really turned me into an amateur engineer. I have to stress that I am an amateur engineer I am not a trained engineer. And I hope I think like an engineer.  Well let us dig into that last statement because I think there is probably a lot there. What does it mean to think like an engineer to you?  That is a very interesting question. Whenever I look at anything I wonder how it works and then I wonder how it could work better. Could I make it work better? Is there a technology I could use? Is there a way I can reconfigure it? Is there a radical breakthrough I could do for lateral thinking that would make a huge difference? So I just think like that all the time. It could be said to be rather irritating to analyze every single thing you look at and reject it because it is horrid or it does not work very well but that is how I am built. That is when I realized that I should have been an engineer I should have trained as an engineer but that is all right. I just did it wrong way round that is all.  I was not going to say it too early in this conversation but James just imagine what you could have done had you had a formal engineering career. It is a joke. I think you have done quite well.  It is a joke but actually it is a serious point because I have quite a number of engineers who trained as an engineer and then trained as designers. And I have got a few others like me who trained as designers and have them become an engineer. And actually I cannot do the calculations that engineers do but I hope that I think like an engineer and have the same sort of enthusiasm and fascination and curiosity. And that is what is really important.  Were those fostered in any memorable way by your parents or by other people when you were growing up when you were in your younger formative years?  Well probably not because my father died when I was nine and he was in hospital from when I was six to when I was nine. And as I said I did classics at school so I did not spend any time really in the physics labs or the chemistry labs. But I was interested in how things work and I did take things apart and try to put them back together again. And I did try to build lighting systems. And certainly when I was 18 I bought an old car and had to learn how to repair that. So I do not think it was something I was really taught. And if anything I am an autodidact and not someone who is ever taught anything. And actually I do not particularly like being taught things I like to discover things rather than be taught them. Not a very cooperative person.  That is probably one of your superpowers I would imagine. In a lot of respects at least from what I have gleaned. If there are parents listening and I somewhat selfishly ask this because I am planning on starting a family soon but is the way to nurture that curiosity through discovery through projects like offering kids the opportunity to disassemble things and reassemble or simply disassemble? Do you have any thoughts related to how to foster and nurture that perhaps not by direct teaching but through other ways of approaching it?  Well yes. I think learning by discovering by failure by making mistakes by being curious about things curious the way you make things be curious about the way things work. To discover why some things work well and some things work badly. And the thing I have noticed with my children is that they too do not really like being taught things. They all learn empirically by self discovery. I was just astonished to find I had lathes and mills at home in the workshop and I turned around one day and there was my 14-year-old son working the lathe I would never taught him. And he is gone through his life like that. And my son who is a musician has taught himself to play all the instruments. He plays the flute the piano and the guitar. And has taught himself how to work all the systems the recording systems. And I think it is the best way to learn and it is the most exciting way to learn. And a lot of it is failure of course. And I did want to call my book A Life of Failure because failure's exciting and you learn from failure. If you are taught something and then what you do works you have not really learned anything. You have not learned what does not work which is usually more interesting.  Well you have a long illustrious CV full of successes. But the connective tissue would seem to be hundreds or thousands of what some people might consider failures I suspect you view them perhaps slightly differently. But if you would not mind could you tell us the genesis story of the vacuum? If you would not mind sharing the origin story. I think that would be a good jumping off point for a lot of other questions.  Yes. Well when I was young the only machine we had at home we did not really have any money when I grew up was a vacuum cleaner. It was a little old-fashioned upright vacuum container with a huge pillowcase on the back this sort of thing. And I just remember I was made to clean the house with it by my mother. And I just remember the horrible smell of stale dog and stale dust it not picking things up and then having to go outside and shake the bag out and then restarting the machine and it still not working very well. So I just remembered that from my childhood. And then when I was like you starting a family and had a wife and so on I bought a second-hand one of these original type of vacuum cleaners with the pillowcase on the back hanging off of it. Same experience. So I thought Well there must be a more modern version. So we went to the shops me and my wife and we bought what was allegedly the most powerful vacuum cleaner in the world. And it was a canister model that sits on the ground. You do not push it along like a lawnmower you pull it around with a hose. And it had paper bags it advanced from pillowcases to paper bags. And I had experienced the same thing. You know it was not picking things up it was smelling of nasty stale dog and stale dust it was not picking things up. So I could not find a replacement bag cause I assumed the bag was full. So I went down and tipped the contents into the garbage can and a gaffer taped or scotch taped the end back up again. So I had an empty bag it is not a bag full it is an empty bag and I put it back in the vacuum cleaner. And still no suction. And I thought Wait a minute wait a minute. What is this all about? I was told that when the bag is full you have to change the bag. What I am discovering is that an empty bag has no suction. So I thought about it being someone with an engineering bent and the penny dropped that all the airflow had to go through the bag. The bag was not a depository where the dust went the bag is a filter. And the very first dust that goes into the bag whether it is a pillowcase or a cloth bag clogs the bag the dust goes straight for those holes because dust wants to get out it is taken there by the airflow. When the holes are blocked the airflow is blocked so you lose your suction. So I went down to the shops and bought a replacement bag put it in the machine and had very good suction to begin with. And then it rapidly tailed off as I vacuumed. So I thought well this is crazy. If you buy a light bulb it is supposed to give you a hundred watts well that is more difficult now with LEDs but it is supposed to give you a hundred watts. And it gives you the hundred watts till it goes pop. You get a hundred percent performance. What you are getting with this vacuum cleaner is a heavily reducing performance. This is awful I am annoyed I am angry. Anyway so my anger was simmering within me. Until I was installing a dry powder coating machinery huge machine to spray my wheelbarrow frames because I was making the Ballbarrow a wheelbarrow at the time. And we used a cloth filter to trap the powder that missed the frames it was sucked away with a giant fan. But every hour the cloth clogged and you had to shut down the whole machine shake off the cloth and put the cloth back up again. And I asked around the industry what intelligent people used. And they said Oh they use a cyclone to collect the dust not that filter thing you have got that cloth thing you have got. So I got a quote for one and it was a huge amount of money I simply could not afford it. So I decided to build one over a couple of weekends. It was 30 foot high and the chimney at the top stuck through the factory roof. And we collected the dust in a plastic bag at the bottom of the cyclone. And the machine ran beautifully all day long without ever clogging and we collected the dust at the bottom and reused it. And then of course I connected it this clogging filter with the clogging bag in the vacuum cleaner. And I wonder Why cannot you use a little version of what the 30 foot high one what about a one foot high one? What is that going to be like? So I rushed home and made a cardboard version of this huge one it was only a foot high. And put it onto the back of my upright vacuum cleaner because I would kept the upright one and pushed it around and it appeared to work. So I always say that was the first vacuum cleaner that does not lose suction. I did not know the efficacy I did not know how well it collected the fine dust all I knew was that it was collecting the dog hairs and the dust that was on the floor. So that is really the genesis of it.  Now from what I have read it was an immediate success you licensed it to the world's largest companies and henceforth amassed this great fortune and influence. Is that how it panned out? I am joking of course.  I wish. No. Well no. First of all I offered the idea to the Ballbarrow company and they were not interested. What they actually said was which is something  a refrain that I was to hear many many times over the next few years Look if there was a better vacuum cleaner one of those big vacuum cleaner companies would have done it so we are not interested in it. So we had a parting of the ways and I went to see Jeremy Fry my old mentor and he agreed to back the development of the vacuum cleaner. And so we had a 5050 company. And I was able to devote my whole energies on my own to developing the cyclone for use in the vacuum cleaner. I went around to see there was an expert at Porton Down which is a very famous chemical warfare establishment in England. And the head of that had written a book on filtration devices cyclones electrostatic precipitators and all that sort of thing. He said You will never make it work in a vacuum cleaner because cyclones are only good down to 20 microns. And as I knew household dust is less than one micron down to half a micron or even less. So that was interesting challenge. So I went back home. And there are some formulae for making successful cyclones. And I got my old maths teacher who happened to be the husband of my godmother to help me with the first maths to work out the formulae. So I went through all five of the serious formulae and I got five different answers. I thought This is no use. I have got to do this empirically. I have got to develop this myself. So I started the process of developing a cyclone that would work down to half a micron or less. And that took 5126 prototype failures before I got the 5127th which worked. So it sounds tedious but it was the complete opposite. It was absolutely fascinating day after day building maybe one cyclone a day and testing it. I was testing it for dust capture the ability to capture retain the dust. And also for the airflow through the cyclone because I did not want it to be too restrictive. So it was fascinating. I would do an experiment and sometimes it would get better sometimes it would get worse. But because I only made one change at a time I knew exactly what it was that had made it better or exactly what it was that made it worse. So it is a process of learning by experimentation. And it was not enjoyable every day because failures are not enjoyable necessarily and I would come home in the evening covered with dust and tell poor Deirdre what had happened that day. And she tried to stay interested as we were getting more and more into debt. And it took three or four years it was a long haul.  How did you pay the bills during that time keep the lights on at home while you were going through these many many iterations?  Well Jeremy Fry my partner as it were had put up 50 percent of the money. And I had sold a bit of land I had my vegetable garden very productive vegetable got to build a house on it. So between us we had about 60000 pounds I think it was. And that saw us through three or four years and then I started getting into debt.  Now I had never thought to ask this but since you said one change at a time this begets a question for me because I think in the minds of many they might hear 5000 plus designs each one is totally different and you have tried 5000 plus different things so to speak holistically speaking. But my question is since you were changing one variable at a time making one tweak and then assessing whether it improved or degraded the quality and performance did you in advance have say a hundred tests or 200 or 500 that you knew you were going to run in the process of not doing multivariate testing but changing one small component at a time? Or were you testing one and then deciding on the next four or five? I am just curious if there was a plan in advance a schedule of some type for the things you were going to test such that I know this is a long question you knew that you were not going to do two designs and win the final outcome it was going to take a period of time and many many iterations. Does that question make any sense?  Yeah I have absolutely got it. I will answer it in a totally different way.  Perfect.  Invention  and it is not about being brilliant  it is about being logical and persistent. If you try and do a shortcut and say Oh if I did it like this with a pipe this diameter and the length here and something here and thing there it is going to work it is going to be brilliant. It is going to work. I know it will work. And you do that and it does not work you do not know which of those elements that you incorporated has caused a problem. So you have to start right at the beginning with the most basic most simple thing and then make one change and see what effect that has. If you make two changes you do not know which works or which did not work you do not know anything about it. You only know its performance you do not know why. So you must only do one change at a time. Now there can be brilliance in knowing what that one change might be but although it is tempting to say Well I wanted to try different lengths I wanted to try different angles I wanted to try different diameter pipes going in and out I wanted to try multi entries. There is lots of things I wanted to do but I had to start right at the beginning and just go one step at a time. And every single time you try and jump to the solution it does not work and you have got lost. So you have to go back to concrete solid ground where you know the result of what you have done that change you made.  I have a question about perseverance because many people listening will hear this story and wonder how and why you continued. But I want to add a little bit of nuance to that just by observing that you have prototyped designed produced and shipped many many different products over the years. Some have worked out some have not. I am sure many behind closed doors ultimately were stopped. They were abandoned in some form or fashion because they were not viable. In this particular case why did you persist? Had you done some back-of-the-envelope calculations and determined Hey we have 60000 pound downside here. The upside I think could be tremendous. Therefore this is worth three to four years of my time. If it gets to six I am going to cut my losses. How did you think about that and what compelled you to continue? Because you are clearly a very smart guy. You would not just be pounding your head against a brick wall at the end of a dead end. I would love to hear you comment on that.  Yes. I suppose at the beginning I thought it might take me a year at the most and not as many as 5000 prototypes. Ever the optimist I thought it would be easier than it was. That is always true with every development. It is always much much harder. I still run I actually do long-distance running. I have this thing called  everybody knows about the pain barrier. There is a point three-quarters of the way through the race where it is really starting to hurt and you cannot see the end and you want to give up. You go through that process with every invention with every technology breakthrough. It looks brilliant at the end because from where you started and where you have ended up there is such a difference. There is such a big leap and it is different to anything that is gone before. So it looks like an act of brilliance. But it was not. It was just hard work. It always takes four times as long as you think it will and it always costs more money. I mean fortunately most research and development until you start using really expensive machinery is mostly human effort. Of course I was putting my human effort into it which did not cost very much. So over the four years I did get into debt in the end. I am in huge debt in the end. But what kept me going was that I was making progress and I was convinced that it was the way vacuum cleaners should be. Vacuum cleaners should not lose suction. It is deeply disappointing and unsatisfactory that they lose suction and they lose efficacy. You want to get the housework done quickly and get all that pesky dust up. You do not want to leave it behind. So I was convinced that well I was pretty certain that if I could make it work people would be interested in it. I did not know. I mean I was just assuming that. That like me they would be annoyed that they are losing performance. It is unsatisfactory. It was partly that I could see it would make a good product and partly I wanted to solve the problem. How do you capture this dust? How do you separate dust from air without having a clogging filter in the way? It was a really interesting problem. Not for anyone else but it was an interesting problem for me to solve particularly as I would been told it would never work. That always eggs me on.  I was going to say that seems to be the best way to motivate you. Did you have this as a full-time occupation? Or were you doing other things simultaneously? Or did you have in mind in the back of your head a plan B if this were not to turn out?  I had no plan B. It had to work. I was pinning everything on it betting the house literally because I had to put the house up as collateral to the bank loan. I did not know it would work but I just hoped that I could make it work. I was going across the yard every day to the equivalent to my garage. It is actually a coach house but it is the old-fashioned equivalent of a garage. Working now on my own for two or three years.  So you finally you summit Everest  I am going to mix all sorts of metaphors here  and you have the new and improved mousetrap. Does the world beat a path to your door? What happens? What unfolds after that point?  Well I had previously run a very successful company making high-speed landing craft and my partner had run a very successful engineering company making valve actuators. So we both decided we were inventors and designers and not commercial people. So what we decided to do was develop technology not commercialize it. So our intention was to go out and license it. So I spent well I suppose about six years slightly longer trying to license the technology. No one was beating a path to my door. I was beating a path to their doors. Likely people. They pretty well all turned me down. In fact all of them. All of them turned me down. Some started and gave up but otherwise total nonacceptance. It is interesting because I suppose I should have given up then. I mean if the commercial people did not think it was worth doing why should I think it is worth doing? But actually the more people that turned me down the more excited I got because why were they turning it down? Well they are probably turning it down because they rather like selling bags and mine did not have a bag and they made a lot of money. The razor blade syndrome. Partly because of that. But also I really noticed that they were not interested in changing their technology. They wanted to stick with what they had. It is what I call a commodity product. It is not a very exciting product. They are not skis or surfboards or anything interesting. Vacuum cleaners were a commodity product in which no one had any interest. So I could sort of see why they were not bothering because consumers were not really bothering. It is that thing with a bag that sucks. But I saw it differently. You use it every day. It makes a noise. It is supposed to do an efficient job of getting rid of dust which is nasty stuff and keeping it inside the machine and getting up dog hairs and all the awful things. If it does not do that properly your life is not as pleasant. I saw it as a very important thing. I mean it is a mundane product. It is an apparently boring product but I thought we should make it interesting. It is an important product.  So the razor blade mention makes me think of one of my friends who is one of the most successful venture capital investors in Silicon Valley. One of his guiding I do not want to say theses that would make it a bit too highfalutin but one of his heuristics is looking for startups that for every dollar of revenue they generate take away 10 of revenue from some incumbent. I can see why they would not want to replace their I suppose continuity revenue or business model with your technology. When did you finally feel that you were at an inflection point or had gained a handhold with commercial I suppose confirmation in any way?  I did have one or two licensees who did start to produce vacuum cleaners. Some gave up. One in Japan continued but by  well it was actually 10 or 11 years after I first started developing cyclonic technology I changed the business plan. Instead of trying to license people  I was fed up with license agreements  the difficulty of licensing people that requires becoming a lawyer dealing with license agreements not an engineer developing technology. I thought Well look these competitors clearly do not want to develop new technology. They do not want to bring out a product with a difference. I am going to do it myself. I did not want to have to be a manufacturer and someone commercializing it but I am going to do it because I really believe in it. So put your money where your mouth is Dyson and do it. We were three engineers at the time and we decided we were going into the business of making vacuum cleaners. We had no factory no money nothing. We just crammed together in our coach house with a machine shop underneath.  So a couple of quick questions. You believed in it. Now one could imagine there is some now in this case it was not I suppose fallacy but sunk cost fallacy. You are so invested in this that you really want to see it to the end. Did you also have consumer feedback or feedback from friends who had used prototypes that confirmed your belief in the product? Was there some type of market feedback that also contributed to that belief in continuing?  I think my friends all thought I was mad. Reducing myself and my family into penury. But no unfortunately not. By the way I would bought out my partner by this point because he had got fed up with all the failed licensees and his financial advisors advised him to get out. There was no future in it. So I bought him out   He must tell that story over some stiff drinks these days. Man. Or at least he used to.  It is a very friendly parting. I quite understood it. The vacuum cleaner was not his life. It was my life not his life. So I bought him out for 45000 pounds and I was on my own. In many ways actually he was a huge help. He was my mentor a great friend and a wonderful designer and engineer. So I felt a bit lonely going off without him. But on the other hand it actually made me feel better being completely on my own. It suited me. But I had no idea whether anyone wanted to buy this product. No idea at all. I had not done any market research and you cannot really go and ask someone whether they want to buy a vacuum cleaner that does not have a bag. But it is got a strange cyclone instead and it is got this automatic hose that comes off the back. You cannot get a straight answer to that. It is too easy to think that you can go and ask people whether your product is going to be successful.  It makes me think of the Henry Ford quote which I am paraphrasing. But If you ask people what they wanted they would have said a faster horse something along those lines.  Exactly. Whole point is you have got to back your own instincts. You cannot get help on this. You have got to take the risk. Sometimes you are going to be okay and sometimes you are not. Life's like that. In a way that is what makes it exciting. That is what makes it difficult. Certainly it is living on the knife edge. You do not know.  So did you have any difficult conversations with your wife at the time and if so how were those navigated? How did you approach them?  My wife was wonderful. There were no difficult conversations. She believed in it. She is an artist and was wonderfully supportive but she understands the need for a project and to create something. The need to create the need to have a project. And so she never once complained although we were incredibly short of money. We had grow our own vegetables and she made our clothes and she was hardworking and wonderfully supportive. There were never any difficult conversations. Even when we went to London Bank with a lawyer to sign endless guarantee forms putting the house on the line every penny we had on the line. I am very lucky.  Wow. Well I hope her sainthood is in her Wikipedia entry.  Yes.  The retail shop surveys and so on as I understand  please fact check this showed that people did not want to see their dirt this dust dog hairs et cetera. That the vacuum cleaner's bins should not be see-through. So why did you decide to design in the way that you did?  Well when we went to see the retailers to try and sell the vacuum cleaners to retailers of course most of them refused to stock it because it was strange looking. You could see the dust and who on earth is Dyson? You are not Hoover or Electrolux or a big brand. So we are not interested in you. As engineers we liked seeing the dust. It was incredibly satisfying and fun. If you push the machine around on the floor making a noise and you could see the dust collecting in the bin. If it is going into a bag you cannot see that you are doing anything. Of course I would say you are not doing much but at least you can see what you are doing. You pick up interesting things. Although dirt is disgusting it is also quite fascinating. So we thought seeing the result of your endeavors was an important part of the process but nobody else did. The retailers certainly did not want their customers to see the dirt. However one or two brave retailers did take it on. Curiously enough seeing the dirt was the very thing that customers wanted to have. They wanted that fun that excitement that satisfaction if you like. So again this is what you are really asking about is market research. Is it worth doing? Can you learn from it? The answer is not much and you certainly cannot rely on it. So again you have to back yourself. You have to back your own judgment. It is not a science. You have to believe you are right and back it and hopefully you are right more times than you are wrong.  With those few intrepid retailers who are willing to take a risk I am wondering what their risk was. Did they actually buy from you at wholesale and then stock? Did they take them on consignment or some type of other arrangement? What was the pricing of your vacuum compared to others in the stores?  Yeah that is a very interesting question. Well I will do it in pounds but the comparison works for dollars. I mean we were selling ours just under 200 pounds whereas most vacuum cleaners were at 50 pounds. So we were three to four times the price of everybody else. I think the retailers did not take it because it looked different and because we were not a brand. The one or two who did take it were mail order catalog companies. They were our first customers. They are not the most highbrow of retailers. They are quite lowbrow which is a very interesting thing actually because what I discovered and life has confirmed it since is that the richer you are the less interested you are in vacuuming. The poorer you are the more important vacuuming is to you. Probably the more house proud you are because you actually do the vacuuming. So I think there is an assumption that because the vacuum cleaner is expensive it is bought by people with money. Whilst that might be true there is also a great deal of interest by people who do not have much money and it is a very important purchase for them.  That is fascinating.  Interestingly it is recession proof. If there is a recession you stop having expensive holidays and instead you think more about your home. Of course during the pandemic that is been utterly true that if you are confined at home good filtration in your home good vacuuming is very very important.  Do you remember the terms of the deal with those retailers? Were you drop shipping? Were they taking inventory on and then giving you net 200 terms?  Well I decided in my own simplistic terms that they should put their money where their mouth is so they should buy for stock. We have never ever done consignment. Never done that. You need a retailer who believes as you believe who is backing your idea and who is putting effort and money and care into it.  So most people I think would describe Dyson or in their minds I see Dyson as a premium brand. This is in some cases probably in almost all cases an expensive relatively expensive brand. I have read a quote of yours which is and again please feel free to fact check. Cannot trust everything you read on the internet. I do not design down to a price. So I would just love to hear how you think about finding and solving problems picking your problems and then when you go into product development how you approach it if price is not one of the determining factors or a primary determining factor  Well there are people who design to a price and I absolutely see that there is probably a huge market for that and that is a perfectly valid thing to do. But I want to design something that works really well and that lasts and uses new technology and improves the performance all the time. That is what I am after. So it is not that I do not care about cost or price. I really care about cost or price but I want to incorporate the technology that makes it work well or does a job more efficiently or uses less electricity whatever it is. Often of course new technology for example we have developed new technology high-speed motors but they cost four times as much as the old motor. But they are much more efficient much lighter use less electricity and use fewer materials. So it is the future but initially they cost four times the price. We have now gotten down a bit so they are about twice the price. I am not trying to do a cheap product. I am trying to a product that works really well and advances that genre from a technology point of view.  Who are some  actually before I get to who are some  you already mentioned I think  Buckminster Fuller. For those who do not know that name you can Google buckyballs geodesic domes tensegrity. These are some terms that'ill take you down the rabbit hole of Buckminster Fuller. Who is Akio Morita? Akio Morita. What did you appreciate about him?  Well the wonderful thing about  just one story which really says a lot about him. Think of the Walkman and how that has changed everybody's life. But his company did not want to do the Walkman because it would not record. I mean up until 1982 or whatever it was a tape recorder was a tape recorder. It did recordings. Akio Morita brought out a tape recorder that did not record. It played back only. His own company thought it was completely mad but that is brilliance. That takes balls to say I am going to bring out a product that does not do what people think it is going to do but it is going to enlighten their lives. Has it enlightened their lives? It is extraordinary. I mean the iPod the iPhone MP3 players they have all come from that one idea that you want to play back.  Are there any other inventors designers engineers who stood out to you when you were sort of developing your chops or who really stand out to you currently? Maybe one and the same.  Yes. I always admired Citron. Not as Citron are now but as they used to be when they developed new technology hydropneumatic suspension with a hydraulic system that did the steering the brakes and the suspension or four-wheel suspension interconnectors suspension and an aerodynamic car. I mean they were 50 60 years ahead of the rest of the car industry. So I enormously admire them. Sony of course who developed wonderful technology. Developed the first or actually they got the lithium-ion technology from Oxford University but first commercialized and produced lithium-ion batteries so certainly have a whole string of technology developments to their name. Equally I admired Mr. Honda of Honda not because necessarily he did brilliant inventions but because he was the master of iterative improvement. He was never satisfied. He was always making maybe little changes at a time but in the end all those little changes added up to quantum leap. So at Honda  I mean a Honda lawn mower was the first lawn mower I ever had which always started first time. Even after the winter with the old petrol from the previous season left in it I could guarantee and I used to bet people that I will go over there and one pull on the cord and it will start. So I admire Honda for a slightly different reason. He makes they look like big inventions but they are not they are iterative improvements. And that is something to never forget. You must never be satisfied. Always be dissatisfied always be unhappy about your product. Keep on making it better and better sort of life of unhappiness. And then I have got Frank Whittle who developed the jet engine. And that is a great story because no one believed in him. And he wrote the theory of the jet engine in a child's exercise book when he was at Cranfield University. He was an RAF fitter actually. He used to make models. Left school when he was 15 went through got into Cranfield and then went to Cambridge. And while he was at Cambridge he got a First Class in both Triposes as well as built the world's first jet engine. And I have never seen an engineer get things right first time like he did. We have in fact got one of the very first engines he did. It is called a Welland. And I bought it off someone an enthusiast who had found it and then done it up. But it never worked very well. The fuel system did not work. And my engineers discovered that the fuel system was a Rolls Royce system not a Whittle design system. So we rebuilt the fuel system from Whittle's drawings and it worked perfectly and it works perfectly every time whereas the Rolls Royce one did not. So I have got huge huge admiration for him. I mean that was an extraordinary development. I mean turning an engine that had 12000 moving parts the Spitfire engine the air engines at the time had all these moving parts were hugely vulnerable had to have cooling and one bullet through cooling pipe and the plane has had it dives and the pilot has to bail out. So he turned it into one moving part. It is just brilliance breathtaking brilliance.  It is very elegant. Very very elegant. Now actually that is as good a segue as any. I recall the first time I used the Airblade and please forgive me if this is simplistic and please correct me if I am getting this description wrong but the air is acting like a blade almost like a squeegee on a windshield pulling the water off of your hands as opposed to trying to evaporate it. And I think everyone's had the experience of using these gas station bathroom or airport bathroom drying devices that feel like a kitten farting on your hand. I mean they do nothing so you just end up wiping it all over your hair or your clothing or something like that. How did you pick that as a product category? Was it just one of 600 that you tried within Dyson and it was the one that happened to work? Could you walk us through the process of developing the Airblade?  We were trying to use air blades which is a very sharp blade of air for another project and it was not quite good enough for  I cannot tell you what the project is it is top secret but it was not quite good enough for what we were doing. But we noticed as you ran it across your hand it rippled your skin. So we shot water on our hands and saw that it scraped as you said just like a squeegee but it is not physical it is just air just like a squeegee. So we thought Well that would make a great hand dryer. And of course we looked at hand dryers and how they work is they have a three kilowatt heater as well as a vacuum blower a vacuum cleaner motor blower. So that three and a half thousand watts very expensive to run whereas our blade was only costing us 700 watts. And what is more the thing about the hot air is it chaps your hands. It is trying to as you said evaporate the water turn the water on your hands into steam which is a very expensive process and it takes a long time. And also it leaves your hands chapped. It removes the oils from your skin as do paper towels. So we thought Well this makes a really good hand dryer. So we made a hand dryer. And it so happened that this the first application of the new technology motor we are developing. So we developed a motor that went 120000 RPM instead of the normal 30000 RPM. 120000 RPM by the way is very fast. I mean a jet engine is 15000 RPM and a Formula 1 engine is about 19000 at maximum. So we were taking electric motors from 30000 up to 120000 and in a hand dryer not a sophisticated product in a hand dryer and a vacuum cleaner. But it gave us great air flow and great pressure and pressure was important for this air blade.  Was that the first product and I simply do not know was that the first product that was sold to I do not know if this is the right term but industrial clients as opposed to end user individuals or had you already developed a sales channel for that type of product?  No not at all. We did not do a business plan. And by the way I do not think restaurant owners would like to be called industrial partners. Yes. But you are quite right. I am teasing. You are quite right. No. Yes. No you are right. It is the first time we were not selling to people at home. And I mean to be honest I do not feel very comfortable about that but I think it is a great product.  Why do not you feel comfortable with that?  Because I really want to make products for people at home that we all use at home. The good thing is that we use them in a railway station or an airport or restaurant or wherever it is so at least ordinary people people like us use it. But I am far happier when I am dealing direct with people at home.  And were the main value propositions for these industrial partners these customers whether they be airports restaurants or otherwise the energy costs and labor costs associated with the device so they could justify the higher upfront price by amortizing it over a relatively short period of time and recouping that investment? Was that the basic pitch or was there more to it?  Well that was not the basic pitch. The basic pitch was it is a very pleasant and quick way to dry your hands without the waste of paper and without the excessive heat of hot air hand dryers which are very slow anyway and ineffective. And the wonderful thing about our hand dryers is you never run out of paper. I mean how many times have you gone to try and get a paper out of a paper towel holder and it is not there? And the other thing is it is quite difficult to dry all your hands and dry under your fingernails with a towel whereas ours does that. So it is hygienic it is quick and it is reasonably pleasurable. You are not damaging your hands. You are not taking the nice oils out of your hands. And you are getting under your fingernails. And it is slightly noisy. We have got them a bit quieter now. But actually an architectural practice said they would liked the fact that it was noisy because when one of their partners went to the lavatory you could tell whether they wash their hands or not.  That is great. The lie detection device and hand dryer all in one. You never know when Harry's not going to wash his hands. You got to keep an eye out for Harry.  If he comes out from lavatory and you have not heard the noise keep away from him.  So the Airblade at least from the outside looking in seems to have been a huge success. Could you share any of your favorite failures? And these are devices that actually made it out of the shop and into the real world. Do you have any favorite failures? What I mean by that is a device that was not a commercial success but that offered many lessons or perhaps learnings that led to successes in other areas or later. Does anything come to mind?  Yes. I mean we only really had one which is our washing machine. But I do not call it a failure because I think it is a great washing machine. Our mistake was to sell it too cheaply. And we did not charge enough for it in the first place because it has two drums. It had two drums two motors a clutch and very big capacity in a normal size of washing machine so it is very expensive to make. I mean more than double the cost to make of an ordinary washing machine. But it was much better. It could take a very big load. It washed very quickly with low temperature water because it was introducing proper action. We discovered that if you tried washing with your hands in just a few minutes you could wash better than you could in a washing machine in an hour and a half or however long they take. We also discovered that cashmere shrinks because of the time it is in the water and the temperature of the water. So if you can do a low temperature wash and do it quickly and do it thoroughly it is a better washing machine. So ours was much better at washing than a conventional washing machine with its action and we should have charged a lot more for it. And this is the one and only time I have ever listened to the marketing department who said If you charge less you will sell more. Actually we charged less and sold fewer. But we were losing so much money on each one the board decided to stop it. And that was probably a mistake with hindsight. I mean we should have put the price back up and carried on with it. But it was a big project. I mean a washing machine  And we were up against people who had been making washing machines for years and years with a much lower cost base. We were starting from scratch with a high cost base. So actually much the same thinking occurred with the car at a much later date the development of our car. We ran into the same sort of problem. Different commercial issues but the same sort of problem. As a startup in that business our costs were so much higher than an incumbent than the existing competitors. So I think as a  I mean I am still using them. And everybody who bought one thinks it is a much better washing machine. It is very disappointing we stopped making it. But we lost a lot of money on it and it was a commercial failure but I think an engineering success.  Now in the case of N526 the electric car going into it I would imagine you were aware that compared to incumbents who had the infrastructure in place distribution channels et cetera that you would be fighting an uphill battle with respect to costs and many other things per unit prices et cetera. Why did you decide to pursue it?  Yeah. That is a very good question. Going back to 2013 2014 when we started only Tesla was bothering to produce electric cars and they were in the very early phase. The rest of the industry was taking no notice and all the projections by the industry and by commentators were that by 2030 only three percent of global cars would be electric so no one was bothering to change and the incumbents had heavily committed to diesel and petrol engines and existing technology. So we thought Well we are starting from scratch. We are not committed to anything. We can do what we like rather as Tesla has done. And we have got a lot of very very clever and intelligent motor engineers. We are developing new technology batteries. We do a lot with air treatment taking out pollution heating it and cooling it. And that is really what a car is. It is an electric motor it is batteries and you have got to do a lot with air very efficiently because you have only got battery power so you do not want to waste your battery on heating or cooling the car. So we thought we were quite well-placed to do a car although we would never done one before and no other manufacturers were being interested in it. We knew that batteries were far more expensive. Batteries plus electric motors plus the electronics to control the electric motors and the battery management system is far more expensive than an internal combustion engine as Tesla has proved actually. Even with relatively small battery packs a Tesla is a very expensive car to make. However we saw that the lack of interest from the incumbents the rest of the motor industry gave us an opportunity as which indeed Tesla has taken advantage of. And we thought that we could do one that was at the top end. Quite what the top end was we did not know back in 2014. All that changed with Dieselgate. When Dieselgate happened in 2016 2017 and those people making large quantities of diesel engines got into real trouble the way out of the trouble from a PR point of view and I suppose by that stage they saw which way the wind was blowing but they had to get into electric vehicles fast. So they had to spend a lot of money completely turn their business around upside down and produce electric vehicles. And that is fine. That meant we would have had competition. We were not particularly worried. Well of course one is always worried about competition. But we thought there would still be space for us. But what was happening was that the electrical vehicles they were producing they were producing at a loss and they are not happy to do that. They were able to do that because they were selling  across their fleet they have to have certain NOx and SOx emissions. So if they had an electric car one end producing none they could produce gas-guzzling big SUVs at the other end on which they make a lot of money. But overall they were able to do that without having to buy carbon credits. So I could see that we were going to have to compete against people who were making electric cars at a loss. And I do not want to get into Tesla too much but Tesla earns quite a lot by selling its carbon credits to other car manufacturers and they have well-heeled investors. They have been through 25 billion. I do not have 25 billion. I am privately financed. I have to make the money I spend on product development. I cannot take that sort of risk. So by about 2018 2019 when we stopped it it became apparent that it just simply would not work commercially. Plus the fact that our costs coming back to that point I made earlier about the washing machine our costs to make a car even without the complications of the battery management system batteries and so on would be 50 percent higher than a BMW or Mercedes car or Volkswagen car production costs. So it was just too risky for us. We would have to charge Aston Martin style prices for a very good car with a 600 mile range and quite a big car as well with good off-road capability. But it was just too much of a risk.  Are there any features of the car that you are particularly proud of or that you would hope to see in the world someday at scale?  Yes. I mean curiously I was a friend of Alex Moulton who did the first small wheel bicycle with suspension. You know what I mean?  I do not know what you mean. If you would not mind.  He developed the Mini with Alec Issigonis. And one of the principles of the Mini was it had very small wheels. And the advantage of small wheels is that they do not create a big wheel arch inside the car so you can make a very small car where the wheel arches do not protrude much into the car so there is room for four big adults. And he carried on  but you have to pump the tires up harder because the wheel is very small. So he then developed a very small wheeled bicycle called the Moulton bicycle which had very small wheels and you have to pump the tires up incredibly hard. But to overcome the harshness of the ride he put suspension on it rubber suspension on it. He was also the person who developed the suspension for the Mini. And I knew all about that and he was a friend of mine. And I actually took the opposite view that the car should have huge wheels. And the reason for that is that a large wheel has less motion resistance and so it is much more efficient. And efficiency for an electric car is all important. So the ability to move along and have the least resistance is what you want. So I discovered the biggest wheel that you could make where you could replace the tire at a tire depot because obviously you cannot do a wheel where you cannot replace the tire at a tire depot. I discovered what that was. So our car had huge wheels. I mean they are nearly a meter in diameter. They are huge. And that was to reduce the motion resistance. But actually it gave a lot of unexpected benefits. So it was better at road holding. It was a more comfortable car because of it. Relative to the size of the hub the center of the wheel you could actually have quite a big tire which made it comfortable. And because it had a relatively narrow aspect ratio it was better in snow and mud. A fat tire is very slippery in snow and mud whereas a thin one has much more grit and is less likely to aquaplane. And when it came to developing the suspension and the road holding it also turned out to be excellent as well. We had to develop a special tire for it. And again I mean we were very ambitious. We developed our own chassis. And if you know anything about making cars the most expensive and important part of a car is the chassis. And we looked around to see if there was any car company's chassis that we could buy but none of them fitted with our big wheels and spacing apart our big wheels putting them on the four corners of the vehicle. There was not a chassis like that so we had to develop our own chassis. That was a development cost. I did not mind that. But I mean Tesla for example did not develop their own chassis. They went and bought a Lotus one. And in fact Lotus built their first chassis basic car initially. But we decided not to do that. I did pile on the cost of it but I think it made ultimately a better car.  I want to come back to privately held. Privately held company. This makes what you do and what you have done all the more interesting and impressive to me. I am much more familiar with the venture-backed startup ecosystem and the roadmap for such a company that involves raising in some cases as you mentioned billions of dollars of funding sometimes tens of billions then going public and so on and so forth. Have you ever been tempted to become anything other than privately held?  Well when I did the Ballbarrow company I borrowed money. And then because I could not pay it back I got some investors in. So I became a company I only had 30 percent of the shares so there were other directors and I found that an uncomfortable position. So when I started the vacuum cleaner company I did go out to venture capitalists they were called then. I mean it would now be called private equity. But they were called venture capitalists. And I discovered that I was completely useless at raising money. So I hugely admire people who can go to these people and raise money. I was hopeless at it. None of them would back me. And it was during the early '90s during the big  there was a really big there was a really big recession in the early '90s in many ways much bigger recession than the 2008 recession And the banks were repossessing houses left right and center I mean it was really a terrible crash. So I had not really approached the clearing bank which is my normal way of borrowing money.  What is a clearing bank? I apologize.  A clearing bank is a we call them High Street bank so it is banks that lend to consumers predominantly so the one you would find in a street where you can go and deposit money and hopefully take some money out. If They have got any left so in desperation I went to the bank that I banked with and at first they said no because I wanted to borrow about 400000 pounds which is called a lot of money back in the early '90s. And my bank manager then appealed to the ombudsman within the head office of the bank and he managed to persuade them to lend me the money I had to put up the house a security but this is a time when they did not want houses as security because they got themselves very unpopular for chucking people out of houses and they had huge number of houses on their books. In fact my particular bank became the estate agent in order to try and sell off the houses that it had. So I was absolutely shocked and stunned when they agreed to lend me the money when I cleared the debt and the relationship was on a more even basis for the bank. I did ask the bank manager why he lent me the money and he said Well I went home and asked my wife what she thought of a vacuum cleaner without a bag? And she said I hate bags. And he said I saw that you fought a very long lawsuit in the United States I could see you had determination so those were the arguments I used within the bank. So it was actually really encouraging I mean it is a good bank story there were very few good bank stories and this is one of them.  Why did you find it uncomfortable to take on investors and end up with 30 percent of the company? What about that made you uncomfortable?  I did not think it would make me uncomfortable but it did and the reason it made me uncomfortable is that you are if someone else has put money in and if someone else has shares you have to listen to them. And I felt I had to listen to them so you are not actually running the company you are sharing the running of the company and a lot of decisions will be decisions that they want quite rightly because they have put a lot of money into it. And so you spend a lot of time wondering about whether this latest idea you have they will approve of and you have to and get their permission and it has to be done through the auspices of a board meeting. I have done that I was a director of a public company selling the high-speed landing craft that engineering company. Then I had my own company I had a 30 percent share in it and then finally I was in a position where I could have my own company and make my own decisions. And during the time that I would been developing your technology before I decided to go to manufacture and commercialize the invention in the early '90s. I actually discovered I liked relying on myself rather than having to be collegiate and share decisions with somebody else because it was all down to me and so the whole risk was mine and I would evaluate the risk myself and work it out myself And I just found that a much easier way for me to work. I am not like that now I hasten to add I have matured a bit and now we do run the company on the collegiate basis but in the beginning it was really important and crucial to me that all the decisions I was making on the fly all the decisions I making I was making for me because I thought it was the right thing to do. And that is quite a good way to approach things anyway I think. You know I hated being part of a public company which I was in my first job so I knew what that was like and the shareholders are always out of tune with what is actually happening in the company not through any fault of their own but they cannot see into the future like we could as employees of the company.  Meaning you had to at least I am more familiar with the US but you were captive to the quarter by quarter expectations of shareholders who could not  did not  have transparency into the five or 10-year plans of the company itself is that what you mean?  Pretty much that I mean that there is no reason why they should believe the gleam in our eye or the new technology new product we are developing. They they look at what you are like at the moment who you are and what you are like at the moment and what you are talking about in the future but it always seemed to be out of kilter when we were doing well the share price was down and the share price was up we were doing badly and it just seemed to be out of kilter. And again you are not on your own you are not making decisions because you believe they are the right decisions you are making them for sometimes other reasons. What it looks like transparently or whatever or what shareholders might think of it is just much better to be one track minded and just thinking entirely about the product. Cause we develop and make products that is what we do in a sense it is a very simple thing that we do and that is the product that is important it is not who I am or what the company is or what it looks like that is important is the product is the product going to excite people and do the job properly and last a long time. I mean that is what that is what matters. That is all that matters actually it is not completely true because of course employees matter enthusing employees matter and looking after employees all that matters but for all of us who are working here what really matters is that our product works in the marketplace.  I would imagine also happy motivated employees and so on talented employees are in a sense a by-product of good products and then they further helped to create good products in the sense that a lot of these things cascade down from a product focus. And you have had a tremendous just a tremendous run and certainly you have many more things ahead of you. How did you decide to commit your energies to your new book  A Life? This is certainly a commitment of time and energy. How did you decide to focus your energies at least in part on that?  Partly because I think I just wish there were more engineers I just wish that more young people would find engineering fascinating interesting and worthwhile. And I think it is particularly true now because everybody's talking about global warming everybody's talking about using the fewer resources recyclability and all these sort of things using less energy and less water and it is engineers that can make that happen. It is engineers that can make the world a clean world a world using less energy a world using fewer resources and a world recycling things. Engineers and scientists can solve those problems but the pity is that that schoolchildren and even people at university do not realize that people would rather talk about it and do something about it and I think that is a great shame. So I do think that a lot of people think engineering is hard and difficult that science is hard and difficult and of course perhaps it is but it is also very creative and people do not see that either. So if I could somehow show through the book that a stupid person like me a person who is not academic successful and is not brilliant at all through really caring about products caring about technology caring about engineering can produce products that save energy that use fewer resources and that work better hopefully to achieve what young people want to achieve now. Young people want these things they want cures for horrible diseases like Alzheimer's and cancer they want products that use less energy that generate electricity in a clever way. If I could show that I as a simple person not having done classics at school could turn my hand to doing some of those things that maybe other people would think that engineering was not this difficult hard thing that seemed impossible. You see when you look at something like the Walkman or an iPhone or to some extent Dyson vacuum cleaner it is inaccessible to young people and products are becoming more and more inaccessible. I mean as a school child you look at an iPhone or any piece of clever technology a jet engine or whatever it is. You do not know how it works and you do not believe that you could ever design one of those or design a better one but actually you can you really can and that is what I wanted this book to try and show that it is young people who will solve today's and tomorrow's problems. And we can solve them by the way without having to make life miserable for us and that it is not just the few people who want it who are attracted to engineering who can do it many more of us can do it if we can be motivated to do so and if we can overcome this feeling that it is impossible and that we do not understand it. There is almost an inverse snobbery about technology there is almost a pride that I do not know how to hang a picture or mend a car whatever it is it is almost a mark of intellectual superiority. Whereas I think the obvious think it is a mark of lack of intellectual curiosity not to be able to take something to bits and mend it or not be able to mend a washing machine or dishwasher or whatever it is. I think it is a shame that you are not interested in solving that problem and repairing it. So that is really what the book is about and the timing is because we I have been bemoaning the lack of engineers for many years and continuously going to the government saying we are not producing enough engineers we are not producing until finally the minister in charge of education said Well start your own university stop complaining and start your own university. And he was bringing through a bill through the Houses of Parliament which allowed anyone not anyone but someone who was able to and with the necessary resources and so on to start their own university. So I took on the challenge of starting our own university and the reason I did it was that we almost exclusively recruit graduates at Dyson and that is what I have always done because I believe in recruiting people with enthusiasm lack of knowledge lack of experience people who are not afraid to make mistakes not afraid to try a new path. So we have been recruiting all these graduates over many years why not recruit undergraduates? And I only did it because well because of that because we have a very young corpus anyway but also because we cover a very broad field of engineering. I mean everything from mechanical engineering right through to software and robotics and artificial intelligence. So we have a huge number of disciplines here and I would not have done it if we had a very narrow field but because I feel that is so broad I felt we could offer the students a good experience.  Just for clarity this is the Dyson Institute of Engineering and Technology?  Yes which has by the way just got university status so will shortly be calling ourselves a university we have won university status. I was also horrified actually the amount of monies young people have to borrow in order to go to university for living expenses and the fees they have to pay. So at the very point in their life when they want to get married and buy a car buy a house and live normally they are saddled with this huge debt so I could see that that our students I would pay them. I would pay for their education they would work for me for part of the time and they would have the excitement of practicing what they are learning in theory and learning from what I think of the best scientists in the world best engineers in the world at Dyson. So they would they would have wonderful mentors wonderful hands but not academic lectures at university they would have hands-on battery development scientists electric motors scientists software people artificial intelligence and robotics people all these people are here and they can talk to them and learn from them and experience all those fields and decide in a much more knowledge what they want to do. And in fact half of them are becoming software engineers because you know the world needs so many software engineers and they find software fascinating and the others want to do mechanical engineering or electrical engineering. So it is actually been a very happy experiment I have thoroughly enjoyed it and I think the students have as well. But so the timing of the book is because sorry this is a really long story. It is our first year it is a four year course and our first year has just graduated and the graduation ceremony will be in September so I wanted the book to come out at that time. And the theme of the book is really that you do not have to be an expert and in fact experts are often unhelpful. You have to have enthusiasm curiosity a thirst for knowledge and determination. And those are the things that will solve all the world's problems.  Well I am very excited on multiple fronts to see what you what the university what this book does and as you just said I think it will foster all of those things you just mentioned including the book will foster more engineers who will encourage more people to embrace engineering but above and beyond that it will help people through your stories through your lessons learned through the principles reflected in the book to think like an engineer and to become more curious ask better questions even if they do not have even if they will never have any formal engineering training. That is certainly true for me I did not study classics but I majored in East Asian studies which has about as much application to engineering as would classics and still in the process of preparing for this conversation and reading more about you looking at the book was struck by just how cross-disciplinary and how adaptable many of the principles are in the book to include and not exclude also those people who might look at themselves as hopeless liberal arts majors or something along those lines so I am excited.  I always think that the best questions are naive questions which is why I love employing students well graduates and students because they start you off on a different train because the trouble with experience is how to do things. Well I mean you know how to do some things and experience is a baggage that can get in the way and what you need is someone saying why why is it like that? Why do you have to do it like that? And it stops you dead in your tracks and you so it forces you to not follow the path that everybody else follows and students and graduates have no fear of pioneering. They have got nothing to lose and one thing I hope that we encourage here is that failure is not not a failure. If you have gone doing the same thing and making the same mistake that is not a good idea that you are failing once or twice trying to do one thing is okay nothing wrong with that we all learn from that. And I you know I do not think they teach that enough at school or at university for that matter. I mean at Cambridge for example they did not have a machine shop and an assembly shop where the students could do their own projects. They did not have that it was all theoretical and actually we gave Cambridge to some money and to build a workshop so that the students could build their ideas and through building things and using your hands actually building your prototypes I mean our engineers at Dyson build their own prototypes They build their own test rigs. And it is through that building of the test rig and the prototype you do not give it to someone else to build to an assistant to build you go and build it yourself. And it is through the building of the prototype and the testing it yourself that of course you see you experienced the failure but you learn how you might change it and improve it. And that is that is what I saw you see through my 5127 prototypes each prototype I built myself and tested myself and it was through that total involvement that my brain started to think how do I solve that problem? How do I solve that problem? And funnily enough it is the actual making it with your own hands is terribly important. And we were given the hands and a brain and you should use both at the same time what is wrong with that? Using your hands is not a lowly activity it is useful man's always done it.  Yes I cannot recall the exact expression but how our tools shape us and that is only true or I suppose it is always true but it means that perhaps you should use the tool other than a keyboard sometimes.  Yes very much so very much so. But we are all slaves to it are not we?  I am extremely excited about the book everyone again the book is Invention subtitle A Life. And I have one more question before we go before we wrap up this first conversation and sometimes this question is a dead end and I will take the blame for that if it is but I like to ask it nonetheless and that is. If you had a billboard metaphorically speaking on which you could put any quote could be yours someone else's any phrase word image question anything at all to impart a message to many people what might you put on that billboard?  I would probably put two messages  There is nothing wrong in always being dissatisfied always look for improvement.  Drop your fear of failure do not be afraid of failure. So am I allowed two billboards?  You are allowed two billboards.  I hope we have not gone down a dead end god forbid that we go down a dead end.  I guess that would be on theme we could have just asked another question I could have changed that question and asked it again and iterated but we happened to get it right the first time like the like the jet engine which is an incredible story I would never heard that before. And what an enjoyable conversation I really appreciate you taking the time today thank you very much.  They were really good questions enjoyable questions.  And perhaps someday we will get to see you in person across the pond but in the meantime I wish you tremendous luck with everything that you are engaged with which is a lot including the launch of the book everyone should check it out Invention subtitle A Life. Sir James Dyson thank you again for taking the time and being so thoughtful in your answers I really think people will benefit from this and to everyone listening we will have show notes with links to all resources all people everything mentioned in this episode as usual at tim.blogpodcast and until next time get your hands dirty experiment often ask why why why? And thank you for tuning in.   