 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs this is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show. I am going to keep my usual preamble short. I want to get to the meat and potatoes of this conversation with Steven Rinella Instagram meateater stevenrinella. He is the host of the Netflix original series MeatEater and the MeatEater Podcast. He is also the author of seven books dealing with wildlife conservation hunting fishing and wild foods including The MeatEater Guide to Wilderness Survival which is his newest and you can find it now. On the web you can find all things Steven Rinella at themeateater.com and then on Facebook he is Steven Rinella that is with a V Steven Rinella R-I-N-E-L-L-A MeatEater. Steve welcome back to the show.  Thank you for having me on. I appreciate it man.  I have so many questions for you in part because you are not just an expert in survival wilderness skills but you actually practice and showcase this on a regular basis. You are not describing in your books or on television some type of fetishized romanticized version of survival which I think is highly highly common these days. Perhaps we could start with just survival fantasy versus survival reality and I will leave it broad on purpose. But where should we start in terms of discussing the common misconceptions of survival or portrayals of survival versus the realities?  Yeah I think you set it up as sort of a dichotomy or two mindsets. One is the impulse to run away from the woods that it is this bad place that you found yourself stuck in and you need to get out as quickly as possible before something terrible happens to you. The other is and it is sort of my mindset and it kind of captures the ethos of our new book is that it is a place worth running toward. The outdoors nature wilderness is a place we want to be. It is fun to be there. And a few skillset and knowledge base helps you do it fairly risk-free or at least having a good sense of what the actual risks are do it safely risk-free enjoy it for you enjoy it for your family. You might imagine like a lot of survival materials like you said it is like this fantasy thing. There is this fixation on drinking your piss which is really reallyit is nonsense. It does not do you any good to drink your own urine. And these cockamamie ways in which you would kill large animals that would never in a million years work unless you trained and studied those approaches every day for your entire life which you would be prevented from doing because of the regulatory structures that govern such practices. It is just hogwash. And then there is people who through passion through professional discipline through wanderlust want to be out in the woods. They want to be up in the mountains. They want to be smart. They want to be able to stay a long time. That is the information I try to provide and that is the people I want to speak to.  Let us just jump into some of the recommendations that you might have and we can weave to this in a more indirect fashion. But as we were discussing possible points to touch upon in our conversation before hitting record you mentioned a number of things. You mentioned technology and how you can buy your way out of trouble relatively easily in certain respects. You referred to something known as paradoxical undressing which aside from being the name of my forthcoming memoir is unbeknownst to me. We talked about odds in other words perceived threats versus real threats and much more. Let us begin just because  Yeah that when I think of the threats that are fun to think about that are exciting to think about and the ones that are just the real that no one likes to think about.  The first blood threats like carry a serrated machete into the wilderness versus other. Let us begin with paradoxical undressing. What is paradoxical undressing just to scratch my own itch because it is stuck in my head?  Yeah. I first wrote about and got to thinking about hypothermia. I have come up close to feeling like Oh wow. I am in the initial stages of hypothermia. I have had that happen to me a few times one time in a very pronounced way. It was being in a river in Alaska in October with a dry suit on that had a ruptured seam and my dry suit was full of water. And some of the things that happened and it was kind of this over the course of 45 minutes to an hour intense thirst just this intense desire to quench my thirst and being disoriented realizing that I was very cold realizing that I did not have the ambition to remedy that situation trying to talk myself into doing the things that would be required to get warm again. And then oddly the sensation that the cold had passed though there was no plausible explanation for why I would all of a sudden not be cold anymore. And in researching this I got to reading a fair bit about hypothermia. And in addition to some interesting things like the number one state for hypothermia deaths is Alaska. Number three is New Mexico which caught me by surprise. Number two I think bounces between Wyoming and Montana but then jumps down south to New Mexico which many people have in their head as being a plenty warm place.  That is surprising.  In terms of the paradoxical undressing as you are getting cold your body starts to restrict blood flow to your extremities. The blood vessels constrict. That is why you might notice it as you are getting cold your fingers turn white right? Your toes get cold your fingers will turn white. Your body does not want to be pushing all that blood out to places where it is getting cooled. I want to add in a thing here to talk about a lot of animals use the movement of blood into thin parts of the body as a way to shed heat. If you look at an African elephant an African elephant has these giant ears right? Compare that to a woolly mammoth an Ice Age animal the woolly mammoth very small ears. Woolly mammoths lived in these very cold climates. They did not want to have that blood out in their ears because the heat gets sapped out of it. An African elephant a very hot place puts a lot of blood into its ears to try to cool that blood off. It is like running it into a radiator so to speak. Your body is thinking the same way in as much as we can call it your body thinking where your body does not want to send blood out to the extremities where it is getting cold. It tries to keep things in your core and keep your internal organs warm. That requires a lot of energy. There this thing that happens to hypothermia victims where they will find someone who is died of exposure died of hypothermia and their clothes will be laying all around them. Because it requires all that energy to constrict the blood vessels eventually they tire. You run out of the energy to restrain it. And all of a sudden your body allows all that blood back out into those places because it is difficult to keep it in as your energy fades. That hot blood goes out to your cold fingers and goes out towards your skin and gives you this sensation of burning up. Some people paradoxically undress to the point where they start discarding jewelry. You will find victims of hypothermia with a shoe and a sock off a wedding ring off clothes scattered about but then lying there dead. The paradoxical undressing so it starts to make sense is it is like you are dying of being cold but you are discarding your clothing. It is kind of like  Spooky.  Dude yeah it is just such an unnerving thought. I think too when I think of people dying of exposure it was not too long ago not far from where I am right now where an ice fishermen fell through the ice. And just speaking of spooky scenes an ice fishermen falls through the ice and there is no snow on the ice. And imagine how slick wet ice is like? Imagine trying to pick an ice cube out of a drink right? When ice is wet what it is like to hold on to. You try to squeeze it it just pops out of your hand. There is no snow on the ice and he goes through the ice. And because he is punched through the ice and he is splashing around water is getting up on the ice so there is nothing to grab onto. You had mentioned you can buy your way out of a lot of bad situations through preparation but they make a device for this these little ice picks you just wear around your neck. He does not have a set of these. Someone finds him a couple of days later frozen to death up to his armpits in a hole in the ice with one of his boots laid up on the ice just perched there. Dying of cold man is a real thing. Dying of exposure is a real thing and just the mental images that come up from it are kind of more ghastly than some of the more fantastical ways that we imagine ourselves getting injured in the woods being like fixated on grizzly bears and mountain lions and such.  Let us talk about exposure for a second. I remember I was told many years ago and this I am sure it is just a convenient mnemonic device but someone said to me you can go three weeks without food three days without water three hours without some type of protection in really extreme conditions environmentally speaking right or something like that.  That threes thing I have heard it described in various ways. Yeah three weeks' food three days' water and then it will be three whatever without air say. But yeah no I am familiar with the thing and I have heard it used a handful of ways.  What are some of the ways that you can buy your way into some margin of safety? Maybe you do not eliminate risk entirely but what are some of the easy purchases that would go into a basic kit of some type. It does not have to be even basic but just some of the specific purchases that are easy ways to remove a lot or mitigate a lot of risks? Like you mentioned the ice picks that hang around the neck for someone who is doing a lot on ice right?  Yeah so those ice picks are common fornot common. They should be way more common among ice fishermen but ice fishermen are the ones who use them. They are generally manufactured by companies that make fishing equipment if that speaks to who it is. But it is like these littleimagine an ice pick inside a retractable sleeve so there is nothing sharp sticking out. But the minute you jab it down the sleeve retracts on a spring and the ice pick goes into the ground or into the ice. It is like  It is like an EpiPen for getting out of the ice.  Yeah exactly. And you can be on the slickest ice in the world ice you could never stand up on. You can take the slickest slice in the world put water on it lay down take that pick and just drag yourself all over the place with that pick. When I was mentioning to you just in private conversation earlier I was mentioning to you buying your way out I am reminded of a thing thatI do not know if you are familiar with John McPhee who wrote that Pulitzer Prize-winning trilogy  Coming into the Country.  No no. His geology his geology.  Oh yeah.  He wrote this Pulitzer Prize trilogy. It came out and it was like Basin and Range whatever. It is Annals of the Former World. It is three massive books all combined together in the Annals of the Former World. And I remember that within Annals of the Former World John McPhee says If I was going to sum this book up in one sentence it would be that I am trying to capture what he says withoutthis is not an exact quote. But he says If I was going to sum this book up in one sentence it would be that the peak of Mount Everest is marine limestone. If I was going to sum up the Wilderness Skills and Survival book that we just finished I would say onX inReach and I will tell you what these two things are. onX is a mapping service. There are many. I like onX. And just for full clarity I also work closely with the folks at onX. Bear that in mind but let me continue. There is a reason I do that. It is a mapping device that you use on your phone and there are other ones there is like Gaia and a handful of other ones. I am not sure if Google Earth has download function quite like onX does but it is a mapping service that you can download maps on your phone. You can download aerial imagery topographical maps and hybrid maps. It is aerial imagery with topographical line overlays. And you can download maps of areas you are going to that are highly detailed that are five miles wide and then 10 miles wide. And in lower detail lower resolution maps that are 100 miles wide. What it does is your phone has a built-in GPS function that does not require a cell signal. If you are using an iPhone and you are going to some area for whatever reason. You are going there for work you are going there for pleasure you are going backcountry skiing you are going on a hike with your family in Yellowstone National Park you are whatever. Whatever you are doing. You are on a rafting trip. You are doing an afternoon hike into a little area you have never been into before. You can go online and download a map. And then even when you have no cell signal all you need to do is turn on your phone put it on airplane mode. You now have two or three days' worth of battery because you are on airplane mode. And there is a blue dot that shows you where you are. When you aim your phone in any direction and hit a button it shows you what direction your phone is pointing relative to your map. At any time you should be ableif you take the early pre-game preparation the idea of getting lost is almost becoming an obsolete notion or you have to almost self-select to be lost by not taking preparations. Of course things can happen to phones. People lose phones they drop them in water. All this kind of stuff has happened but  They destroy them in a puddle of mosquito repellent as I saw you do once!  You can destroy it in a pool of DEET! That is why I was saying onX inReach because there is also a device that is I do not know a third the size of a phone called an inReach device. Some people call them spot devices or inReach devices. And what it is is it allows you to send text messages through satellite. You can take an inReach device and no matter where you are on the face of the Earth if you have a line of sight to the sky you can save addresses in your inReach. You can take your inReach and set it so that it is sending preprogrammed messages every day saying you could type your message ahead of time you hit a button it sends a message says I am okay. But you can also hold down a button that says SOS. And it is satellite-driven and the batteries last for days. So when talking about buying your way out if you are the kind of person who takes preparation seriously there are steps you can take that really reduce a lot of the risks. There are still things that can happen to you right? You can stilland I joked about it earlier but yeah man you could get mauled by a bear. The bear does not give a shit about the fact that you have any of these technological devices. But if you are still able to crawl around it is pretty nice to be able to hold a button down and get help. And so these are all things that I spent a great deal of time on in the book because it is not trying to treat survival like you have survived a plane crash and you have a large Bowie knife and you are stuck on an Island. It is like it does not start with that mentality. It starts with the mentality it starts with the reality that the vast majority of trouble that people get in outdoors is somewhat willful. We do things we go places. We take drives during inclement weather. We decide to go on a route through the hills when we are driving that we have never been on and we do not know the road conditions and your car gets stuck. And then you wait there two days and no one comes and you are like Screw this. I am walking out of here. But you do not quite know what to do or your car is not loaded properly. That is how people get in trouble. It is not shipwrecks and plane crashes though those things do happen but pondering those and fantasizing about those throws off people's ability to actually think and behave properly. And these little technological preparations are just things you can do that just make you breathe easy and allow you to go into wild places and do what it was that you intended to do just to be successful and be impactful and pursue whatever goals you have whether it is finding a mushroom or bagging a peak without feeling as though you have entered a survival situation.  I just want to comment on a few things that you have said. Number one totally sort of unbeknownst to me or I should say rather I had no pre-existing awareness that you used onX Hunt. I also ended up using onX and have for the last five months. And I should just mention to people that if you search for it on the App Store I think it will show up as onX Hunt. The hunting certainly is one application but it is not a requirement.  My realtor uses onX.  Yeah yeah. Okay so this is related to my point. I was exploring the wilderness in New England during COVID lockdown and I wanted to know a number of things. I wanted to be able to track my own movement so that I could retrace my steps which onX allows you to do. I wanted the offline maps which you mentioned. I also wanted the ability to know where property boundaries were so that I would not end up wandering right up to somebody's house or into someone's property that would get me into trouble so I was able to overlay the property information which is just fascinating. I have never quite experienced anything like it. So onX I will second that. And then the inReach I am not sure if more brands make it but I used a Garmin inReach when I was in South America at one point. The pre-programming with the texts is I think a key step pre-departure because they can be a little unwieldy for actually typing out messages. If you are in an SOS situation you want to have your contacts and messages pre-programmed.  Let me give you some hot tips about that when you are done here.  Yeah fire away. I am done.  Oh. There is an iPhone app calledI am going to give you the right name so I am actually looking for it on my phone right now. There is an iPhone app called Garmin Earthmate and Garmin Earthmate pairs with your inReach device over Bluetooth.  Oh God this is the solution that I did not know I needed.  Man you just have at it man. There is an important thing to remember though hereyeah no then you just have at it then you are just you are just flying.  Then you can send out novellas.  Dude yeah I think there is a limit. It is more than a Twitter message but then you got to go to number two. But the other thing to keep in mind when you are using it you are using satellite. You can text someone who has cell service. Someone with cell service can text you at your inReach number. But if you are in a remote area using your inReach address trying to contact say your buddy who is two miles away at camp you need to know their inReach address. Let us say I go to text my wife and I know that she is at home and has cell service. I can text her directly to her number that she can then reply but she is replying to my inReach number which is independent from my normal phone number. A lot of people mess this up. Because let us say you go down to South America no one's got cell service. If you do not communicate with your travel mates like Hey man what is your crazy-ass sounding inReach address? you cannot send each other messages. So you have to build an address book ahead of time or else you are in a situation of texting someone back in the US who has cell service and they are texting aroundwe were doing this the other day. I could see a person and I am trying to send them an inReach message but instead I am inReaching his wife. Does sheif she canand she is like Well is everybody okay? I am like Yeah I am looking at your husband. He is fine. I just want to send him a message. So you have got to do a little bit oftake five minutes and make sure that everybody is communicating everybody's inReach address.  In the process of separating more fact from fiction or really just pointing out essentials versus nonessentials as you mentioned little things can be really costly. Right? And a lot of the mistakes that end up in disaster are not of the outdoor thriller action movie variety. They would make the most boring television show in the world right? It is like Oh shit I forgot the batteries in my headlamp. And then I die right? Or something stupid.  Yeah.  What are some of the essentials that you routinely use that listeners may not find obvious or may not grok the subtleties of? You mentioned the Bowie knife. I think a lot of unseasoned outdoors men or women are inclined to get these big honking jump off a ravine and kill a grizzly in an action movie knives as one example. But what are some of the essential pieces of gear that you would have in your kit?  Yeah. I would like to talk for a minute just about the kit which is something I spend a lot of time in the book explaining how to assemble and how to make it adaptable and versatile. To get a sensea somewhat widely available product there is a thing called an OR Backcountry organizer. And there is avarious companies make different ones that are in various heavy-duty fabrics. But I have long been a fan of a thing called the OR Backcountry organizer. It would be like a slightly flattened pretty big coffee mug size okay.  Okay.  It is this little bag and it is got a bunch of zippered pouches in it. And me the folks I hang out with we all have a kit that wewe call it a kit it is your essentials and a lot of us assemble ours in one of these little bags. I put that thingI take it virtually everywhere I go. I do not mean to my office but if myfor instance we go to Baja every year for winter vacation to go spearfishing and just messing around spending family time together. I always pack it because in it I have all the things that I know I might need regardless of the situation. If I had a kit and I go on a day hike if I am just going for an hour hike up a hill with the dog and the kids I bring my kit. Now when I say my kit I would say a survival kit I would say it is a first aid kit but it is all of those things and more. In it I keep several single sized ibuprofen tablets acetaminophen tablets Benadryl okay various medications. I have one or two things of DayQuil and NyQuil in there. Antihistamine things single serving packs very very small. In there I also keep two 25-foot length Dyneema cords that are very thin they are three or four mil cords that I keep in there.  Dyneema cords are like very thin paracord?  Yeah it is a souped-up strong lightweight paracord. There is nothing wrong with paracord paracord 660 cord 600 pound cord. Stuff is great man. I use it all the time. But for my things I like to keep it very small as small as possible I use that stuff. I keep a small thing of dental floss and taped to it is a heavy-duty needle that can be used to sew up clothing and stuff. I keep that in there at all times. I have a small sharpener there is a small knife in there. There is a small backup headlamp in there that is about the size of the end of your thumb. That burns on a coin battery and has a retractable little head strap. I also put my primary flashlight in there as well. I have a basic first aid kit assembled inside a plastic envelope. That includes a variety of bandages alcohol swabs antibiotic ointment a very small tourniquet other items like that. I keep a chew tin a tobacco tin full of cotton balls that have been thoroughly rubbed in with petroleum jelly or Vaseline which are phenomenal firestarters. The reason I use Vaseline rubbed into cotton balls stuffed inside a chew tin is because one Vaseline is also helpful for chapped lips chafed skin. It can be helpful for alleviating pain from blisters. The primary reason is that the TSA agents at the airportI travel a lot. They will pull fire starting devices like incendiary devices or not incendiary. What is the word I am looking for Tim? Like accelerants fire accelerants.  Accelerants yeah.  They will pull accelerants from your bag and fine you. There is no problem with having some Vaseline in your bag.  Right.  Now a cotton ball rubbed with Vaseline burns. It is a great fire starter it can get wet it does not mess it up. And TSA guys never steal it so it is just always in your bag. I keep a small multi-tool. I have a multi-tool that allows for a certain bit adapter. So I am able to keep some basic screwdriver bits that fit various things that I own and use in there. I hunt a lot so I have archery stuff firearm stuff little screws and bits that I like to have on hand. I keep those in my organizer and it is filled out like that. Two small lighters tape med tape. When I say that it is adaptableso let us say I am spending some time up in Southeast Alaska. There are places in Southeast Alaska that get 13 feet of precipitation annually okay? Where I am right now gets 20 inches of precipitation annually.  Yeah let me just put this in perspective for folks. So yesterday I was looking at historic ski reports and precipitation for Taos New Mexico. This is a place famous for skiing and I was looking at end of November to mid December. And it was an average of something like 0.8 to one and a half ski days per week. That is not a lot of snow and this is a place that ultimately is well-known for skiing. So then you imagine the amount of precipitation you are describing. That is a fuckton of precipitation.  Yeah oftentimeshere's a survival trope is that you are going to be in an environment like this and fashion a fire drill a little fire bow and start a fire. Or that you are going to take a flint and steel and start a fire or you are going to take a hatchet and a rock and start a fire. There are people on the planet including the native Alaskans who lived in that place and grew up there feeling as though they had excellent equipment. And they used equipment that their grandfathers had used and their fathers and mothers before them. And it was just a part of life and they knew how to use it all right? There are people on the planet who can do that but I am going to say though I am talking to you I am talking to the collective you out there. You are not going to go to a place that gets 13 feet of rain a year and start a fire. Just the 99.9 of you are not going to go there and start a fire using anything other than matches or a lighter. You are just not. It is so hard. It is so hard.  So hard it is so hard yeah.  So when I am going to a place like this I will haveI have a drawer in my garage full of kits that go within my kit okay. And I have my super hard to start a fireplace bag that goes into my kit. I have other little envelopes that I will stick in there. I have a little envelope that has some survival snares and some very basic fishing equipment. If I was going to an area like an extremely remote area in Alaska I might for peace of mind grab that little enhanced food acquisition envelope. Just to give me peace of mind that in the event of there being a grounding of aircraft or something else that prevented a timely pre-arranged pickup that I would have extra stuff. And in those situations my kit might blossom. Now you might think What are the odds of that? Well after September 11thso on September 11th there were people in backcountry Canada and backcountry Alaska who had arranged to be picked up at airstrips. People out hunting could be that they are out prospecting gold mining whatever the hell they are doingwere waiting at airstrips to be picked up. And the one thing no matter where you are in Alaska man most days sometimes all day you hear aircraft. Aircraft is their car in Bush Alaska. You wake up one day you do not have news you do not know what is going on but you know that the skies are quiet nothing flies. You are supposed to be getting picked up no one shows up. It is as though the world ended and you do not know what happened. There was another occurrence in Alaska. I believe this occurred in the '80s where there was a big volcanic eruption that put a lot of ash in the air. And they resumed flying shortly after but a jet is coming in and this ash gets picked up in the engines and turns to a sort of glassy like substance and blinks out all four engines. Eventually the stuff shatters out somehow and they are able to get a couple engines relit. And they land but they grounded aircraft for a long time. I had a friend who was out takinghe was out at a remote wilderness camp taking care of some horses and he got stuck for weeks. No supplies nothing flying had no idea what was going on. He ran out of food and had a salt lick for a horse like a salt block. He would eat porcupines and go out with a pocket knife and scrape salt off a salt block in order to get some salt to put on the porcupine meat.  That sounds terrible. Oh God.  And it is a thing. Then you enter the fantastic but think about the people I am talking about. These people are not people that fell out of an airplane. They are people that went willfully into a situation. Where if you do a good risk assessment and you think about what are the problems that would actually happen to go into a very remote area of Alaska or Canada or wherever. Frank Church in Idaho I do not know a remote area. And you are flying in anyone that does any amount of homework can realize now and then you simply do not get picked up. Because of weather because of a terror attack on the East Coast of the United States because of a volcano on the Alaska Peninsula or the Aleutians. So that is the thing that we are thinking about often is Okay in our risk assessment what is the real problem that might occur? I would say high on my list of shit that might occur would be that we are going to sit here for three or four days. And are we prepared for that? Because that could be a little miserable.  And I want to also emphasize for folks who are listening that I consider youand no one bats a thousand but I consider you an expert in risk mitigation with simple and elegant insurance countermeasures. If that makes any sense it is a very wordy way to put it but  Yeah I appreciate the sentiment and I understand what you are talking about.  Yeah because there are a lot oflet us just say we are in the perfect era right now with f Mad Max-scenario planning. Where people are thinking It is going to be The Road by Cormac McCarthy and people are going to be trying to eat my kids. And I am going to stockpile silver coins and shave off gold bars to get tampons with the guy in the back of the 7-Eleven. And it comes down to probabilities the historical likelihood and the cost of the intervention right? I have never had a significant fire of any type in my kitchen. Nonetheless I have alet us call it 20 or 30 fire extinguisher that sits there gathering dust. Because it is cheap it is easy to use and if you need it you will want to have it. On the other hand you might havelet us just say using a bow drill to start a fire which I have practiced doing. And I have got to the point where I could do it very infrequently successfully and that took a lot of work. But to rely on that to get to the point where I would feel comfortable relying on that that becomes my new sport. That is like learning  Yeah that is kind of what I am saying. Is people that can start a fire with a bow drill are people that start fires with bow drills. Because they do it recreationally.  Right.  They live with it and practice it yeah.  Just to dig into the Backcountry organizerand that I would justagain to perhaps restate the obvious is taking something that is half the size of the say water container you might take with you on a hike.  It is smaller than that it is smaller than a Nalgene bottle.  Right so this iswe are not talking about a lot of inconvenience here. Is the OR Backcountry organizer just the container or does it come preloaded with a lot of these items?  No man. It is just the container. I haveand there are other ones there are other companies that make similar products and the difference tends to be weight and durability. They are susceptible to tear the seams give out but it is lightweight. There are other companies that makeFHF makes certain organizers that are pretty heavy-duty they are great. That one is just a very lightweight one. And it is empty  What is your preferred multi-tool do you remember what you carry?  Yeah. I use a Leatherman. I like the Wave a lot. It is heavy. I have got friends that really do not like them. I will tell you what I like on them. I like a regular blade. And we have been joking about big-ass Rambo knives and Bowie knives and stuff. I have done a lot of anything that you would need to do with a knife. And there are cases where it would be great if you had some giant machete type knife. But generally for the kinds of things we are talking about like keeping yourself out of trouble handling basic repairs the knife on a multi-tool is a good backup to also havingI carry a very high quality very lightweight pocket knife called a bugout. But I have a multi-tool with me.  Bugout?  Yeah. It is very lightweight very sharp and you get it in a variety of ways. You do not even know it is there it is a good knife. So the Leatherman I like one that has a saw on it like wood saw bone saw. I like one that has a serrated blade for doing work that would very quickly dull your normal blade. I like it to have a normal blade two or three inch blade on it. And I really like it to have a pair of needle-nose pliers. I use those things all the time. In the book we provide lists of all this kind of equipment. But in my kit I carry a little sliver remover. It is like nothing it isearlier I mentioned something being the size of the end of your thumb. This is like a couple thumbnails. It is a sliver remover pair of tweezers which is invaluable. Especially in areas of the South and Southwest for just the annoyance of getting junk stuck in your skin which can drive you crazy. But I also use the needle-nose pliers for all kinds of stuff. We have used needle-nose pliers for everything from pulling porcupine quills out of dogs fixing ingrown toenails repairing clothes fixing firearms. So I can do anything with a pair of needle-nose man. I like that to be on there. And then a number two Phillips bit a flat head screwdriver of a fairly universal size. If I actually wound up in some situation where I was stuck out in the woods for a weekand I am going to return to my point but I just want to make something clear. For a living for a long time I travel to the remotest places out there. I did it as a writer. I have done it for a decade doing television magazine work and such. I go to really remote places. I go to the places where people imagine trouble occurs. And I travel with a crew of highly adept very skilled individuals. Someone might say But you have never had to live out for a month with no food or anything. I am like That is kind of the point. To have done the things that we have done and figured out the ways in which we avoid trouble avoid disaster get what we need to get done done that is the survival I am talking about. And if I knew I was going to be stranded out somewhere like man I would really want to have a multi-tool. But I just use a multi-tool in living my life that is really a big part of the title. I think that in struggling with it it would be like The Guide to Survival. I am like Okay. And my head just goes to fantasy land. Wilderness Skills and Survival we would be like wilderness skills is just the doing how to be out and do things. And yeah man I have seen everything from outboard engines to generators to cars to human beings repaired with a multi-tool by someone who kind of understands how to do things.  I always have a multi-tool in the car. Since we invoked the name of the TSA earlier I will just mention to folks that I have had to sacrifice quite a few multi-tools. And those were sad moments.  The multi-tool stealingest sons of bitches on the planet. God bless them but my God do they take some multi-tools.  Oh brutal.  I understand that yeah you cannot go on a plane with a knife. And it is like now and then you are standing there and you are in line and all of a sudden they pull your bag and you are just like Nonot another one not another one.  It is so bad. It is the worst.  Standing in line now we actually if I am with buddies of mine or the guys I work with it is a common thing. You will be like Oh you got your passport? You will be like Dude knives knives knives. Right got it. Thanks.  Oh it is a sinking feeling.  You couldI have not looked into it but somehow they auction or sell  Oh the confiscated items.  I think you buy them by the bucket. I do not know I will look into it but I think they somehowthey all go somewhere. The Ketchikan Airport in Alaskathis is one of my favorite things on the planet is in Ketchikan as you are waiting in line for security they have a display case of things that have been confiscated at the Ketchikan Airport. In this display case is a brass knuckles dagger. So a brass knuckles with an eight inch double bladed dagger coming out of it. Which makes me feel a lot better about the multi-tools I have lost because someone who thought that that would be a thing to pack along on a tripI just would love to have been able to have a brief interview with presumably that gentlemen. Maybe it was a woman but presumably the gentleman who had the brass knuckles dagger at the Ketchikan airport and lost it. And they are the kind of brass knuckles that has the pointy knuckles that would perforate your skin for you.  Oh yeah.  It is the greatest!  Let us talk about water. What are your recommendations for how to think about procuring or purifying water? That could be an extension of kit and then we back into finding and filtering. But how would you suggest people think about that?  Yeah would love to. So in a lot of the chapters in the book we lay out the food chapter the water chapter is laid out this way navigation is laid out this way. The chapters always start out perfect world right? So in water it would be like perfect world here is how many gallons a person is going to use a day for intake meaning to make food. If you are using freeze dried food whatever on camping trips or outings work outings whatever to make food and drinks. So what is the quantity of water that will actually go into your body? And then there is the quantity of water per day with some climatic variations depending on where you are in the world that with intake so physical intake and then basic cleaning and then water for if you are doing some amount of bathing and like all these water quantities that you would bring with you in jugs right? So you fill a jug off a garden hose load it into your camper load it into your truck and that is where you are you just live off of jug water which is great do it all the time car camping water. But then the chapter would go through to like worse worse worse worse worse and then end kind of on an Oh shit. So starting out with that idea of water moving into the idea of sourcing water. So sourcing water where you have the proper equipment to do so. And then it moves into sourcing water where you do not have the proper equipment to do so. And then basic down to sourcing water you do not have shit with you you have nothing. You have got to figure everything out including a container. But for real world use I spend most of my time when I am out with equipment sourcing water onsite with some basic equipment that enables me to do so. And I feel that like a good universal water kit for any kind of overnighting trips or trips that could turn into overnighting use a Nalgene bottle or it does not need to be Nalgene. We use Nalgene now but it is like a brand name. They make scientific containers and equipment and beakers and stuff but they have become a real dominant force in like screw top bottles. Bottles are very durable. You can freeze stuff in and it does not crack them. They are great. A hundred companies that make them. A Nalgene bottle. And then we use a thing we call a drom or a dromedary which is a collapsible water bottle. You can get various things like a liter two-liter maybe 1.5 liter. And when they are empty it is nothing. It is like imagine an empty duty somewhat heavy duty little shopping bag and you put it in the bottom of your pack you do not even know it is there. But when it is full it is it is great. It is a good source of water. So carry a Nalgene carry a drom. In my kit that I mentioned earlier I always carry water purification tablets. Okay. In single serving packs. So it is these little foil packs and each of those foil packs has one or two tablets in it. You put those tablets in water  Iodine? Or what is that?  Yeah there is iodine there is some different ones that have different active ingredients but yeah iodine tablets. There is other I get into the other compounds but there is it is all iodine-like but there are some different active ingredients in different tablets.  Got it.  And they might argue amongst themselves about which has the worst or better aftertaste. There are also neutralizers you can add like if you hate that taste that comes from water purification tablets there are neutralizing tablets that diminish that taste and you can get them in single serving packs. So I keep those in my kit no matter what no matter where I go I have those in my kit. So I have those with me and I also lately well not even lately for years now I have used what is called a steripen with great results. I love them. It is a UV light wand. Imagine a lightsaber that is maybe five inches long. It runs on a CR-123 battery. You put it in there and it can purify a quart of water in 90 seconds using a UV light wand that you just swirl around in the water. Couple of complications with this is like if the water's too turbid. So if it is like an incredibly muddy water you would need to double dose it or triple dose it because the light penetration through the water. A problem you might encounter and this is all stuff we cover. A problem you might encounter is that scooping water up can be hard. Like if you are just trying to get water out of wet moss you know and you can press a hand down and like get a little bit of water in your palm it can be an arduous task. I usually carry a small plastic camp cup with me anyways for drinking coffee and stuff in the morning you can use and the camp cup is a little bit flexible so you can force this thing into little crevices. Like if you have a cliff face with some water just sort of like running down it and that is the only water you can find you kind of mash this cup up against the cliff face and slowly get dripping water into the cup and use that to fill that rigid-mouthed Nalgene and eventually get that thing full and then wand it with a steripen to purify it. Where you might have a problem is if everything's frozen you cannot steripen ice. but when you are using snow melt all you need is a small stove and you could run off snow melt. It is exhaustive on fuel. And that is something we get into as well. is like the the yield on snow is surprisingly low. It takes a lot of energy fire fuel whatever. It takes a lot of energy to melt snow into water but it is like a thing we cover. But if you get that basic thing down and again this is like standard operating procedure of water bottle dromedary and the dromedary bag I carry a two-liter dromedary bag. I just keep it in the bottom of my pack. You can fill that at a source and then carry it with you and purify it as you use it. You can get two fills and dump it into your bottle purify it with a steripen and you are pretty bulletproof man with that setup. As long as you can find some source of surface water and we explain a lot of tricks of the trade and how to locate surface water when you do not have the obvious locations of creeks and ponds and stuff. But I will point out here a real real risk and this is not a fund risk but a real  waterborne pathogens are a problem. I have been sick several times from waterborne pathogens. It is miserable. You can get so sick that it is debilitating. It could just be bad or it can be bad bad. So you cannot afford to be careless drinking surface water and people make a lot of mistakes of seeing some water they feel as like coming out of some little seep and they think Oh it must be fine because this is the source when in fact if they walked 10 yards uphill they would find like an elk wallow where they are shitting and pissing and rolling around in the mud. And it is not adequately filtered from having passed through that mucky ground and you can get sick. Waterborne pathogens they are like part of this whole suite of the little things that kill.  more than bears more than mountain lions waterborne pathogens are a bitch.  Do you also carry a smaller purification device that is pumped? Something like Katadyn? I do not know if that is how it is pronounced.  I do not anymore. I personallya lot of people like them. I personally have had a lot of trouble with things with ceramic filters and other filters where it is wet from use and it freezes. They get plugged up. I have just had a lot of hassle. And river trips on riverlike rafting canoe trips and stuff where you just you know you just have water because you are floating down the river right? You know you are going to have plenty of water around. We will use those gravity-fed drip bags that hold a few gallons of water. You just scoop it up in the river and you hang it from a tree limb and there is a gravity-fed filter on there. We will use those if we know that conditions are going to be good like summertime conditions where it is not going to be freezing at night crippling your filter. You are going to have a pretty good source of water that is not going to be overly muddy. And it just kind of like when times are good it is a good device. But the pumps no I have notI do not like them on glacial rivers with the glacial till it is just a lot of headache. I am sure there are people that know what they are talking about and they like them. And there might be people who dislike UV light pens for various reasons because if you are traveling overseas like if you are traveling in Africa you need to have a purification system and you always need to check to make sure what you are using and how you are using it. You are going to want a purification system that also can handle viruses. If you were in the US okay? If you are hanging out in the US out doing camping-type activities and you are not around a lot of human contamination or you are out in like you know in the woods in the mountains whatever like somewhat halfway-pristine environments you do not need to worry about viruses. You are mostly talking about really big things. Giardia cryptosporidium large things that are easy to filter out. So if you are going on a backpacking trip in the developing world somewhere and you are going to be dealing with areas that have human potentially human waste in the water we explain all this stuff too in the book but human waste in the water you are going to practice a different purification system. And you might even do something like a dual purification system where you have things like again from human contamination. But the primary focus here that I am talking about is like classic like backpacking hiking wilderness outings.  What are some items that people should have in their cars? I am wondering if there is anything that people might not have thought of. And I would love to hear your opinion  Yeah.  on what some people call space blankets or Mylar blanketsthese emergency blankets. Is their helpfulness overestimated underestimated? But generally things that people might want to consider in their car right? Because people get themselves into trouble in all sorts of places including spots where they might not expect to get into trouble like north of say San Francisco going to Tahoe and underestimating the amount of snowfall and realizing that they do not have chains  It is true.  but perhaps they have driven already three hours in traffic and they are like Fuck it! YOLO. I am going skiing! And then lo and behold Uh oh. I mean that is mistake number one.  People die every year in stranded vehicles in this country. Talking about cars we are starting getting into we are talking about like you know like prepper land. And I will point out that I am ain my car and at home I am a sort of unintentional or accidental prepper where I do a lot of camping so I have a lot of freeze dried food. I buy a lot of it. I keep it in bins in my garage so that when I am going somewhere I have a lot of it. And also I like to have it on hand. I am going to use it anyways. It is in my garage. So I have enough freeze dried food tobecause I bought it for one thing in mind it also serves the purpose where I have enough freeze dried food to keep my family up and running for quite a long time on freeze dried food. We have all kinds of you know we camp a lot so we have all kinds of camp stoves alternate fuel sources water purification equipment that I own through camping. I am a firearm owner. I keep you know for that purpose I keep quite a bit of ammunition on hand. The one thing I do like the one thing that I do that is like totally prepper-like and this came from time I spent living in Seattle where you are in a very seismically active area and also you have volcanic activity and things. We kept treated water in a closet. So in my crawlspace I do keep a bunch of jugs of water that I put in long-term treatment. Like a chlorine-type substance that you can put in there for long-term treatment. That is the one thing I do that does not have camping ramifications. I own those big-ass jugs because we use them for water transport while camping. I extend the same kind of mentality to my personal vehicle. Because you know we do a lot of adventuring. I live in the Northern Rockies. Climate here can be crazy road conditions are going to be crazy. So I am going to give you a pretty extreme version of the kinds of things I keep in my car. I keep a patch kit. Also I drive a truck. I have an F-150. The back seats lift up you can put all kinds of stuff under there. I have a Decked toolbox in the back of my truck so I can keep various things around but I keep a battery-powered spotlight. I have a battery-powered air pump. I have a patch kit keep an extra headlamp might sound funny but I keep a toothbrush and toothpaste in there. I keep glow sticks in the glove box you know those break glow sticks that ravers use. You use them if your vehicle is stopped along the side of the road you can put out glow sticks so that in a snowstorm or dark conditions people could see it. I keep a military e-tool like a folding folding shovel like a military folding shovel. Not all e-tools are created equal I got mine from a serviceman who was like No dude you have to have the right e-tool. And he went and got me the right e-tool a very heavy-duty e-tool. It is a folding sawI am sorry folding shovel. When there is snow on the ground I put it in a big aluminum scoop shovel with a D handle in the back of my truck. I have two insulated ponchos so they are basically like sleeping bags with a hole that you can put over thembecause I have young kids so I keep my insulated ponchos in my truck. I have a food stash in my Decked system. Like one of the boxes is just full of granola bars and stuff which I also use for my kids all the time because if anybody has kids they know that they are always like whining about wanting food and I just feed them out of that box. In the summer months I keep water in there but it freezes and breaks the containers in the winter so I pull them out. And then I have a basic toolkit. So things I need to do repairs I keep some garbage bags and things in there. Candles are great because if you are in a car in the winter and for whatever reason you are stranded and you are running a camp stove say in your car you can kill yourself from carbon monoxide poisoning. You do not want to burn fossil fuels in a car. It is a very quick way especially if there is a risk of you falling asleep it is a death sentence man. If you fall asleep in a car burning a fossil fuelisopropyl whatever gasoline white gas you are in trouble man. You will kill yourself. So candles you can bring up the mean temperature in the car by several degreesbeyond severalto a substantial level of warmth by burning candles in your car.  I never realized that.  Oh yeah. And then even like an alcohol stove that people use on sailboats. People use alcohol stoves on small sailboats they are the same thing. So you can run it without getting carbon monoxide poisoning. You could have a small 7 alcohol stove and a little pint bottle full of alcohol and heat a car to t-shirt warmth with an alcohol stove and you do not need to worry about killing yourself from carbon monoxide poisoning. There is still a fire risk but you can sit in your car and hang out. It does not need to be running. You can be out of gas you can have a dead engine and keep warm. And then finally I also keep a thick wool blanket that I just roll up and put a strap on. I know a lot of guys will just have a tote. You know like just you go to Walmart whatever and buy like a plastic tote of an appropriate size. Put all this stuffwe have lists in the book of all this like what is minimummaximum like you know best recommendations. Make a tote. And if you are just around town going back and forth to work do not worry about it. If you go driving three hours to go visit relatives for the Christmas holiday throw the tote in the back. And in that tote is all the shit you would ever need to be more than comfortable. People might laugh you know Oh you look goofy. Oh you are a prepper. What is this? Mad Max? It is like I like to just feel at ease and prepared. The other day we were coming back from a hunting trip and my kid pointed outhe is 10 years oldand he pointed out The thing I like about our truck is that we have all the stuff we need. And I glowed with pride upon hearing that that even the sense of ease and comfort that my kid got you know he had whatever a headache and I gave him something for it. Anyways a sense of ease and comfort that he got a feeling like we are on top of it. We are our own people. We got our shit figured out. Our system's dialed.  Yeah. And it is also a different breed of preparation compared to like putting on a ghillie suit every Saturday and climbing into a spider hole in your backyard.  Yeah yeah yeah. Yes!  Right. It is this is this is just I mean a lot of these things particularly I want to underscore the water supplies the backup water supplies for me is cheap cheap insurance that is kind of one and done. I mean perhaps you replace it every once in a while but I will give an example here. I have a garage with a significant amount of potable water because I want to say a year and a half ago two years ago in Austin Texas this is first world incredibly developed city incredible medical support and facilities. This is a top-tier city within the US as far as livability and everything else. And at one point they had flooding. This happens. So there was an incredible torrential downpour for a day or two and it overwhelmed the municipal water treatment plants. And there was a boil warning for the entire city.  Oh it put human fecal matter into the municipal water supply.  That is right.  That is nice.  So you could not drink water out of your faucet.  Yeah. Cause there is poop in it.  Because there is poop in it. And within I do not know 12 hours 24 hours all bottled water in the city gone  Uh huh.  like there is not nothing available. And that was a huge pain in the ass and a massive hassle. And for a few hundred bucks if you think of all of the things you waste money on or spend money on it is very inexpensive insurance for an event like that which demonstrably has a non-zero chance of happening. And I remember that with Hurricane Sandy back in the day also in New York  Yeah.  and I mean these things do happen. Maybe they happen as infrequently as a kitchen fire or a head-on collision but you still have a fire extinguisher in your kitchen. You still wear your seatbelt when you drive.  Yeah I like it that you are pointing that out. It is an interesting thing. It is like no one thinks you are a whacked-out prepper to have a fire extinguisher or to have a first aid kit or to have homeowner's insurance you know. So what are you? Some kind of right wing Right? But it is like yeah it is just I just view it as a thing. You know it is like a peace of mind issue if nothing else. What I used to have when I was in Seattle you get so much rain I bought aI use this for my garden but I loved itwhere I bought a 250-gallon tank that sat under the I had a roof deck on top of my house and it came down this downspout and it rains all the damned time you know in the summeror sorry in the winter. And I just rigged this 250-gallon tank under my downspout. And you could get you know 10 minutes of rain off that rooftop and fill that thing up. And I used to love that thing because I was like dude it is like a you know bulletproof man as long as it rains.  You mentioned the freeze dried food. There is sort of the good the bad and the ugly of freeze dried food.  Uh-hmm.  Do you have any particular favorites?  Man it used to be simple. Like in the old days you had a company and this company is the pioneer of freeze dried food. I want to tell people real quick I am explaining freeze dried food to folks. It is an interesting process. I wrote a piece for Outside magazine years ago about the freeze dried food industry and freeze dried food. And I revisited that article in working on this book just to get some of it back straight again. But during it when I was working on this article I visited Oregon Freeze Dry and Oregon Freeze Dry does all kinds of military contracting. They do like NASA contracting. It was Oregon Freeze Dry that sent all kinds of products into outer space. Their consumer brand is Mountain House. And so Mountain House is pretty ubiquitous. Like you walk into any sporting goods store whatever you will see I think it even turns up in Costco you will see these square buckets or individual things of Mountain House. And that is a consumer brand by a major player in the freeze dried food business. What they do is they make in this process you produce table-ready food. Okay. So let us say you are making spaghetti with meat sauce and you are going to freeze dry it. They actually make spaghetti and meat sauce. So it looks like you could sit down and eat it. It is ready to like put in your bowl and serve at the dinner table. They then spread this out in about an inch layer on these big huge sheet trays. They just spread it out about an inch thick on a giant cookie sheet with inch-thick spaghetti and meat sauce on it. It goes into a freezer and they freeze it. And like the speed at which it freezes is proprietary. There is a lot of magic in how quickly you freeze it because you are trying to get a certain size ice crystal that is optimal for freeze drying but they freeze the sheet. And then it goes into a sublimation chamber. The sublimation chambers bring to mind a  what an amazing name!  Yeah.  Sublimation chamber.  Looking at it it looks like the end of a submarine sticking out of a wall. Okay. And the sublimation chamber is a vacuum chamber. So you put all these sheets of frozen foodso you could do theup till now you could do it at your home right? They put these sheets of frozen food into the sublimation chamber and then they pull a vacuum on it. Okay. And once they pull a strong vacuum on it they start to slowly warm up these heating coils start to warm the food up. Sublimation means that the water goes from a frozen to gaseous state under vacuum with the right pressure so that it skips the water phase. The ice in melting goes directly to gas and collects on coils. When you pull it out it does not look any different. If you pulled it out of the sublimation chamber it would look like just how it went in except you would be able to pick it up and break it like a sheet of glass. It is then mashed up crumbled up and put into a bag. That is freeze dried food. Shelf life of with the right packaging these laminated bags the right packaging on these products shelf life of 30 years 40 years. I think that they do not quite know the shelf life because no one's had any sitting around long enough with the right packaging to figure it out. There is a love and a hate for freeze dried. The convenience is unbelievable and there are now many more freeze dried companies entering the space and they are all whittling away at Mountain House. There is a company Heather's Choice that does some freeze dried stuff. Peak Refuel we eat a lot of that does freeze dried food. There are a bunch of them out there. Now you can buy your own sublimation chambers I think for like three- or four-thousand bucks and get a sublimation chamber at your house and make your own freeze dried food if you are like a super prepper.  Yeah.  A few thousand bucks. I was just camping with a guy whose buddy has his own sublimation chamber now and this dude whenever he makes dinner he freeze dries some too. It is a riot. But a lot of people report I have experienced those. A lot of people report that there is nothing harder on a person's gut than three or four days worth of freeze dried. Most anybody can hack a day or two of freeze dry but you get it to a point where just something different is going on in the old stomach. I do not know what it is. I have had people tell me that it is not true. It is just true. It is just true. I cannot tell you why it is true but it is true. Some people thrive on it. I do quite well on it. Some people it just tears them up. The problem though is that you cannot confuse freeze dried food with dehydrated food. Dehydrated food can take a lot longer to rehydrate. It can be that you do not get it fully rehydrated. Dehydrated beans you want to talk about something messing your gut up dehydrated beans that you have not gotten properly rehydrated can tear you to pieces. Freeze dried rehydrates pretty quickly. I got a friend that does a lot of backcountry travel and he is a minimalist. He is a lightweight fanatic. He does not carry a camp stove with him. He takes freeze dried food and around noon he will pour cold water on the freeze dried food and then just carry it around strapped to his backpack knowing that about by six or seven hours it will have fully rehydrated and he will just eat cold freeze dried. If you put hot water in it is just ready in eight minutes.  Yeah.  Seven or eight minutes. Like I said you just cannot argue with the shelf life. The stuff came into widespread use with the LRRPs in Vietnam long range reconnaissance patrols. That was the pioneering days of freeze dried food. Then it had big ramifications for NASA military use and such. When I was at the Oregon Freeze Dry Company years ago it was funny because I was with one of the guys a lab technician he is like a cook or a chef executive chef whatever there. And we go into this room. It was like their lab room where they have everything on the planet freeze dried. And he is like Name something to see if I have it in here. And I am like I do not know. Capers. And he is like Got it. You know they freeze dry everything experimenting with it. They make freeze dried shrimp cocktail. I am not kidding you man. Cans of freeze dried shrimp in freeze dried cocktail sauce. I do not know if that is available to the public but I have a fascination and a deep love-hate with freeze dried but it is unparalleled as an emergency food backpacking food wilderness preparedness food. It is the best thing going. There is nothing that even approaches it.  Shelf life I am looking online between 25 to 30 years.  There was one freeze dried company when I was working on my article one freeze dried company I said What is the shelf life? And they said We switched to this style of bag. I cannot remember what it was. They are like We switched to this style of bag 30 years ago. It is all still fine. We are not making a recommendation. I do not know how they handle the recommendation part of it. But they are like We know that it is at least this but that is all the long we have had it laying here. So who knows? Right? It is good. It is great stuff. It is expensive but it just you know fill up a tote with that and put it in your garage and it is just like you do not need to check it. You keep mice out of there you do not need to check it. Your kids will have emergency food after you are dead.  Hand-me-downs! Oh my God. And a note on freeze drying for folks who just want to play with something the freezer in your home is at least for a lot of folks will be the driest place in your home which is counterintuitive for a lot of folks. So if you want to get a really good sear on a steak you can actually put it on a drying tray or rack of some type in your freezer for say 30 minutes or 30 might be too long like 15 20 minutes before you cook to dry off the surface of the steaks so that you get that Maillard reaction when searing. So that is a trick that people can also use.  It seems that there is evidence of the Incans doing something similar to freeze drying with potatoes. I do not remember the details on it but they would store potatoes. Or there are instances where potatoes were stashed or stored you know at 10000 feet and preserved through freeze drying. And they would also do an equivalent of they would sometimes put human remains up 10 11000 feet. And I do not know if you have everI went to Salta Argentina to visit those Incan children thatthere is kind of a famous story of these three Incan children that were put in their little rock shelter at very high elevation so perfectly preserved that you could still see coca leaves on one of the kid's lips. It looks like they could just wake up from a nap and walk away. But they think that those children are from the 1490s.  Spooky. Wow.  Perfectly preserved.  That is incredible.  Like they basically like naturally freeze dried at high elevation. They display one of these children at a time in Salta Argentina. One of them was struck by at some point in time one of them was struck by lightning and their hair was burned but they have beautiful feathers beautiful clothing all perfectly preserved. It is incredible.  Wow. I am looking at images right now. This is creepy. It is like something out of the horror movie The Ring.  Yeah. There was an issue that they do notout of an agreement with the indigenous peoples they will not display all three at once. And so I believe they rotate the display unless that is changed. When I went there to see one of these children you could only see one.  I wonder why. I guess it could be related to some mythology or superstition or belief system of the indigenous I suppose.  When they looked at thethey did some work there. And when they look at the stable you know you can tell people about people's historic diet. It seems as though those children if I am remembering correctly it seems as though those children spent most of their lives eating primarily potatoes had a very poor diet for most of their lives. But in the year or so leading up to their death they had a phenomenally diverse diet and they had with them gifts and trinkets from all over the Incan Empire. And perhaps they were on a sort of tour being honored across the Empire festivals and being fed and honored across the Empire before being brought up and killed on that hilltop. The oldest one had been given a blow to the head with a hatchet but the other ones they appear to just have been drunk. They were drunk on some kind of fermented drink and maybe just passed out and left except for one of them they had to give a knock to the head. It is a wild story. Anyways freeze dried. Freeze dried food.  Wow. I am looking atfreeze dried children. Do not eat them. Mummies of Llullaillaco with the double Ls. I am saying it with the ja since it is Argentine but the children of Llullaillaco which I will link to in the show notes. That is incredible.  In a perfect world I would go back two more times to see the other children.  So I feel like we cannot end on this particular story.  Oh that was a real digression but go ahead pick something different.  Well let us talk about what you or not let us let you tell me about what you hope and feel the psychological benefits will be from those or for those who read the new book The MeatEater Guide to Wilderness Skills and Survival and actually take steps to practice some of what is in the book to equip themselves in some of the ways described in the book. I am just thinking to your story about your son with the truck but what do you hope or expect the benefits would be psychologically for people to do this?  I hope and expect and anticipate that people who spend time with the book will come away feeling more comfortable feeling comfortable and prepared in wild places and better able to go with friends loved ones colleagues children what have you into nature into the wilderness and not have a you know maybe a vague sense of foreboding about something happening or feeling that you are in over your skis. Or as we like to say in over your waders. That when approaching a frozen pond they instead of looking at it like this unknown super dangerous thing that you dasnot go near you would look at it as a thing that is comprehendible that there are some simple things you can do to determine Is this safe for me to be on? If I do make a mistake and go there and something happens I know what to do. I know how to do proper risk assessment. That when you are out camping you are not having baseless fears of getting mauled by a mountain lion. You are not running around with concepts in your head about how to deter animal attacks that are one unwarranted or two the opposite of what you ought to do if you were in that situation. Because I think that even if none of the bad things if none of the Oh shit things that can befall a person happen to you outdoors and even if I can come and tell you statistically they will not they still live in your head. There is still an anxiety that people suffer around nature and around the unexplored around the unusual. And once you arm yourself with a mental toolkit and a physical toolkit at times you wind up feeling better. And once you feel better and you get that cockiness you get a friend of mine calls your wilderness swagger everything goes more smoothly for you. You are able to do and focus on the things that you came there to do and focus on. So by being prepared you do away with the nagging sense in the back of your head of What would I do if? It just frees you up. So I just want people to have that liberated swaggering feeling outside.  Dig it. Okay. Last or maybe second to last question. And this could be a dead end but if you were a cyborg just executing on commands you would have a certain kit a certain approach be super methodical all highly rational. Is there anything peculiar you would take with you on some of your trips or anything absurd that you would feel compelled to do that would not be in the textbook instruction manual related to skills and survival? Anything particularly Steve Rinella that your friends or companions in the wilderness make fun of you for?  Man I am going to approach it a slightly different way but I will say that I am going to approach it a slightly different way. And this is brand new fresh information. I have a friend who is a very avid Alpine hunter and he uses and likes crampons. Okay? I had always shied away from  Can you describe what those are for folks?  Crampons are like a thing you lock on your boot strap on your boot and it is cleats. Nothing like a golf cleat like steel or aluminum spikes that are used for extremelike they are used for ice climbing extreme mountaineering. Okay? I know he is always been a fan of crampons and I would always been under the feeling that I did not use crampons in the mountains typically because I thought that crampons are things people use more to get themselves into trouble than to get themselves out of trouble. Meaning you know some basic repelling skills are good to have. Right? That is something we cover but I do not advise for just normal people like normal use outside of mountaineering I do not advise using that to get somewhere. I would advise using that to like you got somewhere and now you are like Uhoh! and you used it to get out. And I thought crampons were potentially troublemaking that they would give you know the wilderness swagger I mentioned? It would give you too much swagger and you would wind up doing shit that you should not do. And so I was with him and I finally brought a set of crampons and I came away from it like Holy shit because even just on a steep pitch where there is some wet snow I used to take for granted that you walked alongside hill and along a steep pitch of wet snow. I used to take for granted that you just ate shit right? Every other step. That is just like how it goes. You know it would be like five steps whoop five steps whoop. And putting those on I became a believer so quickly in like moving around on wet grass icy stuff how that would allow you to just grease through areas that I used to view as being hard to get through. So I could see now being a guy at the trailhead with a set of crampons strapped to my pack and other people at the trailhead being like What is this idiot doing? The same way a month ago if I saw someone with crampons I would be like Oh come on. Come on. Really? Really? And now I would be like if I see that dude I am going to be like Yeah bro. Right on.  I get you. I get you. What adventure have you up to this point left unrequited? Like you have had so many trips so many adventures so much travel so much outdoor wilderness time. What is still on the bucket list for you?  Oh that is an easy one. There is a river in South America that I have done two river trips on and I was able to do these river trips with a group called the Macushi a tribe called the Macushi. And they have a few villages along this river. And it is a long long river and they talk about the head of this river. There is a couple of them that have been there. Most of the guys have not been there. And they talk about the head of this river as being like what they regard as like kind of like the most magical place on the planet. And the lower end of this river where I have been blows my mind. And they have this attitude like You have not seen shit until you have been up this river! But you have got to have about threeyou know it is a three-week trip to get up because you have got to portage around all these waterfalls. I do not have a concrete plan yet but at whatever point in life that you sort of like approach retirement but you still have your physical capabilities I want to go up that damn river until it is a trickle. Like ideally I would go with my brothers. I want to go up that river so damn bad I think about it all the time.  Love it. Well I cannot  To the end. To the bitter end like I said to where it comes out of a rock and like that is my thing that I want to do. And these guys live off fish when they are traveling too and I like fish.  That is a win-win. Steve always fun always a good time and you are making me want to get out into the wilderness ASAP and actually to do a fair amount of prep beforehand so I am not just yet another idiot wandering out with no plan no contingencies no nothing. And I am excited about the book. I am really thrilled that you were able to carve out some time today. Is there anything else that you would like to say complaints comments requests for the audience closing inspirational quotes anything at all before we bring this to a close?  At the top of Mount Everest it is marine limestone. That is it. Thank you very much Tim. I got nothing. You covered it.  All right. Steven Rinella folks themeateater.com meateater on Instagram stevenrinella with a V. Steven R-I-N-E-L-L-A. The new book is The MeatEater Guide to Wilderness Skills and Survival. I will also link to everything we have discussed in show notes at tim.blogpodcast. And until next time thanks for tuning in.   