 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs lemurs and squirrels. How goes it? I hope you are all well. This is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of The Tim Ferriss Show. My guests today are Naval Ravikant and Chris Dixon. Naval Ravikant is one of the most popular guest on this podcast and for good reason. You can find my first episode with him at tim.blognaval. It was nominated for podcast of the year when it first came out. But let us get to the bio. Naval  is the co-founder and chairman of AngelList. He is an angel investor and has invested in more than 100 companies including many mega-successes such as Twitter Uber Notion Opendoor Postmates and Wish many many more. You can subscribe to Naval his podcast on wealth and happiness on Apple podcasts Spotify Overcast wherever you get your podcasts. You can also find his blog at nav.al. And I will leave Naval's intro at that. We have done quite a few interviews together in the past with Nick Szabo and also with Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin. Chris Dixon on Twitter cdixon is a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz where for the past six years he has been an active seed and venture-stage investor. Previously Chris co-founded and served as the CEO of two startups SiteAdvisor and Hunch. SiteAdvisor was an internet security company that warned web users of security threats. The company was acquired by McAfee in 2006. Hunch was a recommendation technology company that was acquired by eBay in 2011. Chris has been a prolific seed investor and that is the right adjective prolific seed investor. Co-founding Founder Collective a seed venture fund and making a number of personal angel investments in various technology companies. Chris started programming as a kid and was a professional programmer after college at the high speed options trading firm Arbitrade. He has a BA and MA in Philosophy from Columbia and an MBA from Harvard. He is written about his theories and experiences as an entrepreneur and investor on Medium. And before that at cdixon.org. Many of his predictions have come true. A lot of what he is written about has ended up being prescient and we will dig into that. His a16zthat is Andreessen Horowitz with the number of letters between the first and lasta16z podcast appearances can be found at a16z.comauthorchris-dixon. And once again you can find him on Twitter cdixon. Chris and Naval welcome to the show. Chris we are going to start with you.  Awesome.  Then I figured we could begin with something perhaps that most people would consider non-technical and that is philosophy. So I would like to hear first if you could explain why the interest in philosophy and then I would love for you to tie in your conversations or specific conversations involving advice with Daniel Dennett and maybe give some context for who that is.  So back in college I was sort of interested in computers my whole life and I read this book Gdel Escher Bach which was a sort of mind-blowing book at the time. It is all about the connections between computer science and music and philosophy and things like this. When I got to college I started taking some philosophy classes and really kind of went down this rabbit hole of philosophy and actually was at one point in a PhD program until I dropped out. I was very interested in kind of what is known as analytic philosophy. So language mind logic kind of the foundations of mathematics it is still an area I am interested in sort of the history of ideas I would say the history the history of science the history of mathematics how it happens. I by no means consider myself a philosophy kind of expert. I have not read that much over the years but I have  for example a couple years ago I went into this whole really big kind of deep dive into the history of logic and computer science and actually ended up writing this article for The Atlantic about it when kind of my argument was which is still kind of main area of interest is this idea that you could have a group of people working on something. There was this great quote I started the essay with it was this computer scientist who said If you went to 1905 and tried to find the least practical area of philosophy or any academic field you could it would be this set of logicians like Bertrand Russell and Kurt Gdel and a bunch of other people like that who were doing these really really esoteric logical things. But it turned out that was literally the direct lineage into Alan Turing and von Neumann and all the great kind of papers that came out in the '30s and then that culminated in World War II. So literally the history of computing came from this kind of crazy group of like 10 people in 1905. So it was that kind of stuff that I was into reading about that kind of stuff. The fun thing with philosophy is you can kind of say Hey this semester I am going to do science and this semester I am going to do math. So it is really just kind of like it is a little bit dilettante or something like it is just sort of a fun excuse to go read a lot of smart people. But then at one point this is a guy named Daniel Dennett who is one of my heroes who is written a lot of great philosophy books kind of popular philosophy books I highly recommend. I had the opportunity to talk to him and I had that was the point which I was thinking about quitting and doing what I do now basically startups. He said to me he said Look if you if you think you are going to be like a great philosopher and that is all you can ever do you should do it. Otherwise I would quit immediately and go do something else. I just knew I was going to be a mediocre philosopher working on the footnotes. But basically in these kinds of academic fields there is like five people that matter every century. Then everyone else is sort of doing footnote cleanup. The other thing me and my friends had this idea that we  look the best philosophy paper the end of the PhD dissertation we came to the conclusion that the best dissertation would be two pages long and have no footnotes and that was just completely unacceptable and modern. So there is no way that we can do actually consider to be great because truly great philosophy it is just a brand new idea a brand new set of ideas. Not that I had them I am not claiming I was a great philosopher. But if the goal was fundamentally inconsistent with the nature of the program it was probably not just practical for me.  Well I do not want to say I am going to push back a little bit but interest in philosophy deep interest in philosophy and it could be coincidental seems to be a pattern across quite a few currently adept entrepreneurs and investors in the tech space Reid Hoffman comes to mind. I mean obviously Naval is a deep reader and considerer of different philosophies and just to build on your dissertation comment and we do not have to spend a whole lot of time here because I still want to do a little bit of background but for those who do not have firsthand exposure to Satoshi Nakamotos white paper how long is that?  It is like seven pages. I think I have it on my wall actually in my other office I have it on the wall and it literally fits on the poster. So I believe the PDF depends on the format. You can get them in printed Bible-like formats or you can get them as a PDF. I think the PDF seven pages and it is very short. It is very short and actually probably two-thirds of it is implementation details. The core ideas are probably a couple of paragraphs.  Yeah. Case in point.  Similar to The Bible there was a whole long period of forum posts and other kinds of things flushing it out and then the actual code. The concept of the blockchain is I think one of the beautiful computing primitives that like a lot of those beautiful simple things it is relatively simple at its core.  I would like to revisit the logicians for a second. So Bertrand Russell and these others. So they were  the significance of that was largely missed at the time. I mean of course it was right? Hindsight 2020. But I would like to maybe use that as a segue to something you wrote in 2013 in a blog post titled I think this is the title of the blog post What the Smartest People Do  might just be a quote from the blog post What the Smartest People Do on the Weekend Is What Everyone Else Will Do during the Week in Ten Years. And among the tech hobbies with momentum you included quote math-based currencies like Bitcoin end quote that is 2013. So I would like to ask two questions. Number one is and there were other examples that seemed now to be quite prescient how did you identify math-based currencies like Bitcoin to fit into the category of what smart people are doing on the weekend and then are there any current hobbies that you are watching with interest?  This goes back to the lore of Silicon Valley of the hackers in a garage and Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak going to the Homebrew Computer Club. It was like this fringe-cultish club at the time in the era of mainframe computers and things. It basically came back to this idea that maybe that is not a coincidence that this keeps happening. That it is like these things people are doing on the weekend and particularly they are smart people. If you go and you talk to them they had a good reason. They really understood what a personal computer could be. They had very deep thinking. So by the way a lot of this involved actually going and speaking to people and not trusting secondary sources. I really believe very very strongly that one of the most important things here you can do is just go speak to a lot of people that is where I get all of my information is talking to entrepreneurs talking to people that are smarter than me. Why was personal computing happening at the Homebrew Computer Club and not at let us say IBM at the time? Once a company gets to a certain scale it is managed by business people and business people plan on a one to three-year horizon. They are very good at execution but typically it is kind of extrapolation execution like we have this computer here let us make a better next version of it or something like that. And they are not  this is sort of Clayton Christensens idea the idea of disruptive innovation is that these things come from below. They look like toys. It is another kind of common theme they come from below they look silly. The serious people they kind of poo-poo it it is not a serious thing. Some of those things by the way that people are into the hobbyist things they just stay hobbies. A lot of it depends on the nature of the specific topic and is it going to follow some kind of exponential improvement curve and things like that. Because the PC of course was riding Moore's Law and a bunch of other important trends in a way that other fringe hobbies at the time were not. I have always found this to be like a small group of very smart cultish people to be a very very interesting pattern. One thing I do a lot of I have read a lot of history books particularly history of innovation and this pattern happens over and over. So I will give you an example. Another example I like to use is University of Utah in the 1970s every single computer graphics thing today Apple Pixar Atari the best venture capital strategy in the 1970s would be take a big bag of money and hand it out the University of Utah because they were all  the entire future of computer graphics  was at the University of Utah. Why? Because I forgot the specifics some donor likes computer graphics and gave money and they are all there. I always think about it like I do venture capital. I can sit there and analyze metrics and do all this other stuff. Or I can just go try to find University of Utah. That' where is that? By the way a lot of it now is on the internet. It is in a Discord it is in a Reddit A lot of what I did in that list that I had in 2013 a lot of that came from Reddit.  It is what is the current definition of the frontier. There was a time when it was the wild west there was a time when it was conquistadors and people setting sail in the age of sail. Today it feels like the frontiers on the internet and even on the internet the frontier is within Web3 and crypto because it is sort of the least regulated the most decentralized the most permissionless 24x7x365 markets that are self-funding hackers from all around the world can participate. You can be anon or pseudo-anon or just have a CryptoPunk as your profile. Nobody has to know who you are. All that matters is the output of your code. If it works you can make huge amounts of money. Satoshi Nakamoto may end up being the richest person who ever lived and could have pulled it off completely anon. That is not the only one. There are huge fortunes being made and lost on this decentralized anonymous frontier. Now I think we are seeing Web3 starting to pull in all the talent. All the smartest people in Silicon Valley seem to be looking from their nine-to-five jobs into 247 Web3 and figuring out how to participate. Every company that I am involved with that is not a Web3 company calls me and asks me about a token or a Web3 angle. Obviously some of it is just to make money. But some of it is this appeal of open source open platforms portable data user privacy user control keys and community-owned and generated networks.  So I want to hop in here. This is all very important and we are going to come back to it and we are going to get to a definition of terms also just for people who are not familiar with Web3. Before I get to that just because I want to try to create a thread going from 2013 in that blog post to here University of Utah how did you find this particular University of Utah math-based currencies like Bitcoin in 2003 or just prior to that? Then we are going to bring that into Web3.  Like a lot of these things it started with I think friends Naval could have been part of that Fred Wilson they are sort of an early group of people that were kind of getting interested in Bitcoin. I used to be technical. I am not particularly technical now but I went and used Bitcoin and looked and I was particularly interested in the programming language around it which I can talk more about. Now we have platforms like Ethereum with much more robust programming abilities. I went and kind of used it and liked the idea. I mean I have to say it appealed to me initially. I had come from actually the first thought actually because used it thing called Hashcash. So Hashcash is this is the algorithm that is used for Bitcoin mining what is called mining which is a way that it is a way to incentivize basically people to run their computer and kind of run part of the Bitcoin network. I started a computer security company in 2004 and it actually looked at using Hashcash. So Hashcash had been talked about for a long time as a way to fight internet spam and this is what I was sort of working on. So the idea was why do you have spam? It is a tragedy of the common's problem because it costs zero to send an email right? If you can make whatever a pen whatever a 100 every million emails spammers will just do that. One idea that went back really back to the I think the '90s was the idea of charging somebody a little bit to send an email but then how do you do that when you do not have native internet money? The idea was you forced them to do a computation. Right? And I actually had looked at commercialized at one point. I did not do it because I could not figure out the whole thing. But anyway so I would seen Hashcash and I am like Oh. Then actually I wrote a blog post about this one. When I first saw Bitcoin I am like Oh it is stored Hashcash. Adam Smith called capital is stored labor. That is what Bitcoin was actually from my vantage point back then it was like Oh wow Hashcash but it is stored. That was actually what got me initially interested in it. Then I started going down the rabbit hole as we say you will hear this phrase a lot from crypto people because it is very much this sort of Looking Glass experience where the outside narrative is just so incredibly not accurate about Web3. Once you go and learn it yourself like I just got an email today. I get an email now. Naval's probably getting this too every day now from a Web2 person a good entrepreneur saying Oh my God I did not understand what this was. And now that I do it is like completely changed my life.  Yeah.  It is a transformative thing when you go down that rabbit hole. So I kind of went down that rabbit hole although it was not as deep a rabbit hole back then but I think probably I am guessing Naval had a similar experience.  Very similar.  Shallow rabbit hole. Continue Naval.  I read about the Byzantine Generals Problem and the solution to that early as well. You can now organize people without   Can you explain what that is Naval?  Yeah. Byzantine Generals Problem is a problem that basically says how do you get people to coordinate when nobody knows each other nobody trusts each other? By using proof of work aka Hashcash you can say Well I have done the work to have a credible vote. So anybody who has not done the work has not done the vote. So now you can take systems that before would have to be run by centralized authorities ranging from the government running money to Mark Zuckerberg running Facebook and you can replace them by a credible vote of all the people participating in the network and you know they are not cheaters that they get to have a say because of they have done the work. One way to do the work is Hashcash but that is essentially what blockchains and Web3 do. Web3 basically says Okay we can now run this network through the people who have invested into the network and they can invest with money. They can invest with resources or they can invest with proof of work which is sort of the most robust way to do it while keeping it decentralized. But I think this may of lead us into we are probably getting to the point where we should define what we mean by Web3.  Yes.  I think Chris has articulated one of the better definitions out there one of the best definitions.  Perhaps Chris we could also start just to show it could be change it could be evolution but Web1 Web2 Web3 if you could lay it out.  The way I think about it is Web1 the internet of course existed before the '90s but the web sort of this killer app on top of the internet was created in 1990. I think of Web1 as let us call it 1990 to 2005. The key thing with Web1 is it was dominated by open protocol. So the web has a protocol called HTTP email has a protocol called SMTP and these were the proto these were the platforms you were building on then. So if you were Larry and Sergey and you were building Google you were building it on top of HTTP right on top of the web. The web was open which means no one controlled it. What that means from Larry and Sergey's point of view is they knew if they built a successful product a successful search engine they would own it and they would control it. You could not have somebody come along and say I am going to take 50 percent or I am going to shut you down. It is the web it was open. Similar to let us say in economics if you talk to an entrepreneur or an investor they will say they like to invest in countries with predictable rule of law. They do not like countries where the government sees the assets and things like this. It is the same thing that happens with startups and entrepreneurs. They want to be built on the platform that they know they can trust. So that was what was so great about that first year of the web while you had so much incredible innovation and investment and it was I think most people would agree today that was sort of a golden period of innovation. But the products were limited in the sense that it tended to be kind of read-only. It tended to be I call it skeuomorphic where people were taking things from the offline world like magazines and putting them on the internet. A lot of the book you go back and look at the '90s web it was very much sort of experience like a magazine. You did not have things like social networks and user-generated content and nearly the same degree. That started really kind of percolating this year. People call Web2 let us call it around 2005 and at that time you had two competing models. Let us just take Twitter. There was an open protocol called RSS. That was the obvious thing to compete with Twitter. I mean it is still around but it is not nearly as popular as Twitter and Facebook and everything else. There were sort of open ways to build social networks in the 2000s. Then there were closed ways to build them. For a variety of reasons I will not go into all the details the closed ways1 and a lot of it had to do with the ease of use. The way I think about it is Web2 the open protocols were just limited in what they could do. If you wanted to set up a website in 2008 let us say and you wanted to have sort of simulate the functionality of Twitter. You would have to go get a web hosting provider buy a domain name and do a whole bunch of other things. Everyone tried to reuse domain names essentially domain names in the earlier in the pre-blockchain world they are the one thing you can really own on the internet it is your domain name. You control it. The open side kept trying to kind of use the domain name again and again but it costs 8. You have to go set it up. It was very technical. Meanwhile you go to Twitter and it is like three clicks and you choose your name and you are in and your friends are there. So fast and then mobile phones came along and the whole thing accelerated and here we are now with five-plus companies that kind of control the internet. So Web3 is coming along. It is a Web3 is like just my definition is it is an internet owned by users and builders orchestrated with tokens. This new concept of a token is the kind of the key concept of Web3. This comes sort of historically from the movement that started with Bitcoin. Although I think it is sort of a different branch of the genealogy or something. A lot of the stuff's actually built on a different crypto network called Ethereum and then there are other kind of alternatives to it. The big kind of innovation with Ethereum was it is fully programmable. It is a computer. Just like a blockchain it is a modern blockchain like Ethereum it is a computer in the quite literal sense. It is funny this is like the most controversial thing I have said on Twitter I got huge. When I said blockchains are computers they are computers. Literally if you go look at Alan Turing's on computability paper von Neumann or any of the great computer scientists a computer something you write code and it can store things. A theory has almost Turing complete programming language and can store information. It is a computer it is a computer that happens to run. It is a virtual computer a computer that runs on a network of physical computers which is I think what kind of trips people up but it is a computer. It is a very powerful computer that has new properties that prior kinds of computers did not have. One of the things you can do on these is you can create these things called smart contracts which are code that will continue to run in a certain way. You can also create these things called tokens and tokens can be fungible like the way that quote cryptocurrencies are or it can be non-fungible NFTs and it can be something which I think some people have heard about now which are things that can be represented by a piece of media for example like you are buying this collectible basketball card or this collectible work of art things like that. Why tokens are so important is they now provide a mechanism by which value and control can be given to users and builders as opposed to simply to centralized companies. So you can build today a version of Facebook. So there is two things. One is remember before I said the functionality was not quite there for the open side and Web2 it is now there. You can now build something that looks and feels like Facebook or Twitter using open protocols and using this new kind of philosophy where the value and control accrue to the users of the network not to a company because there is no company right? You are going to see more and more things products launched like this where there is initially there'ill be some kind of RD organization that helps create these protocols but over time they go away in the same way that there is no Bitcoin company Ethereum has a nonprofit foundation that supports RD but there is no Ethereum company. This is how I believe the most important internet products will be created in the future is through this kind of new means. Why will it be done this way? One it is better because is not it better to have  would not it be better if the drivers on the Uber network owned Uber and got to the value and got to participate more in the value creation and also in the control and governance of that system? I think that is clearly a better thing for society. I also think it is just going to be a winning product because people love if you look at people in these Web3 communities they like no Web3 company no crypto company has ever spent a dollar on marketing including Coinbase. I was on the board for years no marketing.Why? because tokens are self-marketing. When somebody owns something and feels skin in the game they want to go talk about it. They want to evangelize it. So I think Web3 is not only better for the world but it is also going to beat Web2 because it is going to be more popular because the people get really excited when they actually get to participate.  The internet is a hundred percent the most important invention of the century. I do not think that is hyperbolic to say that. We are literally talking about how is money and power going to flow on the internet? This is such an important issue. Yet it is caricatured in the press and things as like tech bros money this and that. It is so misunderstood and it is so important which is why I get fired up about it because I feel like if people like me and Naval do not explain this  I think it is a very important thing I guess I will say.  I will just if it is okay with you guys just share a little bit speak for a second and also try to paraphrase as a muggle and then I want you to poke holes in what I say. So first I will say that I am relatively new to this sphere but like you said once it started to land or sink in I felt something and this is going to sound very odd perhaps but this like physiological quickening that really kept me up. I was not able to sleep well for about a week straight. That only happens to me every five to seven or five to 10 years because I started to see some of the possibilities and some of the beneficial societal changes and on and on and on that not just could are already in a sense a byproduct of this paradigm shift. So tell me if this captures some of the essence and then either of you can poke holes in it but just to highlight a couple of things. So people might think of Web1 as read-only largely read-only and open. Then we have Web2 read-write but as we have seen it it is become more centralized with a lot of these large companies. You do not own like you said aside from maybe a domain name you are not in control of your own destiny. You have very few rights. Your reputation is not transferable. If you are on a platform like Twitter you can be de-platformed and we put that aside but it is centralized. You are at the whim of a handful of companies which a lot of people will sign up for like you said because of convenience ease of use et cetera. Web3 then appears to introduce a number of things including property rights and decentralization. This is not going to be a perfect comparison but if people think of say like REI and a co-op it would differ in the sense that we are not necessarily going to have management per se with a truly decentralized platform. But what I have seen firsthand I want to give people a concrete example just to point out a very niche group perhaps that I have seen benefit very clearly and that has been artists. So I want to talk about this just for a second because I have friends who are photographers friends who are graphic artists friends who are musicians who were crippled financially by COVID. When they could not tour when they could not do things because they are only getting paid 0.01 per stream on some of these music streaming services. With the ability to create unique pieces of property in the form of NFTs and launch projects their futures have entirely changed. I want to highlight something for folks and that is it is not because of the initial sales price. The model for authors the model for musicians has some royalty component but you kind of get paid upfront and then you have a pittance of some percentage that you make on the backend. But with a smart contract like you said if we think of Ethereum as this world computer with a smart contract instead of a ton of middlemen who are taking the lion's share of profits you can set in advance certain things that happen automatically. If you are an artist and your work is resold and then resold again and resold again. Well if you are operating in a traditional art world you get paid once. That is the end of the story. Instead of that now people are making the lion's share or many of them of their income from these secondary sales and it is all done automatically. They do not have to trust some agent or a broker or a rep or a curator to pay them. They do not have to audit accounting because it is all on the blockchain. So I just wanted to give that example and wonder if either of you would like to elaborate on any aspect of that or give an example of other things that you are seeing that are exciting to you?  Yeah. I would just only summarize what you guys have said because I think you have approached it the right way. But basically what you are saying is that digital private keys enable digital private property. So we finally have private property on the internet and we do not need people like Spotify or even the studios and the labels to determine who owns what private property and hold it with their database entries and their lawyers. We can each do it ourselves. We can finally each and Chris got made fun of on Twitter for this we can each own a piece of the internet but it is absolutely true. We can create digital scarcity and it is a very powerful thing because then it can map to real-world scarcity because the real world is not completely abundant in everything. The real world does have scarce economic resources. So we can have digital scarcity and digital private property. In a Web3 context there are three critical things that both of you have touched on but I just want to summarize them for the listener that really make Web3. So unique so distinct and so revolutionary which is in a normal model we are used to thinking of a computer program as an application run by a third-party where they control the code they own the data and they own the platform and the economic benefits and then we get our scraps. We put a tweet we put a podcast maybe we get a few shekels from Spotify. Maybe we get a few hearts on Twitter and a few retweets but it is not a lot. The owners of Spotify are getting far richer than the creators and the podcasters on Spotify and the musicians on Spotify. Not to pick on Spotify they are just emblematic of the whole thing. We have had this transition where it is like Web1 okay who won that? Microsoft maybe Netscape and Google was a big winner of Web1. Then Web2 who won that? Well it is Apple Google and maybe Facebook. Is Web3 also going to be controlled by big companies? No the beauty of Web3 is for the first time all the data is actually open. The data is literally living in the blockchain or in distributed systems but it is secured. It is actually secured far better than these corporations can secure our data because each is secured by our own private key. So each of us has a safety deposit box now in the cloud that we can give selective access to with our private keys to people who need them when they need them and then close them off again. So they are not leaked in the next credit reporting hack or the next big company hack. Then who owns the platform underneath as Chris said its contributors own the platform instead of corporations own the platform. All the people who are pro-co-op and who are pro-collectivism should be embracing this because now we can own the platforms that we are actually building with our collective creative efforts. Finally developers love this because the code is now open instead of being closed. So it is this insane concept a revolutionary concept. What we have flipped applications from being closed-code corporations own the platform and users are the data to open-code contributors own the platform and users own their data. So now these things become completely composable. One of the reasons why the Web3 revolution is going to be so non-linear and so unexpected and so fast is because open code means these applications plug into each other like LEGO blocks. You go buy a LEGO for your kids. Well it connects to every LEGO piece that your kid already owns. It connects to all the other LEGO pieces of the kids down the block and they can build anything they want out of it and that is how code on Web3 works. That is how data on Web3 works. That is how even ownership on Web3 works where I can own a little piece of every platform that I contribute to and this is absolutely a revolution.  Naval could you define a word which comes up a lot in Web3 composable and what that means how people use it?  The beauty is this is all open source right? So it is not even APIs anymore. I do not have to access through the very limited APIs that Twitter might impose or expose and then take away later on as they have famously done. I can literally connect to the code at any point that I want to. Then in open source you only solve each problem once. So if somebody has built a good version of how to solve a certain problem I am just going to reuse that and reuse it again. Maybe I will fork it maybe I will improve it a little bit maybe I will put it to a slightly different system but essentially at the fundamental level each problem only has to be solved once. So composable means that it is like LEGOs or it is actually digital LEGOs where I can just copy the LEGO and then build on top of it. So to the effect to a competitor is like a composable type thing where all of a sudden all the apps and Web3 can sort of team up to create any app needed. Example is there was an innovation in DeFi called automatic market makers which is instead of having to have an exchange where you have paid market makers and firms on the other side ensuring liquidity in any market you go on the stock market and you buy a stock. There is someone else on the other side who is paid to provide liquidity to sell you the stock at the exact moment that you want to buy the stock. But in Web3 we created this innovation with DeFi actually called automated market makers where you can just do it through code. Now once you have done that in code and most famous company is Uniswap which is of course an Andressen investment. So congratulations Chris. But once it is done then anybody else can copy it. Then it can just be plugged into any new application. So if you look at for example games that are going to come out that are Web3 based they are going to have entire market economies in them. They will have custody solutions. They will have NFTs built inside of them. There'ill be completely composable in that any piece from any other app can plug into any other app permissionlessly. And so you are building an edifice. It is almost like building a civilization or a city of interconnected apps instead of these silos in which the data's not portable the code is not portable users are not portable. So that is probably way longer of a definition than you wanted. And Chris can give you a crisper one I am sure.  Well I like to say that I think that was great. I think I like to say that composability is to software as compounding interest is to finance. It is sort of this magical thing where if you get it going it has this sort of exponential hockey stick. I think related to what Naval said I think one thing people who are not in the tech business may underestimate is how dominant open source software is. Open source software went from a curiosity in the '90s. I happen to be watching a thing about Microsoft in 1999 in the antitrust case. The word Linux does not come up it is all Java. Of course what actually happened is Linux is the thing that won. 99.9 percent of the code in the world is open source software that runs. So every server you talk to on the data center that is almost all Linux your Android phone is Linux. Most of the software on your iPhone is open source. How did open source win? It is composability. It is what Naval said. You only have to solve each problem once. Why would you once you solve a problem just go on GitHub and fork it and reuse the code right? What Web3 is doing is it is taking that kind of that level of rapid innovation and applying it to web services in addition to the software. Because the one thing software could not do is it could not run itself right? It relied on a company to run it. So a lot of the tech industry today is take open source software add a little bit of extra proprietary software on top and then instantiate it run it. And then charge for it. It is software as a service and that is great. And they provide value and they should make money from that. But the kind of key thing driving underneath is this composability of open source software. And now we are going to extend that to this new area.  Yeah. Composability even goes beyond software even though that is how it is commonly used. It even goes into media. So for example today if I want to build something on top of the Star Wars platform I have got to go cut a deal with Disney but in the open source composable NFT world artists are basically giving away the concepts. Yes you can always right click and save an image or the code and then modify it but you can build on top of it. So people will be building games they will be building cultural artifacts new memes new music on top of NFTs and more value accrues to the underlying NFT because now it is becoming more popular. And at the end of the day the value of a piece of art or media is directly proportional to the community around it and who is using it and who is promoting it and who is working with it. So it kind of blows away this idea of copyright intellectual property. And instead it creates the most powerful memes in the world memes in the broad sense of music and movies and books included in memes not just little internet memes that we are familiar with. And media itself becomes composable. And the greatest artists are going to have the greatest distribution. It is why not to pick on our friend but one reason why I think like Joe Rogan and others make mistakes by going to Spotify is that the power of a meme the power of an idea is determined by how many computers it is running on. The power of program is how much computation power it has beyond it. The power of an idea is how many brains is it running in? So if you have good ideas you want to spread them as far and wide as possible. That is why I will never charge for a piece of content and no one in their right mind who has good ideas should. You do not want to restrict the avenues. You want people to recompose your ideas. Akira the Don takes stuff that I say and remixes into music. And there is Smart Nonsense out there making videos and cool animations out of it. And Jack Butcher does visualizations. This is all free. Or Eric Jorgenson does the Almanac. I do not have to do any of it. This all composability around media. Now I do not have an underlying monetization mechanism. But if I wanted to I could issue NFTs against the original content and there are collectors and people who will pay for that. And my content is just becoming more and more famous. So that is an example of composability in action that extends beyond just software. Composability is a very very powerful concept. And if you want to for example I know a lot of your listeners create a lot of content. They are content creators and innovators and creators themselves. And if you want your content to get as much out there as possible do not hold anything back. If you have good ideas you want to spread them as widely as possible and you wish  you should be so lucky  that other people come and compose them with their own content and create new memes and new ideas.  So I would love to add just a couple things here just to give some sort of spice and specifics to some examples as you just did. And to further explain why this stuff has kept me up late at night. in part because   By the way The Tim Ferriss Show is just going to become a crypto podcast.  No it will not. It will not. I promise folks even though I am getting pulled into the deep water and getting spun into the vortex I am able to tread water and I will not pull everyone in with me but this stuff is important  I think it is very important to explore. And it is excited me because I have seen how much good creators good authors good musicians have struggled because they are not good at marketing but they have die-hard fans maybe a small group of diehard fans but they have some number of die-hard fans. And many of the listeners of this podcast us will recognize the title of an essay or blog post called 1000 True Fans by Kevin Kelly. I know that Chris you have also written about 1000 True Fans. You can find it at kk.org. I recommend it consistently all the time. And what Web3 allows you to do is align your interest with collective interest with other true fans self-interest by allowing them to own digital property that you create right? And what has excited me is I am seeing a lot of experimentation. So we were talking about some of the advantages or Chris you were talking about some of the advantages of Web3. One of the advantages of Web3 is also  it appears and please correct me if I get in this wrong guys is that it is very easy relatively speaking compared to say Web2 era for many companies or projects to reach escape velocity. So if they are raising money for instance they might raise once or twice small amounts of capital and then they have a token and they are able to sort of control their destiny through a collective who act as stakeholders right? And in addition to that if we look at an example like Bored Ape Yacht Club people can take a look. You are seeing because of the composability right? This LEGO block aspect and low barriers to entry with respect to cost that people are able to experiment widely. And in the case of Bored Ape Yacht Club and thanks to Punk 6529 for sharing this particular example with me because I was not aware. In addition to selling say the JPG associated with this NFT right? This property title that gives you this digital asset commercial rights were also provided to at least some purchasers of these Bored Ape Yacht Clubs. So then you have people who are going out with their specific Bored Ape and creating coffee companies or creating craft brew companies. I have never seen anything like that before. And certainly if you are a young young tech savvy intellectual property lawyer your services are going to be in need. So good to get up to speed. But the fact that all of these experiments can be run concurrently at such low cost says to me that the ecosystem is going to produce through natural selection and evolution and recombination of different types lots of things. That will be very very exciting. And it does not even matter if 98 percent 99 percent end up being garbage because the winners kind of like finding Amazon or Google in '99 or 2000 will end up being so impactful. And maybe that is just me drinking the Kool-Aid. I do not know. But that is how it feels to me.  Yeah. I mean like Bored Apes I think that the recent drop they did with the Mutant Apes so they did this thing where you got like a portion and you could get kind of your Mutant counterpart. I think they made a hundred million. I do not as far as I know they have not raised venture capital and they made a hundred million on that one drop. So certainly yes it is a different economic model. They take it farther where you get the commercial rights. The next stage which few people are playing around with now is to actually have the community create narratives. So for example Wattpad these kind of these kind of fanfic communities. Imagine the next Harry Potter the future Harry Potter is owned by the NFT holders and they get to write all sorts of interesting fiction and then they get to vote and decide what becomes canon and what is not right? So you have that. Imagine the passion people have for like Star Wars and all these other kinds of communities. And now imagine they own a piece of it and they control a piece of it. It is about to get really really interesting. I do not think there is been this much creative kind of energy since the '90s. I do not think mobile compares to it.  Now we get into the meat of it which are NFTs non-fungible tokens. And this is something that Chris has been on from day one. Of all the investors that I know in the entire space Chris has been the first one who got into NFTs in a big way and has stayed consistent on in fact February of this year I remember meeting with him and all he wanted to talk was NFTs. And I did not even understand at the time. And I was like Yeah whatever Chris that sounds cool. Nice toy. And now I am like What did you say again? So I sort of missed NFTs but NFTs for me answered a whole bunch of questions that I did not know before. I did not have the answer to before. One question was a bunch of people showed up and they bought Bitcoin early and they get to get rich in this giant wealth transfer. As we move from fiat currencies into sort of scarce math-backed currencies as Chris also once called them. And so does that just mean that the people who showed up in 2009 to 2015 or '16 get rich and everybody else kind of is a pauper? No. There is a funny quote out there floating around where somebody said Every generation invents its own new Ponzi scheme and rejects the previous generation's Ponzi scheme. And now we are moving in much faster times. So the previous generation's Ponzi scheme might have been Bitcoin or Ethereum. And if you think about what Bitcoin is Bitcoin shows up and says We reject fiat. We reject printed money. We reject kings and rulers and tyrants. We want the people's currency. Great. We got that. And then someone says Wait you can create your own currency? Well I want to create my own currency. So you get all these alt coins and everybody steps up and says Well I got my own currency. So ironically there are now probably more currencies out there than there are tokens. There is more currencies than Bitcoin. And so people are fighting to say Well instead of your ledger of record let us use my ledger of record. And NFTs are people come up and say Actually maybe digital value digital assets are like fashion. They are culture. They are always emerging. They are always composing. They are always combining. They are always going out of style. And just like in the real world anything that is in fashion can hold value. It could be real estate which is a real use case. It could be oil it could be gold. It could be every single house. It could be every single business. It could be a pair of shoes. It could be a laptop for a brief period of time the same way every digital asset that has a community and a culture around it can hold value for some period of time. Now of course it will be very non-linearly distributed. The vast majority of objects will trend towards zero value. It may be flashes in the pan but at least this gives a chance for everybody who is coming late to the crypto revolution  late in quotes because we are still so early  gets a chance to say Okay we can define any object as having value that we believe has value. And these cultural memes that we are creating around NFTs like Bored Ape Yacht Club they do not have to like harass you into HODLing them. HODLing is this meme in the Bitcoin community right? You have got to hold your Bitcoins a misspelling of hold called HODL. But in the NFT world you hold for sentimental value. If you are Punk 6529 someone comes up to buy your Punk you are not going to sell it. In fact I think just famously recently one of the Punks who is using it as Twitter ID because it is the new blue check mark on Twitter but it is actually validated and verified through wallet ownership he got offered something like 10 million for his CryptoPunk. And it was just kind of a random generic little eight-bit pixel CryptoPunk but he refused to sell because that was his identity. And he basically had to say even though I may not be worth that much money I am not for sale. And that actually made it a cultural meme and icon and now his CryptoPunk's probably worth even more. So NFTs are this absolutely fascinating rabbit hole. I think Chris was probably the first investor to identify them at scale going all the way back to his Dapper Labs investment. These are the people who built CryptoKitties and evolved from there. So I would just love to hear Chris go into NFTs like the evolution of them and kind of where they are headed.  Yeah obviously I am very excited about NFTs. I think they are very very broad kind of what I would call primitive. Primitive just so you understand like the way we kind of use it is sort of like there is these kind of key building  foundational building blocks of the internet. And the internet went through this kind of  I think that most of the issues that developed were some of the things I talked about earlier about how you could only you were limited in what you could build using open methods and a lot of the problems frankly I think come from advertising. The fact that we did not have native payments and tokens and all these things we now have forced people to do what Google wanted to do. They wanted to have a digital closed loop and a digital closed loop prior to crypto you could really only do that with advertising. And so we built this giant kind of infrastructure. The internet now is powered by banner ads and search ads and things like this. And that has been great for a few companies. It is generally been really bad for creative people. There was someone had a great tweet yesterday. The Web2 companies convinced you to give away your creations in exchange for little hearts. But yeah tell me about how NFTs are the real scam or something. It was some formulation like that. It is kind of amazing that they have convinced all these people oh Instagram what do they pay out? Zero. Facebook zero. Twitter zero. YouTube 50 percent right? Apple just for having the phone they take 30 percent. Do you know how many businesses cannot survive when you take 30 percent? It is kind of crazy that we put up with this. So now as you said put aside NFTs. Just look at like Substack. So there is no crypto in Substack right? So what is going on with Substack? It is a platform a sort of a newsletter platform you can go to as a writer and have people subscribe to it. It is relatively simple really elegant idea but the interesting thing you see now is you see writers who previously might make I do not know what 100000 or something getting a million dollars a year. And you see a lot of people saying Hey that should not happen. We were told the internet is bad for creative people. The internet is not bad for creative people. Web2 is bad for creative people. Spotify I just saw this stat the other day Spotify advertises its stat. They have eight million artists 14000 of them make 50000 a year. The rest make less than that. Those are businesses you have costs. Basically it is very hard to live below that. So 14000 kind of make a living out of eight million. Is that working? I am not blaming Spotify by the way. A lot of that money goes to labels and I think Spotify's a good company. It is the model. It is the logic of that model. And then you have these cases of like this musician 3lau I think he is like a medium-sized artist on Spotify. He did an NFT drop. He made 11 million dollars. Even if you assume that 11 million is a bubble or something people say it is a bubble if he made 100000 it is transformative. It is the same thing that is going with Substack. And so what you have is now you have this really powerful new way for creative people who were previously getting banner ads at best very poor monetization are now able to go and create all sorts of interesting things. And this is like the  we are seeing the early versions of it. You could create a JPG you can create digital album art it is sort of an obvious thing that musicians are doing now. But it can be much more than that. It is just an object. Just like in the real world we have all sorts of different classes of objects. We have art we have utilities we have  NFTs are just as broad a concept. And so I think you are going to see all sorts of interesting experimentation where maybe you are a musician you get something that is beautiful but also you can go use in different ways. You can take it from a game or bring it into another experience or use it to go to a real life show as a ticket. And it is a means of patronage. I think one of the things I experience I really encourage people to participate in these communities to understand them. I buy NFTs on Foundation which is one of our investments which is kind of a high-end art NFT platform curated platform. For example there is a science fiction writer who I sorry graphic designer who I bought a bunch of his NFTs and he DMs me and now we are friends and it is like I never understood people that gave  that bought physical offline art. I have never had any interest in it. Now I kind of get it though because I am like Hey this guy's cool. I want to be part of his  be in his network. I do venture capital I hang around with tech people all day. It is fun for me to be able to talk to an artist. And at the same time I can support him in this sort of non-transactional way and be his patron. And see if some people are buying stuff on these websites to make money some are doing it to patronize. Some are doing it to  I think down the road we are going to see more and more utility kind of use cases. The gaming is really interesting right now. I think the world has not seen this yet but I will tell you we have a games group at our firm that does not do crypto and it is close to a hundred percent of the things they are seeing now. These are people out of  these are founders that come out of like Riot and Blizzard and things like this. I think it is close to a hundred percent of the meetings they have now involve NFTs. The games people get this they are at the cutting edge especially the kind of the younger ones the next cohort. And there is going to be so much interesting stuff and these are going to be real utilities. You can take this piece of art you can take this sword and you can mix and match and move it around. And they all kind of immediately get composability and why it is important. And we are just going to see wave after wave of very creative things. I think of an NFT as  it is as general a concept as the webpage. Think about the website. When it first comes out people are like Oh it is a website! and they try to kind of map it to the offline world. It is like a brochure. But then as we saw over this sort of 30-year period all of these clever people come and they innovate it. Website? It is not a website it is a social network. It is a SAAS tool. It is a this. It is a that. NFTs are going to be just as broad. It is a core new concept the idea of owning something on the internet. Another way I like to think about it is imagine if in the real world we could not own anything. And every time you go this is kind of a wacky analogy but every time you go to a hotel or a restaurant they are like Oh you have got to change your clothes and buy a new outfit. This is how the internet works today. And then you leave they are like Hey you have got to give that stuff back. And then one day somebody comes along and they say No you can take it with you. Imagine the amount of innovation that would kick off. That is kind of what is been going on on the internet. We had this sort of renting fiefdom design and we have just kind of broken it open. And so people say Oh it is a bubble this and that. I do not I think it is the beginning of this incredible 20-year kind of creative run I believe.  I would love Chris for you to talk a little bit more about the gaming because I think NFTs in the gaming context are easily understood by a lot of folks even if they do not game. But a lot of the applications make sense to me. So I mean you could talk about anything you want right? I mean Sorare is kind of interesting but I think even more interesting not necessarily more interesting but there is been talk and I think some of this might be kind of bright-eyed bushy-tailed idealism but the possibility of say universal basic income. When we look at let us say something like YGG right? Or could you just speak a little bit to that and what that means? Because it is so interesting to me  and interesting is a lazy adjective  it is eye-opening and exciting.  So what is the model today in video games. The dominant model  video games are interesting because it is kind of  there've been new ways of technology but the old way still exists. So the old way to buy a video game with something like Madden you pay 60 bucks or whatever costs these days that is still around that business is still around there is companies like EA that do that. But then you had layered on top of it all these kind of new more modern what I think of more modern companies and probably the best ones are things like Fortnite and Supercell Clash Royale and League of Legends. And these are basically the model they use is the game is completely free. You can play completely forever. And the only thing you buy are cosmetic goods. And so you cannot buy goods that make you win because people think that would kind of undermine the integrity of the game. So it is all just to look cool status flex. And that is a 40 billion a year industry just the virtual goods alone. Okay. And this by the way same thing is going with NFTs it was laughed at 10 years ago 15 years ago. It was a big joke and of course it was not and it is very important. But those virtual goods are kind of locked into the game right? And also when you buy the virtual goods all the money is going to the company. Right. So what games like Axie Infinity were investors in one of these kind of new crypto games is instead of it being you buy the goods from the company it is much more peer to peer right? It is much more the way eBay and Craigslist you are buying it from another person who themselves were able to basically improve the NFT by playing the game right? And so you basically like in the case of Axie you have something in the order of a hundred thousand people many of whom are in the Philippines who make a living playing that game. And so they go and they do a bunch of different stuff and kind of people call it grinding. You kind of play a bunch of stuff and then they may improve the NFTs. And then other people who maybe have more money than time buy them from them right? And the company only takes like I think it is like a three percent take rate or something as opposed to much more like a marketplace kind of fee as opposed to taking all the money. Because protocol will take lower fees but in exchange you have got this like really kind of cool vibrant economy. And so basically like actually really kind of broke out. I think it is one of the four games that have 800000 which is the max Discord users and it is one of the four. So it is one of the they it is like two million-ish active users like very very popular game by the way not in any of the app stores because because they get banned because Apple and Google are trying to fight Web3 bands and yet they still have that kind of user base. And I think Axie is probably the thing that really inspired a lot of people. YGG mentions a separate company which we are actually also investors in which is it is Yield Guild Games and it is actually like it is very cool. It is what we call a DAO but it is essentially it is an online software kind of organization where people can essentially get loans get loaned Axie so they can go play it and not have to pay the upfront costs and then earn money. So it is like this kind of guild model that you have in games where people kind of get together and join on the same team but suddenly you can have sort of real money involved and people make real livings. And so I think that the games industry a lot of sort of the next generation of talent saw this and were excited.  Thank you Chris. I would love to add also just a few other I am not going to give a ton of detail. I will let people look these folks up but from the creator standpoint just bridging back to that if we think of NFTs I guess on a very very basic level as property title of some type there is actually a lot more that you can sort of embed into an NFT. So for instance Dmitri Cherniak had encourage people to check out Dmitri incredible digital artist incredible coder really. So his art is his code and famous for a project and a series of pieces known as Ringers. But also if you check out The Eternal Pump as an example and I believe I am getting this right if not I am sure the internet will correct me and I will make amends in the show notes but what an artist can do is provide first access to future projects through certain sets of NFTs. And they can also create in-real-life interactions or requirements for people to go to say a certain location to mint i.e. purchase say a given NFT. So there are all these permutations providing future privileged access or requiring real-world actions say to be eligible to purchase or to receive a given NFT. The sort of Cambrian explosion of experimentation is beyond anything I have ever seen. And I have been in tech in one way or another since 2007. So not that long I guess in the sort of long term view of things but I have never seen anything like it. Naval do you have anything you would like to add?  Yeah. I mean there is a really interesting subtle point that both of you have been touching upon that may be worth making explicit which is that I think a lot of people when they first see NFTs their reaction is Well I can just right click and save that JPG. Why does this thing have value? And hopefully people who look into NFTs move past that pretty quickly but you have both given examples of how these things have value that you cannot just right-click and save-as. The simplest one is just yes I can also photocopy any piece of art right? Does not mean that I have the actual art. There is still provenance there is still like a linkage there is still authenticity to the art itself. And the simplest way to see that is for example the Bored Ape Yacht Club. Let us say we are building a metaverse. We are building like a 3D virtual space. And hopefully it is not Zuck. Hopefully it is some crypto emergent thing on blockchains that we are all using that is open. Well if I walk into two rooms one room has the authentic Bored Ape Yacht Club and it is got the actual nice photos of the Apes or the CryptoPunks of whatever hanging on the walls. And my software tells me that. And then I walk into a different room which has all fakes and copies. And my software immediately tells me Now you are in the fake one. Where do you think the cool kids are going to hang out? Where are the rich kids going to hang out? Where are the parties going to take place? So all of a sudden having NFTs in this authentication gives spaces actual value. And so it allows you to create a metaverse which then has a distinction between space A and space B but that is just the simplest level. What you have also given examples of is in a game and NFT is a smart contract. It is a thing that is usable within the game. And copy of the NFT is not if I have a special piece of loot or a special item that I have picked up in one game and then the developer or the same blockchain or the same group of users went to a second game and I get to port my NFT over well that authentic NFT is going to have some value whereas the right click save JPG version is not going to have any value. And then finally Tim you gave the example of an NFT can also be a social contract between the creator of the NFT and the fans of the NFT so that it access a ticket for access to future rights and a fake one is not going to get you that or it gives you access to future pieces by the artist first and so on and so forth. And I love Chris' example of it being a webpage. Because a webpage is programmable a webpage can do anything it is touring complete. It can run any piece of code. And so we have these essentially touring complete programmable objects that are now suddenly scarce that you can own and that you can transfer and you can link to the real world and you can link them to the digital world through smart contracts. You can link them to the real world through social contracts. By the way Bitcoin is only linked to the real world through social contracts. I know that is going to be a controversial thing to say but essentially it is a social contract between the community of Bitcoiners to accept Bitcoin to accept that as a canonical ledger. So the same way among the Bored Ape Yacht Club or among the CryptoPunk community or whatever the toads or the frogs or whoever they are whichever community there is a social contract who accept these as the canonical avatars. Essentially what blockchains do is they allow open composability and programmability between all these objects on in the digital domain. And there is those smart contracts that regulate those. And then social contracts that regulate it in the outside world. And NFT is no different. If Bitcoin can have value if Ethereum can have value then in theory an NFT can have value as long as the smart contracts of the social contracts and the community enforcing it have value. Of course that means most of them are not but some of them will.  I want to also come back to Sorare for a second. And I am an investor in a few funds that have stake in Sorare. That is not why I bring it up. I bring it up because I listened to a podcast a guy named Andrew Steinwold on Zima Red interviewing  I am blanking on his last name but his first name is AJ. who was I believe a data scientist at Amazon who then went on to become a Sorare player. So let me explain for a second. I am not going to do it justice. But if you can imagine collecting and this is again not going to do justice and either of you should correct me if I get this wrong but digital trading cards that represent specific players that you can assemble into teams that are then benchmarked against real world sports performance to determine how well your team does. With said team you can win money right? In leagues of different types. Now people are like Okay fine sports betting interesting. But where it starts to get super super interesting is because it is correlated to real-world play with these composite teams. You then have right now for instance funds being created where they are hiring effectively digital sports managers. They are buying and loaning out these NFTs. And then doubling down on the people who perform best as sports managers. And one of their dreamgoals is at some point to take all of this sports analytics intelligence and data science and to buy an actual sports team and to apply it there. Kind of like sabermetrics and the Oakland A's and Billy Beane back in the day. But in an environment where they can simulate and test and split test and multivariate tests over and over and over and over again. I will give one other example of things to come and maybe it is already happening. You guys could probably speak to this. But let us say you buy a piece of artwork that is in the form of a digital NFT. And I suppose that is a redundant term but in the form of an NFT. Right now if you need a loan you might say you might secure that loan with collateral such as your home right? And if it is not happening already in the near future people will be able to do that with collateral of high value that is secured and verified on the blockchain right? You are not going to have to go to Sotheby's and get all the provenance and the letters and the this and the that which is going to take forever. You will be able to instantly verify it and then secure loans against something like a high value NFT. It could be a Ringer it could be a Fidessa could be a CryptoPunk could be anything. I mean they are going to be many different options. And I think those are things that just are not immediately apparent. They certainly were not immediately apparent to me when Kevin Rose was the first person to show me CryptoPunks. And I was just flabbergasted. But when you start to  I mean look they are cool. I think they are amazing on a bunch of levels but it is deceptively simple on the surface. And the implications are unbelievably nuanced. I just wanted to give a few of those examples.  Yeah. I just want to drop one quote in here which floats around on the internet. It is called Gall's Law it is a rule of thumb for systems design. And it basically says that a complex system designed from scratch never works and cannot be patched to make it work. And a complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved from a simple system that worked. So in that sense NFTs are primitive and people are going to recombine and assemble and compose these primitives to create incredibly complex systems. And everyone who competes with NTFs with a centralized solution as happens inside every game every social network is trying to design a complex system from the top-down. And it is a miracle that it even works. So this is all part of the decentralization user ownership revolution of Web3. We own the NFTs. They are simple they are portable they are programmable they are composable. And people are going to recombine them to create these complex systems that work. That are going to be impossible for larger companies to compete with. And we can already see that like Apple and Google do not like NFTs. And so you are not going to see a lot of Web3 applications on the phones anytime soon. And even I think recently it was Valve which runs Steam the game distribution service. So that they are not going to have NFTs on there or NFT based games on there. And they are going to miss out. They are going to miss out on the largest boom in internet gaming since the beginning of internet gaming.  Chris I would love to ask you a question. Thank you Naval. To come back to a word that you used and we have spoken about this separately on the phone.  skeuomorphic.  Yeah.  All right so skeuomorphic. Maybe some historical examples of skeuomorphic design and what that means. And you have written before that one of the most common mistakes people make when evaluating new technologies is to focus too much on doing old things better. So I imagine we are seeing and we will see a lot of people are trying to copy and paste Web1 or 2 for Web3. So I would love for you to just spell and then give some examples of skeuomorphic design. And then after that to give some examples if you can of Web3 nativeemergent applications or instances to just illustrate what might be possible.  Yeah I did not know the real spelling on this podcast.  I think it is   S-K-E-U-  S-K-E-U-   morphics.  Yeah.  Skeuomorphic.  Morphic yeah I got it.  So I think it was a Steve Jobs word that he used this word. And he used it to refer to visual design. So if you remember the original iPhone had like a book app and it had like wood grain bookshelves okay? And so it was this concept in design of taking something from the offline world and using that design in the online world to make it look more familiar. I do not know for whatever reason me and my colleagues started using this word all the time internally three or four years ago. I am not sure if we invented it or got it  I mean not invented it but ported it over from the design world. I do not really remember. But we would always use it to mean like essentially here's the idea. So when you go back and look at early films. And early films look like plays. They put people on and they would walk around and they would stage it like plays. And then over time film developed its own new grammar right? And so you had a closeup and you had an establishing shot. You go look at the old movies they would just show Grand Central Station for 10 minutes. And then they learned over time you could just show it for a second and the human brain would figure it out right? And so it took them a long time to figure. And this happens with every new technology. I mean the first cars they mimicking the horses and it just goes  And so early web for example right? It was like brochures and magazines. And then people said Wait a second you can do new kind of So the opposite we call it native. So you can do web-native stuff like having a social network having  it can be a two-way medium. It is code you can do all sorts of other cool stuff right? So I think it was not until the mid 2000s that people really started exploring the native web experience right? I remember too like it and I believe the best investment approach was to develop the native stuff. So I remember like when YouTube was out. There were two classes of video apps. There was the YouTube ones. And then there was these other ones which were basically saying hey we are going to take CVS and put it on the internet. So it was enterprise soft work on a model. And YouTube was like at first a lot of people  I mean there were not YouTube stars back then. So it was all these just silly viral videos or things that infringe on copyright probably. I mean they got bought by Google that was really controversial. Because it was the widespread meme like crypto today. It is all like Oh it is all this shady illegal stuff. But what they understood the founders and Google to their credit is that this was the true native video on the internet. And that once you created this experience this thing where you can embed the videos and it worked seamlessly. And they were not like permission paywalls all around it. That this huge creative community would come up with around it. And you would have this whole new and now today Dude Perfect with the guys messing around on the basketball stuff or whatever and did not exist back then. Has more subscribers than all the sports leagues combined on YouTube right? So it is not only with the native products the winners but the native creators were the winner. And so this is a concept we use a lot internally. People who know me will tell you I always mind when I am negative on something it is because it is skeuomorphic. People want to take blockchains and be like supply chain management and like offline tickets this are So sorry. I am glad they are entrepreneurs in every category and I respect all entrepreneurs. But those are skeuomorphic ideas I think. And they may work but they are not going to be the thing people talk about 10 years from now right? It is going to be this new stuff the NFTs  so let me give you an example of a really cool project. There is this thing called the Loot right? Never even heard it Loot is this game.  Yeah Loot by the former creator of or I guess the creator of Vine.  Yeah.  Yeah Don Hoffman who is a genius developer and product designer. Created this thing Loot. And what Loot is it is basically it is just these little cards that have an inventory like a Dungeons and Dragons style game. So it will say like magic cloak just literally those words on a page. And those themselves are NFTs. But what is so cool about it is that it inspired this whole community of people to build around it. It is almost like if Ernest Hemingway instead of writing the book wrote just the first page of the book. And then let the community add the next page right? And so that is what Don is. He wrote This is the beginning of it now let your imaginations go wild. And by the way there will not be one canonical game. There'ill be a hundred different things that all use  they are in the Lootverse. It is this whole tapestry of creative people adding different bricks into this new structure. And that is just a very profound new way to think about building a game. And something you could not have done without as Naval called it. These very simple new building blocks. And it is exactly the simplicity that makes them so powerful and that the way you can recombine them. And that is just an early experiment. There'ill be many more cool experiments like that. But what is cool about that experiment it is like the old  what did they say? Like The Velvet Underground or something had only a thousand fans but they all started Vans kind of thing. Loot does not have millions of users but the people that like it are the best product designers in the world. And so I think it is going to be one of those moments where it is like in the same way Naval you remember this del.icio.us and Flickr. And there was this period of 2003 to five when all the core Web2 primitive stuff happened.  Right.  And people were like Oh my God! Like tagging I mean it sounds hilarious today. Tagging was a breakthrough. It was a conceptual breakthrough. Because before that it was like oh you have to have categories. Everything has to be mutually exclusive buckets. There is every website had this thing on the left it was like the menu. And everything had to be in a bucket. And tagging came to no it does not have  it is like you have a computer with a lot of powerful capabilities you can just make a tag. And then default public that was a revolutionary concept. So there was this period I think we are in that kind of period now in this world where there is like this really really creative core that is developing these cool ideas. And those will provide the roadmap for the next wave.  Yeah the Flickrs will lead to the Pinterests.  Exactly!  Yeah your skeuomorphic idea it runs even a little deeper. And a skeuomorphism debt can work too. Like if you look at basic computers we use a desktop computing paradigm. There is a desktop there is files there is folders. That is skeuomorphism from the physical world. And it can help people to reason by analogy into how to use something. But at the same time I actually share Chris' skepticism of skeuomorphism in this space. In fact I made a big mistake which is early on in the history of blockchains. I thought we are going to do is we are going to replace Uber and Facebook and Twitter with Web3-enabled primitives and networks that come out of those. Now I do not necessarily think so. I think we are just going to create brand new things that we cannot yet even predict or identify. But we are going to end up shifting our attention to those things. So Twitter and Facebook will still be fine will continue to exist. But our attention will be on these new applications that are uniquely enabled by primitives like NFTs and tokens.  I think that is right. I think like look I mean people still use Microsoft Office it is still around. The internet did not get rid of it right? I think these are just layers and layers. And I think the same thing I agree. The value is created in the cool stuff will be in the native cutting edge stuff.  On the frontier.  Yeah.  Yes.  Let me make a couple of recommendations for folks who are listening and I will get there a book and a movie recommendation. And you guys might make fun of me for this. But the first is go read Snow Crash and appreciate how prescient that book was. And it is an enjoyable read Neal Stephenson incredible book. But go check that out. And then perhaps at the same time or even beforehand watch or rewatch Ready Player One. And certainly there are aspects of it that I do not think are right around the corner but I think a lot is coming sooner than people expect. That is what I have at least come away with conditionally at this point having immersed myself for the last few months very very deep down the rabbit hole. And with that though I want to play proxy for listeners who are saying Okay well we are hearing about all of the amazing things. What are some of the weaknesses or challenges associated with Web3? And I will start with one so I remember purchasing some of these NFTs. And then having someone recommend that I share that online. And I go Well wait a second. If I share it online then people are effectively looking into my bank account full of assets that are worth certain amounts. And all of that is preserved in the blockchain. And they are like That is right now your own bank. And I am like  I am not sure if I 100 percent want to be my own bank. In the sense that people use external banks for a lot of good reasons right? They do not want to have gold bars and money stuck into a mattress in their own house. And have to deal with home defense and so on. I do think it appears there are some technical solutions or services coming that could address some of these things. I am just wondering   I have been to your house Tim. I think your home defense is pretty good.  Yeah my own defense is fine. That is true. But I am an edge case right? So not everyone has multiple firearms placed in multiple locations. That is a longer conversation. It is not because I am a crazy person although some people would disagree. But the question is like what are some of the challenges? And because there have been points where I am like Okay would I prefer Amazon to see my entire purchase history or would I prefer the entire internet to possibly see my entire purchase history? I do not know. At this point in time for me personally probably Amazon right? And will the solutions that come to address some of those concerns. Once we get to millions of wallets instead of say 500000 wallets engaging with certain types of NFTs. Will those services be antithetical to the ethos and promise of Web3? So I just want to throw that out there and hear whatever comes to mind for you guys.  I mean for me security is a big issue. I have been outspoken about crypto for quite a while. So I had to very carefully move all of my investments into custodians and funds so that I do not hold anything directly. But this is only possible because you can be your own bank. But the good news is you can be your own bank in very limited circumstances. You can take the majority of it. You can stick it with custodians and just like there is places you can store your physical art under guard lock and key. You will be able to put your NFTs at least the valuable ones into NFT armories and repositories. There is going to be a multi-signature where multiple people have to agree to move something. There'ill be time delay where it cannot be moved for six months or a year so we can help mitigate all that. And the industry is working on all of that too slowly for my comfort but it is happening. But I think you can also keep your anonymity in multiple ways. We mentioned Punk 6529 who is a purely Twitter identity. People do not know who that person is in real life. But they are already regarded as a good NFT collector and curator. You can also create new wallets on the fly and the software is getting better and better for that. So you can literally do each purchase out of a different wallet. Which may be hard to trace the previous one. Because there are enough ways to anonymize it at least from the general public. Or if you are using things like zero-knowledge proofs from almost anybody. So these problems will get solved. But they are problems today which is what makes this space hairy. When the time comes that anyone can mint and hold and move an NFT easily it will be a joyous moment. But also a lot of the so-called alpha in the space will be gone.  Yeah. Chris do you have anything you would like to add?  Yeah I agree with that. And I think closely related to security of course is usability. And just how to make everything easy to use and secure. I think it will all get worked out but I agree with Naval that it is not there yet. I think to me the biggest challenge in this space is probably the messaging around it. I think there is a lot of misunderstandings around it. I think some of that is self-inflicted by us by the community. I think some of it just has not diffused out into the broader world. So you just have a lot of people who react negatively to crypto web 3 et cetera. And I think that could also lead to overzealous regulatory actions too. And so I think it is very important to do I think what we are trying to do here and just explain these ideas. I think ultimately what usually convinces people is they need to decide for themselves if they want to dive into it. I have literally in eight years in the space I have never met somebody who is very well-informed on the space and also deeply skeptical never. Because there is a   Yeah. In a way if you are yeah if you are deeply skeptical about the idea of owning digital property then you are   You do not understand it yeah.   you are not only denying capitalism on the internet you are a metaverse denier because   Yes.   if you look at the metaverse as articulated in Neal Stephensons Snow Crash and almost anywhere else there is this concept of there is property in the metaverse and obviously some people own property and there is jurisdiction in that property. And it is not just you can enter into my room because I can just right click and copy and save your room. It is like there is authenticity around this is my room these are my objects in my room and I can shuffle them around. I can control who comes in and out and I can control what happens when someone tries to sit on my metaverse couch. Are they allowed to do that or not? So all of this programmability comes from ownership. And it is a bizarre idea to think that the only people who can own items in the metaverse are big corporations. You are basically saying only Zuck no offense to Zuck I actually think he does a better job than he gets credit for. But you are basically saying only Zuck is allowed to own the metaverse only he can own the entire metaverse. Why cannot we each own our own room our own space our own property in the metaverse? So denying and pushing back against NFTs and cryptos is basically saying We are not going to have a collectively owned future. We are going to have a corporate-owned future and we are going to have a government-owned future. I can see why the Chinese Communist Party wants to ban crypto because it is antithetical to the idea of users owning things. But for a capitalist society for democratic society for a collective society to ban crypto that makes no sense to me. If we are to ban NFTs or try to put them into financial regulations which essentially banned it is basically saying No you artists are not allowed to own your own output and deal directly with the fans. You have to be serfs working on Spotify's farm or working on YouTube's farm.  This might be a complete 90-degree turn but I am going to ask anyway and we will see where it goes. Going back to one of your many many many posts at cdixon.org. This is an oldie 2009.  Oh wow. I forget what is out there.  Yeah well see  I know   You are about to get canceled.  So I do have a question about this one very very questionable paragraph. No that is not what I am going to do. What is hill climbing in computer science?  Hill climbing it is a classic kind of algorithm. Which is about I mean the metaphor is think of a landscape with a bunch of hills. And the goal is to get to the highest point. But put this constraint on let us say it is foggy. You can only see a little bit in front of you or behind you. And so there is a class of algorithms that basically talk about what is the optimal way to climb that hill. And so like one obvious one is if you are on an incline go up right? But the problem there is you might get trapped in what is called a local maximum. Which is like you just happen to start on a small hill. So the next iteration of that is what is called a simulated annealing which is you add some randomness in there too. So to avoid to just simply going up the first hill right? And so this post I wrote I think you were talking to. This was a popular post is called Climbing the Wrong Hill. And I was making the analogy from these algorithms to a career. And the idea was just like in a career you do want to climb the hill you are on. But the mistake I saw a lot of young people making was. They are at whatever McKinsey or Google or something. And they see the next prize is six months away the next promotion the next bonus whatever it is. And they are on that treadmill and not willing to go for example join a startup and take what appears to be a step backwards but is in fact a much bigger hill right? And they get caught up in the local maximization thing and ended up in  and I think we find a lot of people who are unhappy in their careers when they are in their 30s and 40s. It is because they have hill climbed the wrong hill right? And the lesson I take from the computer science is to add some randomness too some exploration. There is a concept in machine learning it is called exploration versus exploitation. You want to always have a balance between sort of like so for example I try to use this when I order food. So I will make sure that sometimes I am exploiting. Exploiting means I am going to my favorite restaurant but half the time I am also trying a new restaurant. And that is just the core concept in machine learning. When you design your systems is how to optimally you come to conclusion. So anyway so that is the idea a little bit. It is just you should have  I think to people in their 20s for example should add not randomness not like literally randomness but exploration. They should go try a bunch of different things. See what is the right hill. And also be willing to take a step back.  Yeah you want to keep your schedule open as much as possible so you can follow your own natural intellectual curiosity. I mean ironically the best career of 2021 was to be a JPG collector. And I figured this out too late. But it is hilarious how many of my friends have gotten rich collecting and flipping JPGs. And the best career of 2020 was probably to be a DeFi yield farmer. Whatever the heck that means. Go Google that. So it is insane but the world is moving so fast adapting so quickly the frontier's in crypto it is digital. If you have a natural intellectual curiosity about any of these things your moment will come. It may turn out actually with the ACE people and the YGG people that the best upcoming career the best current career might have to do around gaming. Just playing a game a certain way over a certain time. So good news for all the gamers out there.  Yeah I want to read two paragraphs from that blog post. Climbing the Wrong Hill. Fantastic memory. And I should say the context is you are discussing a hypothetical job candidate all right. But the lure of the current hill is strong. There is a natural human tendency to make the next step an upward one.  people tend to systematically overvalue near term over long term rewards. This effect seems to be even stronger in more ambitious people. Their ambition seems to make it hard for them to forgo the nearby upward step.  meander some in your walk  randomly drop yourself into new parts of the terrain and when you find the highest hill do not waste any more time on the current hill no matter how much better the next step up might appear.So I wanted to read this in part because in the last few months paying attention to Web3. Which I feel is late but that is only because my peer group is very weird and an edge case. It is still  I feel like it is not even the end of the first inning. Not even close. It is like the anthem before the game has even started. And I have never seen so many highly intelligent ambitious capable people drop whatever they are doing in many cases really attractive things to dedicate all of their time to this. I have never seen anything approaching it en masse. It is not a trickle that slowly builds to more than a trickle. I mean it is people immediately deciding this is what they want to spend 247 on. I do not know perhaps I just do not have a macro perspective over a long enough period of time. But certainly in all of my time in or around technology I have just never seen anything like it. And at the very least that means it is something that is worth taking a very close look at.  Yeah. The big danger here of course is the final boss. Crypto and Web3 have not gone mainstream yet. They are in their infancy. I do not know what it is like 10 million wallets or something out there among Americans or even globally.  Yeah something like that.  Yeah it is small. It is in the tens of millions. So we have to move to the hundreds of millions and eventually billions. And it has to go through the same adoption curve that Web2 and Web1 did. And in theory it could even go faster as long as there are not too many obstacles in the way. Because tokens naturally have incentive mechanism built in. As Chris pointed out the token companies do not need to do much marketing. The marketing is done by the users. And so the problem is that where we started was we actually decentralized the hardest thing. The hardest thing to decentralize is money. And once you have money decentralized then you can own private property. But essentially decentralizing money threatens the nation state right? Because Central Bank Digital Currency is the exact opposite of a cryptocurrency. That is the complete centralization of money with no intermediate banks or monetary instruments under the eye of the all-seeing state. And on the other hand you have people just carrying their own money around whether as a coin or as a JPG or as a smart contract or as an IOU or some kind of a weird program. And unfortunately we are trying to apply laws that are almost a hundred years old to try and regulate this incredible explosion in internet commerce and market making in digital private property. And they are just not going to get it. And we recently have a very aggressive SEC and CFTC that are now fighting to extend their domain. And I think we ended up in an upside down situation where innovation the space gets driven overseas underground. And out into the internet where it will still succeed. Because the natural endpoint of crypto is maximum decentralization and maximum privacy. It is going to just make it happen a lot faster. It is going to make it happen outside of the United States. So the Web3 revolution could happen outside of the United States. One of the big problems with being a Web3 investor or even user these days is the KYC around the wallets around the purchases around the sales. The fact that a lot of these coins you cannot participate in their offerings. You have to have offshore entities or more likely to be a non-US citizen to even get into these. Is becoming very very restrictive. And always seem to be focused on is investor protection and not at all in innovation or creativity. And Chris and his team have been fighting the good fight. And a16z crypto is probably done more work than anybody on the regulatory front backed up by people at Coin Center and so on but they have put a lot of work into it.  And I also want to chime in as a Luddite who is just barely finding his footing or losing his footing with some water wings at the very least. But it also strikes me that as you said Chris sometimes the true believers can be their own worst enemies in the sense that people still use Word. I still use what people might consider legacy tools every day. And these technologies or these currencies are not mutually exclusive. And I think that it behooves the communities who are adopting and developing these tools for many reasons to be more inclusive with their consideration of having multiple options viable into the future which I think is inevitable on some level. And certainly it is unhelpful and counterproductive to overstate the case for the eradication of central everything. Most people do not want to pave their own streets or handle their own garbage disposal. I mean there are valuable services provided by the state and it is hard to appreciate the full value until it is taken away. If anyone was here in Austin during the freeze you realize very quickly how dependent we are on many of the services that are provided. And I think there is and will be certainly for a very long time a role for centralized banks. And that if people in fact want these technologies to continue to develop. And I think that many regulators may feel like they are caught between a rock and a hard place. In part because the messaging is so exclusive from the kind of diehard and true believers oftentimes. But as Naval you said the economic case for allowing a thousand flowers to bloom in the Web3 ecosystem within the United States is hard to overstate. At least that is what it seems like to me.  Yeah. Any regulator that stops the next generation of artists and musicians and gamers and game developers from owning their platforms and their work is going to go into the wastebasket of history as a villain. It is that is simple.  Yeah. And to your point Tim I think that  I mean I think look I think some of this was self-inflicted and particularly around there is certain what we call maxis right? People that are into certain tokens and only that token should exist. So there is Bitcoin maximalists. There is Ethereum maximalists et cetera and so those folks they tend to be loud and somewhat aggressive. And I think that is kind of done a lot of the branding in the space. People's sort of the common view of crypto comes from some of those folks who and look some of them like in the Bitcoin world are they have a political angle to it. You know there is sort of this libertarian aspect of Bitcoin. And I think as a result particularly as we are seeing now that the sort of the democratic side thinks of crypto as the enemy when I think that the stuff we are talking about the Web3 stuff is actually very aligned with I think a lot of the the kind of left agenda which is better distribution of wealth reigning in some of the power of some of the big tech companies. The difference is we are arguing to do it through innovation and competition not through regulation which will not work by the way. If they cut up Facebook into three networks. It is not going to change anything. It is exactly the same thing. Instagram is still going to be Instagram and the economics are going to be the same and it is going to be just as centralized. That is just not going to work. The thing that will work is let innovators and entrepreneurs go build a better internet. Like that is what we want to do. It is not to me this is not a political movement in that sense. It is a technology movement. And it is somehow gotten associated with politics in a way that in the things in this country right now it is very heated in the political world.  Everything is politicized.  That is a big challenge we have is just to really kind of go and explain these things. I think the good news is we have truth on our side. Everything I am saying here and everything I have tweeted is mathematically provable including the fact that a blockchain's a computer and the power of this new paradigm. But there a lot of communications challenges ahead.  So let me ask both of you and maybe I will start with you Chris if there are which I know there are at least certainly in the broader listenership broader audience regulators lawmakers policymakers and I have met a lot of these people. And I think part of the challenge is simply becoming educated from reliable sources when it is so difficult. I mean it is difficult bordering on impossible for me to separate signal from noise. If I am trying to just take it through a funnel like a sort of water boarding of information. And I would like to ask you if there are any particular resources or could be essays books anything where people in those positions could start to begin to understand the fundamentals of what we are discussing?  One of the things we have tried to do is create materials for this. So we have for example which I could share the link afterwards it is like a 35-page overview for policymakers.  Great.  That kind of talks about the benefits and things like that. So we have been trying to create materials like that. Because I think it is one of the things that is been lacking is just all the good things they have all talked about earlier the meaning the Twitter stuff everything else. What is wonderful about this world it is sort of the chaos but at the same time it is also useful to have a 30-page booklet sometimes right? So that is what we have tried to do. Kind of add that a little bit on there. And so we tried to create a bunch of materials to sort of explain it. Our firm we believe in innovation and we believe in America. A lot of other people in crypto will do things with like offshore entities and things. We do not we tell people you should be based in the US should be a US company pay US taxes. Uniswap they are in New York City. They have an office in Soho. They hire people from New York. They go to their office. We have some European investments and things but most of our investments are here in America. And I believe Hayden Adams who is the founder of Uniswap Robert Leshner the founder of Compound the OpenSea founders all of these other founders in our portfolio I believe they are heroes. I believe they are heroes who are on the cutting edge of the frontier and creating very important technology that will transform the internet. And I believe that over time more people will come to realize that these are people in the mold of Steve Jobs or Henry Ford. This is how America stays ahead. We believe this completely and we believe this is critical for the future of the internet and critical for the future of this country. That is why we are investing so much in it.  I am just going to add one thing for people who are listening. I will create a short link it' tim.blogdixon. And that will take everyone to the show notes and will include a link to the booklet that you mentioned Chris. Naval sorry for interrupting go ahead.  No no problem. Yeah. Look the United States became the most powerful country in the world for many reasons but recently it is been because we are the home of creative technology. Most creative technology on the planet comes from the United States. Now is that because we create all the entrepreneurs? No we attract all of the entrepreneurs because we had the most freedom. Technology entrepreneurs are creative people and they want to go where they are the most free to create new things. And so if we stop being a gravitational at attract for the best entrepreneurs on the planet we are eventually going to lose our technological leadership. And that means we will not be able to pay for our extravagant social programs. We will not have the abundance and the deflationary drive that technology innovation and productivity growth have provided. So I am just concern because I do talk to a lot of entrepreneurs now who are overseas most investing these days is done over Zoom. It is no longer done physically in the San Francisco Bay Area especially in Web3 and crypto land. Most of the entrepreneurs are overseas and now almost none of them in their right mind are considering moving to the United States. Whereas before if you are in China or India the default would have been I am going to move to California or to the United States and now it is like Yeah maybe I will go to Miami. Maybe I will stop in the US but no more likely I am going to Singapore or I am going to Switzerland or I am staying anonymous on the web or I am going to be on some little island nation just moving around. This is really really bad news for all the people who are counting on their pension plans to pay out in valuable US dollars. Because the only solution we seem to have in the last two years to the COVID phenomenon is devaluing the dollar. There was a funny line that went out on Twitter where somebody said  the Fed would cut interest rates right? And that seems to be our answer to every crisis cut interest rates print more money. Well that is selling the asset that we already have. Eventually you run out. The beauty of our model is that the entire world uses the US dollar as its stable currency as its ultimate stable coin. And so every time we print a dollar 70 cents of that dilution that inflation goes overseas but that is eventually going to go away. We cannot just keep printing our way out of problems. We actually have to create we have to innovate. We have to improve productivity. And that means that the next generation of technological innovation has to be based here where they can pay their taxes where they want to live and spend and eat and consume here. And I am just concerned that all the combination of ambiguous and aggressive regulations where regulators who are purely financial regulators are now getting their claws on the web and are going to regulate this thing into overseas. You cannot stop it. It is ultimately code and code is just speech and speech is just ideas. You cannot stop ideas. You can you can push them down one place and they will pop up somewhere else. And the internet is a big place. So short of turning off the entire internet the internet will figure out how to create store allocate and use digital value. And that is exactly what is going on. And if you try to stop that you are just going to miss out on the greatest wealth creation and innovation since the internet itself came into being.  Yeah and look Naval and I we could very easily invest in another country. We do not want to frankly when you are investors it is easy to move around and invest other places and things like this. I just think it would be a real shame if that is the outcome.  Yeah Let me add to that for just a second. And what I would like to add to that is number one there are many ways to easily incentivize innovators to create things here. We do not have to sort of go through the playbook but regulators policy makers I think have a pretty good idea of what the historically effective approaches are. And I want to come back to that in a second. We have already seen what happens when things get locked down in a place like China and this is obviously a ball in play but a lot of people will just relocate if they can. Depending on many different factors but you see a lot of hotbeds popping up in places like   There is a ton in Singapore. They' China stopped Bitcoin mining.  And they all went to Singapore. Now they are doing crypto in Singapore the Chinese.  Yeah exactly.  All the Bitcoin mining has moved to the US. Actually the Chinese ban on Bitcoin mining the huge beneficiary was United States.  Yeah exactly. And you know there are some I was just chatting with Balaji about this separate podcast and he was commenting on for instance how Bitcoin may in fact be a way for certain types of renewable energy that have high volatility such as wind or solar to store energy in the form of Bitcoin. Utilizing that energy even if it is not being consumed. So there are some really interesting applications that are non-obvious but I would like to just ask if there are because we have been talking about what policymakers and regulators should not do and we have given maybe a few sentences to what they should do. Are there any policymakers or people in government whether that is federal state level city level who are worth mentioning and commending for actually taking positive actions?  Yeah Patrick McHenry of The House Financial Services Committee has been very forward looking on crypto. Kyrsten Sinema from Arizona said kind of the right things. And I think she is also done some work in here. I am sure Chris is probably more up to speed but there oh Andrew Yang recently was talking about it in a positive way.  I think there is a lot of politicians and policymakers and things who do understand this and want I think what we would like so there is been a couple things like one there is just been no clarity. So there is sort of two ways that regulators regulate and one is through kind of stating policies and one is through enforcement. And so far it is all been just through enforcement. And so people just do not know what to do. And as a result  so one of the big myths in crypto is it is unregulated. Okay. I will tell you we have more regulators and policy and lawyers and things. I have practically become a lawyer I spend so much time on this stuff. The first thing we do in every company we invest in is help them recruit a general council. They all spend millions of dollars on outside counsel. Everyone wants to be as compliant as they can. Obviously it is a very strong incentive for them to do so. And there is lots of regulations that apply to these companies including consumer protection laws commodities laws et cetera and no one you question that and they all have to have policies and sort of adhere to those things. There is specific questions around things what qualifies an asset to be a security or not or something. And this these are topics that we have spent years on and countless sort of legal resources analyzing and working on but the way that the regulators have chosen to enforce this is not through guidance but through just sort of this seemingly a hard to understand set of enforcement actions as an example. So I think clarity would be great. I think probably a lot of this has to happen at the policy level. I think modernizing a lot of these things the reason people do not want to do some of these things as Naval was saying these rules are from the 1930s and '40s. And a lot of them just involve not tech-modern practices like putting your driver's license in front of a thing that has like a 50 percent failure rate for KYC or something like let us modernize these things. So that is one of the things we are working on is like what is the crypto native way to do to sort of modernize a lot of these processes and get the goal. The goals are very good. Securities laws make a lot of sense because securities laws all around situations where there is asymmetric information and when there is asymmetric information because there is a centralized entity that has knowledge of things that you need to have rules around disclosing that information right? That is what securities laws set of rules around liability and disclosure to make sure there is a leveled information playing field. That makes a lot of sense. We like that. And we think a great way to not have asymmetric information is to have no company. That is a really good way to have no asymmetric information. It is the same goal that the SCC has the same goal we have which is let us get rid of these intermediaries. They do it for asymmetric information reasons. We are doing it for sort of other ideological reasons as we discussed here but it is very aligned. I think it works very nicely actually. And we just need to. I think that the challenge right now is I was saying before it is much more of a communication challenge. I think if we can go and talk to folks and show show what this one what the social socially beneficial uses of this technology is and like having creators who are making a living and all sorts of other things like that are very important for that reason. And then also just sort of explain and show that the goals are aligned. And that we do not want a situation where I mean no one wants a situation where there is sort of asymmetric information and bad stuff happening. And look there is money involved as with all sorts of tech things and money involved there are bad people for sure. It is just inevitable. It happened in the '90s it happened in the 2000s. It happens now. And those people give Web3 a very bad name. We want to get rid of those people. So I think that the goals are actually much more aligned. Maybe I am being overly optimistic but I feel like it is a communication problem.  Yeah the 1999 2000 tech bubble was the small price that we had to pay in exchange for being the home for creative technological innovation in the world. And we got Facebook and Google and Amazon and Netflix and a long tail of incredible companies and innovations in exchange. And the same way we are going to have to suffer through a little bit of the pump and the boom in crypto and in Web3. And hopefully the SEC and the CFTC can be modern and light-footed enough that they crack down on the obvious scams but they sort of let a Cambrian explosion happen as well where people can innovate and try things. And once the dust settles and once it is clear that we are one and what is fair and unfair that is sort of the right time for them to go in and put on guardrails for the average user. But putting on those guardrails too early on just means you miss out. The best venture investment actually of the last decade was probably Ethereum 2014. Ethereum went out there and you could have bought it for 30 cents and you would have been liquid. And ironically VCs were the ones who could not participate because their fund docs did not allow them to but the non VCs could and just closing those doors and saying Well that is not going to happen again. It makes a couple of mistakes. It pushes us out of the United States. It keeps the poor poor and makes the rich richer because people like Chris and I can always set up entities to participate. And then it also pushes the whole ecosystem further underground more into decentralization more into privacy more into anonymity. When the stated goals of regulators are actually they want users to own and control their own data data privacy and data protection is a big thing regulators care about. Well crypto enables that. Uniquely you own your private keys. Another thing they care about is interoperability. They want there to be open API. So there is a single monopolist sitting in the middle. Well that is compossibility. Compossibility is the ultimate open API. So I think there is a model here for an enlightened regulator to do the right thing and get just as much credit for letting Web3 flourish as the original set of regulators did for Web1. And frankly they should have been more celebrated more recognized.  Let me add to that because I have been involved with a number of things now including and this is actually very related oddly enough but say funding scientific research into treatments for end-of-life anxiety due to terminal cancer diagnoses and things like this. There people have  individual philanthropists have  sometimes avoided certain types of scientific studies involving say intractable or so-called intractable psychiatric conditions that ultimately I was able to show through my own example that there was not just a lack of reputational risk or minimal reputational risk and there may be I do not want to say that does not exist but there was much more reputational upside potential. And I think that is important not just saying we can minimize the risk of say policymaker talking about this but that in fact I think there are ways to position it which comes back to comms and determining the way that things are communicated. But I think there is for people who look at this closely and really gain an understanding tremendous reputational upside. And I will give a couple of examples. One people have already heard and that is what got me interested in all of this was the fact that friends of mine who were in some cases close to broke or who had been limping along barely able to make ends meet as creatives and artists have suddenly been able to do what they are called to do which is create artwork make it commercially viable share ownership with a flourishing community and then receive residual payment for the works that they have created. And if we bridge that to what I was just saying about the scientific work so I have a foundation it is not a huge foundation. It is a small private foundation and I have been very aggressive with funding I think important science. And some of those studies have ended up on the cover of Nature others have ended up on the cover of The New York Times. It is been really effective but I do not have enough to call it say an endowment. So I am basically just spending principle instead of working off of the earnings the investment earnings of the money and the foundation. So every year I am just trying to basically patch the boat back together and keep it moving. What is possible and I am hoping to prove this is really viable because I would love for others to be able to emulate this is I could launch an NFT project and who knows what form that will take but to launch an NFT project where a hundred percent of the proceeds go to my foundation. And there are different ways that this could work where a wallet is owned either directly by the foundation or through a DAF or something like that. But here's the important part. The important part. The exciting part for me is not just that cryptocurrency or Ethereum could be donated to the foundation it is that I could launch a project that then continues to generate proceeds that go directly  I do not have the head count. I do not have a team to handle this for me. And the beauty is that with smart contracts I do not need any of that. I launch a project and then automatically when things are resold by the people who originally bought and then sold again and sold again and sold again hopefully for increasingly high prices that that continues to provide lifeblood to this foundation that is doing life-changing work for veterans with complex PTSD I have done a number of collaborations with say the Navy SEAL Foundation. All of these causes need funding mostly from individual philanthropists. And it is fucking hard to do. It is hard to make work and NFTs to me offer a possible vehicle for actually making it sustainable and allowing me to scale and do more with that. So I just wanted to mention all of that to kind of bring it home. Why the hell would I spend all this time on this? I do not I do not have a hybrid lifestyle. I am wearing the cheapest jeans you can imagine. And shoes that somebody gave to me. Right? Like I do not spend I do not spend a lot of money but I want to be able to do more. And I want to involve my community in a way that they have been asking for for a long time. But like they want to give to say support causes or phase three trials. But none of these entities these universities or researchers are equipped to handle small donations. So I can do that. And these are a lot of reasons why it would be cool. I decided to have this conversation.  Yeah it would be cool too. You could do. There is a whole bunch of interesting stuff you could do. You could have seasons. So you could have the first collection is season one and then another collection season two that is a cool thing that we are doing you could make it into a DAO so that the folks maybe the folks who have NFTs get to go into a private Discord server you have some events with them. Maybe you give them some governance rights in deciding which projects to fund. And think of it as then you have this. I do not know how many you have. 10000? That is just the number that people pick. You have this army not only do you have funding but you have evangelists. And they are memeing and they are Twittering and they are writing about it.  Yeah they can build on top of it. They can code on top of it. This is fundamentally what NFTs enable or digital property rights enable. Our old model was go back to Marx and the Theory of Labor there which is that capitalists own the means of production labor has to seize the means of production. And then now what someone still has to run the factories. So okay. We hand them to the state. Now the state runs the factories and you get these horrible cars coming out of the Soviet Union. Well that did not work. So what makes sense is for the workers to own the means of production and the users the means of production in proportion to how much value they are providing essentially they should all be shareholders. And there should all be shareholders in an open system with no corporate overlord and no state overlord in proportion to the value they are providing into the system. And if they do not like the current distribution the current system like Bitcoin they can go create their own and all the way down to the Bored Ape Yacht Club. So there is just this huge opportunity now to make every person a worker an investor a shareholder an evangelist an owner a creator a designer. We can fold it all into one. And that is really what Web3 is enabling with tokens at the core. And it would be a mistake to just think of this as securities law investor protection and derivatives. I get that is where it started because you have to create money internet native money first before any of this is possible. But now that we have internet native money we could start creating true internet native corporations internet native collectives internet native projects internet native platforms that are owned by the users and nipping it in the bud at this point would be a huge mistake because all we would have done is would have created the internet native money but we would not have allowed it to have all of its use cases. We would not  Hear hear. Chris I am going to ask a very important question. So I would like you to I would like I would like you to speak candidly. What is the story with the Trident gum?  Oh my God. Katie told you this huh? Well all the bad habits to have at this point. I have one which is I yeah. I chew gum nonstop and I do not know. And for whatever reason it seems to annoy some people. But I was doing this. I was doing there is this thing called this DAO called Friends With Benefits that we invested in. And I did a community talk as part of kind of our investment process and was chewing gum the whole time. And it actually became kind of a meme after that.  Now is 10 packs a day hyperbole? Or is are we talking about a serious   That might be true it might be true. I have a subscription of boxes of Trident yeah. Look I think at this point I smoked a long time ago so that is why it was long time ago but I just after that I just always chew gum. I think it is just a nervous habit or something.  On the hierarchy of vices not too bad.  Yeah oh the hierarchy vices that is like  it is I do not know how you feel about  maybe they will discover that the Trident gum kills you or something.  I think you are okay on the Trident and I want to ask just a couple of unrelated questions. They could be related answers but unrelated questions. And then we are going to come back around in each of you guys if you want to add any closing comments. We can add those. And if not that is totally fine as well. I do not know if you gift books you probably or recommend books. When you think of most books you have gifted or recommended the most to others do any come to mind?  I really like history and I particularly like the era of the Victorian industrial age of like 1850 to 1920 or something. It is an amazing period where you I think of it as a period. We had like a hundred Elon Musks. So you had Westinghouse and Edison and Ford and the Wright brothers and Bell and just goes on and on. And you had that period where just the number of incredible inventions during that period. This was in that 50-year period. I mean the airplane the car the photograph the light bulb for God's sake this amazing book called Empires of Light. It is the battle between Westinghouse and Edison. It is really fascinating. It was enterprise sales. They invent the light bulb. Westinghouse has AC Edison has DC. And just went town to town selling them and like Use my system. And there was this awesome moment at the end. The coup de grce was Westinghouse built because the key benefit of AC is it goes farther without losing power. He built this giant plant up at Niagara Falls and then turned the lights on in Buffalo. And it was like this magic act. They all like like borrowed tons of money. And the other thing that is cool about them is they were all engineers. It reminds me a lot  and they all started off in the telegraph business which at the time was sort of the internet of that era. So that was cool. There is another book. I am sorry I have crypto on my brain. I cannot help it. There is a book I really like called  This is a fascinating book.  The name is The Company or The LLC?  It is called The Company. And I can follow up with the link but it is a history of limited liability corporation which is a very very controversial concept to have limited liability. Because the thought before this is around 1830 when it started to develop was that you basically before that you had to have an act of parliament in in the UK to get limited liability. Because it was considered this very dangerous thing. Like why why should not you be fully liable if you start a railroad company and somebody dies you should go to jail. And so what what that meant when you before the LLC was that if you were going to invest as an investor you could lose more than your money. And So as a result you only had partnerships of 10 and fewer people basically families. Because who are you going to trust? If you have unlimited liability it is your brother and your so and So but nobody else. And then what happened is in the 1830s or so there was this railroad boom in the UK first I believe and then in the US and they needed to aggregate capital. Right? So anytime two towns would link up a railroad their economies with like five X so every town basically had this giant line of people at parliament saying Hey can we get limited liability? Because we cannot afford to build that railroad but we know it will pay off but we need to be able to go out to third parties and get that capital. And so that eventually was very controversial. And it took 30 years or something but finally that became and that was the business model of Delaware by the way which is genius. They were like Hey we will be the place you go. Finally it became understood that this was a very important innovation. I would argue that actually a lot of the Victorian industrial stuff I was just talking about came from actually the invention of the LLC. And I bring that up because I think it is very analogous to I kind of see the historical progression of partnerships for 10 people. 10 people could accrue value in an LLC world a million people can accrue value. And in a token world a billion people can. It is this natural kind of progression. And it also shows you that like tech is not just always tech. Tech is sometimes kind of these social and legal structures like the LLC. It is a very short book. I think the part I am discussing might only been like two chapters of it or something but I thought fascinating. I do not think we normally think of these kinds of legal innovations in in in sort of these as as a kind of a tech breakthrough.  Yeah.  So I do not know. I think there is a lot of obviously there is a lot of great books. I love books but these just happen to come to mind.  Those are two great examples. I am going to pick up both of those Naval. Do you have any comments you would like to add? Questions? Complaints? Anything at all?  Wen Tim Ferriss NFT drop?  Yeah. I am planning on it. I mean this is not idle chat. I mean I am extremely immersed and I am really excited in a way that I have not been excited about a project in a very long time. And just to again make it plain. I mean who knows maybe at some point I will do something for profit but as it stands right now I am excited to pilot a project where a hundred percent of the proceeds go to some type of researcher project vis--vis probably this 501-C3 foundation this private foundation that I have which has already done a lot of work has a great track right here over the last few years. So I would say next six months would be my goal. So let us call it. And depending on when this comes out the first two quarters of 2022 would be my guess.  Great. Yeah. I would add onto what Chris was saying about going from 10 owners to thousands of owners to millions of owners to a billion owners. I think there is finally an answer for how can communities participate in Web3 and crypto before this when people would ask How do I participate in crypto? There was an answer for individuals which is Hey you can bet on sound money digital gold that is Bitcoin. And then if you were a company you could say Hey you can build something on top of Ethereum. You can build decentralized finance. You can build applications on this computer storing complete blockchain that is running a computer that is running on the blockchain. And now for the first time a community can show up and you can have an answer for the community. You can say Okay if you have a passionate group of believers you can spread ownership amongst them. You can spread governance amongst them. You can build a DAO. You can issue NFTs. You can have an online gaming community. You can have a conversational community. You can have a real world community that maps to each other with NFTs. You can even have digital bake sales  who knows? It is innovating like crazy. But for the first time we are seeing DAOs which are these distributed autonomous organizations take off in Web3 and DAOs are sort of these they are not quite corporations they are not quite communities. They are not quite networks or platforms. They are like their own new thing that are a mixture of all of the above. And I think a couple of years from now we are going to see a lot of thriving communities on the internet that are now linked together economically intrinsically and are doing not just making money but also governance like who gets to make wish decision who gets credit for the decision who gets to join the company who gets to leave the company gets to join the community gets to leave. The community. NFTs are so many things. It is almost I love the Chris webpage analogy. I want to give you full credit for that. I had not heard that until now. So sorry. I have not been listening to you on the other podcast but I love it because webpages are so programmable right? It can be anything the same with NFT is so programmable. So it is kind of almost silly to sit around talking about what you can do with NFTs. You can do anything with NFTs that you can do with a webpage but on top of it you can have scarcity and ownership and allocation and rights associated with it. This is really big.  Yeah. I want to add something because you just reminded me Naval. So thank you for that. And that is I think DAOs have tremendous value to government in a number of different ways whether to and this could be value to different scales of government. All the way up to several level could apply to international organizations could apply to the military. And that is and I recommend to everyone if they can find interviews with a lawyer named Aaron Wright who has been intimately involved with the formation of many of the most famous DAOs DAOs offer the ability to test different types of governance and decision making. So that could be rough consensus. It could be true consensus. It could be any permutation just about that you can imagine you can test quickly. And these offer I think incredibly valuable opportunities to sort of test in the micro via DAOs and to observe what many DAOs are doing to study what they are doing not just for the implementation that you see in the DAOs but for taking the best of breed options that emerge and then applying them in other places. I think there is just tremendous value there. That was another that was another moment kind of a flash boil moment for me when I was listening to air and I thought holy shit this actually is a huge deal. And I am sure I am drinking the Kool-Aid and missing certain things but even if I get half of it wrong I still think that the implications are enormous. So I just wanted to mention that because of all you reminded me.  Yeah. Before we sign off can I add a disclaimer for you here?  Yes please.  Well we mentioned lots of NFT projects and companies. This is not a recommendation to go and buy any of them. And I think you have to be very careful because most of these will be like 1999 dot bomb. So to speak we are in the first generation if you would bet everything on the Flickrs and the del.icio.us of the world you would not have done as well. If you just waited for the Netflix and the Pinterest. So it is not too late. The good news about NFTs being fashion and creative means it is always new. It is always bubbling up. I have talked to a lot of top NFT collectors now because I completely missed the boat. And I now realize why I missed the boat because like psychopaths they were buying it for the art value. They genuinely liked the art and they wanted to be patrons of the arts and they wanted to support the artists. And it did not have anything to do with making money. It is just that then later the rest of the group or small another larger group came along and recognized that there was some value to the art and to the providence of it. So the good news here I think with NFTs is that now everybody will get to play in Web3. Everybody will get to play in crypto. You are going to have a lot of creators making money. You will have a lot of fans making money. You will have fans expressing their devotion and their interest which is really where it comes from. Because underneath even though some of these art projects will turn into larger franchises that will launch movies and games and books and all of that stuff many will not and many will just be a patronage link between the person who is collecting or buying and the artist. And that is great. I want to be able to support an artist without having to buy a sneaker in the way that they market it. You know I should just be able to support them directly. I want to be able to support a fitness expert online without having to buy some BS vitamin that they have to stamp their name on to some supplement company that they have to start. I want to be able to support a singer or musician without having to just pay Spotify 10 bucks a month and hoping it finds its magic way to them. I want to be able to support somebody on Twitter instead of just retweeting and liking all the time. So we are establishing direct linkages economic linkages and governance linkages between communities of fans and artists. And I think that is wonderful. So if you want to go buy NFTs buy the stuff you like because at the end of the day which you are probably going to end up with as a cool JPG.  Yeah. I second that definitely. I would only recommend buying things that you want to keep. Yeah. and not things you think will go from value because that is dangerous.  Yeah. It is dangerous. And by this time people will have also heard a disclaimer at the beginning of the show. So pay attention to the disclaimer people the Flickr del.icio.us analogy is a very apt one. It is still really early right? Just because you missed the opportunity to buy JPGs for a dollar that are now worth a million dollars and there are examples of this it does not mean that you missed all the boats. Maybe you missed one boat. Secondly it does not mean all of those NFTs are going to maintain or appreciate so be patient. I really feel like with the amount of exploration and experimentation that is happening right now and I mean Chris you tell me if I am completely delusional here but I really feel like even though there is an impulse to rush and there is an impulse to be in Discords 24 hours a day and on crypto or NFT Twitter 24 hours a day ultimately you run out of hours. I do feel like there is a place for watching for learning for getting educated for kicking the tires in ways that are low-risk or no-risk and looking for fat pitches whether that is as a user or a fan looking for a real fit with a creator or an artist or an entrepreneur who you love personally or whose work you love or whose project you love or looking for investments. I feel like it is a huge mistake to just impulsively from the driver of FOMO dump a ton of money in hoping that you win the next Willy Wonka golden ticket. Because ultimately I think that is  at least for me  is too high risk.  Yeah. I think another lens to look at NFTs through is think about you go to the museum and you see a Roman statue there is sort of two ways you could interpret that. One is the piece of stone and that is sort of just a JPG. The other I think the correct way the more sophisticated way is to see it as a community artifact. It has meaning and value that statue as part of that community of ancient Rome. It had its meaning. And I think the same thing is true with NFTs NFTs are artifacts of networks. So like you have your own community and the thing and the NFTs you are creating will be artifacts for that community. And they derive value to the extent that they kind of reinforce that community's values and norms and language and memes. It is all that is what CryptoPunks really you are owning a piece of this community that has importance in the history of the internet and history of crypto. If you take it out of that that is when you get the Just a JPG right click and save thing. I used to do this with  I would go to the Metropolitan Museum I will look at a sword. if you dismiss it like that sure. But if you want to go and like dig in  and so I think the same thing for I would say for you Tim I would encourage you when you think about your NFTs to sort of think of it in that way. These are artifacts of the community and by buying one you are sort of buying both you are supporting your cause but you are also kind of buying into that community.  Yeah.  And I think users and by the way the other interesting thing one reason I think this is sort of so powerful is that we have spent the last 30 years building communities on the other internet. We did not have a good way to for them to accrue value but we have got a mil  that is the killer app of the internet is networks right? We have got a million networks built on this thing now Discords and Reddit and Twitter followings it is all built out. And now we are dropping in this way to have now these community artifacts and things with value right? And I think it is very important though to think of it in that context and not what I think the mistakes some people are making now. And and this is sort of they are thinking it more transactionally like it is a cash grab right? Like that is the wrong way. And that will backfire. Like you need to do it in the way that the community kind of really aligns with the kind of values of the community.  Yeah definitely.  When people buy and by the way when you buy these things too to Naval's point like buy things in communities you value and expect them to be illiquid for a very long time. Do you bet like if you buy a CryptoPunk or a Bored Apes or something else like it is because you want to be part of that you want to be a member of that community right? that should be the motivation.  Yeah. Everybody gets to be a patron of the arts and a patron of the sciences. That is the way I think about this.  And I will also say just from a if you are just an aggressive capitalist and you are like I do not give a shit about being a patron. Nonetheless I think it is a very dangerous game to think that you can out trade the rest of the universe and try to hold and flip things and flip things for short periods of time or within short periods of time. So that is just to say Naval you have if famously said something along the lines or written I guess I think you said at first on the podcast maybe but maybe it was on Twitter who the hell knows if you would not work with someone for five minutes. All right. If you would not work with someone for a lifetime do not work with them for five minutes. Am I getting that right? Something like that. Yeah. What is it?  Yeah it was it was little it was literally my first philosophical tweet where I was just thinking out loud note to self. And it was if you would not work if you cannot see yourself working with someone for life do not work with them for a day. And it was a lesson to me. I was trying to telling myself Hey do not keep falling into that trap. There are no short term relationships.  So for me looking at NFTs the way I have looked at them is that if I would not hold this for it does not have to be for life. But like if I would not hold this for five years do not hold it for five days. Do not buy it in the first place. If you are not ready to do that because there are going to be a lot of ups and downs and as Punk 6529 said to me once he said and I am sure he is written this somewhere but he said You know NFTs make crypto look like treasury bonds with respect to volatility they are all over the place.  I think that was mine. Maybe it was 6529.  Oh well maybe he told me but maybe you said it. Okay. You just never know where it starts.  And I managed to articulate it a little better where I think crypto is to venture as venture is to value. In other words like investing in crypto is like is to investing in venture capital. What doing venture capital is to value investing like Warren Buffett does. It is crazy. It is standard deviation squared right? Everything is variance squared. Everything goes up and down volatile. You are going to make 10 X zero X. You are going to lose it all. You are going to get hacked. The blockchain's going to get I mean there is so many ways to go wrong. You are going to lose your keys boating accident whatever. There is a thousand ways to go wrong in this space. So it is not for the faint of heart. It is really not.  And that is true also in the embryonic stages and the wild west days of any of the technological revolutions that we have discussed. The room has not been childproofed yet.  No not at all.  But that is okay.  But to Chris' point yeah. To Chris' point they are  the best teams are not working on it. They are figuring out how to take it mainstream how to take custody mainstream how to take purchasing mainstream. The gaming guys if they cannot  and gals  if they cannot figure this out nobody can. But I think they will figure it out.  I wanted to add one more recommendation and that is well there are two things we did not have a chance to get into which is totally fine because there are a million different directions you can go with this stuff but one is generative art and art not necessarily referring only to graphic representational art but generative art. I recommend people check out some of the writing by Tyler Hobbs who is the incredible artist really nice guy the creator of something called Fidenzas which are credible and also incredibly popular. He is written and many people have now written about generative art. But one aspect of that that I think is unique that will become more and more compelling in different ways is the ability for the purchaser of the art to become an element in the creation of the art. So when you purchase a piece of art you interact with  you guys are technical correct me if I am getting this wrong  but code the algorithm of some type and your say transaction ID. I am not sure if there is a better term for that becomes a factor in determining the output of that code. And so you are by virtue of purchasing something at a specific time with a specific wallet changing the output and creating a one of a kind piece of artwork that you had a hand in helping create by being a participant. Is that a fair description? Anybody want to modify that?  Yeah no that is right. I think there is a lot of  I think it is one of the cool things here is when you create a better business model for art let us say or for music  you take the existing artists and they get more money.  you are going to incentivize a whole new generation to go do these cool things. With the generative art now you have a way to make money on it. There is just going to be all these smart people attracted to creative things which I think is a great thing. I think we were just dramatically underpaying creative people in my view and we have now figured out a way to pay them properly and that is going to lead to a huge new wave of creative activities not just technology. And not just paying existing musicians maybe we enter a world where there is instead of eight million musicians on Spotify there is a billion.  Yeah.  Maybe there is a billion musicians there is a billion artists there is millions of generative artists. I think this is the right kind of evolution of the internet. This should be a golden period for creative people. There are eight billion people and six billion or whatever internet connected. You only need a thousand to make a living. This should be the greatest time in history for creative people. And I think we might have finally figured it out.  Going back to your hill climbing analogy there should be eight billion different careers. And each person should have their own hill. And some will be mountains and some will be molehills but at least everyone gets their own hill.  Take music. How much do you love music? The supply is there the demand is there. We just do not have the right model in between. It is not like people do not  people are crazy about music. They love music. And there is plenty of people with money who love music. So why are musicians why do we assume that the internet has to make them destitute? It is a very defeatist attitude I think. It should be a golden period. The generative art stuff is cool. I am not an expert on it but I just think it is so cool that now like there is there is a business model for generative art. That is awesome. And like the kids that get excited by that and go I am going to be a generative artist. That might be a new thing 10 years from now.  I think it is definitely it is going to be a thing in the very near future from what I have seen Art Blocks is worth checking out. People should check out Art Blocks. And I think it is as you kind of both alluded to it is going to expand the pie. So Naval you are intimately familiar with this. When Uber went out as a possible investment on AngelList how many rejections did they get? How many people declined?  A couple of hundred.  Yeah. Right.  how big is the total addressable market for black sedans? And then we are going to look at a percentage of that and what they did not factor in was the possibility that it would dramatically multiply over and over again the actual pool of not just riders but drivers. Right? So it completely flipped the paradigm on its head. Similarly we might be inclined to say like well how many professional musicians are there now what percentage might be able to use this? And that is the wrong way of looking at it? Like when suddenly it is proven that it is viable to be to create a financially secure future by creating whatever that means. It opens the floodgates right. It opens the possibilities. And I think that the early even though generative art has been around in one form another for decades but the experimentation now is just at the tip of the iceberg. So it is very much kind of Model T so I am very excited to see the what is coming in the next I mean the time dilation with this stuff is bizarre right? I mean it is I feel like I have watched four years of experimentation in the last four months. It is really pretty wild.  The other thing to add to what you are saying is we are probably in this skeuomorphic period right now. I do not know what the native generative art looks like. It is probably too advanced for my artistic sense or something but just timing wise almost always we will look back and say This was a skeuomorphic period. So right now they are still they are not leaning into the software code enough. Like the stuff you mentioned is like a nice kind of coding thing but I bet you this is arbitrary. Code  I mean you can have we have one company Manifold which is trying to create sort of  let smart contracts NFTs be like an App Store and you have different software. You can plug and play onto it. Just like the App Store right?  Yeah.  Like what did people it is one of my favorite things to do is look at old computer ads it is funny because like in the '80s all the computer ads had this couple at the table doing recipes. Because like Steve Jobs as much of a genius as he was like greatest genius of all time invents the computer invents the iPhone and the best idea he had for what to do with the computer in 1983 was a couple organizing their kitchen recipes. So like it is just so what I am saying of course is he is a genius but like it is just really hard to know. And so the first thing you do is like Oh well I guess they had like a filing system whatever but then what happens right? This army of people come and they invent the word processor and the spreadsheet. The spreadsheet was a random guy in Boston who just came up with the idea of a spreadsheet and desktop publishing and video games. And just this whole like kind of wave after wave of cool stuff which even the inventor of I am just trying make the point of like how hard it is. And so I think we are probably in the kitchen recipe period of NFTs which is awesome. Because there is going to be so much more cool stuff.  Yeah.  I did not even know how you got the recipes back then. They did not even have the internet.  They had to mail a tape a giant tape with mail.  Mobile phones the same thing. Remember mobile phones there was always like stock and weather. They always just talked about stocks and weather and that was it.  Yeah.  It turns out it is TikTok its teenage dance videos on TikTok tailing a car ephemeral messaging. No one knew. It is so hard to know. Right? So anyway so we are in that period I think.  We are in the kitchen recipe period. And we have not even talked about we do not need to go deeply into this but I would imagine there is some percentage of the listenership right now are like I still do not get it. Right. We are talking about JPGs and I have okay. Somebody on the internet said like you can take a photograph of the Mona Lisa but is it really the same as the Mona Lisa? And like I do not really get it but there are I would imagine are going to be all sorts of tie-ins and possibilities and uses for NFTs that tie into the physical world. So we did not even get into that but the point I want to like go ahead Naval.  Today you buy a sneaker. And now maybe that sneaker was sponsored by Kanye or Jay-Z or whatever. And now there are variations in a sneaker. Well in the future maybe you will buy a unique sneaker and then you will get the NFT for that sneaker. And then you will have the unique copyright to the digital representation of that sneaker. If somebody wants to use that sneaker in a marketing campaign if Nike comes along and says Hey want to feature that sneaker? Or then maybe you get royalties. These are just very simple little examples but it is essentially a social contract or even a written contract that you have with the person that sold you the NFT that can be used to imbue value in all kinds of ways. An NFT is not really an object a digital object. It is a pointer it is a channel it is a link a communication between you the creator and the community and any kind of value can be funneled down that. It can be access into things. It can be recognition and reputation. It can be royalties it can be copyrights. It can be remix rights or it could just be you are just sending them money because you want to support them. So it is completely programmable. We just do not know.  So for example people talk about ticketing with NFTs and what they mean is like going to like an existing event with tickets like a sports game or music show. Right. But but actually that is amorphic I think the native version of ticketing is you have a Tim Ferriss NFT and now I get to or let us say I whatever some Nike NFT and I get a certain seat at this restaurant why do wealthy people invest in restaurants? They do not invest because they want to invest in restaurant. They invest and get a good table. Like why not just skip the whole investing part and just have an NFT. I have a bunch of NFTs. So you can yeah. I think offline the board I guarantee you in the next six months we are going to see like conventions and other kinds of things of like NFT Bored Apes and CryptoPunks. And by the way like if you are a business and you want to find some really good customers people that own CryptoPunks are probably really good customers. Like I think you can see a world where instead of doing the Web2 companies surveilling you and trying to figure out your interests you are just declaring your interest through NFTs. And so it is done in an opt-in way. That is pro user the user has the power but that is a very valuable thing that people will use for like incentives and various other things. I mean that says a lot about you.  Exactly. If you have a CryptoPunk and you are tweeting then I know that you are an OG into NFTs and you probably know what you are talking about and you have got serious money at stake behind what you are saying.  That is right.  Chris I thought it might be interesting for folks. I love how I asked my last question like 40 minutes ago. So we will wrap up in a minute but Friends with Benefits best name of all time side note but you did not really explain Friends with Benefits. And I think it is a curious example and permutation of what we are talking about. Could you describe Friends with Benefits please?  Sure. So and just for context   Not the general term the company or I believe the DAO   I believe very strongly that venture capital we need to be constantly taking risks. And so one of the things we started doing like six months ago we started heavily investing in this area called DAOs. And this is a new type of investment where there are not there really is not like even in many cases like a legal entity and we are buying tokens and other kinds of things. And you know there is a lot of questions but it is early but we want to be there on the frontier. And I think this of the frontier so Friends with Benefits is a DAO which means it is think of someone said a DAO think of a DAO as an internet community with a balance sheet. So it is an internet community but they also have resources and can do stuff. And in the particular case FWB is a bunch of Web3 product developers. So it is like a couple thousand people who are really high-end high quality product developers and they are spinning out cool stuff. They have events. We hosted an event in New York with them. It is like someone on our team said Oh my God like this new wave of crypto is like a hundred X cooler. All of us we are like It is very different than 2017 and 2016 a bunch of computer nerds talking about protocols. This is like the coolest people from Williamsburg and which is great but they are really it is great. They are a great community. They are designers they are developers. They do not they are not sort of hard. Like they really got into this stuff kind of more recently which is good. Because they really got I think the cultural aspects got them excited the NFT stuff more than to them like money stuff before was kind of a turnoff. And it is just like a cool I do not know. It is like it is University of Utah. Like it just my sense is it is the Homebrew Computer Club right? The Homebrew Computer Club of 2021 is probably a DAO. Yeah. And we want to join a bunch of them and just learn from these smarter these people who are just like more smart and they are in the trends and this is how we learn right?  Yeah. I would also suggest again people check out Aaron Wright. There are other people certainly who speak on this. Aaron's great. Yeah. Yeah. But there are different almost I suppose you consider categories of DAOs right? There are acquisition DAOs one of the better known being say Flamingo very successful incredible collection of NFT artwork and assets. So there are different purposes and that is just going to multiply I would imagine over time. Now  did they decide Oh shit we cannot call ourselves Friends with Benefits long term! and they like went from Kentucky Fried Chicken to KFC kind of not to be confused with KYC?  I do not know if they have actually tried to rebrand. I just  everyone laughs whenever we say the name.  Stick to your guns Friends with Benefits. I love it. I swear it will go far. Stick with it. All right. On that note. Any final comments guys? Of course you guys can be found on the internet Naval  on Twitter Chris  CDixon.org also a16z. And I will include some additional links in the show notes as well as the 30-page or so booklet that you mentioned Chris at tim.blogdixon. Great. Anything else you guys would like to add as closing comments?  Yeah some career advice for you Tim. Just when I first learned about crypto I did not actually get into it because I was busy with AngelList. I wrote a few tweets. I wrote a few position pieces but I really did not wake up into it until much later when I you know a lot of the gains were gone and I was not fully joking when I said that this may turn into a convergence to a crypto podcast. So you know do not wait too long hill climbing man. You might be on the wrong hill is all I am saying  Oh man the blind leading the blind. Well I may need to invite you to co-host Naval. Be careful. We will see. We will see how it works. Well thanks guys. This was a lot of fun and appreciate you carving out the time. So to be continued I am sure we will we will continue chatting offline. And to everybody listening you can find all the resources links to everything. Books projects companies etc. In the show notes as per usual. In this case tim.blogDixon. And until next time be safe out there. Do not take unnecessary risks. Do not play with any money you cannot afford to lose. None of this is investment advice just for informational purposes only like this fine podcast. Another reason I like to keep my topics broad Naval Ravikant. Thanks for tuning in.  Thank you Tim. Listen to Chris Dixon and Naval Ravikant on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Interview with Vitalik Buterin on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Desire is a contract you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want.-Naval Ravikant Naval Ravikant  is the CEO and a co-founder of AngelList. He previously co-founded Epinions which went public as part of Shopping.com and Vast.com. He is an active angel investor and has   