 One provision of the Gang of Six proposal is reform not eliminate tax expenditures for health charitable giving homeownership and retirement. Now the phrase tax expenditures is a creative piece of semantics. Since the government forgoes tax revenues for those deductions they are called tax expenditures. And that means that closing a tax loophole can be described as cutting a government expenditure in this case a tax expenditure. We thought we would take a look at one of those tax breaks that is named as a candidate for reform the home mortgage interest deduction. And we will start with this definition from the Internal Revenue Service. I' Generally home mortgage interest is any interest you pay on a loan secured by your home - main home or a second home. The loan may be a mortgage to buy your home a second mortgage a line of credit or a home equity loan. Well MIT economist William Wheaton has made a specialty of real estate and housing and he joins us now from Cambridge. Welcome back to the program.  Thank you very much.  And tell us what kind of proposal is most likely to be a reform not elimination of the home mortgage interest deduction. Prof.  Well I suspect that the proposal most likely to emerge out of the Senate committee is one where the interest on second homes is eliminated one where the total amount of mortgage debt will be capped at a lower level than the 1 million that it is currently capped at and rather than having an interest deduction where the deduction ranges from 15 percent all the way up to 38 percent for very wealthy Americans will be a constant 10 12 or 15 percent in the form of a tax credit.  Now let us explain that. You are saying the reason that the benefit of this deduction ranges from a low to a high rate is it depends on how big your income is and what rate you pay your taxes at. Prof.  Oh absolutely. And every American who earns more than 150000 or 200000 is subject to 35 or 38 percent tax rates. So they are deducting it at that rate meaning they are only paying 62 percent of every dollar of mortgage interest they actually pay. Uncle Sam is basically picking up the other 38 percent. But if you are a first-time homebuyer and you are down there in a 30 40000 income range and your marginal tax rate is 20 percent or 15 percent then you are only deducting that fraction and it is nowhere near as - of much consequence.  So you are saying the deduction as it presently exists compounds the advantage of income here or at least the size of the home that you are . Prof.  Absolutely. And it is a - any time you make mortgage credit cheap you encourage people to sort of spend more on housing.  Now what do you say to people who are in the real estate industry who would say look it is depressed right now the housing market is in terrible shape it does not seem to be picking up to do anything that would harm it it is the wrong time to do that? Prof.  I would say it really depends on what you do. The housing market's current straits is really due completely to the foreclosure crisis. And that just keeps dumping houses on the market. And the problem is there is not enough first-time buyers left in the current situation to absorb those houses once they get in the market. And I am not sure that the interest deductibility of mortgages will have much of an effect on that because a lot of that is entry-level buyers and they are the ones who are not really very much affected by this proposal.  But when people do polls and ask Americans whether they support it a large majority say they support it far larger than the number of people who actually use it. Prof.  That is a very very good point. And I think it is due to the fact that everybody has in their mind a dream of owning a home and owning a big home. So if you say to them even people who currently do not own homes we are going to eliminate this deduction and it will make owning a home more difficult.  Oh that is part of my life plan. I do not want that.  Professor Wheaton thank you very much for talking with us. Prof.  Been my pleasure.  That is William Wheaton professor of economics at MIT. 