 There is good news for the millions of Americans struggling to pay rent. The Federal Government recently barred landlords from evicting renters who would been hurt financially by the pandemic. But recent moratoriums in most states have not stopped all landlords from trying to remove tenants. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  Twenty-one-year-old Ruby Jensen  moved from Idaho to California last year hoping for a fresh start. She met a guy and they rented a room in a house in Los Angeles. Things went OK for a while. Then in June the landlady contacted her angry about the condition of the house.  She sent the text saying that I need everyone to move out of the house. I am going to be moving my family back in.  By then Jensen's fiancee had lost his job as a restaurant dishwasher because of COVID. Money was tight and they were reluctant to leave. Things quickly turned ugly. Jensen says the landlady turned off the water and gas.  She just kept coming over to the house. And that is when she started demolishing the kitchen. She tore up the sink the stove everything the floor everything.  Jensen's landlady did not respond to requests for comment. Tenant attorney Aimee Williams says all this happened at a time when most evictions were barred in California. But she says some landlords have tried to remove tenants anyway.  You know I am getting crisis calls saying the landlord's at my door. They are saying that they want to come in with the locksmith. That definitely has increased my workload.  Williams says one reason this is happening is confusion. Federal state and local governments have imposed eviction bans - some have lapsed others have not. It is not always clear what buildings are covered.  Most tenants and most landlords just do not know or understand those laws that that is not legal.  When Bobby Parker  was evicted from his New Orleans apartment he did not know a moratorium was in place. He would fallen behind on rent after a hospital stay and his landlady charged him late fees. But he would lost one of his jobs and could not pay them.  When I came back from work that Monday which was the 24 of March she set up there and had them change all my locks on my door. I went and tried the back door - same thing key would not fit in.  A woman who answered the landlady's phone hung up when asked to comment for this story. Parker says the next couple weeks were tough. Locked out of his place he could not get his medicine or his work uniform.  I called the police for two days. They never came. And when they did came they said there is not anything they could not do about it.  Parker spent two weeks sleeping outside. Then a judge ordered his landlady to let him back into his apartment. In New Orleans tenants can challenge evictions in court but housing activist Andreanecia Morris says they are usually reluctant to do so. If they lose it can be hard to find another place. They may face court costs.  There is a severe consequence to that tenant and to their future if they end up with a court-ordered eviction.  Morris says apartment owners are not always to blame. In New Orleans most people rent from small mom-and-pop landlords and a lot of them are having trouble too.  For every terrible landlord who is you know acting outrageously there are dozens of landlords who are also struggling themselves.  Morris thinks the government needs to help renters financially affected by stimulus bill is stalled in Congress. Meanwhile illegal evictions go on. Ruby Jensen ended up leaving her place after her kitchen was torn out. It was traumatic.  I am trying to do the best that I can because I just cannot figure out how to put everything together with everything that I am going through right now.  Her fiancee went back to his old restaurant job for a few days then the restaurants were closed again. Today the couple lives in a motel. They are looking for a new place to rent - a place they can stay in for good. Jim Zarroli NPR News. 