 Some people who routinely work more than 40 hours a week will soon earn more money. The Labor Department today expanded the pool of workers eligible for overtime pay by about a million people. It is taken years to reach this point and NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports many say the new rules still do not go far enough.  Chip Ahlgren took over the general manager's role at a Seattle Jiffy Lube last year. He went from making 16 an hour to an annual salary of 52000 - something that seemed at least at the time like a step up. But he says his new store was chronically understaffed. Whatever work others could not finish fell to Ahlgren.  Yeah having to run my shop no matter what - got to keep the doors open.  He says his work week is usually 65 hours a week but sometimes runs over a hundred hours. But as a salaried manager under law he is not entitled to overtime pay. Ahlgren says given how much he works he would earn more if he were paid the hourly minimum wage.  There is nothing protecting me if I have to work 100 hours a week from that happening and I do not get any more money.  Current federal law says most workers making about 24000 a year are entitled to overtime pay. In other words in order to be considered salaried most workers need to make at least that. But that minimum salary threshold was set in 2004. Nowadays that 24000 salary falls below the poverty line for a family of four and just about everyone agrees that needs updating. The Obama administration sought to expand the number of workers eligible for overtime pay by raising the salary threshold. It proposed more than doubling it to about 47000. A Texas judge struck that down. Instead the Trump Administration issued a new rule setting the threshold at just over 35000. As a result 1.3 million more workers will be eligible to earn overtime but Heidi Shierholz argues the new rules fall short.  It is a missed opportunity in the sense that millions more could have been helped.  Shierholz was chief economist at the Labor Department under Obama. She argues the new minimum salary cutoff will not be automatically updated with inflation meaning it could be decades before it is reset again.  So it will be set at 35000 and that is it.  But employers are pleased with the lower threshold. Nancy Hammer is vice president of regulatory affairs for the Society for Human Resource Management.  Overall our feeling is that this is a more workable approach.  And she notes many employers pay overtime even if not required by law. Also a growing number of states have or are looking to set their overtime rules above the new federal requirements. Paul Sonne is state policy director at the National Employment Law Project a worker advocacy group.  Workers community groups and elected officials are all mobilizing around it as a paycheck fairness issue. If you are going to put in those long hours away from your community and your family you should at least be paid for it.  New York and California have already adopted new overtime rules that set their salary thresholds at around 50000. A much longer list of states are considering similar proposals including Colorado Washington and Pennsylvania. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 