 A downgrade of American's credit rating is unprecedented but the political gridlock that helped bring it on not such an old story.   We function better when there is a crisis. So maybe we should just wait. Let us wait 20 years. Let us wait 15 years.  This tape it is from 1994 then Democratic Senator Bob Kerrey.   Maana satisfies us. My hope is that at some point that maana is not satisfactory.  As you can hear Kerrey back then was frustrated with a special commission he was working on one appointed to come up with a plan for big cuts in government spending. It was called the Kerrey-Danforth Commission. And three years later then Republican Senator John Danforth Kerrey's partner in the effort called it a total waste of time.   I mean it was a  year as far as the people who were involved in it. We came up with a nice report and nice four-color charts but that was it. But...  You probably know what we are getting at here. Last week as part of the debt ceiling deal Congress created a committee that will once again try to come up with a plan for big cuts to the federal budget. That plan might be the best shot the U.S. has at getting its credit rating upgraded again. But unlike past congressional commissions lawmakers call this one a supercommittee. George Washington University political scientist Sarah Binder says there is a reason why.  That is if they can agree by majority vote to report out a package of savings then the package is essentially guaranteed an up or down vote on the House and Senate floors. And that is highly unusual.  So that is one important difference. Most congressional commissions are not actually writing laws. They are writing recommendations ones that Congress is free to ignore. This time if Congress ignores the committee's recommendations and does not pass them by early next year by law major cuts will be made automatically to a lot of popular government programs.  Exactly.  And one more thing political scientist Sarah Binder says...  Sometimes we look at all these commissions and committees and say well they do not have a great track record.  It is all about context.  Senator Kerrey's point about a crisis - I mean early 1990s right we do have the economy starting to grow so turn around there. And as he said look without a crisis perhaps it is much harder for us to reach agreement.  Agreement in the coming months might hinge on how big a crisis Washington believes it is staring at today. 