 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. The European airplane maker Airbus announced today it will spend 600 million to build a new plant in Mobile Alabama. It is the company's first major manufacturing facility in the U.S. and it will employ about 1000 workers when it is up and running. Airbus says it needs to be closer to the huge U.S. market which is generally seen as Boeing's home turf. NPR's Yuki Noguchi has more.  Airbus CEO Fabrice Bregier stood at the microphones dwarfed by huge screens behind him projecting a giant American flag. He stood beneath an arch constructed of red white and blue balloons.  We are very honored as Airbus to be part of a truly American celebration.  Airbus has reasons to drape itself in patriotism. It is trying to curry favor with its U.S. airline customers many of whom are in the process of updating their old fleets. And Bregier says Airbus plans to churn out 40 to 50 of its popular single-aisle planes every year at this new facility. The Frenchman's pro-American message won lots of applause from the crowd of airline executives parts makers and employees.  The town is right the talent is right and the time is right.  A long lineup of politicians took the stage to congratulate themselves on bringing new jobs to an area hard hit by setbacks from recent manufacturing losses and from the Gulf Coast oil spill - among them Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions.   We make this aircraft we assemble it here and send it all over the world and we collect money.   And it is brought back to Mobile. And it is distributed out spread around a little bit in our community. I think that is a win-win proposition for all of us.  One company not celebrating this 600  Boeing Airbus' American archrival. This big investment in Boeing's home country is a kind of shot across the bow. Boeing responded by saying it does not matter how many U.S. jobs Airbus creates. It is also destroying them by competing unfairly. For years the industry titans have fought accusing each other of receiving illegal government subsidies. But Richard Aboulafia an analyst with the Teal Group says today's announcement amounts to little more than a rhetorical skirmish.  I do not think it is a major threat to Boeing at all. And I do not think it is a major opportunity for Airbus either.  Aboulafia says locating a plant in the U.S. does not give Airbus a competitive advantage because U.S. airlines do not actually buy planes based on where they are built.  I think it is easy to overrate its significance. You know these are not cars. You do not want to be closer to the customer - there is no point to that. It is a global business. And there are no trade barriers either in the U.S. or in Europe.  He says the trend in airline manufacturing is to make lots of pieces of planes in different countries and then put them together. Aboulafia identifies two other main reasons for Airbus to make this move. One is to curry greater political favor to put Airbus in a better position to win more defense contracts. The other he says is to lower its labor costs by shifting more operations to Southern right-to-work states something Boeing has also done. Another airline analyst Scott Hamilton agrees labor is Airbus' main motivation to move. Right now airplane makers are ramping up to meet high demand but Hamilton worries that will not last.  There is going to be inevitably a down cycle. The European labor laws make it very difficult to lay off people. So the obvious question is in the next down cycle if you decide that you need to lay off people where are they going to get laid off?  Construction on the new plant is set to begin next year with aircraft assembly starting in three years. Yuki Noguchi NPR News. 