 help wanted. For a snapshot of who is hiring who is applying and who is not NPR's Joel Rose went to Allentown in eastern Pennsylvania.  Allentown used to depend on steel and heavy manufacturing. Those jobs are largely gone. But Allentown has become an important distribution point for goods passing through on their way to New York and Philadelphia. And there are definitely jobs here especially if you can drive a forklift.  So you are looking for warehouse labor work?  Right.  Okay. Can you tell me what shift best suits your lifestyle?  Second shift.  Second shift that is great.  Tom Bradley is a recruiter for Assante a company that provides contingent workers - what you or I might call temps - for other companies. Right now Bradley is trying to find people to work in a warehouse for 11 to 15 an hour. And lately he is been running a job fair like this one at the CareerLink office in Allentown every week.  We are very busy. I foresee doing this for at least the next seven eight weeks to help fill up our pipeline of folks who want to go to work.  You might think the high unemployment rate would make Bradley's job easier. He says it is not that simple.  As long as the government continues to extend unemployment benefits there is a certain percentage of people that would prefer just to stay home and get paid for staying home.  Officially the unemployment rate in Allentown and the surrounding Lehigh Valley is 8.4 percent. But the real number of people out of work is probably much higher says Gina Kormanik at the Lehigh Valley Workforce Investment Board.  When you do the number of discouraged workers it might be closer to 14 15 percent actually. Our goal is to make sure that people are connected to the workforce system so that they get the training because they are not - if they have not been into training in the last six months year or two years they are out of date.  We produce about six million bottles a day. And we are right at about a million gallons of water a day.  Peter Rittenhouse runs two Nestle Waters bottling plants in the Lehigh Valley just west of Allentown. Rittenhouse has hired about 25 people this year for jobs paying as much as 20 an hour. Rittenhouse says there is no shortage of applicants but many lack the computer and technical expertise to work in a highly automated factory.  A lot of the unemployed people that we see do not have the kind of skills that we are looking for in terms of helping us solve problems in a high-speed environment. That is where the dilemma is.  And even those who do go back to school for more training find that is no guarantee of landing a job.   Good morning career resource center.  At the CareerLink office in Allentown John Branch is waiting to use one of the computers where job seekers can post resumes and search listings. Branch graduated a month ago from a local community college with a degree in IT.  There is opportunities but a lot of people are afraid to hire. And those that are hiring are actually hiring from within.  There are so many people out there that it is just - it is a numbers game.  Kristina Fritz is also using the CareerLink computers to look for work specifically a clerical job like the one she lost several years ago when the company she worked for went out of business. But for now Fritz says she is settling for a job at a local warehouse.  You do what you have to do and a lot of other people are doing it. But I do see a change and I see more frustration in people. You know what I mean? More like now what are they going to do?  Judging by the turnout at the job fair I saw a lot of people have decided that a warehouse job is better than no job at all. Joel Rose NPR News. 