 President Trump has been imposing tariffs on imports from China Mexico and the European Union over the last few months. Tariffs are an abstract concept to many people. But Stacey Vanek Smith and Cardiff Garcia from Planet Money's economic podcast The Indicator wanted to know who oversees the new tariffs and where they go. So they went out and found some of them.   Cardiff you remember this Schoolhouse Rock! video about how a bill becomes a law.    I am just a bill. Yes I am only a bill and I am sitting here on Capitol Hill.  And this got us thinking about tariffs.  Of course.  Yeah. Where do tariffs hang out?  When an administration puts new tariffs in place new import taxes they end up here.   That is the sound of 3728 pages of tariff law dropping onto a conference room table at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection building in Newark N.J.  Dropping from only like 2 inches off the ground by the way.   That is true.  Yeah.  It is hard to lift.  Yeah. Specifically those pages were in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States of America. It is almost a foot thick.  Linda Birck and Mitchel Landau work for Customs and Border Protection. It is part of the Department of Homeland Security.  We asked Mitch to show us what a tariff looks like or actually all the tariffs in one place.  It is a very very big thick book. And in it there are numbers. Those numbers indicate a description of every article that can come in to the United States of America.  They deal with apparel footwear and textiles for the entire country and this category could be affected by President Trump's threatened new set of tariffs against China. Right after President Trump's announcement the phone started ringing from companies that import stuff from China who were calling with questions.  For example we just kind of randomly opened it up. We are in chapter 62 subheading is 6203.11. So that is only going to encompass suits of wool or fine animal hair containing 30 percent or more by weight of silk or silk waste. And then you could see that it has to have a average diameter of 18.5 microns or less.  OK. So here's how this works. Mitch and Linda and their team are keeping track of all of these thousands of cargo containers that are coming into the U.S. every day.  Let us take a hypothetical example where there is like this big suit chain in Kansas called Kansas Suits Inc. And the suits that it is importing seem kind suspiciously close to that 18 12 micron count right? So Customs and Border Protection decides to inspect that shipment.  So we will send that to the lab and they will analyze it and they will tell us well what is the breakdown of the fiber content?  Wait a minute. You blew my mind . There is the equivalent of a CSI lab but for trade right here in this building.  They would not let us see it.  Sadly.  I am sorry Cardiff but you know it was there. Somewhere in that big beige building there is a CSI lab where they are testing suit fibers and other things for the Department of Homeland Security.  Most companies probably will not go through the lab. They will just have to find out if their imports fall under one of the new tariffs' categories and then they will just pay the new taxes.  The new tariffs could bring more money into the U.S. and they will of course make the tariff book even longer and denser than it already was.  Yeah. It is not exactly a page-turner as is.  But there is some cool stuff in there.  There is even a heading for moon rock OK?  Really?  Even NASA has to make - everyone has to declare to Customs upon coming into the United States.  Like if they import something from the moon.  Yes.  What is the tariff on a moon rock?  It was free.  .  Yet it still has to be declared and entered and released.  They are very serious about their tariffs.  They really are. Like even moon tariffs - moon rock tariffs.  There is no - you do not laugh at the tariffs.  You do not mess around with that.  Even if they are zero.  Cardiff Garcia.  Stacey Vanek Smith NPR News. 