 Joining us now from Capitol Hill is NPR congressional correspondent Andrea Seabrook. And Andrea there were reports today that President Obama and House Speaker John Boehner were closing in on a major budget deal and then White House spokesman Jay Carney shot that story down. What if anything do we know about an eminent deal?  And what I have heard from lawyers - lawmakers themselves right now is that President Obama and House Speaker John Boehner did to get close to a deal one that would cut more than 3 trillion over the next decade but that it was quickly shot down by Senate Democrats. Apparently when they heard about it today they just blew up in a meeting with White House officials.  What was so contentious about the deal that it lead to that?  So Democrats say the entire burden of the deal you know they do not want it to fall on the poor and elderly and sick. So they were angry about you know even the suggestion that this was close to a deal.  Well today the Senate is taking up the House Republican deficit reduction bill which is known as Cut Cap and Balance. It includes steep spending cuts no new taxes. How weighted are House Republicans to their pledge not to raise taxes?  You know it really seems like conservative Republicans especially those who are new to Congress that big class of freshmen with ties to the Tea Party Robert they seem to be saying essentially you know here's our plan take it or leave it. But today Speaker John Boehner addressed that in a press conference.  Well I am sure we have got some members who believe that but I do not believe that would be anywhere close to the majority. At the end of the day we have a responsibility to act.  I do not know if you could hear that. He said that is not close to the majority of Republicans. And it does seem like the closer we get to August 2nd and that is just 12 days away now the more I hear Republicans saying yes we have to act.  Well what if acting required some support from House Democrats? Would they have any votes there for a deal?  Well they are certainly going to need every vote they can muster up that is for sure. I mean if there is a deal it is going to be a serious heave to get it through the House. And Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said today that they are preparing themselves.  I think we have some of the pieces. It is not going to be mysterious as to what ends up in a final product. It is just a question of how big it is.  Right now how big it is seems to be defined by whether they can agree on that revenue and tax cut problem that is still sticky.  Now back to all those whispered conversations you wish you could record for us. What are the rank and file members on both sides telling you?  Well yeah huddled together whispered what they tell me they will not say on tape but there is - 'ecause they are scared they will tank a possible deal. But they say that they know something's got to give before August 2nd and it is just maneuvering around these last sticky details.  Last sticky details but some of the things that they are giving on are big principles with their base constituencies.  Well if they give on those. I mean you know it is the same problem. It is sort of when you fundamentally disagree on such a basic level how do you massage it? And that is where they are.  Thank you for talking with us.  My pleasure.  That is NPR congressional correspondent Andrea Seabrook. 