  When you are negotiating the price of a car or a house when you pick the number that you are going to ask for first be careful. Do not pick a round number. Associate professor of business Malia Mason studied this and she joins us now. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  And first give us an example. What do you mean do not pick a round number?  So if you are negotiating for let us say a car you are buying a used car from someone do not suggest that you will pay 5000 for the car. Say something like I will pay you 5125 for the car or 4885 for the car.  Why should that be a more successful tactic of negotiating?  It signals that you have more knowledge about the value of the good being negotiated.  Somebody says 5000 to me and I think ah they do not know much. But if they say 5123.50 I think boy they must have looked up some table of the values of used cars or something.  Correct.  You have actually studied this. How many transactions did you look at and what kinds of transactions?  We looked at listing prices on Zillow the real estate website. We also looked at the prices that our executive MBA students and MBA students were using and suggesting in simulated negotiations in classroom exercises. And what we found was that indeed it is the case that people have a habit of using round numbers. We then took this into the lab and studied it in six studies involving hundreds and hundreds of people. And it all bore out the feeling that the more precise a number is the less rounded the better you do in the negotiation.  And I think you want to complement that number with some reasons. Where did you get that number? The chances that you are successful really come down to how much research you have done and having an informed view of the good.  If you open with a round number the impression is that you have already rounded it off.  It is funny because I think what actually ends up happening is I am buying something from you and I say I will buy it for 4985. I think that you hear she will buy it for 5000 but it is a firm 5000. It is not a somewhere between 4800 and 5200 which is what 5000 implies.  But if you started at 5000 I would think ah I can probably get her up to 5200 or something.  Correct.  Have you heard a lot of confirming anecdotes from people about this since your work was published?  You know I think that it is only recently been published as the first thing to say. On some level I think it is fairly intuitive. You know I get a little pushback from people about is not it awkward to be really precise? And I think that is a valid statement and criticism. I cannot provide a rule that is always going to work in any negotiation but what I can suggest to people is that you would be well served to err on the side of being at least a little more specific. and then looking for other ways to signal that your offer is based on some facts and figures not on nothing.  Well professor Mason thank you very much for talking with us about your work.  Thank you so much.  That is associate professor Malia Mason of Columbia Business School talking about the power in negotiations of precise - as opposed to round - numbers. 