 There was an achievement in sports yesterday that is more rare than a perfect game in baseball and it happened with a lot less fanfare than a certain NBA free agent choosing which town will pay him his next hundred- million. For just the fourth time in the history of the PGA tour a golfer shot a round of 59 in a PGA tournament. Paul Goydos did it in Thursday's first round of the John Deere Classic in Silvis Illinois. He shot a round that was 12 strokes under par and he joins us now from Silvis. Welcome to the program and congratulations. Mr.  Thank you very much.  And tell us what does it feel like to shoot as good a round of golf as anyone in competition has ever shot? Mr.  Everybody keeps asking that question. I am still pretty numb. I mean I do not know. It is been a pretty whirlwind 24 hours - or whatever it is been. You know personally it was a big accomplishment. I made the putt. I was pretty you know pretty cool. One of the goals... You know I would had a close call with 59 with some friends a couple years back and I kind of decided that you know that would be one of the things I would like to do before I hang my golf clubs up. I did not realize how big a deal it was going to be outside of my own little world.  You were four under par at the turn. That means after the first nine holes you had five pars and four birdies - which is terrific - and then you caught fire. You birdied eight of the last nine holes. What happened? What was going on?  Mr.  Your question to me - I am trying to figure that out so I can maybe bottle it and keep it for the next 10 or so years. Just you know everything kind of fell into place. You know I played the 10th hole very well and made a pretty easy birdie there and then just - Mr. Putter decided to cooperate for the last eight holes of that nine and just you know everything I did turned to gold. It was one of those days where you know if I was walking down the fairway and tripped and fell down I would have fallen down on 100 bill.  Tell us a little bit about the condition of the course which did contribute... Mr.  Absolutely. First of all the golf course is in wonderful shape flawless is the word I would use especially considering they had tons of rain here the last three weeks and softening the golf course does allow for better scores. It makes the golf course play longer but it also makes the golf course play wider. You know your ball's not going to roll in trouble. Your ball's basically going to end up where it lands on the greens for the most part.  Obviously what you did yesterday - shooting a 59 - demonstrates that if you can always drive the ball in a round as well as you can drive the ball and always hit your irons as well as you can hit your irons and always putt as well as you know you can putt with that consistency you can shoot a better round than Tiger Woods or Jack Nicklaus has ever shot. And I wonder what do you think it is? What is it that in one round permits you to have absolutely everything under control and at your best and you know - I do not want to jinx subsequent rounds but another 59 would be pretty rare if you do that. Mr.  Right.  What is it? What happens on a day like this? Mr.  You know I think that it is a series of events that come together and merge and supernova into a round of golf. Yeah on any given day Paul Goydos is capable of beating Tiger Woods - or anybody else who is played the game. You know what stands Tiger Woods or Jack Nicklaus or the people you talk about away from me  and believe me they are light years away from me  is their ability to do it every single week. Why everything again supernovaed for me yesterday you know it was just  I think when we die and meet our maker that may be the first question I ask.  I am just curious before you go I saw you were asked yesterday were you nervous with that last putt on the 18th green. And you saidyou are always nervous. Mr.  Yes that is part of the fun of the game. You know nerves mean expectations and my expectations are very high. I think that the day that I am not nervous is the day that I probably retire. Now having said that there is different levels of nervousness. I would have to say that from a golf standpoint over that putt on 18 was probably the most nervous I would ever been. And a big part of my success on making that putt was more or less you know muscle autopilot than it was necessarily a calm head or calm nerves.  Muscle autopilot. Mr.  I just made that up myself.   Well thank you very much for talking with us about yesterday's round of 59 at the John Deere Classic tying the record. Paul Goydos thanks so much for talking with us. Mr.  Thanks for having me.  And today Paul Goydos did not match his incredible score of 59. He shot a 68 three under par. He is now 16 under for the tournament. 