 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. And we continue our coverage now of President Obama's jobs speech with two economists. Christina Romer was chair of Mr. Obama's Council of Economic Advisors. She left a year ago to return to her job as a professor of economics at the University of California Berkeley. And we are also joined by Phillip Swagel. He worked in the administration of George W. Bush. He was ultimately assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department and is now professor of international economic policy at the University of Maryland's school of public policy. Welcome to both of you.  Thank you. Great to be with you.  And let us begin by listening to this statement that President Obama made tonight about differing economic theories.  Now I realize that some of you have a different theory on how to grow the economy. Some of you sincerely believe that the only solution to our economic challenges is to simply cut most government spending and eliminate most government regulations.   I would like to ask both of you this. Is what the president is proposing which is not simply cutting government spending is it in your view a sensible approach to lowering unemployment in the country? We will begin with Phillip Swagel. Is it?  Yeah well I am glad you played that piece because I thought that was the weakest part of the speech in some sense the straw man. I mean no one's proposing to get rid of all regulation. I mean Mitt Romney said as much in the debate. So yeah there is regulations that get in the way of jobs. The president is trying to do something the Republicans might do more. But the idea of you know this different theory it was just it was a straw man. It was really a unfortunate part of the speech.  What about the things that he did propose? Do they add up in your view to the kind of things that a president responding to persistent 9.1 percent unemployment should be doing? And will they work?  Yeah I mean there is some good ideas in there. And there is some ideas that I think - as the president said in the first part of the speech which was the good part of the speech you know do have bipartisan support. The wage tax cut the investment tax cut - which is expensing - the training and I think even infrastructure if it is paid for over time all of those will have bipartisan support and will be useful.  Christina Romer what do you think? Is this an appropriate effective way to go after unemployment?  I absolutely think it is. I think you know if there was a weakness to the president's speech it was in some sense not making the case enough - or diagnosing the problem enough. Because I think what certainly most economists believe is that was are facing a profound shortfall in demand - consumer demand business investment our exports. And what the president was really proposing is a very bold plan to get demand back up by cutting individual taxes by incentivizing investment by incentivizing hiring.  You know all of those things are aimed to that basic goal. And I think it is exactly the right kind of things to be taking. I liked a lot of the proposals. I think one of the things you are seeing from the discussion with Phil Swagel is there are a lot of things here that should have bipartisan support - things like tax incentives for hiring and you know good infrastructure. I think almost everyone would agree that is good for jobs now and good for our productivity over time.  Phil Swagel though you said that no one really believes that the whole problem is regulations but this idea that the real problem is insufficient demand - that is people are not they do not have enough money to spend on things or there are not enough people with enough money to do that it does seem to be in conflict with a parade of CEOs who say the uncertain regulatory environment or the imminence of Obamacare kicking in in a couple of years or not knowing what happens to their taxes that is what is stopping them from hiring. Is there really any serious dispute about this?  Well I would say it is both right. Economists talk about supply and demand - it is and it is both it is not one it is not the other. So having more demand is vital. And with the unemployment rate at nine percent it is both a symptom and also a cause of insufficient demand. And then there is all the policies that you mentioned and the uncertainties of the affordable care act and environmental regulations energy policy - those are weighing on the economy as well.  Christina Romer you were there at the beginning. And as you know the one thing the White House does not want to do is say how much this will reduce unemployment by. Because if you are stuck with a forecast that turns out to be too rosy you will never hear the end of it.  Welcome to my life.  To your life if it was your forecast. So when you hear this what do think it comes out to? I mean if we are at 9.1 percent right now how many jobs can it add to the economy over a couple of years?  Well I have certainly learned my lesson and I do not - I have not done the kind of calculations that would allow me to give a number. I think the important thing is this is a big bold plan - that this is not the token effort. This is the president and the administration saying this is what it is going to take. And you know frankly it probably would take somewhat more than the 450 billion that the president has proposed to really definitively heal the economy but it would make a tremendous start. So I think the one thing I feel very confident saying is that it would absolutely move the needle would absolutely have an impact on the unemployment rate.  You know I have heard numbers coming out of Mark Zandi who is a very respected forecaster saying that he expects it to you know to perhaps reduce the unemployment rate from nine percent to eight percent. So that gives you a kind of number. I think you know this is - we are talking about something big here is the important thing.  Phillip Swagel too big for you or just right?  No you know I look at his components that you know the things would go in the right direction things I mentioned at the beginning those are good. I think the hard things is the second half - the paying for it. And in a sense the president is going to propose things that he knows are not going to be acceptable to the other side. And so you know I wonder the extent to which he is really setting up a campaign battle. Hopefully that is not the case. I mean I think it would be important for Americans to look at Washington and see things getting done. And so hopefully there will be pieces of this that get done quickly.  Well let me ask you this Christina Romer can the president come up with a couple hundred billion dollars in budget cuts without undermining the very effect he is trying to accomplish by increasing demand? Or just all get backloaded several years from now so that it will be after the recession presumably ends?  And that is absolutely the key. I mean we have two big problems. We have an immediate jobs problem and we absolutely have a long-run deficit. And we have to deal with both of those problems. And the way that you can fight both of them is to take the kind of aggressive action that the president is proposing tonight on jobs but to absolutely not only pay for it as he is proposing to do but in fact we are going to need more long-term deficit reduction as the economy recovers. And you know I think here I might agree with some of the Republican critics who said it might have been a stronger speech if the president had had more of those specifics about how he is going to deal with the long-run deficit. Tonight I mean they obviously made a choice. They said they were certainly going to make a proposal to the supercommittee in the next few weeks. But I would feel reassured to see what is in it. You know Phil said that you know they are not going to want to propose you know the kind of spending cuts. Well one of the things the president has talked about is entitlement reform.  And on that note...  ...spending cut.  On that note Christina Romer at U.C. Berkeley and Phil Swagel at the University of Maryland thanks to both of you for talking with us about...  Thank you.  Sure.  ...the president's speech tonight. 