 More than 82000 victims of Hurricane Harvey have so far filed claims with the National Flood Insurance Program. This does not include any Irma victims. The government's flood program is managed by hundreds of for-profit companies. Charles Lane of member station WSHU reports that this has created a business model that favors speed over accuracy possibly hurting homeowners and taxpayers in the process.  In a gutted house in Bellaire Texas Sean Westerling and his helper measure everything - closets doorways windows.  You need to get the serial number off this freezer.  FEMA wants serial numbers to make sure taxpayers did not already pay for appliances in the last storm. There are lots of details like this.  If you do not watch what you are doing if you do not remember to get your windows you do not remember to get your doors well not only are you going to pay for that drywall and that window but you are going to forget about the door trim and the door.  It is a meticulous process of essentially fact-checking what was actually damaged. It takes Westerling and his helper more than two hours to scope each house.  I have got to have a cigarette.  For this one he figures he will earn 1600. And the more houses he adjusts the more money he makes. Westerling says this causes most adjusters to work too fast.  You want to make sure you see everything because I do not want to write something and then they have to come back with a supplement. I mean that is what is going on up there on Hurricane Sandy.  After Sandy hit New York and New Jersey in 2012 about 15 percent of policyholders complained about being short-changed. Most adjusters I interviewed refused to be recorded. Westerling was an exception. And so was James Gardner.  Now you can see how personal this is. I am in every room of their house. I am in every closet of their house. I am in their personal space.  Gardner has a lot of compassion for his customers but he works much faster than Westerling.  A 74-inch waterline.  In briefings FEMA advises adjusters to spend two to three hours per house. Gardner gets this one done in just under 45 minutes. What is that sound?  That is the pictures uploading.  You submitted it?  Yeah it is sent.  He did not measure or count the windows and he did not count the number of outlets. He did not get the serial numbers for the appliances. And he would have missed an entire bedroom in the back if the owner Maria Jimas did not point it out to him.  He do not ask. We need to tell him to.  And he did not measure the laundry room?  No. No he did not measure the laundry room.  Back at his truck I ask Gardner about the economics of flood adjusting. Do not you want to try to get as many claims on your desk as possible?  Absolutely absolutely.  Most adjusting companies assign claims in stacks so adjusters can make more money by inspecting fast so they can get another stack.  You definitely wanted to get as many claims as you could on those because you do not know when they are going to stop.  For large storms like Harvey Gardner says he can handle upwards of 150 claims. Mark Buntyn says that is possible but hard. He is contracted by FEMA to train new adjusters. He says yes the business model does pressure adjusters to go fast. But...  Individual companies are not going to give an adjuster too many claims generally. But some adjusters just like any other people are unscrupulous and they get claims from another company. And then that is when trouble happens.  After Sandy FEMA implemented a new real-time quality control process to make sure each adjuster will get at least one claim reviewed during the storm. The agency hopes to weed out bad adjusters before they process too many claims. For NPR News I am Charles Lane.  And that story was reported with help from member station WNYC.  