 Now to southeastern Kentucky where high gas prices have brought about something unusual. In Somerset the City Council and Mayor have heard years of complaints about the price of gas. So last month Somerset began selling gasoline to the public itself. Emil Moffatt of member station WKYU reports.  Bob Thomas is filling up his green pickup truck at a gas station near the edge of town in Somerset. There are no candy bars or 44 ounce soft drinks or lottery tickets sold here. The gas station is a drab khaki colored administration building. There is no company brand sign anywhere. The gasoline flowing through the nozzle is not being sold by a company but by the city. The price - 3.36 a gallon.  It should have been this way years ago - fair - you get me? If the people at the refinery is making money on their gas the city's going to make a little money. I do not mind you making you a living or whenever you come to work for me pay you a fair wage but I do not want to send you to the Bahamas on a 30 day vacation though.  The town's mayor Eddie Girdler oversaw the project. He says gas in town has long been higher because of a lack of competition while median family income is Somerset is lower than the state average.  You know we are like 14 - 15000 less. Why should we be paying high gas prices because they cannot afford to start with? So we help our economy we help our nation and we help our commonwealth by doing things that drives down prices so that the consumer are again - the people is protected.  But not everyone is happy with the way the mayor went about trying to lower gas prices.  It is nothing but a socialist movement towards the government trying to solve everyone's problems and the government is not the answer - government's the problem.  That is State Senator Chris Girdler a distant cousin of the mayor's. But Mayor Girlder points out there have been no complaints about the city selling compressed natural gas which he say's they have been doing for the last several years. E.  It is amazing that you can put an energy form like natural gas into vehicles to sell to the public and your politicians and your business does not get upset but the day that you sell gasoline - heaven forbid - gasoline to the public then all the sudden becomes a big issue.  The Kentucky office of the National Federation of Independent Business does not like the city gas station either and says government competition is not fair to local businesses. Tom Underwood heads the state office in Frankfort.  Our members are really getting up in arms about this and we will be approaching the Kentucky General Assembly to see if we can find relief there.  But energy economist Philip Verleger says it will not be local gas stations that feel the biggest sting but the oil companies who may have to cut their wholesale gasoline prices in response.  Legislators will fairly quickly look at this and probably take steps to make this illegal - if they can. You know this is a real threat to the profits of companies like Marathon Refining Philips 66 and others.  Marathon is the leading oil company in this region. A company spokesman says he did not have anything to add to the dialogue. At commercial gas stations along Somerset's main thoroughfare Highway 27 customers like Doug Harrison Delcie Halcomb and Larry Hall were not too upset about the idea of the city selling gas.  If it helps the city out maybe make a little money for the city keep the area in good shape - I mean it is a good thing.  If it brings down the prices yeah it would be great.  Well the prices are down right now and I believe it is because they opened that up.  In fact the average cost of gas in Somerset has fallen - it is now 20 cents below the statewide average. Mayor Girdler says that is all he ever wanted. E.  We could not get anywhere and we decided hey we might as well take a stand - in a small way of saying that we are tired of it we are going to try to do it and it is working..  And he says the only people he is worried about answering to are his constituents. For NPR News I am Emil Moffatt in Bowling Green Kentucky. 