 U.S. employers hired fewer workers last month. The Labor Department says employers added just 130000 jobs in August and that is fewer than forecasters were expecting. The number would have been even weaker had it not been for the hiring of 25000 temporary census workers. That jobs report is another sign of an economy that is been tapping the brakes. NPR's Scott Horsley is here. Hey Scott.  Hi Mary Louise.  So how should we square this? Slowdown in job growth - on the other hand the unemployment rate is still very low - right? - 3.7.  That is right. So the slowdown in job growth could be a normal sign of an economy that is at or near full employment. We often hear from employers who say they are having trouble finding workers to fill the job openings. But it is also likely we are seeing some fallout from the ongoing trade war and the slowdown in global demand. The manufacturing sector in particular is vulnerable to that kind of fallout. And factories added only 3000 jobs last month. The factory numbers for June and July were also revised down. Now that is consistent with some of the other economic indicators we got this week which together paint a picture of a manufacturing sector that actually shrank last month for the first time in three years.  So if overall the economy is tapping the brakes as we put it does that mean a recession is looming?  Not necessarily. All indications are the U.S. economy is still growing. It is just growing more slowly than it was say a year ago. While the Trump administration talks a lot about manufacturing it is important to keep in mind factories are a relatively small part of the overall economy. They represent about 8 of jobs about 11 of GDP. Economist Jared Bernstein who is with the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities says that is about a third of what factories represented a few decades ago. So a slowdown in manufacturing does not necessarily have to drag down the broader U.S. economy.  It is not pretty and it is not something I like to see. And it is a totally self-inflicted wound so it is really dumb. But I do not know that it is recessionary at this point.  Now that said we are also seeing some slowdown in the larger services side of the economy - things like health care and finance radio reporters. The economy added less than two-thirds as many services jobs in August as in the two previous months. And what is more we continue to see job losses in the retail sector. There were 11000 fewer retail jobs in August. Even though consumers are still spending money they are just not spending in a lot of traditional stores.  Was there anything good in this jobs report Scott?  Yeah there were some encouraging signs. The labor force participation rate ticked up. More than half a million new people came into the workforce. That is encouraging. It means people who have been on the sidelines are seeing opportunities in this tight job market. We have also seen some acceleration in wage growth and a very slight increase in the average workweek. So you have got more people working more hours and making more money. That means consumers will have some spending power. And because consumer spending is such a big part of the economy that should keep things afloat even if we are growing more slowly.  All right so we keep talking about growing more slowly slowdown and so on. Does it follow that the Federal Reserve may roll into the rescue cut interest rates in the coming days months?  You know the Fed was already expected to cut rates by a quarter point at its next meeting in less than two weeks. And I do not think anything in this report's going to change that expectation. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell admitted to an audience in Switzerland though today we are in a kind of gray area. And there is some disagreement among his colleagues about just how much medicine the U.S. economy needs.   There'ill always be questions about how much to do and how fast to move and things like that. But sometimes things are relatively clear. Other times it is murky out there. There is a range of views and I think this is one of those times.  Still Powell stressed the central bank is committed to using its tools to prolong the now decade-old economic expansion.  Thank you Scott.  You are welcome.  NPR's Scott Horsley.  