 The future of the global auto industry is on display in Europe this week. Thursday marks the beginning of the annual Frankfurt Auto Show in Germany the largest car show in the world.  If there is a theme running through the show this year it is green. From Ford to Ferrari carmakers are unveiling countless new electric and hybrid vehicles for every taste and budget. Dan Neil is the automotive critic for The Los Angeles Times. And he joins us from Frankfurt. And Dan you have gotten a sneak peek of the show. Walk us through some of the more interesting electric and hybrid models that you have seen. Mr.  It is extensive and it goes from small city cars Peugeot and Volkswagen and a lot of other car companies are - want to sell small urban mobility that is pure electric. And then on the other side you have some extreme electric cars. For instance Mercedes-Benz is experimenting with a super sports car you know a 200 mile-per-hour sports car that is all electric. Audi unveiled something called the e-Tron R8. And it is got over 3000 pound feet of torque. That is about the amount of torque a tugboat has. And there is just - the array of battery electric and plug-in hybrids is really staggering. After years of if not skepticism outright cynicism about electric mobility the European carmakers are onboard.  Yeah. The majority of the vehicles that are being unveiled in Frankfurt are not just European these are German. And we associate green car technology much more with the Japanese automakers and even the American carmakers. The Europeans the Germans are catching up now? Mr.  Well that is a perception depending on who you ask. The Germans would have argued that their work in diesel technology really has put them at the front of the line in terms of green tech. And also they are the most painfully conscious of social acceptance so that the theme running through all these carmakers' presentations BMW and Mercedes and Audi is social responsibility. For example you know Mercedes sells a beautiful sedan the S-Class sedan. Well you know how do you make that more socially responsible? Here they are showing a plug-in hybrid electric version of this car that gets 74 miles per gallon.  Now what is the American presence at the Frankfurt Auto Show? Mr.  Well outside of Ford which is a very successful brand in Europe and they are unveiling something called the C-Max which is a minivan space wagon thing and some other engine technologies. Really the Americans are not much in evidence. What you see at the Fiat stand is likely what you will see translated into the American vernacular somehow. General Motors honestly the Heineken tent is bigger.   Yes. I heard that Cadillac was a scratch for the Frankfurt Auto Show. And Dodge is over with the Fiats. Is that - is that what I hear? Mr.  Well yeah that is true. And General Motors once put on this spectacular lavish display to compete with any of the German carmakers and now they are reduced to this you know hovel out back. It is kind of sad.  Well okay now time for a little bit of wish fulfillment here. Of all of the luxury cars that you have seen in Frankfurt if you could have it all what is the one car you would want to drive out of there in your dream world? Mr.  Well the new Ferrari 458 Italia is as they say in Ferris Bueller very nice.  Mr.  And it is probably the most beautiful Ferrari I have seen in my time doing this job. And yesterday a company called Bugatti which is owned by the VW Group unveiled a supercar called the Galibier and it has a 16-cylinder engine with two compressors. It will put out about 800 horsepower but do not worry it is green. It runs on bio-ethanol.  Ah. I was wondering where the social responsibility in that model would come. Mr.  Yeah.  Well Dan Neil thanks a lot for talking with us about the Frankfurt Auto Show. Mr.  Thank you.  Dan Neil is the automotive critic for The Los Angeles Times. And he was talking to us from Frankfurt Germany about the auto show. 