 One of the worst kept secrets in Silicon Valley was made official today. Former eBay CEO Meg Whitman is taking over at Hewlett-Packard. Making the announcement the HP board called Whitman a technology visionary with a proven track record of execution. Her predecessor lasted less than a year on the job. Here's NPR's Richard Gonzales.  With the firing of Leo Apotheker HP once one of high tech's bedrock companies is letting go of its third CEO in six years. The former CEO Mark Hurd was forced out a year ago in a squabble over ethics and improper expense reports. Since Hurd's departure HP's market value has shrunk by 60 billion. Apotheker did not help things when he announced last month that HP a name virtually synonymous with quality PCs and printers might or might not get out of the hardware business and focus on software. Jeffrey Sonnenfeld is a dean at Yale's School of Management.  customers suppliers vendors employees and shareholders.  There was a term the HP way which you may recall that was industrial folklore in a good way. There is a certain mythic imagery of what HP stood for in terms of the quality of the product and the kind of management of the organization. Well that is all gone. I mean the HP way they have lost their way.  And that is a popular view here in California as well. Ashok Kumar an analyst at Rodman  Renshaw had even harsher words calling HP a clown without a circus a tragicomedy.  It is really unfortunate because you have a company that is iconic of the valley and it is becoming increasingly a laughingstock. And it does damage the morale of the rank and file HP employees.  And Kumar says even if you question Apotheker's strategic decisions he had to be acting with the implicit blessing of the board.  And so to blame the current CEO for some of its woes is unfair.  Enter into this saga former eBay CEO Meg Whitman who is getting her second shot at a second act. She is legendary for having taken over eBay when it had a few dozen employees and 86 million in revenues. Under her leadership eBay became a household term earning almost 6 billion in revenue. Then she got the idea to run for governor of California last year.   We can fix California. No question about it. It is going to take a different style of leadership. It is going to take a different approach. But we can make California great again.  Running as a Republican Whitman spent more than 170 million dollars almost all of it her own money. That was a record amount for any statewide office in the country. But she lost to an aging former governor Democrat Jerry Brown by 13 percentage points. Now as the new CEO of HP Whitman will be the second woman to run that company. The first Carly Fiorina lost her bid to represent California in the United States Senate last year too. Yale's Jeffrey Sonnenfeld says Whitman has many qualities that might help her succeed in turning HP around. He says she is entrepreneurial and resilient.  She is got to make strategic sense of this business. She might be able to pull it off. She is a capable communicator. She could have been better in the campaign but I think she is learned a lot from that process. And she is not an ideologue. She is not Carly Fiorina. I think she has the capability to learn from where her mistakes were and I think she can do better.   deal with a board of directors he calls poisonous. Richard Gonzales NPR News San Francisco. 