 And if you are confused about the deal that lawmakers are considering you are not alone. We have asked NPR's senior Washington editor Ron Elving to help us sort out how this legislation would work. Ron thanks for coming down.  Good to be with you Melissa.  And Ron let us talk first about the first batch of cuts - about 1 trillion over 10 years. They are described as discretionary spending caps. Walk us through a bit what that means how it works. Who determines what gets cut?  Discretionary spending cap sounds pretty innocent does not it? These are top-line target numbers enormous numbers in the billions hundreds of billions. And it is a macro determination of where they want the cutting to be done in discretionary spending for defense and non-defense items split about 50-50. So who then decides how we cut those hundreds of billions down to just billions and millions? That is going to be done by the usual process of congressional committees with input from the federal agencies like say the Pentagon. On all that defense spending they want to cut they are going to get input from the Pentagon. But ultimately it will have to be decided in Congress with the appropriations Congress passes.  And would some stipulations of what cannot be cut included in there?  Yes particularly when you get to the round of the forced cuts the across-the-board cuts. They are holding some programs harmless - not all programs. But they are trying to hold harmless the entitlement programs such as Social Security so that people do not worry about getting their checks. But there are lots of other categories of spending. One of the disappointments for real deficit hawks is that this plan does not really tackle the problem of the entitlements or reform the way the entitlements are done.  Ron what would keep the next Congress or the Congress after that  We do not like these spending cuts we are going to reverse them.  Well one Congress cannot actually fully bind the next Congress but it can set the table in ways that really limit the options of the next Congress and set things in motion. This current Congress as we know is very unfriendly to the health-care bill that was passed in the previous Congress and they tried to repeal it. They did not have quite enough votes to do that but they have done what they could to reverse that whole trend in terms of health-care law. So one Congress may not be able to totally reverse the previous one. It can try to change policy direction. But each one of these accumulating plans - that is changing the way we are spending money - is having an accumulative effect.  The legislation too Ron as I understand it also stipulates when the cuts would kick in. The idea is that a number of them would be back-loaded so that they would not be as much of a shock to a struggling economy right now or in the immediate future.  That is right. There are economic reasons not to want to pull a lot of money out of this struggling economy right now. It needs more demand and it does not need to have a lot more of the stream of demand cut away by the federal government suddenly cutting back on its spending. That has all kinds of cumulative effects - or rather it has a rolling effect. And so they want to not cause too much of a shock now but they want to get credit in the way that the Congressional Budget Office does all this scoring over a 10-year period for making serious efforts to reduce spending. So they back-load the cuts. Most of them would have their effect down the road as - say for example defense contractors built fewer boats fewer warships fewer aircraft and warcraft. And these kinds of cuts would have their effect several years down the road. And that of course is objectionable too to many people and it does have an effect on national security in the long run. But that is why they back-load the cuts so that they can be made over a planned period.  Ron we have been talking about phase one of these cuts. The next phase has to do with the so-called super committee that will be charged with finding even more cuts - 12 members of Congress six from each party equally from the House and the Senate. First off who picks those committee members those lucky 12?  It is going to be the party leaders in each chamber not coincidentally the people who put together this deal. But they are going to be constrained in making those choices. For instance Speaker Boehner is not going to be able to choose three Republicans from the House without choosing someone who represents this freshman class or the Tea Party more generally similarly in the Senate similarly for the Democrats. So they are watching each other to see how partisan are the nominees they are going to put on this committee. And are we going to get 12 people who want to compromise or are we going to get 12 people who want to rumble? We will have to see whom the leaders pick.  And with that super committee Ron there is some confusion about whether taxes revenue increases are on the table. The White House says the committee will consider tax reform. Republicans are saying that the committee will not. What is the reality there?  This special gang of 12 that they are creating this new committee it is called the Joint Special Committee on Deficit Reduction. So if to you deficit reduction means nothing but spending cuts well that tells you that they are not going to consider revenues on this committee. If on the other hand you think that deficit reduction can mean both spending cuts and revenue increases well then you are going to want to talk about revenue increases on this committee. That is going to be one of the main struggles there. It is probably going to be what brings us down to a 7 to 5 vote at some point.  OK. NPR's senior Washington editor Ron Elving. Ron thanks so much.  Thank you Melissa. 