 Is the U.S. headed for a recession? Well it depends on whom you ask. Recession fears triggered a big selloff on Wall Street yesterday. The stock market suffered its biggest loss all year. But today we saw relatively quiet trading. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose modestly as investors tried to decipher some of the mixed signals we have been getting about what direction the economy is headed. NPR's Scott Horsley joins me now with more clues about that. Hey Scott.  Hi Alisa.  So let us talk about some of these mixed signals. I want to start with retail sales. Spending does not seem to be slowing down. In fact it is picking up. What does that tell us?  Yeah retail sales in July jumped even more than forecasters were expecting and that was the fifth consecutive monthly gain. Alisa that is important because consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of overall economic activity in the country. And economist Jack Kleinhenz of the National Retail Federation says after a soft patch early in the year it looks like consumers are really opening their pocketbooks and spending freely.  Consumers are alive and well. Job growth is good. We are seeing wage increases. The savings rate is up. Confidence continues to stay at a fairly elevated level. This is a good place to be.  So if you started out the day worried about yesterday's stock market swoon consumer spending was one place you could look for some reassurance.  OK that is mildly comforting but we were just saying that there were mixed signals today. So where are some of the more ominous signs that we are seeing from the economy?  Factories. We have got a report on industrial production today and once again it is pointing in the wrong direction. Manufacturing output declined last month and it is declined in five of the last seven months. Senior economist Ted Quinlan  of Wells Fargo Securities says the factory slowdown is all about the trade war.  The trade war does two things that are not good for the manufacturing sector. One is it disrupts supply chains and increases costs. The other reason that the trade war is bad for the manufacturing sector is it is had a chilling effect on global growth. U.S. manufacturers who export things to other places are feeling some trade winds as well.  Now manufacturing is not what it once was. It is dwarfed by the much larger services side of the economy. But we have also seen some indications that the slowdown is spreading beyond factories to the broader economy. Business investment has slowed down and economic growth has definitely down-shifted. The question is does it actually shift into reverse?  Well meanwhile President Trump has been talking up the economy. And today he criticized reporters for emphasizing all the negative economic news. What did he have to say today?  Yeah the president tweeted this afternoon that the news media is doing everything it can to in his words crash the economy. He says news outlets are trying to talk down his reelection chances. But Trump insists the economy is way too strong to be frightened into a recession and there are some serious economists who are also voicing confidence about the strength of the economy ten years into this long economic expansion. One of those is Janet Yellen the former Federal Reserve chair. She was asked about the economic climate on Fox Business.   Are we going into a recession?  I think the answer is most likely no. I think that the U.S. economy has enough strength to avoid that.  Yellen discounted the warning sign we got in the bond market yesterday when the yield or payoff on long-term government debt briefly dipped below the yield on short-term debt. Historically that has been a harbinger of recession but Yellen and some other economists say they think it is different this time around. That said Yellen acknowledges the odds of a recession have gone up and she says that makes her a little bit uncomfortable. One thing to watch for is whether the swoon in the stock market yesterday makes ordinary Americans uncomfortable to the point where they stop spending.  Right.  We saw that earlier this year. And if it happens that could knock out one of the pillars that is been propping up the economy.  All right that is NPR's Scott Horsley. Thanks Scott.  You are welcome. 