 The share of U.S. workers who belong to unions has fallen by about half over the last three decades. Efforts to unionize continue even in the South where they have had an especially tough history. Tomorrow in Piedmont Ala. employees at a factory producing truck seats will vote on whether to join the United Auto Workers. Gigi Douban reports it is not all about the money.  Here at the CVG plant in Piedmont they make all kinds of truck seats - soft ones firm ones leather and fabric. Plant manager Pete Bernier takes me on a tour of the 40-year-old plant. It is noisy. There are forklifts zipping around. Some workers are drilling. Some are painting. Some are welding. During the tour Bernier uses words like teams and groups a lot. This is important because there is an effort underway to unionize this plant. Some employees want to join the United Auto Workers and they wanted to hold a vote. The reasons - higher wages of course but there is another thing. It gets hot in here. Bernier walks me past one of several portable fans installed over the summer.  A giant cool fan.  Bernier says this year so far CVG spent more than 67000 on cooling. He says it is helped but Bernier adds let us face it. Alabama summers get hot and humid.  It is not going to be cold. It is a manufacturing plant.  During a heat wave plant managers passed out water bottles and popsicles even cold neck compresses. Tiffany Moore who sews seat fabric laughs at this.   That is just like a big look what we have done you know? Look at what we did for you. We got you water.  Moore says she and other workers this summer would drip sweat just sitting down. It is not just the pay and tough working conditions she says. It is the loss of personal days in recent years and the skyrocketing cost of health insurance.  Right now it is like 110 a week just for family coverage and I have got to have insurance. I have got two kids. And I do have to struggle week to week from paycheck to paycheck. It is hard.  Gerald Friedman is editor of the journal Labor History. He is says unions have been trying to organize in the South for more than a century with little success. Last year the UAW lost a bid to unionize the Volkswagen plant in Chattanooga. He says it is tough on employees but companies have it rough these days too.  It is a difficult market. I could almost have sympathy with management at this company which I am sure is looking at their bottom line and saying we have got to shave another 20 cents off every seat. And the way to do it is by turning the air conditioning off.  Since 2011 CVG has doubled its workforce and it has raised wages some. But at the same time Bernier the plant manager says CVG has lost market share. And its stock price has dropped. And he says it is forced the company to be very selective about how it spends money.  Even when companies are making a lot of money if they are not investing and reinvesting strategically you are wasting your money.  Still workers at the plant want to be heard. One organizer told me they considered going with United Steel Workers but that group failed at the plant three times. They are hoping this time around with UAW it just might take. For NPR News in Piedmont Ala. I am Gigi Douban. 