 Over the past few years we have become accustomed to British Petroleum advertising its commitment to alternative energy sources. In television commercials Americans answer BP's questions questions like what will it take to secure our energy future?   There is not going to be one thing that is going to fix it. That is the problem. There has to be a whole array a whole palette of things that people do.  Like wind power solar hydrogen. I mean there is so many other alternatives that are real. More importantly those things work.  That ad then says we have invested 28 billion over the last five years in U.S. energy supplies including solar wind hydrogen and natural gas. It' BP Beyond Petroleum. Well this week reporter Ed Crooks wrote a story in the Financial Times with the headline Back to Petroleum. Mr. Crooks reports that BP's Alternative Energy Division's office is being shut its investment cut and its chief executive is taking early retirement. And he joins us from London. Hi. Mr.  Hi.  How significant a change do those developments amount to? Mr.  Well they have now quite a significant change not so much in the amount of money that is being spent 'ecause it was always a fairly small proportion of BP's total investment that went into alternative energy but in the signal that they send the signal both to people inside the company and people outside it. Basically what the chief executive now is saying to people about BP is that it is an oil and gas company. That is the heart of what it does. That is where it makes most of its money and that is where its future is going to be certainly for the foreseeable future.  And what we are talking about is a new CEO who arrived not too long ago and bringing new priorities. Mr.  That is right exactly. A new CEO took over a couple of years ago. Lord Browne was the previous CEO had been there 12 years. He was really kind of unusual in the oil industry. He very much stood out from the crowd in terms of being very early to identify global warming as a risk and very early to think that energy companies needed to do something about it. And so he placed a lot of stress on this whole idea of beyond petroleum. And when BP talked about going beyond petroleum that was very much his project. I think certainly you could say of Tony Hayward who succeeded him there was much less emphasis on that at BP.  You quote him in your story as having complained at one time. There are too many people at this company. We are trying to save the world. Mr.  Yeah that is right. There were quite a lot of things wrong about BP when he took over. And certainly I think one of them was that its financial performance was poor. And as you say he was saying we are not here to be a charity. We are not here to kind of serve high idealistic goals. We are here to provide returns for our shareholders. That is what the job of any business is to do. And of course that job has become particularly difficult for the oil companies this year because of the fall of the oil price. Obviously last year they were making money hand over fist. This year they are in much more straitened circumstances and that means some hard decisions have got to be made. And better the business that are not making money like for instance some of the bits of solar power some of the bits of wind power and so on have had to be curbed.  So simply on the moral side you quote somebody in your article in the Financial Times saying that the slogan Beyond Petroleum BP wildly successful by some measures people recognize it very easily made a lot of people at the company feel that they were undervalued because they in fact were about petroleum. Mr.  Yeah that is right. BP is a massive company 100000 people well rather less than that because we had some job cuts. So let us say 90000 people or so work for it worldwide. The vast majority of those are in as you say they are in petroleum they are in oil and gas. And if you hear that the company is moving beyond petroleum that sends quite a bad signal to you I think. That says that you are not the really important part of the business. You are not the exciting part. You are not the future of the company. You are kind of redundant. You are a dinosaur. You are passing off into history. And I think you are right. I think that was bad for morale. And certainly when you look at some of the problems that occurred in the company arguably it was not just because of the slogan but because of that cultural sense that petroleum was not the heart of what they wanted to do not what the brightest and best of the company were involved in.  You wrote in your story having led the charge BP is now leading the retreat. When the world does move beyond fossil fuels neither BP nor any other big oil company is likely to be in the vanguard. If not an oil company who? Mr.  Well I think it certainly the electricity company is the one that I would identify as potential winners. And then the others would be companies we might not even know who they are yet. Maybe you know biotech maybe some kind of other odd kind of technology company doing something perhaps you have not even heard off. I think if we are going to get radical technological change an energy revolution it will be companies we do not know who they are that'ill lead it.  Ed Crooks of the Financial Times in London. Thank you very much for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you. 