 Retail chains also have a big role in responding to natural disasters. They supply the batteries toilet paper flashlights lumber and other stuff that people need. Peter Capel runs Home Depot's Hurricane Command Center in Atlanta. First I asked him to describe the center.  It is a number of rooms all on one floor that contain merchants. It contains replenishment. It contains crisis management government relations logistics transportation human resources operations all working together in one big effort to make sure that we can meet any needs from our people that work for us as well as the customers in the community.  Between hurricane Harvey in Texas and now Irma approaching Florida what is a typical day like for you right now?  It is very long. It can be very busy. There is a lot of unexpected things that can happen in between. There is just a lot of moving parts to it.  I was in Houston when Hurricane Ike hit the city a decade ago. And I went to the first Home Depot that reopened after the storm. People were lined up around the block. And I started asking people in line what they were there to buy. And everyone told me they wanted the same thing. This is some tape from there in 2008.   Generators.  Generator.  Generator yeah.  Generator like everybody else.  So Pete Capel how many generators do you have on hand and what happens when you run out of the one item that everybody wants?  Well I can tell you we have not run out. At some point we have to stop shipping product into those areas 'ecause we are not going to put anybody in harm's way. We are not going to put drivers transportation companies - to move that out. And at the rate and velocity at which these things sell at some point you are going to run out.  How do you make sure people do not gouge on prices? I mean when there is such demand for something with a limited...  Yeah our...  ...Supply economics say people will pay a lot for it.  I can speak to you on behalf of Home Depot. When an area is declared in a state of emergency - be it a county be it a state - we freeze our prices immediately all of them. And we do not raise them.  Now I understand you keep a diary of lessons that you learned from each of these disasters. And you have been doing this for a long time so you have learned a lot of lessons. What is one thing that you put in the diary that you have learned from this hurricane season so far?  I actually have my book right here...  Oh yeah? Open it up for us. What does it say?  ...With me. Well there is lots of different things in this book that we have learned over a period of years again to try to get better each time this happens to try to get quicker faster - all the things that you talked about - if everybody wants the generator or how do I resupply something. There is lots of lessons learned in here.  Well tell me one lesson that you have learned from Harvey already.  Well one lesson we learned from Harvey is something we learned long ago. When you see a storm such as Harvey coming you have to get goods there before the storm gets there. You cannot wait until after. And we get better at that every time.  Is there a temptation to send all of your supplies to a place like Harvey and then when a storm like Irma approaches you realize you do not have what you need in order to...  Yep.  ...Respond to a second disaster?  Like I said we have distribution centers set up across the southern United States. And if we have to draw from any one of them like we did for Harvey we immediately reloaded those especially anything we took out of any of our hurricane distribution centers to send to Harvey. Simultaneously we are reloading what we took out. It was still early in the hurricane season. It was a really good move to reload the ones on the East Coast because as soon as we reloaded them Irma starts coming across.  Pete Capel is Home Depot's vice president of field merchandising and he runs the company's Hurricane Command Center. Thanks for talking with us.  Thank you Sir. Have a great day.  