 Products that carry a Made in China label are getting more expensive because of President Trump's tariffs. Some unscrupulous business people are looking for a way around that not by changing the products just by changing the labels. This is an old scam that may be getting more prevalent as the trade war drags on. NPR's Scott Horsley reports on a hunt for tariff scofflaws that took the U.S. Customs cops all the way to a dusty factory in the Philippines.  A few weeks ago I spoke with a guy named Roberto Durazo who helps companies setting up factories in Mexico. Lately he told me he is been getting a lot of calls from Chinese business people eager to avoid the mounting tariffs imposed by the Trump administration.  So they tell us like hey I build a TV and I want that TV to be made in Mexico so I cannot pay the duties.  Durazo told me if a company really wants to move their factory to Mexico he is happy to help. But some do not want to go that far. They want to keep making TVs and other products in China but pretend they are made in Mexico just to avoid paying the tariffs.  They just wanted to put it in the box add labels and claim that it is made in Mexico. And we tell them that it does not work like that.  But sometimes it does work like that because not everyone's as honest as Durazo is. Customs officials say there is a cottage industry devoted to avoiding a costly made-in-China label by falsely claiming products are manufactured elsewhere. Sometimes the goods are actually shipped to that third country on their way to the United States. Attorney Benjamin Bucy says he is starting to see more of these cases as tariffs on Chinese imports mount. Bucy co-authored a law review article calling trade fraud the wild new frontier of white-collar crime. Often he says it is up to competitors to blow the whistle.  If they are paying a 25 tariff and being undercut by someone where they know the export price and the tariff price and something is not matching up that is often the kind of knowledge that a competitor uses to build a case.  Dixon Ticonderoga built a case like that. The pencil maker suspected one of its competitors Royal Brush Manufacturing was buying cheap pencils from China but claiming the pencils were made in the Philippines to avoid paying an anti-dumping tariff that would have more than doubled the wholesale cost. Dixon filed a complaint with Customs and Border Protection. Investigators scoured records and even paid an unannounced visit to the purported factory in the Philippines. My NPR colleague reads from a public record of what their inspector found.   The manufacturing equipment that Royal Brush had represented as being in use at the Subic Bay facility appeared to have been covered in dust and cobwebs indicating they had not been used for some time.  The inspector saw no evidence of manufacturing but there were boxes and boxes of finished pencils made in China.   The attache witnessed staff repacking what appeared to be Chinese-origin products into boxes labeled made in the Philippines.  Bucy the attorney says it does not exactly take Sherlock Holmes to crack the case when the people doing the relabeling make little effort to cover their tracks.  They are not expecting to be investigated at all.  Customs officials say sometimes they find a vacant lot where a factory is supposed to be. Royal Brush was ordered to pay back the avoided tariffs and it stopped doing business with its Philippine supplier. The company's lawyer Ron Oleynik says Royal Brush is appealing the Customs ruling.  This has been a costly time-consuming really psychologically painful process. And they are struggling to clear their name.  Oleynik concedes though his client may have been duped along with everyone else about the origin of those pencils. It is hard to know for certain when the factory is an ocean away.  The Trump administration I keep saying does not have a trade war. It is in some ways got a war on trade.  With tariffs now hitting more than 360 billion worth of Chinese imports Customs officials say it is only natural some production really does move to other countries. But if a company is buying all of its products from China on Monday and on Tuesday says they are all coming from Vietnam for example that can arouse suspicion especially if a new tariff took effect against China overnight. Policing tariff fraud in far-flung countries is not easy or cheap. Even when Customs cops succeed in shutting down one fraudulent factory another often pops up to take its place. University of North Carolina economist Patrick Conway likens tariff enforcement to a game of whack-a-mole.  There are no strong consequences at least in their home country. So it is difficult to have a long-term impact even if you find evidence of an almost open-and-shut case.  And the higher Trump builds his tariff wall the more incentive there is for unscrupulous business people to tunnel under. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington.  