 A Trump appointee running the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has disbanded a consumer advisory board and that board helped the bureau identify unfair practices at financial companies. Consumer advocates say they have been snubbed for months by the new leadership at the bureau. And critics of the bureau's acting director say he has been taking lots of meetings with the very financial companies he is supposed to be policing. All right. Here to help us make sense of this is NPR's Chris Arnold. Hey Chris.  Hey Mary Louise.  So let me name this acting director. This is former Republican Congressman Mick Mulvaney who is been a controversial pick to run the bureau even in an acting capacity. Back when he was a congressman he referred to it as a joke. So what is up with this latest move?  Right. You know this is one of these cases of the president finding perhaps the guy who hates the agency the most and then putting him in charge of running that very agency right? I mean like you said Mulvaney when he was back in Congress he actually drafted legislation to abolish this bureau. And now since he is come in he is done a series of steps that have scaled it back you know made it a less aggressive watchdog. He is very open about wanting to do that. And so now what is happened is he is effectively disbanded an advisory board that had a bunch of consumer advocates and experts on it. And saying look well we are just not going to meet with you guys anymore. And we spoke to Kathleen Engel. She is a law professor at Suffolk University Law School. She is been on this board and she was on the phone call this morning with one of Mulvaney's deputies along with other members of this board. And here's what she had to say.  It was at that conference call we were told that the Consumer Advisory Board members were all going to be relieved of their duties. It is deeply distressing. And they were talking out of both sides of their mouths. And it is quite clear that we have been fired.  Chris what are Mulvaney and his deputies saying about this? What is their explanation?  Well they are saying that nobody's been fired. We are keeping this board together while we reconstitute a new board maybe with people that they like better. But Engel's saying well it is kind of a smokescreen. Technically they are still on the board but they are not going to have any meetings and they are not going to be able to do anything.  Well is it a smokescreen? I mean why do this?  Well the official word is this is to streamline the process come up with a smaller more effective advisory board maybe do some town hall meetings. But critics say look it looks like the new leaders at the CFPB just do not want to meet with these consumer groups. And meanwhile they have been meeting with a lot of industry people. There is - the calendar that Mick Mulvaney holds apparently shows that he is met with credit card companies banks even payday lenders some of whom contributed to his campaign when he was in Congress.  All right. Thanks very much Chris.  Thanks Mary Louise.  That is NPR's Chris Arnold.  