 Comcast made it official today. It too is pursuing 21st Century Fox the global TV and entertainment conglomerate that Rupert Murdoch and family are putting up for sale. Disney has already struck a deal with Fox but at 65 billion the new Comcast bid is almost 20 percent higher than what Disney's offering. The developments come one day after a federal judge approved another big merger. Joining us now is NPR's David Folkenflik to talk more about it. Hey there David.  Hey Audie.  So remind us the context here. 21st Century Fox as we said huge conglomerate. What is in play?  Well their major entertainment holdings. So that includes their TV and movie studios. That includes the FX channel and Fox Searchlight pictures. It includes their foreign satellite holdings like Sky in Europe. It includes their stake in Hulu the streaming service and a number of Marvel superhero characters that would be reunited with those that already are held over at Disney.  It is also a publicly traded company. So is Rupert Murdoch basically obliged to take the highest bid to keep shareholders happy?  Well Murdoch and his family control about 40 percent of the voting shares of 21st Century Fox. So he just has to bring a decent percentage a small number of folks along for the ride. He will have to make a persuasive argument that somehow the Disney deal is better. Presumably Disney is going to have to raise its bid. But the Disney deal is - as currently structured involves shares in the Disney company and Comcast is all cash. That has tax implications for the Murdochs and potentially for certain other shareholders. They may be able to argue that the structuring of the deal is favorable or that they think Disney's stock long-term will be a better bet. But you know the Murdochs are going to have to take this seriously. They issued a statement this evening saying they still have the merger agreement with Disney but that they are going to have to consider this and have not yet decided whether to push off their July 10 meeting at which they were going to vote to try to get shareholder approval of the Disney deal.  Comcast Disney ATT - these are enormous companies. And yet I am hearing that they are worried about Netflix. Is that such a big challenge?  Well I think that Netflix - you know if you looked just at how the market values these companies Netflix and Comcast and Disney are all giants. They are all valued at about 150 billion. Netflix is willing to spend many more billions a year on creating original content that any of these traditional Hollywood studios can do. And also it is not alone. You are going to see - you are seeing not only Amazon in play but Apple is intending anyway to spend you know significant money to enter the field as well. So somebody like Murdoch looks at that and says I cannot quite compete. I am not going to be able to do it myself. Let me go under a larger umbrella sell these properties off to somebody big like Disney and see if they can take them on. It is worth pointing out of course that Murdoch intends to hold onto Fox News as well as the Fox broadcast network and a couple other properties.  Before I let you go this court decision yesterday the one that approved another big media merger the ATT and Time Warner what is the connection? Like why did Comcast act today?  So you know look if Disney or Comcast were to take over these Fox properties it would be more of taking over a rival or a competitor bid. But the fact that a judge said that this deal where ATT and Time Warner can get together in different elements of the entertainment business - that is the pipelines that supply them to people's homes and the actual content itself - if the judge had knocked that down it would have cast a pall over it saying we still think that antitrust issues are alive even if it is a differently structured kind of deal. After this happened a lot of people were celebrating in a lot of corporate suites because they said you know doors are open for business. And that is what they are hoping here.  That is NPR's media correspondent David Folkenflik. David thank you.  You bet.  