 Wall Street giant Goldman Sachs has agreed to pay 550 million to settle charges that it misled investors. The Securities and Exchange Commission says this is the biggest penalty it is ever levied on a financial firm. And NPR's Tamara Keith joins us now. Tamara what exactly is Goldman admitting to?  Well it is not admitting to fraud. That is what the SEC had charged earlier this year. But the company did admit that it made a mistake in its marketing materials for a mortgage-related product known as Abacus. And this is the now infamous investment where Goldman teamed up with a hedge fund manager and then let him suggest what kind of mortgages would go into the investment. But the hedge fund manager named John Paulson - no relation to the Treasury secretary - he was not planning to invest. He was betting they would fail and the problem was that Goldman did not tell the investors in Abacus that Paulson was involved.  Now 550 million seems like an awful lot of money but is it a lot of money for a firm like Goldman Sachs?  No. I mean in the first quarter of this year Goldman Sachs says it earned about 3.5 billion so 500 million is a ton of money for the rest of us and certainly Goldman would like to not have to pay that but this is something that they are not going to have to strain to come up with. And also from Goldman's perspective there is a lot to be said for just making this go away making the uncertainty go away. But the SEC also points out that Goldman is not just paying a fine it is also changing its business practices. So they say that the firm is conducting a comprehensive review of its business standards and it is also promising to do a better job of training its employees.  Tamara I want to go back to what the company actually admitted here. The SEC in its press release says that the firm is settling without admitting or denying the allegations but they did it seems acknowledge some sort of at least a mistake.  Right. And this no admitting or denying thing is pretty common in SEC settlements. But both sides here seem to have worked pretty hard on the language of this.  See we got what we wanted. But instead of talking about fraud they are talking about negligence or mistaken and incomplete information. One thing that is also important here is that this settlement still has to go to a judge a federal judge for approval and that is not a sure thing. There was a case last year that the SEC had with Bank of America  Why do not you try again on that?  So I take this means that Goldman's troubles are not over?  Well they are not exactly over. In addition to the settlement being approved by a judge there is also an outstanding Justice Department investigation into the same issues. Those types of investigations are routine. They often do investigations at the same time as the SEC. And we do not know if charges there will ultimately be filed or not.  550 million is that a one-time payment? And where does that all money go?  One-time payment. 250 million goes to injured investors so folks who invested in Abacus who did not realize that it was designed to fail. And then 300 million goes to the U.S. Treasury.  Thank you very much Tamara.  Thank you.  That is NPR's Tamara Keith. 