 Iran has the potential to be a boom market for American tech companies. The majority of Iran's population is under 30 well-educated and over half the country has access to the Internet. NPR's Laura Sydell reports that certain tech companies can already go into Iran legally. They just are not sure they want to do that.  Back in 2009 Iran exploded in protests. Iranians believed their elections had been fixed by the conservative clerics.   .  This YouTube video of tens of thousands of protesters in the streets of Tehran was leaked out of the country. Tech savvy protesters found ways to use social media and cellphones to organize.  There is been a recognition for the past five years or so that increasing access to technology in Iran for the Iranian public is a greater good.  Collin Anderson is an independent researcher who consults with human rights organizations and tech companies about Internet censorship. During the protests Iranians had access to American tech like Iphones and Windows software through black markets. The Obama administration saw how dissidents used that tech to communicate with the world so last year it lifted sanctions on American tech companies who sell personal communication technologies. Vivek Krishnamurthy teaches at Harvard Law School.  It is fully legal to sell cellphones laptops tablets modems Wi-Fi routers and most of the software that most people use every day.  But Krishnamurthy says that has not meant that American tech companies have jumped into Iran. There is still no Apple Store.  Doing business with Iran is extremely difficult today because of the comprehensive financial sanctions. It is really hard to get money in or out of the country.  But doing financial transactions make get easier if the U.S. and Europe reach a deal to lift the sanctions. And American tech companies have a good reputation in Iran says Fraidon Korangy an Iranian-born tech entrepreneur. He started several companies in the U.S. and he now lives in Iran. Korangy says most young people in Iran want to grow up and be Steve Jobs not Ayatollah Khomeini.  There is a tremendous amount of pro-U.S. sympathy in Iran in terms of technologies and solutions.  Korangy says the Chinese and some European countries have left a bad impression.  Especially the Chinese have taken advantage of them because of the sanction regime. They have sort of said OK nobody else will deal with you. We will deal with you but at a significant premium.  That includes marked up prices and delays in completing projects. Despite the ripe climate for business in Iran American tech companies have been very quiet about their plans. NPR contacted Apple Google Cisco and other big players. The only company that would admit to plans to enter Iran was Netflix. Internet researcher Collin Anderson says it is the politics in the U.S.  If you are for example Apple you certainly do not want to wake up tomorrow and have in the front page of a newspaper Apple sells the supreme leader an iPhone. That certainly is going to be perceived negatively in the United States despite whatever nuclear arrangement happens.  Yet there are some 80 million Iranians and the country has top-ranking engineering schools. Iran has its own nascent startup culture. There is an Iranian version of Amazon Groupon and the beginnings of a streaming music service says Hamid Biglari an Iranian-American who runs a data analytics company. It is the perfect environment for U.S. tech firms.  From a purely rational business point of view it would be insane for them not to want to access such a large market on a level playing field compared to the rest of the world.  Biglari says the best technology does not always win in a market. Sometimes it is about who gets there first. And on that front the complex politics between the U.S. and Iran may put U.S. companies at a disadvantage. Laura Sydell NPR News. 