 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. The Federal Reserve acknowledged today that the economic recovery has lost momentum and so the Fed announced a shift in its strategy to stimulate growth. Fed officials said they would buy more U.S. Treasury debt. To explain what that means and why it matters we turn now to NPR's Jim Zarroli. Jim what exactly is the Federal Reserve doing here?  Well you know in difficult economic times one of the things that the Federal Reserve can do when it wants to stimulate growth is go out into the financial markets and buy up securities things like Treasury bills mortgage bonds. The idea is that when the Fed buys - let us say the Fed buys a mortgage bond from an investor somewhere well that investor gets money and that investor may take it and reinvest it and at least in theory that means you know more economic activity more lending and hopefully more hiring by companies in the long run. Now ever since the financial crisis the Fed has been just buying up securities like crazy. Now they regularly come due. Let us say somebody you know refinances a mortgage. The Fed gets a little bit of money from that. Until now the Fed would just take that money that it gets and wipe the security off its balance sheet. But today the Fed said it was not going to  it was going to start taking the money and reinvest it. It was going to go out -it would go out and buy new securities. In other words its balance sheet is going to stay about the same size as it is now.  So how long will it take before we know whether this does what it is supposed to do whether the Fed does what they are trying to accomplish?  Well it will take a while. I do not think anybody expects that it is going to do much very quickly. The ostensible purpose of this is to sort of keep money flowing into the system which will help keep interest rates low. A lot of economists were saying today you know that in absolute dollar terms this what the Fed announced today probably will not make that much of a difference in and of itself. What it does do is send a message to the financial markets that you know the Fed is on the case. It is looking for options. It is not going to let interest rates go up to much. So this is probably best seen as a kind of confidence-building gesture. And to that extent it is already had a beneficial effect. Interest rates came down somewhat today as soon as this action was announced.  There was a lot of speculation in the days before this meeting about what steps the Fed might take today. How much pressure are Fed officials under right now?  Oh a lot of pressure. You know the economy is not growing at the rate that one would expect at this point in the recovery. The Fed itself today in its statement gave a very gloomy assessment of economic conditions. It said the recovery has slowed in recent months people are not spending as much because of high unemployment and tight credit the housing market housing starts are depressed. Now because of the political climate in Washington it is unlikely we are going to get any significant stimulus spending out of the government. So people are looking to the Fed to do something and the Fed it is not clear what the Fed can do. Interest rates which are the traditional tool the Fed uses to stimulate growth are already at historically low levels. So the Fed has to go back to the drawing board. There are just a few things it could try like lowering the interest on bank reserves to zero. But as time goes on its options are going to dwindle.  Thank you Jim.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Jim Zarroli. 