 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. July Fourth is usually your big day if you are in the fireworks business. Only this year three-quarters of the country is experiencing some level of drought and cities from the Mountain West to the Southeast are temporarily banning fireworks. That is not stopping everyone though as Blake Farmer of member station WPLN in Nashville reports.   What does this guy do?  Let us find out. I did not get to see yet.   Freddie Bowers smiles and stares at the explosions of white overhead. They illuminate the sandy brown grass below. It is easy to see why several small fires in the area have been blamed on fireworks. The region has had the hottest streak in recorded history.   Bowers and his dad Larry have sold fireworks in LaVergne Tennessee for a lifetime. There is a ban this year but good luck keeping these admitted pyros out of their stash. F.  They are not going to ban Christmas as not going to ban 4th of July.  I do it because it is my Independence Day. And whether I see one firework or 10 I do not want to break that tradition. I am not going to. They are just going to have to fine me if they catch me.  In many cities where fireworks are already illegal enforcement is practically non-existent. Police in Nashville handed out just one citation last year. But now there is a no tolerance policy. Temporary bans are in place in more than a dozen nearby cities like Murfreesboro. Assistant City Attorney David Ives says it was too late to revoke permits purchased by vendors so people can still buy fireworks.  But they cannot use them and actually will not be able to use them in Murfreesboro until the New Year's season.  I mean does not that sound silly to think people would be buying them and holding them until Christmas? You know what people are doing when they are buying them.  You are accurate. That is very true. But that is what we needed to do we felt to protect the community.  Some municipalities have even postponed public fireworks displays. They include Terre Haute Indiana and several communities near Lansing Michigan. Major cities like Louisville and Indianapolis have pulled the plug on backyard fireworks for this year. That is expected to result in a drop off in sales which industry-wide approached a billion dollars in 2011. It is putting the pinch on guys like Kent Goolsby who works on commission and sleeps at his tent to protect the stock. Goolsby has what was a prime location before the local ban.  Being right here I mean there is no - I mean there is almost no reason for people to come here if you cannot shoot them. Ya'ill enjoy these. Be safe with them.  OK.  Back at the Bowers' tent customers are at a trickle. Some like university student Elsie Bennett are trying to be good citizens.  I am having a little party so I figure well I better just stick with sparklers and fountains and color bombs.   So I wish we could do something crazy but that is about it.   But others do not seem too concerned about getting caught with contraband. Steven McShand says his wife will keep the water hose handy.  I do not see nothing wrong with letting kids enjoy the things that we have down for passed down generations. I always enjoyed popping fireworks with my parents.  And now McShand has a young son Justin. So what are these things Black Cats? What else you got in there?  I have some grenades. I got the big one.  Ban or not McShand says they will share the magic of lighting that first fuse together. For NPR News I am Blake Farmer in Nashville. 