 Joining us now is Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota. He is chairman of the Senate Committee on the Budget. He is also a member of the Gang of Six. Senator Conrad thank you very much for making time for us today.  You bet. Good to be with you.  Does the Senate had the ability to find some sort of compromise with just four days now before the debt ceiling deadline?  I believe we do. Our leader Senator Reid has been working on a plan to try to meet the major Republican objections. That is a plan that has no new revenue a plan that has 2.4 trillion of spending cuts. So it is dollar for dollar with the increase in the debt limit and one that has a special congressional committee that would be given special powers to come up with a plan to develop more savings so that we could at the end of the day hopefully have a package of more than 4 trillion of deficit reduction.  This deadline is uncomfortably close. I think anyone would agree with that. When would this deal likely happen? Or is it possible it is going go to go pass Tuesday?  I think probably the most likely outcome is an agreement on Tuesday. Work expands to fill the time. That is especially true here where it seems you have got to have gridlock before you have breakthrough. And the reason for that is I think deep in human nature both sides have to be convinced they are not going to get it their way before they are ready to finally compromise.  Yeah. But this is not business as usual and there is an awful lot at stake here. It seems like there is a better way to do business. I mean I am in the business of deadlines. We push deadlines all the time. But you know you are talking about dealing with tax dollar money the deficit the bond rating of the United States. It seems like there is perhaps a better way to do things.  Well one would hope so. And you know I have been part of the only two efforts that did produce a bipartisan agreement. And you just wish that our colleagues would follow that good example.  The president has eschewed the idea of invoking the 14th Amendment. He said - President Obama said he is not much interested in exercising that option based on the advice of his legal team. Many in his party and even some reportedly within the White House are saying that he should consider invoking the 14th Amendment. What are your thoughts on that?  Well it is certainly not preferable but...  When you say not preferable though I see some daylight in that door.  Yes. Because he may not have a choice. Look if Congress is not able to come together given the fact Republicans control the House and they are engaged in a totally partisan effort there. In the Senate I give strong commendation to leader Reid who has done everything he can to reach out across the aisle to say look let us do this together. But if it is refused on the House side then it may come down to the president having to invoke the 14th Amendment even though it could lead to a long and unpleasant legal battle.  You know I have to ask you one last very quick question. If you read people's comments on Twitter on Facebook if you listen to those calls that are pouring into your offices on Capitol Hill people are very angry about what is going on in Washington right now. They are disgusted and they have lost faith in their lawmakers. Why should they still have faith in the process?  Well I understand the anger and the frustration. Believe me that is shared by many of us here. But at the end of the day what is important is the result. And I remain optimistic and hopeful that before this is all over after we have tried every other approach we will do the right thing.  Senator Kent Conrad thank you very much for your time.  You bet. That is Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota. He is the chairman of the Senate Committee on the Budget. 