 Representative Jeff Flake is an Arizona Republican. Until today he was not in favor of Speaker Boehner's plan and then late this morning  Good news. Looks like Boehner bill will now include BBA. Now it cuts it caps it balances. If so I am for it. BBA is balanced budget amendment. Representative Flake joins us from Capitol Hill. Welcome once again.  Hey thanks for having me on.  Why is the balanced budget amendment so important to you?  Well we have got to have some mechanism for the long term to make sure that we do not get in this situation again or in perpetuity. It seems that we are here every couple of years with more frequency now because we are spending at a faster rate.  Rich Lowery  The dirty secret of the debt debate is this even many House GOP purists prefer the symbolism of the balanced budget amendment to voting on any entitlement cuts again. Does he have it right?  Well the problem is that too few people here are willing to vote against any spending. Some of us do not vote for enough spending to justify a debt limit increase but still we get in this situation because no matter what you do no matter how many statutory spending caps you have ultimately we in Congress simply wave them and ignore them. So we need something that holds us to it so it is not statutory.  But is not the point here that entitlement spending mostly Medicare and Medicaid is what is driving federal spending the most. And the balanced budget amendment is a way of cutting those programs in the future and saying I did not want to do this but the balanced budget amendment made me do it.  You know that is what counts for courage around here most definitely. And I am willing to take it. If we cannot have the courage to tell our constituents hey we have got to cut back then if we can point to something and say I would like to vote for more benefits for you but this balanced budget amendment or statutory spending cap or whatever the device is is preventing me from doing it. Hey that is better than keeping us in the pickle we are in.  Let us assume that whatever comes back to you from the Senate does not have a balanced budget amendment provision and does not have a - just a very short term agreement. Is that a deal breaker for you?  Yeah it is a deal breaker. You have got to have something long term to do this.  Well what happens then? Does a compromise bill come back from the Senate and get passed with a combination of Democratic and Republican votes? Is that how this ends next week?  Perhaps. Let me just tell you for myself I would just take the Reid bill in its entirety just add the balanced budget amendment. And I would not even insist on the balanced budget amendment that I like the ones with super majority requirements or - I would just say a plain vanilla balanced budget amendment. So...  Although - you say a plain vanilla - I mean constitutional amendments are not a plain vanilla usually. They come around once every couple of decades and it is not a rider to build a new highway somewhere. It is a pretty big deal.  Well what I am referring to is - when I say plain vanilla I am saying one that simply says that revenue - or expenditures should not outpace revenue.  Is there some time in the future in the not too distance future when in order to achieve a compromise you have to sign onto something that asks the upper income Americans to kick in more?  There are some Republicans who say that any time you raise new revenue you have to have a tax cut to match it. I am not one of those Republicans. I think that we should - and a number of us - in fact I think the Republican House has already passed legislation to the effect that would lower the overall rate but close loopholes get rid of exemptions and credits which would raise revenue.  Congressman Flake before you go I just want you to tell us a little bit about life in the House of Representatives over the past 48 hours or so. You were in with the Speaker yesterday and you emerged telling people he is not as tough as Tom Delay used to be. What does your arm look like today?  Well you know he is kind of a soft touch. What is remarkable now in this new era in the House is without earmarks there is not the ability of a speaker or others to promise goodies. A negotiation like that that happened yesterday would have left us a couple of billion dollars poorer. But not yesterday. I mean a couple of stale pieces of pizza and you are there.  Okay. Congressman Flake thank you very much.  Thanks for having me on.  That is Jeff Flake Republican congressman from the sixth district of Arizona. 