 The turbulence in the stock market is worrying some venture capitalists and angel investors who had been on a spending spree in the tech industry. They have been paying top dollar for initial public offerings and otherwise spreading lots of money around. But as NPR's Wendy Kaufman reports raising money for startups may be getting harder.  This week a group of about two dozen carefully selected entrepreneurs gathered in a Seattle basement. They are participants in TechStars a boot camp and incubator for startups. And by the end of the three-month program most of them will be looking for money from angel investors or venture capitalists.  A month ago it felt like the best time to start a company and raise money in 10 years.  But now says Jeff Cutler-Stamm the co-founder of Vizify it is likely to be tougher. Still the company that wants to turn resumes into works of art is confident it will be able to get the money it needs. Cutler-Stamm knows he might get less cash that he would hoped for but with bootstrapping and hard work he thinks it will be enough.  I am an eternal optimist. I mean you cannot be an entrepreneur and be pessimistic.  I agree with your optimism point. I like it.  That is Matt Oppenheimer. His start-up aims to make it easy and inexpensive to send money to the Philippines using mobile phones.  What is made America great is really the entrepreneurial culture spirit and support. I do not think that disappears if the stock market crashes. I will say that if you look at especially the angel investor community for the pie that they were giving out just got smaller.  Angel investors explains Andy Sack of TechStars invest and manage their own money.  They go to their bank account. They write a check. They do not have anyone to report to and they can just invest in whatever they want.  Or they can choose not to invest at all.  Individuals can be like oh forget it. I do not want to invest today or I do not want to invest this year - bad year.  And Sacks says when things are volatile or unpredictable angel money tends to dry up faster than venture capital.  Institutional money has a job to put money to work.  Venture firms exist to make investments. They get money from foundations endowments and others who expect a tidy profit. And if the venture funds do not invest in companies that get acquired or go public in the stock market that does not happen. I asked Greg Gottesman a managing director of the Madrona Venture Group of he was making different investment decisions this week than he would have made a month ago.  I do not think so. We are looking really over the long-term.   We are in it for the long haul. But in the short-term at least Gottesman is concerned about the ability of venture-backed companies to turn to the stock market with an initial public offering.  One of the great things that has been around for the last you know six months or so has been an open IPO window. And you know LinkedIn and Zillow and some other...  Technology firms in particular garnered huge sums from the IPOs but that opportunity may be ending. The wild gyrations in the stock market have prompted at least eight of the 11 firms slated to go public this week to cancel their plans. Listen to Glenn Kelman he CEO of Redfin the large venture-backed real estate company.  When the markets have that much volatility there are these gizzard squeezers that work in investment banks who are supposed to tell you whether next week it is a good time to raise money or next month or next year. And all bets are off. They cannot tell what is going to happen and so that is when everyone steps back and says let us just watch and wait.  No one is saying the investment pipeline is freezing and there is still lots of money available. But the days of investors practically throwing money at just about anyone with an idea will likely be replaced with a more rational approach. Keith Smith is not worried. He is the boss here at BigDoor a 24-person Seattle start-up that helps companies make their websites and apps more interactive. It recently added Major League Baseball to its list of clients.  We look at the market and we feel like given the amount of demand for VCs to put money into really good quality start-ups that our prospects are probably quite good for you know to raise another round of financing in the next 12 months.  Smith says if a company's business plan is fundamentally sound and it is well on its way to profit getting money should not be a problem Wendy Kaufman NPR News Seattle. 