 This is ALL PR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. The euro currency was supposed to unite Europe - Germans could travel to France without a visa the Spanish could buy skis in Italy.  Breaking down borders is not as easy as the dreamers had hoped. This week NPR's Planet Money team is reporting from the borders that divide Europe. Today' Belgium and Holland two countries who trade everything but have drawn the line at one very popular commodity.  I am Zoe Chace. I am down here on the River Maas in Maastricht Netherlands where people when they have a little time off - some time to hang out - they like to get high...   ...like this guy.  My name is Joon Defries. Right now I am smoking a joint.   You know Zoe they like the marijuana on this side of the border too. I am Robert Smith here in Liege Belgium. And the problem is it is not legal in Belgium to smoke marijuana. And so on weekends and evenings Belgians used to stream across the border into Maastricht looking to get high in the city's coffee shops.  The name of our city is synonym for cannabis.  Onno Hoes is the mayor of Maastricht. For most people the city is known as the place the European Union was born. The document that everyone signed 20 years ago that created the euro - it is called the Maastricht Treaty. But having its name on the founding document had this unexpected consequence. All the news coverage from that time just happened to mention all these coffee shops in the city where it was legal to buy pot.  So once everyone had the same money and the borders were open European dreamers returned to Maastricht to get high.  But I do not like people who especially come in - who only come in to buy cannabis.  The mayor says pot smokers do not go to the museums...  There is a lot of traffic problems...  ...litter.  ...a lot of illegal parking.  And so last May the smokers here in Belgium were in for a little surprise when they crossed the border and stopped at the first coffee shop over the bridge into the city. Here let me show you. Like most of the cannabis shops here it has a cool American name. It is called Easy Going.   There is nobody here. They have pulled the curtains and in four languages they have the sign up. Temporarily Closed.  The mayor of Maastricht had pushed through this new law that said foreigners were no longer allowed to enter the coffee shops. And a bunch of coffee shops closed in protest. They thought it was ridiculous you did not have to show a passport at the international border but you now had to show a passport at the entrance to the cannabis shops.  There was an economic hit too. Marc Josemans owner of the Easy Going shop says that foreigners accounted for 93 percent of his customers. He says with all the talk of one Europe of bailing each other out of the financial crisis Holland was killing the dream.  We have to help Spanish banks with surviving and Greece banks and so on and so on. But the funny thing is that only our money is allowed to go to the Spanish banks. But the Spanish pot smokers are not allowed to come to the Dutch coffee shops anymore.  Only a few coffee shops are managing to stay open. This coffee shop is called The Mississippi. It is on an old barge in the river. There is a passport control station at the front so the foreigners do not come anymore. Dutch people have to put their name on an official list so most of them do not show up either. The ones that do are not happy.  In English bull .  The owner sits at one of the tables and sulks.  So in the day maybe 30 40 people come inside the shops. And before it used to be 1500 a day. Maybe I have to change it to real a coffee shop where you can drink coffee and eat some  - some doughnuts or something.   Change it to a Starbucks.  I will change it to a Starbucks maybe. I thought about this. Really really.  Stephan Korsten says this rolls back the clock to the days before the euro when his grandparents used to smuggle butter across the same river.Open borders were supposed to fix all this. Now look at it. Up at the counter they used to have the weed just sitting out - buffet style - for customers to choose. These days he gets so little traffic the pot has to be kept in Tupperware containers so it does not dry out. All the names are written in Sharpie on top like Buddha...  This is lemon.  ...Nepal. Let me see - whoa.  Whoa hashish.  Yeah.  Sorry rest of Europe none for you. Of course Belgians can still come over the border - euros in hand - looking for drugs.  your friendly neighborhood drug dealer. GANJA BOY Scrrrrbt! Ganja Boys in the building. Holland - Maastricht - getting their paper. You know what I say? Scrrrrbt! Bang.  You will know Ganja Boy when you see him. He is sprawled back on a park bench by the river grinning his head off.  Bee-yoo! Beaucoup beaucoup beaucoup money - big money.   I noticed your phone keeps ringing.  Yes. Yes to money.   Scrrrrbt! Bang.  And so Europe learns an old lesson. If you put up barriers someone will find a way around them - and they will pocket the money. Ganja Boy does not pay the taxes those coffee shops had to pay and he provides the same service.  I have Dutch people that buy people from other countries everyone. Grandmas - yes. Grandmas! Yes! Uh-huh. They do that too.  Back across the border in Belgium a lot of smokers are not even bothering with Maastricht anymore. I ran into Rashid Moulah in the center of town. And I asked him where you find your weed now?  The better thing to do is to use your nose inside the cafes...  So - to smell for marijuana in cafes ...  Yes...  ...around here.  ...and discotheque. There is a lot of discotheque - smell.  He also says there are taxis you can call that will bring you pot. No need to drive all the way to the Netherlands when it can come right to you. Robert Smith in Liege Belgium.  And I am Zoe Chace chilling down by the river Maastricht Netherlands.  