 Boeing says it is hoping its troubled 737 MAX plane will fly again this year. But if that does not happen the company is preparing to slow or even stop production of the aircraft. It has been four months now since regulators around the world grounded the jets after a pair of crashes killed nearly 350 people. NPR's Jim Zarroli has the latest.  The 737 MAX is Boeing's best-selling plane by far and the company took a huge financial hit when regulators around the world ordered the planes grounded. Today Boeing said its revenues were down 35 compared to the same time last year. It is still building the planes but at a slower pace. And they are sitting idle in Texas and Washington state. But it cannot deliver the finished planes to its customers - the airlines. Speaking to investors today Boeing's CEO Dennis Muilenburg called the grounding of the plane a defining moment for the company and he predicted that Boeing would emerge from the fiasco stronger and better.   We are confident that when the 737 MAX returns to service it will be one of the safest airplanes ever to fly. That is the most important thing here. We are going to take the time necessary to ensure it is safe.  But Muilenburg also said regulators around the world will decide when the plane will fly again. And if they do not clear the 737 MAX to fly by the end of the year Boeing could stop producing the planes altogether at least temporarily. That could have ramifications for airlines for passengers and even for the U.S. economy as a whole. Boeing is by far the country's biggest exporter. And its aircraft contain parts made all over the country so any slowdown in production could have an impact on growth. Even the country's treasury secretary Steve Mnuchin weighed in on the company's troubles today.   Boeing's a very strong company. They got a lot of cash flow. They have got to fix this issue so that we are sure that it is safe.  Meanwhile as the planes sit in storage waiting for permission to fly airlines everywhere are having to cut flights and rearrange schedules. American Airlines says it is canceled 7800 flights during April May and June. The European budget carrier Ryanair says it will fly 5 million fewer passengers next year because it cannot get the planes it needs. If Boeing cannot get the 737 MAX flying again it risks losing credibility with a lot of the airlines that buy its planes - not to mention the flying public as a whole. Jim Zarroli NPR News. 