 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. Have you ever been faced with a stack of bills only to realize that you owe more money than you have in the bank? Well if so then you can understand the position that the U.S. government will soon be in - that is if lawmakers do not agree to raise the debt ceiling. The Obama Administration would then have to choose who gets paid and who does not. White House spokesman Jay Carney says those painful decisions could come as early as next Wednesday.  And choices then have to be made. And it is a Sophie's choice right? Who do you save? Who do you pay? That is an impossible situation that this country has never faced and should never face if Congress does what it was elected to do and does its job.  In a moment we will hear about the technological challenge of trying to prioritize tens of millions of government payments. But first NPR's Scott Horsley reports on some of the people who are anxiously waiting to learn if their checks will be in the mail.  For White House reporters too young to understand his reference to a Sophie's choice spokesman Jay Carney offered a capsule summary of the 1982 movie based on William Styron's book in which a tearful Meryl Streep is forced to choose which of her two children to save from the Nazis.      Sophie's choice was between Jan and Eva. The U.S. government's choice if it comes to that is between Peggy George and Jim. Peggy Munson is a 73-year-old retired nurse who lives in Boise Idaho.  I spend every dime of my Social Security every month just to pay all my bills. It is going to be really really very serious if they cannot meet the payroll for these people.  Munson's Social Security payment is directly deposited into her checking account each month. And some of the 1605 goes right back out again for supplemental health coverage her car insurance and her homeowners' dues. Munson knows exactly when her government payment is supposed to show up in her bank account and she will definitely know if the money is held up.  I am a pretty good budgeter. I try and not get down low. But it depends what happens to you. You know the stove blew up last spring. And I had to buy a new stove. You may have to go to the emergency room for your blood pressure whatever. But you know you have to always plan for the unknown.  Munson's son who is a firefighter for the U.S. Forest Service does not know if he will get a paycheck this coming month. Some two million federal employees are in that same position including George McCubbin.  I am a Border Patrol agent assigned to the Casa Grande Station out in Arizona Tucson sector.  Border guards are considered essential and will probably have to keep working no matter what happens in Congress. But McCubbin who heads the National Border Patrol Council says there is no guarantee they will be paid.  I think for a lot of the younger folks that are already you know cash-strapped because of what is been happening it is just going to magnify the problem.   29 billion worth of interest this coming month. But defense contractors veterans even the active duty military may have to scramble. The biggest bill on the government's desk - 50 billion in August - comes from Medicare and Medicaid providers like the Henry Ford Health System in and around Detroit. CFO Jim Connolly says nearly half the patients in that system rely on Medicare or Medicaid which is not unusual. So the system relies on timely government payments to buy medicine and supplies and to pay its 23000 employees.  It is imperative that all of our physicians and our clinical staff be doing what they do every day for patients. We cannot afford to have an economic disruption somehow interrupt that important patient care.  Connolly McCubbin and Munson all say they are counting on Congress to reach an agreement. Otherwise the government will soon find itself with just 60 cents in cash for every dollar it owes. And like it or not somebody will not get paid. Scott Horsley NRP News Washington. 