 Here's a big idea one that sounds crazy and fringy but it is getting support from some very mainstream people. The idea is this - make our financial system safer by getting rid of banks. Here's Jacob Goldstein of NPR's Planet Money.  There is this weird thing about banks - it is not a secret it is been going on for hundreds of years - but it is strange. The money in your bank account is not actually in the bank. The bank takes your money and lends it out to someone else.  This fragility that is at the heart of our financial system - 'ecause we think the bank has our money but actually it does not.  This is Martin Wolf a columnist at the Financial Times. In good times he says it helps the economy when the bank lends your money out - money that would otherwise be sitting idle lets people buy houses or start businesses.  But in bad times and there are lots of them it generates huge financial crisis.  Loans go bad banks get bailed out - it is a familiar story at this point.  I think of it as capitalism's Faustian bargain - Faustian bargain is a deal with the devil.  And so Martin Wolf says what if we did things completely differently? What if we got rid of banks and replaced them basically with virtual vaults? When you put a dollar in the bank it would stay there. You would pay a fee to use the virtual vault but no bank would ever go bust. One downside - if you made just this change you would destroy the entire economy because banks do this essential thing - they lend out all that money in our accounts. In a post-bank world you would need some new way for people to get loans. As it happens in just the past few years the Internet has created a new option.  So I go online and I just literally type in - I think maybe less than ten pieces of information.  This is Fong Trinh  he recently applied for a 15000 loan. He did not use a bank. He borrowed through a company called Lending Club. Lending Club and similar companies are like dating websites but instead of matching people who are looking for a date they match people who have money to invest with people who are looking for a loan. It is called peer to peer lending. Fong entered that basic information online - his income his debts how much he wanted to borrow - someone from the company called him to confirm a few details and soon after that he got an e-mail saying the loan came through.  It was super-duper fast like literally I could have just done that whole thing in my bathrobe you know instead of getting in a pants and shirt and walking down to a bank.  Remember Fong did not get this loan from a bank he got a loan from someone who had extra money and chose to lend it out. Do you know who loaned you the money?  I do not that is anonymous.  Do you want to know?  Eh.  So in a world without banks who would be lending to people like Fong?  My name is Chris Winters .  In 2010 Chris took a few thousand dollars out of his savings account and lent it out through Lending Club. He got more interest than he was getting at the bank but he took a lot more risk.  There were some loans that went bad on me and I kind of took it personally. Like you know Lending Club sent them an email and they did not respond or they called them and the person said they were going to pay and then they did not. Like who is this unreliable person that I have lent the money to and why they lying to the collections people?  In the world we live in now all this risk and stress is hidden in the banks. If you get rid of banks people like Chris are going to have to deal with it. Peer to peer lending is growing fast. Retirement funds and hedge funds are starting to get in on it but it is still insignificant compared to the banking system. A few billion in loans versus trillions lent out by the banks. Peer to peer lending is not going to replace banks anytime soon. And Martin Wolf the Financial Times columnist says yeah ending banks as we know them would be complicated. It would create lots of new problems.  It is clearly a bold experiment and it would have knock-on consequences. And there are real issues about how this would be structured. It is indeed radical.  Still a recent IMF paper said at least in theory it could work. And for decades some economists including a few Nobel laureates have suggested different versions of this plan.  We have to ask ourselves very seriously do we want to live with these sorts of massive blowups every 10 15 20 years or so - which is quite possible. The costs are absolutely enormous. So having a more stable financial system than the one we have inherited from the past given the scale of the crisis we have been experiencing seems to be rather desirable.  Wolf says this big idea is not going to happen now. But he says if there is another financial crisis in the next several years people might consider it. Jacob Goldstein NPR News.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 