 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  Michigan radio's Tracy Samilton reports.  At the end of an earnings conference call for analysts and media GM's CEO Ed Whitacre chimed in. His news he will turn over the CEO reigns as of September 1st to GM board member Dan Akerson. Whitacre says everybody knew including the board that he was not in this for the long haul.  My goal in coming to General Motors was to help restore profitability build a strong market position and prepare this iconic company for success. Today we are clearly on that path.  On the path? Yes agrees Aaron Bragman an auto analyst with IHS Automotive. But he is concerned that this change could really hurt GM which has had three other CEOs in just the past year and a half while it is recovering from a bruising bankruptcy. Especially because GM is preparing to announce an IPO - an initial public stock offering that will enable the U.S. Treasury to get at least partly out of the business of owning an auto company.  To announce this days before announcing the IPO which is the ultimate goal here for restructuring GM and getting it back public again is frankly bizarre.  Gerald Meyers a former CEO of American Motors Corporation puts it even more bluntly.  It is a mistake.  Meyers says the potential investors in GM are likely to be shocked. And whatever you do he says do not shock the investors. He does not care if Whitacre a long-time Texas native who came out of retirement to run GM wanted to get back to the ranch.  Once he took the job he did not have any choice but to see it through and he is not seeing it through. And I am disappointed. I know Ed he is not that kind of guy.  For his part dealer Richard Genthe says he is not worried. Genthe does not know anything about Whitacre's successor Dan Akerson a senior executive at Carlisle Group. But he is confident that GM is now leaner and more focused on making great vehicles.  This is the type of talk that I hear talk that I had not heard before. So that all bodes very well for us and I am very optimistic.  For NPR News I am Tracy Samilton in Ann Arbor. 