 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris. No deal  that is the message late today from President Obama and House Speaker John Boehner. The nation's top Democrat and Republican had been working largely behind closed doors on a sweeping plan to raise the debt ceiling and slash the deficit. Then came a last minute news conference from the White House.  I just got a call about a half hour ago from Speaker Boehner who indicated that he was going to be walking away from the negotiations that we have been engaged in.  The president appeared both surprised and frustrated.  I have been left at the altar now a couple of times. And I think that you know one of the questions that the Republican party is going to have to ask themselves is can they say yes to anything?  About an hour later Speaker Boehner explained why he did not think he could say yes to the deal they would been hammering out and why he abandoned the talks.  Now let me just say that the White House moved the goal post. There was an agreement on some additional revenues until yesterday when the president demanded 400 billion more which was going to be nothing more than a tax increase on the American people.  For more on the impasse we are joined now by NPR's Scott Horsley and NPR's David Welna. In a moment we will hear from you David. But first Scott I want to know a little bit more about what happened at the president's briefing. What more is the White House saying about this deal that was on the table why it broke down and why in the president's opinion the Republicans are not willing to say yes to anything?  Well what they are saying is that the two sides were actually pretty close to a deal as of yesterday morning. The differences had been narrowed to three. As you just heard Speaker Boehner say the White House was pushing for more revenue. The GOP had agreed to accept something like 800 billion in additional tax revenue. That is a little bit more than you would get from simply letting the high end Bush tax cuts expire. The Democrats wanted another 400 billion. But the White House says they were willing to come down on that figure if the Republicans would accept fewer spending cuts. They were also divided about how deep the cuts in Medicaid should be. And there was a last minute effort by Republicans according to the administration to use the individual mandate in health care reform as a forcing mechanism. That is if some of the desired savings did not materialize the mandate would go away. That was also a deal-breaker as far as the White House was concerned.  Now 00 AM because he wants them to explain what they plan to do. Is the White House putting its own plan also or are they just going to listen to the leaders...  Well they have said there is no solution to the debt ceiling crisis without a legislative solution so it is up to lawmakers. The administration says they are still open to a big deficit cutting deal. They think that is both best for the country and frankly perhaps easiest to pass in the House and Senate. But at a minimum now the president says lawmakers must find a way to raise that debt ceiling before the August 2nd deadline and prevent a default. As Mr. Obama said bluntly tonight we are running out of time.  Let us bring NPR's David Welna into this and get a little bit more on the Republican side of this story. David Speaker Boehner gave two reasons for walking out of the talks. Remind us of what those two reasons were.  Yes he said that first that the White House insisted on raising taxes. And second that he said they refused to get serious about cutting spending and as he put it making the tough choices that are facing our country on entitlement reform. And essentially as Scott said this was an argument about taxes. Speaker Boehner says that it was President Obama who walked away from his own agreement by suddenly asking for 400 billion more in tax revenues than had been agreed on - 800 billion had been as far as Republicans had been willing to go. And Boehner said that the president on Thursday moved that up to 1.2 trillion from 800 billion. And that was the deal-breaker. He said you know he and Majority Leader Eric Cantor in the House were unable to accept that. And he said the White House just was not serious enough about the spending cuts that they wanted. Now he was asked about the fact that the White House was offering more than 3 trillion in spending cuts over ten years  much more than Republicans had asked for originally  and how could he say that they were not serious about this. But Boehner just insisted that this was not done in the right spirit. He said dealing with the White House was like dealing with a bowl of Jell-o. And as we heard in the quote from him he said it was the president who moved the goal posts.  Just quickly I am curious about his dealings with members of his own party. We know he spent time with some of the members. Was that a factor here he just could not sell it to his own party?  That is right. He met with the members of his House Republican caucus this morning behind closed doors. After that he came out and was very feisty at a news conference. This was about the time when he had not returned the president's phone call. And it was clear that he was not getting backing on this from his fellow Republicans.  That is NPR's David Welna. I spoke also with NPR's Scott Horsley. Thanks to both of you.  You are welcome. 