 We have heard the staggering number - 34 million cars with defective air bags the largest auto recall in U.S. history. The company at the center of this is the Takata Corp. Today lawmakers grilled auto industry executives and federal safety regulators for answers. As Jason Margolis reports members of Congress are trying to determine what caused the problem and if the replacement air bag parts are safe.  Are we safe or merely safer? That was the question repeatedly posed by Congressman Michael Burgess Republican from Texas.   We do not have any great clarity as to the root cause and how we will know when we get to that point where we are safe. Clarity and transparency are indeed needed.  Burgess was speaking to auto executives and National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator Mark Rosekind. He updated committee members on the root cause of defective air bags.   Some factors appear to have a role such as time and absolute humidity. The full story is not yet known and a definitive root cause has not been identified. In my recent experience as an NTSB board member and a veteran of many major transportation investigations it may be that there is no single root cause or the root cause may never be known.  Rosekind said part of the difficulty in testing is that there are more than 10 different configurations of the inflator.   That is part of the problem. In fact there are some Takata air bags in certain manufacturers that have ruptured in some manufacturers' but not other manufacturers' cars.  Engineers are confident the problem is caused by exposure to high heat and humidity. This can cause the chemical ammonium nitrate to degrade over time. Marsha Blackburn a Republican from Tennessee raised concerns about what chemicals Takata is using in replacement air bags.   Are you satisfied with the information that Takata has provided to you on their propellant mix?  We are working our way through that information. They have been open about providing us testing data...  OK.  ...But the information that you are asking about was millions and millions of pages.  Takata's executive vice president of North America Kevin Kennedy spoke next. He struck a penitent tone expressing deep regret for his company's defective air bags. He tried to assure committee members that replacement parts were indeed safe but many were not convinced including Democrat Jan Schakowsky of Illinois. She did not understand why ammonium nitrate was still being used by Takata.   So the replacement could be as dangerous as the current? Why would you even replace it?  Well we - as I said without really exactly understanding the root cause and continuing to test outside of the bounds of what we have already recalled we are trying to determine that.  The other issue is availability. There simply are not enough kits to replace the potentially faulty air bags. Kennedy said Takata has doubled the production of replacement kits to 700000 a month and the company is turning towards its competitors.   Half of the replacement kits we shipped last month contained inflators made by other suppliers. And by the end of the year we expect that to reach 70 percent.  Still it is expected to be two years before there are replacement parts for all 34 million vehicles that need them. Jason Margolis NPR News. 