 In a moment we will hear about the effect that Europe's troubles are having on the markets here but first NPR business correspondent Yuki Noguchi joins us with more on the markets today. And Yuki when you say it was volatile just how volatile was it?  So in general Melissa there is a tension in the markets. On the one hand there is sort of the long-term stuff about slow growth and unemployment which is pretty consistently bad. And then there is sort good news like we had today and investors react to that as well.  You mentioned Europe's debt problems Yuki. What happened there today and how is that affecting what we have seen on the markets specifically?  And you know if this all sounds familiar it is a lot like what happened in Greece. I mean the country struck a deal earlier this year with the IMF you know a bailout  for austerity. But it was very messy and there was a lot of investor fallout.  Why exactly does what is happening in Europe in countries such as Greece and Italy and Spain matter so much to the U.S. and to the markets?  Well U.S. banks have a lot of European debt right? So they stand to lose a lot of money if there is a European meltdown. And what is interesting is that on the one hand you know Wall Street likes to say they hate this government intervention. On the other hand when you know things get really sour and there is a serious situation they love nothing more than some monetary intervention.  And so that means there are politicians and regulators out there thinking about ways to calm the markets. What could the White House do?  Not a whole lot. I mean President Obama acknowledged some of the challenges that the U.S. is facing.  We have weathered the Arab Spring's effect on oil and gas prices the Japanese earthquake and tsunami's effect on supply chains the extraordinary economic uncertainty in Europe and recently markets around the globe have taken a bumpy ride.  So President Obama argues that the U.S. economy needs some extra help. He called on Congress to extend the payroll tax cuts and an extension of the emergency unemployment benefits both of which are set to expire at the end of this year. And you know he said that when you have growth it sort of pays for itself. But politically you know it is going to be a tougher sell because Congress's posture is now to cut the deficit. And as far as Europe goes I think you know the White House just wants to calm investor worries and it wants to avoids a panic because as we saw in 2008 that did not help matters. It was a vicious cycle.  OK. NPR business correspondent Yuki Noguchi. Yuki thanks very much.  Thank you Melissa. 