 The United States makes a product that is beloved all over the world it never goes out of style and makes a nice gift not many would return. It is the 100 bill. It is also used to finance a lot of illegal transactions. That is why one economist is recommending a radical move. NPR's Chris Arnold has been working with our Planet Money team and has this report.  Ken Rogoff has an idea - he wants to kill Benjamin Franklin. Well not exactly - he wants to kill the 100 bill. Rogoff is a renowned Harvard economist who is published a new paper about this.  They do surveys and the average person reports holding a 100 bill once a year - you know something like that.  And that is why this next fact is really kind of strange. Of all the U.S. currency in the world - everything out there - at nearly 80 percent is in 100 bills. 80 percent. That is about a 1 trillion in 100 bills. Who wants big stacks of hundreds?   A huge bust in Mexico - in fact Mexico's president's saying it could be the biggest drug bust in the world - police finding more than 200 million.  That is Fox News reporting on a drug bust a few years ago where a small mountain of those 100 bills turned out.  Wads of U.S. cash so high it was stuffed to the ceilings - it was also in closets and bulging out of suitcases.  It is basically in circulation outside the legal economy.  Ken Rogoff's been studying this for years and he thinks that having a big bill like the 100 bill is kind of nuts.  You can carry a 1 million in a briefcase in U.S. dollars.  And it is hard to think of many legitimate reasons for doing that so Rogoff says that the 100 bill really helps out drug dealers and human traffickers and weapons dealers.  Think about countries like Mexico Colombia - where they are really at war with the drug money where the United States is not only buying the drugs but it is providing this resource that very much helps the drug dealers where these governments are barely able to hold their own because there is so much money.  OK so we figured we should also go talk to somebody who is actually sat at a table piled high with his stash of ill-gotten 100 bills.  For me I liked it. It settled my nerves.  Richard Stratton is a former drug smuggler.  You know it was nice to sit and smoke a joint and count hundreds of thousands of dollars. It was a pleasant relaxing experience for me.  Stratton specialized in smuggling marijuana and hashish - did eight years in prison and now he writes about it. In one deal alone he brought in 15000 pounds of hash hidden inside of shipping containers packed with Middle Eastern dates and that was only half the job. After he got through customs and dealt with all the logistics then he had this giant pile of cash.  That was a 50 million deal wholesale. So I mean we made a lot of money. And that is where it became a whole different thing - with smuggling the money out of the country.  To Lebanon to his accounts and the Cayman Islands - He says people work full-time for drug dealers just changing tens and twenties into hundreds because they are much easier to smuggle. OK but the 100 bill also makes life better for ordinary people all around the world. My colleague Robert Smith saw this in Myanmar. His translator told him I do not trust my government I trust in the U.S. dollar. And he showed Robert his entire life savings tucked into the pages of a book.   And you have crisp 100 bills in here. They are perfect. They are beautiful look at this.  Actually about 20 years ago people at the Federal Reserve looked around and saw fast sums of currency especially 100 bills leaving the country.  At some point Alan Greenspan said so you know how much is it? And people did not know the answer and we just thought that we should know the answer.  That is Ruth Judson an economist at the Fed. She spent years with a team a Secret Service agents and treasury officials trying to answer that question.  We did go to Russia to Belarus to Argentina - I believe we went to Peru pretty early on - Cambodia Kazakhstan Ukraine.  They also took an old method used by fish biologists to tag and count fish and they figured out how to do basically the same thing to tag and count money.  In the fish method what we found was for hundreds in particular that probably as much as two thirds was overseas.  Today that is more than half a trillion dollars in 100 bills alone outside of the country. But Ruth Judson says she is not convinced that we need to kill the 100 bill. That is because for all her sleuthing she says we still just do not know how much of the cash out there is being used for good stuff and how much is been used for bad stuff. As for our reformed hashish smuggler Richard Stratton he thinks that criminals would probably just adjust to a world without hundreds - they would figure something out. But that is not his problem anymore. He says he is out of the business. And his pockets are no longer stuffed with 100 bills. We checked.  Here's what you will find.  Oh we got some ones.  Ones and that is it.  We can count them out here - we have got - uh oh I am dropping one - we we have got - now we have got four wrinkled bucks.  That is the story of my life now that is for sure - certainly not running around with stacks of 100 bills. And do I miss it? Yes.  Chris Arnold NPR News. 