 Many Americans have been waiting years for a solid pay raise. Tomorrow's monthly jobs report could provide some encouragement. Many economists are expecting it will show another drop in the unemployment rate. Now that should boost wage growth but as NPR's John Ydstie reports that is far from certain in the current economy.  The U.S. economic recovery has gone on for eight years now. The unemployment rate is at 4.4 percent. That is very low. And there are near record numbers of job openings. Normally that scenario would have employers boosting wages to attract workers but wage gains have been very sluggish. That is got economists scratching their heads. Andrew Chamberlain is chief economist at Glassdoor an online employment information and recruiting service. He says though the unemployment rate is near a 16-year low his company's data indicates that wage growth is slowing.  Very sluggish growth the slowest pace we have recorded in about three years. And it is the sixth straight month that that pay growth has declined.  The Labor Department's numbers also show yearly wage growth slowing to just 2-and-a-half percent in recent months. Chamberlain says at this stage in an economic recovery it should be 3-and-a-half percent. There are a number of theories about why that has not happened. Chamberlain says one important factor is that a tide of young inexperienced workers is entering the labor force.  Younger workers who are coming into the workforce that are replacing baby boomers who are leaving near their peak earning years.  Those young workers are paid much less and they are dragging down the average earnings growth for the nation as a whole. Chamberlain says there is another factor in the disconnect. The low unemployment rate does not count a large number of working-age people who are currently on the sidelines. These are people between the ages 25 to 54 the prime working years who are not employed and are not looking for a job. But Chamberlain says many would go to work if the conditions were right.  Sometimes these are stay-at-home parents. Sometimes these are people with an injury that has kept them out of the labor force. But for the right price the right offer it would pull them back in.  About 22 percent of this prime age group remain on the sidelines of the U.S. labor force. That number was lower before the Great Recession and Chamberlain says a good-paying job is the best way to lure them back.  People who are out of the labor force are weighing the tradeoff between - you know is it worth it? When I factor in all taxes and benefits is it worth it for me to pay for daycare to go take a full time job or not? Wage growth definitely pulls people back in - no question.  Economist Dean Baker of the Center for Policy Research says he often sees stories in the newspaper with employers complaining that they cannot find enough workers.  Well you know I would look at and go well have you tried raising wages?  Chamberlain says these people on the sidelines have been slowly returning to the workforce as wages have slowly risen. But he says at the current pace it will take six months or more to get their participation back to levels seen before the Great Recession. Baker says there is a danger that Federal Reserve interest rate hikes could slow this process of bringing people back into the workforce. Fortunately he says it looks like the Fed has put off further rate hikes at least for the time being.  That will allow the economy more room to grow the labor market to tighten further. That will presumably mean more wage growth.  There are other reasons wages are not rising says Baker. A decline in unionization and slow productivity growth are among them. Both of those require longer-term solutions. John Ydstie NPR News Washington. 