 Now that the Cash for Clunkers program is over analysts are trying to figure out what just happened. Did 700000 trade-ins make the air cleaner? Did it keep Americans working or did they just concentrate sales in an intense two-month period - sales that would have been made otherwise over a span of a few more months? One of the analysts sorting out the data is Aaron Bragman of IHS Global Insight that is an international economics-forecasting firm. And Aaron Bragman joins us from Ann Arbor Michigan. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you Robert.   Of the 10 most popular models that people bought seven were Japanese brands one Korean make two Fords and all 10 of the most popular clunkers that were traded in were American brands. So did we just stimulate the Far East Asian economy rather than our own? Mr.  To some extent yeah. They are making a lot of noise about it the majority of these vehicles being foreign nameplates. But when we look at what these actual vehicles are and what they represent in the overall market the passenger-car market tends to be more skewed towards the foreign nameplates. They have been gaining a lot of ground over the years. So it looks as we would expect it to. Ford actually did fairly well. They have the Focus up there at number four and they have the only truck in the top 10 with the Escape crossover. So they did better than GM did frankly.  When you look at the top 10 trade-in vehicles the clunkers that the people sold - Ford Explorer Ford F-150 Jeep Grand Cherokee Dodge Caravan Jeep Cherokee Chevrolet Blazer Chevrolet C-1500 Ford F-150 Pickup Ford Windstar. I mean people were trading back the 1990s here in this program. And this is what they were getting off their hands.  Mr.  It is interesting because a lot of these vehicles were seen as kind of lifestyle expressions back in the '90s. People purchased them and may not really have needed a four-wheel drive Ford Explorer that - but it was cool to have it. They basically replaced the sports car as the big macho image-making kind of vehicle.  Yeah that is the number one Mr.  And  The four-wheel drive Ford Explorer is the number one clunker that was traded in. Mr.  Right. And it is not the most efficient vehicle in the world. And after they got a bit of a scare with 4 gasoline this time last year the people may have realized you know what do we really need this thing? Can we turn it in get some money for it get something more fuel-efficient. And that seems to be what they did.  Does a spike in sales like this one does it actually keep people working at the factory where the auto or the parts for the auto are made or is it really keeping people in work at the dealership the sales staff? Mr.  It is really keeping people working all over it would seem. Ford GM a lot of the automakers have actually increased production because their inventory's been almost completed depleted by this program. So we are seeing people go back to work at the factories and it has a trickle-down effect. It is not just the automakers but it is the parts makers it is the diner next to the parts plant that is now got a good lunch crew again. So it - the trickle-down effect goes really to all areas of the economy. That is the impact that manufacturing has.  So if the average of the vehicles that were traded-in for - mileage per gallon was almost 25 miles per gallon and the trade-in mileage is under 16 miles per gallon is that a huge change in terms of the cars on the road in the U.S.? Mr.  It will depend honestly because a lot of these clunkers were not used as often as the new cars are going to be. So one of the data points that is come up that people are kind of looking into is will the new vehicles actually result in a fuel savings even though they are more efficient if they get used a lot more than the old cars do? So that is one of the areas that people are looking at.  Bottom-line there is so many ways in which one could judge the Cash For Clunkers Program but in your view did it succeed and what does that mean? Mr.  I think it did have a good effect. And the most I think appealing effect of it is that it got people used to making big ticket purchases again. That is really what has to improve. We have to see customer confidence improving people go back out and start spending money. And this I think showed that there is a willingness to spend money and make big ticket purchases and take on new debt if there is the opportunity and the deals look good enough.  Aaron Bragman thank you very much for talking with us about Mr.  My pleasure.  Cash For Clunkers. Aaron Bragman of IHS Global Insight spoke to us from Ann Arbor Michigan. 