 If the highways are calling out to you this summer but you need to rent a car you better pack some extra cash. The price of rental cars has more than doubled in the last 12 months. That is one of many factors driving inflation to its highest level in nearly 13 years. Prices have also soared for air travel washing machines and used cars. As the U.S. economy rebounds from the pandemic recession demand for many items is outstripping supply. NPR's Scott Horsley joins us now to talk about this. Hey Scott.  Hi Ailsa.  Hey. So we are just learning today that overall consumer prices were 5 higher in May than they were a year ago. And I understand that is the highest inflation that there is been since 2008. What is going on?  There is lots of pent-up demand and just not enough supply. You know rental cars are an extreme example but they do help to illustrate the broader picture. In May of last year almost nobody was renting a car. The rental car companies were not even sure if they would be in business today. They sold off hundreds of thousands of cars just to stay afloat. And now we have got a lot of newly-vaccinated Americans who are traveling again. And there are not enough rental cars to go around. The people who put together the Consumer Price Index say rental car prices jumped 110 in the last year. And Denver travel agent Pamela Wilson says that is if you can get a car at all.  What was maybe 500 is now a thousand. Places that you were always able to find a car it is not there at all. And we are talking every car company - Avis Budget Hertz. You are checking all of these car companies none of which are available.  And a little consumer tip Ailsa. Wilson's been telling clients who do find a rental car to reserve to pay in advance or else they might find themselves replaying that classic Seinfeld scene.    Unfortunately we ran out of cars.   But the reservation keeps the car here. That is why you have the reservations.    I know why we have reservations.   I do not think you do.   But this is not so funny in real life right Scott? I mean how does this jump in rental car prices fit into the broader inflation story?  Well rental car companies are trying to rebuild their fleets to meet this surge in demand but new cars are hard to come by. We have all heard about the shortage of computer chips that is plaguing automakers. So the rental companies are buying more used cars and that is driving up the cost of used cars. That is up nearly 30 in the last year. And it is not just carmakers who are struggling with a lack of computer chips. Appliances use a lot of chips now too. Richard Clark is a sales manager with Kelley Appliances  in Aiken S.C. He says appliance manufacturers are also having a hard time keeping up with demand.  So they go with the most popular types which are the stainless steel appliances. And that is kind of king right now. So anybody that comes in here wanting colors of appliances are going to be waiting quite a while.  Appliance prices have jumped more than 12 in the last year. And washing machines Ailsa are really in a spin cycle. That is up more than 26.  I see what you did there. All right. Well both the White House and the Federal Reserve are saying that this jump in inflation is temporary. But what do they say is going to bring prices back down?  Well some of this is just payback for the sharp drop in prices we saw a year ago when the pandemic first hit. So airfares for example they are up 24 in the last year. But that is really just getting back to normal. And once that happens prices should level off. Some of the bottlenecks we have talked about like with computer chips should get worked out although it is going to take some time. The big story here is demand has bounced back more quickly than businesses have been able to ramp up. And one thing that will help is businesses hiring more of the millions of people who are still out of work.  And what if this higher inflation is not temporary?  Well then the Federal Reserve would have to step in and raise interest rates but that is really strong medicine. It slams the brakes on the economy so nobody wants to see that happen prematurely. For now markets seem to be buying this argument from the Fed and the Bush administration that the run-up in inflation is temporary. The monthly inflation reading for May was actually lower than for April. So there are some signs the high pressure on prices is being turned down already.  That is NPR's Scott Horsley. Thank you Scott.  You are welcome. 