 Around the country more than 100 protesters were arrested today at rallies to support wage increases for fast food workers. The events were part of the Fight for 15 campaign. It is an effort to win a 15 an hour minimum wage from some of the nation's largest employers especially McDonald's. And while it is been involved for more than a year the Service Employees International Union is having trouble organizing workers who will not or cannot leave their shifts. Anne Mostue of WGBH was at one of today's protests.   Hold the burgers hold the fries make our wages supersize.  A total of eight fast food workers were peacefully arrested after sitting in the streets of downtown Boston this afternoon. They came from McDonald's Burger King Popeyes and Dunkin' Donuts.  I came here today to fight for what is right. I feel like everybody deserves better.  Twenty-year-old Erica Concepcion is wearing her brown pink and orange uniform even though she told her manager at Dunkin' Donuts she was taking the day off. Concepcion makes coffee and breakfast sandwiches for 8.50 cents an hour.  Minimum wage nowadays is not cutting it. Gas is expensive. Food is expensive. Sometimes you know people do not eat and it is really upsetting.  Concepcion lives with her mother and brother in Boston and says she wants to contribute more to the family's expenses. Her only concern about a raise - the possibility of cutbacks elsewhere.  I am just afraid that if we do get paid for 15 an hour a lot of people will not have jobs. Or they will cut their hours down. And it is not fair.   We are ready.  In Boston the protesters did not seem to have much of an impact on fast food businesses. Standing outside of Burger King one customer was not sure about 15 an hour. He offered only qualified support.  Yeah well that is more than what I get. Well I think they should get it - that is if they do their job efficiently the way they are supposed to they are dependable consistent. I think they deserve it.  The Fight for 15 rally started at the Massachusetts Statehouse with only eight actual fast food workers. They were flanked by dozens of labor organizers and supporters. Together they marched to a nearby McDonald's. But none of the employees inside joined the protest. Instead they continued working declining to speak to reporters except to say they could not afford the time off. That is part of what is making this a tough movement. Jeff Hall is a spokesman for the Service Employees International Union.  In June you saw more than a thousand low-wage workers from across industries unite for a series of wage-action rallies across the state. So this campaign - this movement is gaining momentum. And it is not just about fast food workers. You see today that homecare workers are joining the Fight for 15.  Home healthcare workers spoke in the morning on the Statehouse steps but were not arrested for disorderly conduct. Union organizers say the movement has helped to raise the minimum wage in Connecticut and New Jersey. But the National Restaurant Association calls the Fight for 15 movement quote orchestrated union PR events where the vast majority of participants are activists and paid demonstrators unquote. For NPR News I am Anne Mostue in Boston. 