 Today mayors from across the country mostly Democrats are speaking out about what they see as an alarming trend - a growing wage gap. At a meeting in New York the U.S. Conference of Mayors released a new report on jobs and income inequality prepared by the research firm IHS Global Insight. It finds that although the country has recovered the nearly nine million jobs lost in the recession the jobs gained on average pay less - 23 percent less. We wanted to know what this means in one community so we reached out to Nan Whaley. She is the mayor of Dayton Ohio and she began by describing what sorts of jobs her region lost in the recession and how many.  We lost literally thousands and not only General Motors but also Delphi which was the supplier that provided parts to General Motors. We had around five of those plants in the region. And they were mostly manufacturing plants. And so Western Ohio - you know we hear a lot about Detroit but also in Western Ohio we saw significant job loss through the recession.  And since then what kinds of jobs have you seen coming back?  Well we have seen some manufacturing jobs but not nearly the pace compared to logistics and warehouse jobs coming. So you know Dayton sits on the crossroads of I-70 and I-75. So we have Payless Shoe stores for example. Trucks come in move those supplies to get to the next place. And the same with Procter  Gamble and Caterpillar - we are seeing a lot of that kind of logistics which honestly it is a job-growth area for us. We did not have logistics in Dayton before. So it is been a success but the wages are less. And so I think that just iterates what is going on across the country right? The wage gap is there because what - the jobs that are being replaced from the jobs lost are just lower-wage level.  And if you are getting a manufacturing job now compared to the job you might have had before the recession would it be paying on an adjusted scale? Would it be paying the same better worse?  The manufacturing jobs are still paying very well but the difference now is - and we talk a lot about this because manufacturing is still key in Ohio - it is not your father's factory. So it requires a further degree. And so these are not jobs in manufacturing that you can just get coming out of high school. They require at least an associates or some sort of certification. And they pay well but there is just not as many of them.  Mayor Whaley you have been the mayor of Dayton since January but you have lived there for 20 years now. How different does the city feel today compared with when you first got there?  Well I think that cities like Dayton and cities across the country we see just a - a vaporization of the middle class. You know as my parents were able to have good paying jobs that were hourly instead of salary but still able to put me and my brother through college - that dream is getting further and further away. And so we see that every day with people struggling having to take more than one job on really having to make some really tough decisions about their family. And I do not think Dayton is unique in any sense than other cities across the country with that issue.  The city commission in Dayton I gather has passed a resolution that would support federal legislation to raise the minimum wage to 10.10 an hour. How do you balance getting a better wage for workers with putting too large a burden on employers - making the climate business unfriendly?  Well I think that study after study has shown that if you raise the minimum wage to 10.10 that you know it actually creates opportunity and creates more jobs. And that is what we are trying to do. And frankly it is right when you think about that most of the people receiving minimum wage are women and the burden of women today on taking care of their family in addition to having this really low pay. The minimum wage does not equal a wage that you can take care of yourself much less anyone else. And so we have to be real about what is going on in our communities by saying that that minimum wage is a real fair bottom because frankly it is not.  I have been talking with Nan Whaley. She is the mayor of Dayton Ohio and a Democrat. Mayor Whaley thanks for being with us.  Thanks. It is my pleasure. 