 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  NPR's David Welna explains this latest twist.  This morning House Speaker John Boehner appeared to wash his hands of any responsibility for raising the debt ceiling which only Congress can do. Instead Boehner singled out President Obama.  This debt limit increase is his problem and I think it is time for him to lead by putting his plan on the table something that the Congress can pass.  Meanwhile in the Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell appeared to throw in the towel for a mutually agreed-upon solution for the debt impasse.  I have little question that as long as this president is in the Oval Office a real solution is probably unattainable. This was not an easy decision for me.  Dick Durbin the Senate's number two Democrat then took to the floor to urge his GOP colleagues not to abandon the deficit reduction talks as they have done before.  The Republican Party has become the walk-away-Renee party when it comes to this budget deficit. We have got to keep them in the room.  After huddling over lunch with his fellow Republicans Senate Minority Leader McConnell made clear he had other plans. McConnell called a news conference to unveil what he called a sort of backup plan for raising the debt ceiling by the Treasury Department's August 2nd deadline.  I would advocate that we pass legislation giving the president the authority to request of us an increase in the debt ceiling that would take us pass the end of his term.  In effect Congress would vote to transfer its own authority to raise the debt ceiling over to the president. McConnell said lawmakers could then respond to the president's request for raising the debt ceiling with what is known as a resolution of disapproval.  That resolution of disapproval if passed would then go to the president. He could sign it or he could veto it. Presumably he would veto it. If that were the case that veto would be sustained by one-third plus one in either the House or the Senate.  Stan Collender is a former House and Senate budget committee staffer now with Qorvis Communications.  What I see here is a little bit of desperation on the part of Republicans. I mean they have painted themselves into a very difficult political corner saying no no no but we also want to raise the debt ceiling. So this would be a way to get the debt ceiling raised without their having to do any of the things that they do not want to do.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid appeared to welcome McConnell's proposal.  I am not about to trash his proposal. It is something that I will look at. I will look at it intently and I think any new ideas I am willing to look at.  David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 