 Energy prices are going up for things like coal natural gas and crude oil. Today oil briefly topped 80 a barrel which it has not hit in nearly three years. And you might feel the effect at your local gas station. NPR's Camila Domonoske joins us to explain what is going on. Hi Camila.  Hi Leila.  So what is going on?  Well basically you have a lower than usual supply of oil. I mean you might remember for most of the pandemic oil producers were actually desperately trying to decrease production.  Yeah.  Demand had dropped so much that they had to cut back their output a lot. And they are still coming back from that. You have also got the effect of recent hurricanes which have knocked some supply offline. So lower supply than usual. And at the same time demand is coming back up. There are economies around the world that have more activity more recovery. That means more demand for oil. And there is also something that is really unusual happening which is that natural gas prices have gone incredibly high. They have absolutely skyrocketed especially in Asia. And that is actually driving oil prices up.  OK but what does natural gas have to do with the price of crude oil?  Yeah it is not entirely obvious so I asked Claudio Galimberti with Rystad Energy to break it down for me. And he said look there is a whole bunch of power plants that normally burn natural gas. Specifically they burn liquefied natural gas or LNG. But some of those plants can burn oil. And right now LNG costs so much.  If you compare the cost of LNG against the cost of oil it is convenient for a power plant to burn oil.  So they are crunching the numbers and a bunch of these power plants are switching over. Instead of burning natural gas they are burning oil. That is created a huge surge in demand for crude oil. And actually Galimberti says that he has never seen anything quite like it.  OK so there is all this new demand at the industrial level which means the price consumers pay at the pump goes up too?  Yeah normally. Right? Gasoline is made out of crude oil so when crude prices go up gasoline prices normally go up. What is happening now is that gas prices - people probably noticed - were already high. They have been high all summer long. Normally right about now they go down. It is fall. Summer driving season is over. Prices drop. What we are seeing now is that those gasoline prices are staying high. They might not be increasing in your area but they are staying at the same high rates because they are pushed up by the high price of crude oil. And even if you are not just looking at gas prices there are other ways that high oil prices affect the economy. They raise the prices of all kinds of things because we use oil to move so much stuff around so high oil prices wind up being an inflationary pressure.  So what is going to happen next?  Well in the short term there is a couple of big questions. OPEC the big oil cartel is having its regular meeting next week with its allies. One big question obviously is are they going to increase production given how much demand there is right now? There are also producers who are not in OPEC notably the American oil producers who have been remarkably disciplined lately which is not a word that we usually associate with the oil patch. They are pumping less crude oil than they could. Nothing like the days of drill baby drill. And the question is are they going to change that as prices keep going up and up? Long term there are huge question marks. Here's where there are really divergent views about what the future of oil even looks like. OPEC thinks that oil and gas demand is going to grow for decades. There are other energy groups who look at the future and they say oil demand's going to drop as the world switches to electric vehicles and green energy. So everybody is trying to figure out what happens next. And I think it is fair to say there is going to be a lot of focus on this big meeting of world governments the COP26 that is happening in November. They are going to be talking about how to fight climate change which means they will be talking about energy and emissions.  NPR's Camila Domonoske thank you.  Thank you. 