 The subprime loan is back but not for buying a house. Financial institutions are increasingly willing to lend large amounts of money to people with poor credit so long as they are buying a car. Here's Lisa Chow of NPR's Planet Money team.  Katrece Poole is 32. She is a single mom. She makes just over 14 an hour working in food services at a university in Rochester New York. In 2005 her car was repossessed because she started missing payments. In 2011 when she went to buy a brand-new Mitsubishi...  Went filled the paperwork out and I got approved.  Were you surprised that you got approved?  Yeah. I was like wow OK.  In fact Poole had been targeted by the dealership. They had sent her direct mail saying they had loans for people like her.  I was not even looking for a new car. I was going to keep that car. But I started having problems with the truck in 2011 then I have seen - Marina Dodge sent me a letter saying that I can get a brand-new car. So I went out there and took the letter and it is like yeah we can help you.  We find that direct mail works well for us here in Ozone Park Queens.  Anthony Panarella has sent a lot of letters like the one Poole received. He manages a Nissan dealership in a different part of New York. He targets borrowers with a decent income at least 30000 a year but poor credit.  We just had a customer that came in the other day that had a 510 score with two repossessions and we put him in a brand-new Nissan Versa. The guy was happy as hell.  So why is Panarella so eager to attract borrowers like this? There are a couple of reasons. He can get a high interest rate on these loans up to 25 percent. Default rates on car loans are pretty low. People need their cars to get to work so they will do everything they can to make the payments. And even when people do default Panarella can take the car and auction it off. And it turns out because there is a lot of demand for used cars right now and little supply prices are good. Panarella says he repossessed a car about a year and a half ago.  The car made positive 3000 at the auction on top of what this man paid for on top of what the car cost us. So...  You actually made money off of the repo.  Yes absolutely.  A final factor driving up subprime loans in autos Panarella does not have to hold the loans themselves. He can originate them package them and sell them onto Wall Street. Panarella says when he put the word out to Wall Street that he had a portfolio full of subprime auto loans to sell with an average interest rate of 17.5 percent and few defaults...  The phone was ringing off the hook. We sold two portfolios already to Wall Street. And yeah I mean I am seeing more and more Wall Street activity coming into auto lending.  To the officials at the Federal Reserve trying to fix the economy this is what they are hoping for. By driving interest rates so low they are hoping to encourage financial institutions to lend more freely. Karl Brauer is the senior director at Kelley Blue Book. He says that is one reason you are seeing all this activity in auto lending.  There is a lot of new and nontraditional financial institutions out there that are coming in that can come up with ways to lend money or to package these loans all together in their kind of an investment portfolio and so people are doing that. Now that might sound familiar because this is what they were doing with home loans up until about six years ago.  But Brauer says he is not too worried about bad car loans bringing down the global economy. They are a tenth of the size of the mortgage market in the U.S. And during the recession they performed relatively well. But what about the people who take out these high-interest loans? I put the question to Poole our car buyer. The subprime auto loan is it a good thing or bad thing?  I think that is a good thing. I think everybody need a chance to start over and build their credit up even if you have a repossession or anything.  Even if it is a high-interest loan?  Yeah because how else you going to get a car?  Credit experts would say there should be cheaper ways. And in fact Poole's credit union helped refinance her original subprime loan cutting her interest rate in half. It is possible that as more firms fight to lend money to people like Poole interest rates will fall and Anthony Panarella the car dealer says that is already starting to happen. Lisa Chow NPR News. 