 NPR's Frank Langfitt reports.  When you drive the Chevy Volt there is a moment when everything changes. You can actually hear it.   There you switched over.  Okay so now we are in...  Now you are in the extended-range mode.  Okay it sounds different now. You can hear the gas engine.  Yeah.  I am test driving a Volt around RFK Stadium parking lot in Washington D.C. Next to me is Christi Landi the car's product manager. And we have just experienced one of the Volt's key selling points. The car can only drive 40 miles on electric battery power but it also has a gas engine that is just kicked in - an engine that allows the Volt to drive a lot farther.   If this was all charged up and I filled up the gas tank how far could I go right now if I just wanted to take off?  About 300 miles.  That range is the Volt's competitive advantage. Many people worry an electric car will run out of juice and strand them. They also wonder about the strength of a battery-powered engine.   You want to see the pickup you can experience it here straightaway.  I slam the accelerator to the floor. The car takes off.   And that is all on battery.  That is all on battery.  GM expects early adopters to snap up the car. It plans to build 10000 the first year. And citing what it called huge interest on its website the company is boosting production the following year to 45000. Now that is still small by American standards. And after the initial excitement will ordinary drivers go for the Volt?  Cost is going to be an impediment.  That is Bill Visnic. He is senior editor at Edmunds' AutoObserver.com which covers the car business. Like a lot of people he is concerned about the Volt' 41000. Volt owners can apply for up to 7500 in tax credits. But as Visnic points out...  This is a Chevy sedan. It is a four-seat sedan. It is not a large car.  And for the same money...  You can buy an entry-level Mercedes sedan. You can buy any number of nice Audis.  Mark Perry is head of product planning for Nissan in North America. He pitched me the car at the Detroit Auto Show earlier this year.  What you' 100-percent battery electric zero-emission vehicle.  You ever put gasoline in this thing?  You do not put gasoline in it. You do not put oil. There is not even a tailpipe.  How far can you drive on a charge?  On a single charge you can go 100 miles - on a single charge.  That seems like a lot.  It is a lot. Think of how...  And how are you able to do that when the Volt can only go 40?  We have a more efficient battery pack.  And then there is the question of infrastructure. At the Detroit Auto Show Ray LaHood the U.S. Secretary of Transportation stopped by to look at the Leaf. He pointed out that there is no easy way to charge the Leaf on long trips or easy answers for people who live in apartments.  I agree with you. I think this is the next generation for people but there have to be charging station opportunities for people. I think the workplace is obviously - and the home. But then I do not know whether it is at malls or at rest areas or what.  Yes movie theaters stadiums museums parking garages downtown. Absolutely.  Yeah.  Frank Langfitt NPR News Washington. 