 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. Congress has started its summer break. President Obama is making a quick fund-raising trip to Chicago. And Americans around the country are still talking about the deal on the debt ceiling that was sealed earlier this week. We sent reporters to two swing districts to see what people are saying about that deal and the politicians who put it together. We start it in Naperville Illinois with NPR's David Schaper.   The Riverwalk in downtown Naperville in Chicago's western suburbs is teeming not just with ducks but with little kids feeding those ducks. As their parents in this Republican-leaning district that voted for Mr. Obama in 2008 mull his negotiating of a compromise to raise the debt ceiling some are glad he did not duck his responsibility.  You know at some point we had to come to an agreement. And I think he is done what is best for our country.  Erica Rowlands is a 34-year-old stay-at-home mother who just recently moved to Naperville.  I think he is been under a lot of pressure and I am very proud of the job he is done. I think this country especially here in the Midwest is tired of the bickering between the two parties and he is doing the best job he can.  Rowlands backs the president even though she considers herself a Republican says she voted for John McCain three years ago. Adding now it is her party that is going too far in being too uncompromising. Forty-nine-year-old Danny Oshiro of Naperville who did vote for President Obama is not as enthusiastic.  He did okay. In my grade I would say he did probably C-plus.  Oshiro then adds this caveat.  I tell you what from what he acquired when he became a president I think he is doing a very good job. Okay? That is a tall order for one president to handle.   In Chicago's uptown neighborhood President Obama will celebrate his 50th birthday a day early with a fundraiser at the Aragon Ballroom tonight. And there is support for the hometown president here.  I personally still think he is doing the best that he can.  Steve Milford is part owner of Crew Bar and Grill says he thinks the president got the best compromise he could. But Milford is not happy with him.  I think a lot of people are not but it is what it is. I mean this is what Washington is known for not getting much done.  Inside the neighborhood Starbucks there is concern about how the president looks after settling the nation's debt crisis.  Personally I think he is weaker.  Chris Varonas is a communications consultant who lives nearby.  I think it is good for Obama that he is got a birthday to distract attention away from some glaring realities out there. The biggest thing is unemployment. People are out of work.  In Chicago there is disappointment President Obama just does not come home more often. And that when he does it is usually a quick trip like the one tonight. David Schaper NPR News Chicago. 