 There has not been a lot of good economic news lately. So today's report from the Labor Department saying first time unemployment claims fell last week was enough to send stock prices higher. Still some 14 million people remain out of work. The economy is not growing fast enough to do anything about that. And as NPR's Jim Zarroli reports recent history suggests it may take years for strong growth to kick in.  It was three years ago this summer that the world's credit markets stalled ushering in the collapse of the investment banking sector the housing meltdown and soaring unemployment. Today companies like LEFCO Worthington in Cleveland which makes pallets and crates for shipping have managed to survive. But president Larry Fulton says the recovery has not happened as fast as he expected. Mr.  I think by now I would have seen you know larger orders from not just some of the larger companies but also for some of the middle marketsmaller companies that we service that I think are still really struggling.  This is not the way things used to be. Before a few decades ago if the economy stalled the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates and growth resumed pretty quickly. But the recent recessions have been different. The 1991 recession was short and mild but job growth did not resume for a long time not until the dotcom boom. It was the decade says Josh Bivens of the Economic Policy Institute when the phrase jobless recovery was coined. Mr.  But it really did take about four years of sputtering before the economy really kicked into gear even in the 1990s.  The same thing happened in 2001 a brief shallow recession followed by an even weaker recovery. Lakshman Acuthan of the Economic Cycle Research Institute says there is a pattern here. Mr.  Each expansion since the '70s has been getting weaker and weaker so much so that the last expansion before the Great Recession the 2001 to 2007 expansion was the weakest expansion in the whole post-World War II history.  Acuthan says the last recoveries might not have seemed so weak because unemployment fell so low but that is because these recoveries lasted a long time. Inflation was subdued so the Fed could keep interest rates low. There was a steady accumulation of new jobs. But Acuthan says if you look at any data industrial production wage growth GDP recoveries have been getting weaker. Why this is is something of a mystery. But the evidence suggests the pattern is continuing and this recovery will be even weaker than the last. Josh Biven says in the past the Fed could cut interest rates to stimulate growth but it cannot do that now. Mr.  We actually entered the recessions in the early 2000s and this one with interest rates already pretty low. And so their monetary policy a prime tool for getting the economy back on track was kind of powerless in both these cases. And I think that explains a big part of why it takes so long to get back out of these recessions.  And there is another problem. In the past as interest rates fell people rushed to buy houses which boosted the economy. But that will not happen this time. Because of the excesses of recent years the housing market is just too weak. Lakshman Acuthan says this recovery may be shorter than the others too. Since the 1980s the U.S. economy has benefited a lot from low inflation and steady growth. Economists call it the great moderation. But the wild swings of the past few years suggest the economy has changed. Mr.  Volatility is back with a vengeance. And you are adding that ingredient to low trend growth. So high volatility low trend growth more frequent recessions almost no matter what you do.  None of that bodes well for the future. Yet another lesson from history is that all downturns eventually end and the economy improves even if it sometimes seems like it is taking forever. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 