 To survive the recession  cut jobs. But one small town factory is trying something different. Instead of cutting employees it is putting them to work on jobs that were once done by outside contractors. From member station WIUM in Macomb Illinois Rich Egger reports.  Bushnell is a small farm community of about 3300 situated in western Illinois. It is located between the Mississippi and Illinois rivers about an hour-and-a-half drive from the Quad Cities. You will not find any chain stores in its downtown but there is a small cafe a furniture store some law offices and a few small factories. At the north end sits a big red-brick building. It is the home of Midwest Control Products a company that makes ball joints rod ends and other metal products for the ag and trucking industries. And lately this company has become known for one of its innovations. Mr.  We are trying to do something different that is self-sufficient.  Kerry Rhodes is the company's vice president. Mr.  And we are making it work. And we would like to see other - more people take an approach like that instead of creating spending programs.  Instead of laying off any of its 68 workers the company set up what it calls an alternative work program. Employees here now do maintenance work that the company used to contract out. They are cleaning offices tuckpointing the brick painting the factory and repairing the machinery. Mr.  The fellow that took charge of doing all the ceiling painting he has a sideline business as a house painter but he is a welder for us. He was happy to do something different and it is something that he enjoys doing.  Well a lot of factory work is sort of repetitive. So in a way this is really giving the employees a chance to sort of break the routine maybe break the monotony. Mr.  They really like that. I mean they probably express that as much as anything is that it is fun to do something different. And especially this time of year when the weather's nice a lot of it they get to go outside.  Going outside means working in the company's two-acre garden situated behind its other factory on the edge of town. Jason Garzee normally works as a press operator here. But on this breezy and cool summer day he is digging weeds. Mr.  It works for me because I as not laid off. So as long as we are staying busy and we got jobs and a paycheck it works for me.  Corn and tall sunflowers line one edge of the garden. Small hand-painted wood signs mark the spots where you can find tomatoes peppers cucumbers and the like. Workers also spend some time selling the produce. Ms.  Four dollars a dozen. You get a baker's dozen or 40 cents apiece.  Okay.  Drill press operator Tracie Howell is at the farmers market in nearby Macomb. Today she is selling corn from the bed of a silver and black Ford Explorer. Ms.  There you go.  Thank you. Ms.  Thank you.  Howell likes this innovative program because it keeps her working. Ms.  It makes you feel like the company's actually thinking about the employees and not just making a quick buck.  By thinking this way about its workers Midwest Control Products was able to stabilize its finances. In fact Kerry Rhodes says it is remained profitable every month during the recession. Rhodes will not worry though if orders remain slow during the third quarter. He says there is still a long list of alternative work projects for workers to complete. For NPR News I am Rich Egger in Macomb Illinois. 