 And today we conclude our series about military families in the wake of the great recession. And let us start with a few basic facts. First the unemployment rate is high more than 9 percent. Second the military is in the middle of a record streak of recruiting success. It is not a coincidence. In this economy  job security health care benefits for the whole family and retirement after 20 years. NPR's Tamara Keith explains why a weak economy is good for the military.  Justin Bock was about to join the Navy. He just did not know it. It was about a year ago. Justin and his wife Ashley Bock both had solid jobs. So they bought a house in Martinsburg West Virginia. And then everything changed. Before they could even move in Ashley was laid off. Three months later it was Justin's turn.  I was called in and more or less given the pink slip. So I go home and I looked at my wife.  Well what do you want to do? And...  And I cried.  So here they were both unemployed with a mortgage to pay and a young daughter with a heart condition. Like so many people searching for work in this tough job market Justin Bock sent out dozens of applications and tried to call in favors.   Sorry we are not hiring or you are either overqualified or underqualified.  Yeah he could not even get a job as a cashier at Best Buy.   the Navy. When he was in high school he had planned to enlist. But life got in the way. Now he was 30 and the thing that he had wanted to do so long ago started to make sense.  I guess you could say it was divine intervention. The good Lord saw fit that I not find another job. And the opportunity presented itself. And I stopped by the recruiting office and talked with the recruiter. I already knew what I wanted to do. And just - it was a matter of filling out paperwork at that point.   It is busy mid-afternoon at a recruiting office in Hagerstown Maryland. It is the same office where Justin Bock filled out that paperwork just a few months ago.  Navy Petty Officer Flament...  Petty Officer Cory Flament is the recruiter who worked with Bock and he remembers him.  Once he lost that job you know he is like wow well maybe I should go check the Navy out again. You know and that is how he came to that point of actually putting him back in the Navy.  Flament started as a recruiter late in 2008 just as the full force of the recession was hitting. Turns out a bad job market in the civilian world is good news for recruiters like Flament.  Like we do not have a line waiting outside the door. You know people just like oh I want to join now. I lost my job. But I think it is - people are more open to the idea of serving their country. Dr.  So a recession really does make recruiting less challenging than it otherwise would be.  That is Dr. Curtis Gilroy. He works at the Pentagon where he oversees active duty military recruiting nationwide. He says whenever there is a recession recruiting gets a boost.  We are in our third year in which all active duty services have achieved their numerical recruiting goals and either met or exceeded their recruit quality benchmarks as well.  So not just more recruits but better ones. Test scores are up along with the number of recruits who graduated high school. Today the military is letting in fewer people with waivers for minor criminal histories or past drug use. Now for the military as a whole the quality of recruits is the highest it is been in nearly two decades. This even as the nation is at war and the risks of military service are as clear as ever. And that means all of the services are able to be more selective. Master Chief Jimmy Holt is the national chief recruiter for the Navy.  That causes us to be able to choose the best of the best in order to come into the Navy which then creates a stronger stable qualified mature force.  Justin Bock is one of them. He is training with the Navy in San Antonio. Ashley Bock says when she met her husband he was working two jobs and not always the most fun guy to be around. Joining the Navy has changed all that.  Through the last several weeks that he is been here in San Antonio he has just regained a lot of confidence and it is just glowing from him.  He is training to become a hospital corpsman. It is something he never imagined himself doing and yet now makes all the sense in the world. He thinks it could lead to a good career in the military even after the civilian job market improves. Tamara Keith NPR News.  To hear other stories in our series on military families and the great recession go to npr.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 