 Ketchup is the all-American condiment essential at any cookout right? Well deep inside the company that dominates the ketchup business there is a man who is making sure you always get exactly the taste you expect - the ketchup master. NPR's Dan Charles has our report.  I was visiting a tomato field near Los Banos Calif. with Ross Siragusa the head of global agriculture for the Kraft Heinz Company. The field was covered with a thick carpet of green tomato vines.  So you pull them up and you can start seeing what they look like.  Wow look at this. Tomatoes everywhere - too many to count. Siragusa explains this is a special mix of tomato varieties - one super-red one super-dense - to make thick red sauce which has always been the selling point for Heinz Ketchup - thick and red. But I asked Siragusa what about taste? Has that changed over the years? And he says I do not know but I know somebody who would - Hector Osorno.  He is completely obsessed and he will admit to it. He is got secrets that he will not divulge.  He will not? Not even to me?  No I do not think so.  Hector Osorno is the ketchup master the guy making sure that Heinz Ketchup comes out exactly as advertised. What is it that makes you a ketchup master? Is it your skill your knowledge?  I like to think that it is my skill and probably my stubbornness more than anything else.  Your stubbornness?  Stubbornness yes. I am obsessive to do the right thing the first time.  He grew up in Mexico became an engineer. More than 20 years ago he got assigned to help redesign a Heinz tomato processing factory in Canada and it is been all ketchup all the time ever since. There is a lot to keep track of with ketchup. Years ago there were some old-timers at Heinz who thought the taste of their product was shifting a little.  They would detected that something was beginning to change and they adjusted accordingly.  But that is a secret exactly what they did?  Yeah.  Of course he will not tell me.  For that I would need a letter from the president of the company cosigned by the legal counsel.  For some people ketchup's a symbol of the problems with American food. It is mass-produced full of sugar. Historian Gabriella Petrick saw it that way when she started digging into the files at the Heinz Company archives.  I was going to show how awful Americans eat and how terrible industrial food was.  When Henry Heinz started his company in the late 1800s there were all kinds of ketchup. There was walnut ketchup grape ketchup. But over time Heinz's version of tomato ketchup just took over.  The company crafted a very particular product that now reshapes what we think about as ketchup.  You could not make this ketchup yourself. Maybe you did not really want to make it yourself.  Because women used to make ketchup at home - why make watery ketchup when you can simply buy my high-quality super-thick ketchup?  Maybe you can tell Petrick is not so judgy  about industrial foods anymore.  A lot of these products - I have just learned to understand how important they were to people's lives and how they made their lives women's lives in particular easier.  This is the traditional way that ketchup was made. This is the beginning.  The Heinz Company now Kraft Heinz has two giant ketchup factories in the U.S. in Ohio and in Iowa. But here in Los Banos where the tomatoes grow Hector Osorno has set up a miniature version just a room where he can test new tomato varieties see what kind of paste they make. Or he can check the quality of the tomato paste that the company's big factories are using.  If we detect something that they did not we immediately notify them.  So every day you are making a fresh batch.  Every day I am making 18 batches of ketchup.  Eighteen batches?  Yes.  He is checking the ketchup so you do not have to. Dan Charles NPR News. 