 Houston is known as an energy capital but it is actually a large corporate center too. The aftermath of Hurricane Harvey will shut down the city's economy and leave plenty of long-term damage as well. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  Chuck Watson studies the impact of natural disasters for the consulting firm Enki Holdings. He is been tracking Hurricane Harvey for days and he says the huge amount of rainfall it is produced has taken everyone by surprise.  If Harvey were just a hurricane it would have only caused maybe 4 or 5 billion worth of damage. At the tropical storm phase it is actually producing maybe five times that much damage.  Right now Watson calculates that Harvey will cause a staggering 30 billion in damage. Houston is an oil and gas center but it is also home to companies such as KBR Sysco and Waste Management as well as lots of small manufacturers. They are all shut down now as are the two airports several hospitals and the Port of Houston. Bill Gilmer is an economic forecaster at the University of Houston.  You have got you know the fifth-largest economy in the United States basically sitting at a dead stop for three or four days.  Gilmer says Houston can quickly make up the lost work. He says the city has been through bad storms before and residents know how to recover. Gilmer who lives in a wooded area outside Houston remembers waking up the morning after Hurricane Ike in 2008.  First sound I heard was chainsaws. And I looked out and all my neighbors were out there clearing the streets clearing their yards cleaning up the yards. And then they went out and they cleaned up all of the trails.  But Gilmer also acknowledges that the damage from Harvey is likely to be out of scale with anything the city has seen before. Right now estimates of the damage vary wildly but the cost of just repairing people's homes will be many billions of dollars. Loretta Worters is with the Insurance Information Institute.  There will be some flood - some wind damage but I think the majority of the losses are going to come from flooding.  And the great majority of homeowners do not have flood insurance especially low-income people. So to rebuild they will have to take out federal loans. And Chuck Watson says the damage could be even greater depending on how long the rain continues. Watson also worries about something else. Houston's oil refineries have not been seriously damaged so far. But if they flood there are not a lot of companies that know how to repair them.  Then you are talking - instead of a couple of weeks you are talking months to come back online. And then you are starting to think in terms of gasoline shortages and longer-term price hikes. And that is going to have a ripple effect to the whole economy.  At that point Hurricane Harvey will become not just a Houston problem but a problem for the whole country. Jim Zarroli NPR News. 