 And now  Credit scores.  At least one quarter of consumers with active credit accounts or 43 million people now have credit scores below 600. A low credit score is like an albatross that will make it harder for all those consumers to get loans or credit at favorable rates for months and maybe years to come if they can get access to credit at all. For more on this we turn to John Ulzheimer. He is the president of Credit Education at Credit.com. Welcome back to the program. Mr.  Thank you Michele. Glad to be back.  Now on a scale of credit in terms of what is good and what is bad what does 600 represent as opposed to say what might represent a good credit rating? Mr.  Well a 600 is a very very poor score. Even in the heyday of credit four and five years ago when they were giving away money a 600 was still considered to be very very subprime. The interesting thing about these statistics is the percentage of people not only that fall below 600 but additionally the percentage of people who also fall below 650 which is a key dividing line today between prime and subprime. That percentage of people is 35 percent or 70 million people now are considered elevated credit risk by the lending environment.  Hmm as I understand it normally about 15 percent of consumers have credit scores that fall within the worst category about 25 million people. Have you seen that kind of percentage increase in the past and over such a short period of time? Mr.  Absolutely not. This is the most significant shift in FICO score distribution that I have ever seen. And remember the FICO score has been largely available only since 1989 so a shade over two decades. This is the first meaningful distribution shift that we have seen since then.  What exactly does that mean if they try to get a car loan if they try to get a credit card if they try to apply for a mortgage say one year from now? Mr.  Well for people who are applying for loans and insurance who have FICO scores in the 600 to 650 range they are either getting straight out denied or if they are getting approved they are getting approved at very very punishing interest rates.  And that' Those who can least afford those high interest rates are the ones who are saddled with them. Mr.  That is the credit conundrum and it is even worse for unsecured credit like credit cards. For people who think that they are going to be applying for 10 15 and 20000 unsecured credit limits and carry this plastic around in their wallet not with FICO 600 and not with FICO 650.  What is a perfect credit score? What is that shining number that everyone wants to work their way toward? Mr.  Well the FICO score range is 300 to 850.  You got a lot of people talking about it but no one's really ever seen one. If you can boast scores in the 750-plus range while that is not a technical perfect score you are essentially immune from the credit crunch and you are being aggressively pursued by credit card issuers and anyone else who has money to lend because you are the flight to quality. You are the destination.  John before I let you go one last question. With so many people locked out of reasonable credit is there some sort of sub-rosa economy where people are forced to use an alternative banking system or an alternative credit system of some kind? Mr.  Yeah I think you also make a very good point and also a very disturbing point. The only environment that is excited about this new FICO score distribution is essentially that alternative environment. So pawnshops title lenders payday lenders. These are the folks who target and fulfill the need of short term extraordinarily high interest types of loans for people who have got really really poor credit and cannot get loans with more traditional Main Street types of lenders. So those folks are in for a very very busy next few years.  John Ulzheimer thanks so much. Mr.  My pleasure as always.  John Ulzheimer is the president of Credit Education at Credit.com. 