 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  We hear first from Stacey Ferguson. The mother of three says the day-care dilemma is almost always on her mind.  Ninety percent of my time is spent balancing juggling thinking about it.  Oh it is ever pervasive. It is just always there. It is a strata of parenthood that just never goes away. It is always on your mind.  Even when it is working well you are still...  Even when it is working well yeah.  Whether they are nannies or babysitters or day-care providers anyone who is in the business of taking care of children that are not their own do they earn enough money based on what they do?  No probably not.  No.   Yeah no. No way.  And yet  Does day care cost too much money?  Right.  Yes.  Yes.  How can both be right?  Right.   Personal question but I hope you don' How much of your family budget goes toward day care? How expensive is it for you?  My second daughter when we had her in a Montessori school it was probably excess of 10000 a year - a little child. I mean you know I do not know that I would paid that much when I went to college.   I was a little bit older but you know but then I went to an in-state school. But still.  This is Kelly. I have a lot of friends who after you know they had their children and then they are trying to make the decision whether or not to go back to work have sat down and calculated out to the nth expense. So their professional clothes their lattes you know and muffin in the morning and their latte in the afternoon - and calculated out every last cost to see if it is cost-effective for them to go back to work. Some have found that it is. Some have found that it is not. And they have made the decision not to go back to work because it was not cost-effective.  Sharon if you were - I am going to put you on the spot here - but if you were to put a dollar amount on the - an hourly dollar amount on the price of what you do for your grandson what would that be? If you were to go into business for yourself how much would you charge per hour?  The situation for us is really ideal because my daughter and son-in-law were able to rent a house directly across the street from me.   So I mean for me it is great because I can go across the street in my pajamas if I am late.   And I do not have to worry about somebody saying you are taking care of my child in your pajamas?   I want to be able to provide a center where children are able to come. But I do not want it to be place where parents are you know overcharged. So I know for infants people charge anywhere from - what 300 350 a week.  Not in D.C.   Way more than that.  Really?  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  We figured a nanny would have been about 40000 a year.  Wow.  Dollars?  Yes.  U.S. dollars?  U.S. dollars.   You can find it like 30 but it is still...  Thousand?  For two infants though...  OK yeah.  She was like I do not know how you think you are going to raise kids there with no infrastructure. Luckily - and I will sing the praises of the grandmother my mother-in-law who was with us my eldest daughter for a long time. And you cannot underestimate having a grandmother. It is one of the greatest inventions ever.   So who did you all think would take care of - you know when you first thought about having children it was still sort of the glimmer in your eye and you thought OK I think I might go back to work or I am going to try to figure out this structure. Or if I do not go to work I can at least get out of the house a little bit. And who did you think might take care of your child and how does that match up with what actually happened?  Because what if you do not want to go back to work - are you able to afford to stay home? Because you know that is like my only regret in my life is that I did not get to stay home for the first few years of my child's life because I did not plan for it.  Well you know they need you just as much as they get older.  Understood. But I feel - I feel like now they are relying on you for everything. And you have to be at the Halloween parade. And you have to be at the you know whatever - Spirit Day. That is the hard part.  Being a single parent...  Angela.  Sorry this is Angela. Being a single parent I knew when I was pregnant from - I mean the moment I found out I was like oh gosh how am I going to do this?   So and you definitely go through sticker shock.  Any other pearls of wisdom?  I think just making sure that you are a flexible person. I mean it is you know I have learned a lot more flexibility - and learned that sometimes something that you may have said no to at the beginning - like I do not think I can do that - well when you have to you do especially with child care and taking care of your child. The bottom line is it has to be done whatever it is. You know so be flexible.  And before we say goodbye thank you to all those people who watch children who are not their own. 