 Today's discouraging news about the pandemic comes after a spring when the U.S. economy reawakened. Vaccines were widely available people went out to eat and they started traveling again. In April May and June the U.S. economy grew by a healthy 6.5. NPR's David Gura joins us with more. Hi David.  Hey Ari.  So what does this 6.5 number actually tell us?  Well it tells us the size of the economy is larger than it was before the pandemic if you adjust for inflation. And that is good news. That means the economy is now expanding. I talked to James Sweeney. He is the chief economist at Credit Suisse. And I asked him how he interprets today's numbers. Sweeney says it was not as big as he expected it would be but he is still happy with it.  The economy's growing strongly and we have got more growth ahead. This is the kind of negative miss  that should not panic anybody.  And I will note here it did not seem to panic investors on Wall Street. In fact today the stock market once again hit some new records Ari.  Yeah what is driving the stock market growth over these last few months?  Yeah the growth in the stock market and the economy - it is been consumer spending which is a huge part of the economy. The other day I did some anecdotal research anecdotal reporting - stopped by maybe a dozen small businesses near me just to see how they are doing. And Melissa Ocampo  is the manager of a toy store in Brooklyn. She told me things have gotten much better.  People seem to be back and running around and shopping for the kids and birthday parties and balloons.  Business has been steady Ocampo  told me but she hopes it picks up even more. In the second quarter of this year this transition happened Ari. People who had been buying stuff - TVs computers yes toys as well - started spending money at restaurants and on trips as vaccines became more widely available. And today's GDP data reflect that big uptick in spending which was larger than economists expected.  And yet this week there has been such a shift largely driven by the delta variant - new mask mandates vaccine mandates. What does the rest of the year look like?  Yeah economists I talked to say they expect this growth to continue but they are seeing potential risks to the recovery. So were small businesses. What worries Melissa Ocampo at my local toy store is the pandemic and the delta variant more specifically. She is afraid of what could happen to the store and to her if sales were to slow down again or if there were another shutdown. After the store closed temporarily last spring Ari Ocampo managed to find another job at a supermarket.  I am like am I going to like - am I not going to be with like a job towards the end of the year or are we in like what is just - it is just uncertain and scary for sure.  Now economists do not think we will see the kind of shutdowns we saw at the beginning of the pandemic. For one thing almost half the population now in the U.S. is fully vaccinated.  What else is keeping small-business owners up at night?  Well inflation for one how prices have gone up problems with supply chains as well - that is another issue. It is gotten harder to get the products people want because of demand and manufacturers are having trouble getting new materials. The supply chain issues show up in today's GDP data. It was a big drag on growth in the second quarter. And one other worry among small-business owners is the jobs market.  Yeah tell us more about that specifically.  Well employers say it is gotten harder for them to find workers. Some of them are worried about getting sick. Then there is the lack of reliable child care. That is a big issue. Ralph Elia owns a frame shop called KC Arts. He is been in the business for about four decades. And he told me he is had trouble hiring workers which is something he blames on expanded unemployment benefits.  I agree with it in the beginning if you really needed it. But at some point they should have slowed it down or cut it off I am sorry to say because we need to hire people. People need to get out and work.  And that argument is what led about two dozen states to end those expanded benefits early Ari. They will expire for all the remaining states in just a couple months.  NPR's David Gura thanks for the update.  Thank you. 