 The Malaysian government played a major role in negotiating with pro-Russian rebels to hand over the remains. Forty-three of the people on flight 17 were Malaysians - that includes the crew and two infants. The Malaysia Airlines flight was shot down just four months after another one of its jets disappeared during a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. There are many questions now about the airline's future. NPR's Anthony Kuhn tells us the carrier was already struggling before this double calamity.  Malaysia Airlines was expected to announce a restructuring plan even before MH17 was shot down - that plan is expected soon. Analysts say that other than bankruptcy  or privatization the airline does not have a lot of options.  To recover from a double incident like this it is unprecedented in the history of aviation which is 100 years old.  Moshin Aziz is an aviation analyst at Maybank Investment Bank. He figures that Malaysia Airlines is losing about 1.7 million a day. And he expects that figure to rise after the shooting down of MH17.  So if there were a recovery suffice to say it will take a substantial amount of time - perhaps a year two maybe more. The unfortunate thing is Malaysia Airlines does not have the balance sheet to sustain anything beyond a year.  Moshin says that Malaysia Airlines is not at fault in this instance. But ultimately he says it is consumers perceptions that count and that is why the airlines ticket bookings and stock prices have plummeted. Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai has recently been bombarded by questions about why flight MH17 flew over a war zone. He says it is because aviation authorities approved the route.  The flight and its operators followed the rules but on the ground the rules of war were broken.  If the airline is privatized that may be a good thing because some critics say state ownership of the airline has led to crony capitalism. Gurcharan Singh is a 30 year veteran of Malaysian Airlines and the former head of its Pilots Association. He notes that for years Malaysia's rulers let their political allies manage the airline and he says that led to a lot of bad business decisions.  Who decides what aircrafts to buy or what engines to use? One guy says no it is GE. Another guy say it is Pratt and Whitney - it is all political.  What is worse he says the airline's management was awarded on the basis of affirmative action policies that benefit ethnic Malays. Malays are the majority of the country but they lag economically behind other ethnic groups. He says if Malaysia Airlines is privatized it has to avoid this trap.  Everything is re-spaced. So we have to get out of that. This is something technical. You just want people with merit. Does not matter whether he is Indian Chinese Malays. Whatever it is - it must be strictly on merit for them to survive.  Meanwhile Malaysian Airlines is up against some tough competitors in the neighborhood. On the top end it faces Singaporean and Thai carriers. On the low end it is outperformed by the more efficient budget carrier AirAsia. Aviation analyst Moshin Aziz says the Malaysia based AirAsia has helped usher in a golden age of low-cost air travel in the region - much as Southwest Airlines and Ryanair did in the U.S. and Europe respectively.  So that is where Asia is right now. We are having good economy growth for the past decade. There is a lot of middle-class people and the geography of South East Asia - there is sea everywhere - so in many instances flying is the only option you have.  Moshin says Malaysia Airlines could and should survive as a private airline focused mainly on domestic routes. Anthony Kuhn NPR News Kuala Lumpur. 