 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. The weekend is here but not for members of Congress. The country could run out of money to pay its bills on Tuesday and lawmakers will be working through the weekend to make sure that that does not happen. It would be tempting to say that the end is in sight but instead we will put that as a question to NPR's Ari Shapiro who joins us now from the White House. At least he is inside. Hi Ari.  Hi Robert.  Is the end in sight?  Well the deadline is in sight and as President Obama said here at the White House this morning we know how to lift the debt ceiling before we reach the deadline. So the end could be in sight but it is not at all clear that that is what is going to happen. Here's part of what the president said this morning.  There are a lot of crises in the world that we cannot always predict or avoid. Hurricanes earthquakes tornadoes terrorist attacks. This is not one of those crises. The power to solve this is in our hands.  And Robert solving it requires three legs of a stool. This goes back to  of its class. You have got to get the House to pass a bill. You have got to get the Senate to pass a bill. And you have got to get the president to sign it. Problem is right now none of those three things have happened.  Well let us start with the House. Speaker of the House John Boehner's bill was supposed to have been passed by now. Where do things stand tonight?  Well it was supposed to have passed last night. It was also supposed to have passed the night before that. So we are basically two days behind where everyone had hoped we would be right now. On Wednesday Speaker Boehner learned that the bill did not save as much money as his members wanted at least not as quickly as they wanted it. On Thursday after they made changes freshman Republicans said it still was not a vote they were willing to take. So today Speaker Boehner made more changes. He added a requirement to the bill that the debt ceiling before it would be raised again in six months that Congress take a vote to pass a balanced budget amendment. Now that seems to have been enough of a sweetener to get some opponents of the bill to relent. It might be enough to get enough the bill for the House tonight but a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution is a poison pill to the Senate and the White House who have already promised to kill this anyway when it reaches the Senate.  Quite a rider to add to it...   ...to a bill.  A constitutional amendment.  Yeah. Now where do things stand in the Senate?  Well Majority Leader Harry Reid has his own plan to cut deficits by about two and a half trillion dollars over a decade and raise the debt ceiling through next year. The problem on his side is that some Republicans may filibuster that plan and nobody knows yet whether Senator Reid has seven Republican votes to break that filibuster. That is something everybody is going to be watching very closely in the next 24 hours and through the weekend.  And what role is the White House playing today?  You know the president has been in the background for most of this week. This morning he broke his silence but frankly after weeks and weeks of twisting arms he is kind of used up all the arrows in his quiver. He is working the phones. He is trying to make the case to the public. Ultimately though this is in the hands of Congress and the president's next most important move is when he signs the bill.  Well you have described some of the obstacles that stand between him and signing that bill. If there is a clear path between where we are today and an agreement before Tuesday what does it look like?  Well you go back to the three legs of the stool. Something has to pass the House Senate and the president. If it passes the Democratically-controlled Senate there is no way of it getting all of the Republicans to vote for it in the House. So it is got to be some of kind of a bipartisan solution. I think a lot of people are going to be looking at what happens after the House votes on Speaker Boehner's bill tonight. Listen to the rhetoric and whether Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor start looking across the aisle to House Democrats it is something that might actually pass both houses of Congress that will be a sign.  OK. Thanks Ari.  You are welcome.  NPR's Ari Shapiro at the White House. 