 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. Today was a record day in the financial markets but we are not talking about stocks. The U.S. government sold 10-year Treasury notes at the lowest interest rate ever 2.14 percent. That means despite the downgrade from Standard  Poor's there is more demand for U.S. debt than ever before. Basically people around the world are so fearful about the global economy that they' Treasuries. Robert Smith from NPR's PLANET MONEY Team was listening in on today's auction.  Everyone always talks about buying a Treasury bond but you are not really buying something. A person who holds a Treasury bond is lending money to the U.S. government. The U.S. government does hand you something back. They call them T-bills or notes or bonds but those are fancy names for IOUs. To own a Treasury is to own a promise from the United States that you will get your money back with a little interest. Just how little interest gets determined almost every day in a room in the U.S. Treasury building.  The auction room in comparison would be like the average size of a living room in a single family home.  I am talking with Dara Seaman who is with the Bureau of the Public Debt and it'00 in the afternoon before today's auction of 24 billion in Treasury notes. And when we say auction it is not exactly what you might think. Instead of bidding up the price they are bidding down the amount of interest they are willing to pay and there is no fast-talking guy pointing into the audience. China bids two and half two and a half. Can I get two and a quarter?  Yeah. We are not as exciting as that. We do not have a chanter. All our buyers are not seated in one physical place. For us everything happens electronically.   a U.S. Treasury auction. In this final minute giant investment firms around the world are sending in their bids and they are telling the U.S. government how low they are willing to go to buy a little slice of U.S. debt. And yet Dara Seaman's job is to make this moment so predictable so boring that the world does not freak out.  That is how we like it. We do not like any market surprises and we do not like any drama going on with the auction so when it is boring we are happy with that.  Now wait. My clock says there is three seconds to go. Is anything going to happen right now?  We have a countdown clock so everybody knows the time has run out. We have...  I am going to stop it right here. While Seaman is talking she is watching history being made on her computer screen but she is so good at being calm she does not even let on. The computer is calculating the interest from this auction and it shows that people around the world are so desperate for these Treasury notes that they are willing to accept the lowest interest rate ever 2.14 percent. That is less than inflation. Investors are basically paying the U.S. government to hold their money. So is there any reaction in the auction room? Any whoops cheers?  Well there is definitely smiling going on. When we have a good auction everybody's happy.  Because the lower the interest rate the more money the taxpayers save. But more importantly that interest rate that came out of the auction becomes a new benchmark for the world. U.S. government bonds are considered virtually risk-free and a sort of baseline. When U.S. bond rates go down other types of loans get more affordable too from mortgages to student loans. Money the auction tells us is cheap and easy. Robert Smith NPR News. 