 Millennials are beginning to act more like their parents. This is the generation that was born after 1980. They came of age during the Great Recession. And now as they grow older and have children many are doing things like buying SUVs and homes. NPR's Sonari Glinton takes a look.  For the last decade or so we have heard a lot about how millennials are different from the rest of us. As a matter of fact I have even done some of that reporting. And it turns out well not so much.  Millennials are pretty mainstream when it gets right down to it especially when they start creating households and having families.  So who are you ?  Who am I? I am Michelle Krebs executive analyst with AutoTrader. And remember that this is the generation that just got clobbered during the Great Recession. They came out of college just loaded down with debt. And they were unemployed underemployed moving back in with mom and dad. So they were set behind economically.  Krebs says this kept millennials out of the car market. But that is changing. In 2011 Krebs says millennials were 20 percent of the market. They are about 30 now. They will be 40 percent of the market before the next decade if current trends continue. Growing older also is beginning to mean buying a house in the suburbs says Svenja Gudell the chief economist with Zillow.  When it comes time for millennials to actually purchase a home oftentimes they choose suburbs over urban neighborhoods.  Zillow by the way is the real estate site. Gudell says millennials as a generation were scarred by the last Great Recession.  If you graduate into a recession your lifetime earnings are likely to be lower than someone who does not graduate into a recession.  The car and housing surveys show that the result of that scarring is millennials are much more budget-conscious than their older siblings Gen Xers and their baby boomer parents. The recession acted kind of as a big pause button for many choices Gudell says millennials were already going to be slow to make.  They end up dating for a longer amount of time before they actually end up getting married. And then we are seeing that the age at which women have kids has also gone up. And so instead of having children in your late 20s you might start having kids when you are in your early 30s at this point.  Now it is important to note that all millennials have not given up their fixed-gear bikes and their downtown lofts. It is the oldest millennials who are entering a sort of key age over 35. Now depending on who you talk to the oldest millennials are 37. As they cross that threshold Erich Merkle an economist with Ford says the group is buying SUVs - large ones. And the best-seller for millennials for Ford is their large SUV the Explorer.  We expect them to carry on as they age with three-row SUVs and likely go larger simply because they need the space that - to accommodate children that are now teenagers or preteenagers.  This all seems good for the car companies right? Well Michelle Krebs the auto analyst says not so fast.  We know that millennials will buy one car. Will they be like the baby boomers and have 2 3 or more cars in the driveway in the household fleet?  That is kind of the looming trillion-dollar question for the auto industry. Though as a Gen Xer it is kind of fun to think millennials are not that special. Sonari Glinton NPR News.  