 President Trump's threat to put tariffs on Mexican goods might make things tough for American farmers. There is concern that Mexico will retaliate with tariffs of its own. That is the worry for U.S. farmers since Mexico is a top market for American meat and crops. Randy Spronk is a pig farmer in Minnesota. He met with President Trump last month to discuss the so-called farmer bailout designed to offset the pain of earlier tariffs. But things have changed since that meeting and Spronk told me that all farmers want is a fair shot at selling their goods.  You know I think really when it comes to animal agriculture and pork production specifically we have always been about open and fair markets and open trade. We know that when there is a level playing field and we have an opportunity to be able to compete with other pork producers worldwide we continue to gain market share because we are good. When we have tariffs these retaliatory tariffs obviously somebody else has an advantage over us. And especially in China here right now obviously we have got two 25 tariffs that add up to a 50 along with the 12 that they charge everybody. That is a 62 tariff. Well that puts us out of the market makes us uncompetitive.  Well with this announcement out of the White House kind of unexpectedly just in the past week I mean do you kind of feel like there is a game of chicken going on and you are caught in the middle?  Well let us be very realistic. The real issue at first was steel and aluminum tariffs which the tariffs were put on Mexico. They retaliated against the United States and our product was at a 20 tariff rate. And really that was worth about 12 per head. And that 12 came out of my and other pork producers' pocket. So that was the first one. Well when President Trump lifted that obviously Mexico lifted them. And so that was elation because all of a sudden they are - again our product can enter Mexico at the same tariff rate that it had with was zero which that is really what we are asking for. And that is exactly what I told the president one-on-one. Solve the issue that you have got with those other products but get us back our zero tariff entry that we had into those countries and we can continue to grow our market share.  Sounds like if you could meet with the president again you would tell him the same thing you told him last time.  That is exactly right. Matter of fact obviously that was the announcement there but he was heading to Japan. And in the Oval Office I said Mr. President we need a trade agreement with Japan. We are losing market share there right now because others are entering that market at a lower tariff rate than what we are. Canada is taking our market share that we worked hard to earn. And the longer this goes on the more harm it is. It is going to be the more difficult force to be able to regain. And so Mr. President when you are talking to Abe please let us get back into have a free trade agreement with Japan.  Is it frustrating though that you would have to tell them the same thing again when you thought less than two weeks ago you had a fix?  Well compared to me not planting my corn it is not that frustrating. So - but you know I think you have got to be understanding that on the rural playing field that yes there are other issues. We can be patient. We know that - I would have a tendency to agree that there is unfair trade practices in other areas and those need to be addressed. To a certain effect we are getting sideswiped because it is not our product. It is what it is but I think we need those that - we are true believers in free and fair trade. And so we want that in all sectors of society.  That is Randy Spronk former president of the National Pork Producers Council. Sir thank you.  Thank you very much. Have a good day. 