 NPR's Carolyn Beeler reports.  Jared Lowry is a manager at Pacer's Running Shoes store in Arlington Virginia.  And we will definitely display some on our windows here.  Lowry is pointing out where he is going to hang signs for this weekend's tax holiday. Starting Friday Virginia will suspend sales tax on school supplies and shoes and clothing that costs a hundred dollars or less.  As far as in the store we will probably put a sign like right when you walk in here. As you can see...  Last year the store saw about a 20 percent boost in sales during the tax-free weekend.  We think it is a good thing. On certainly a big purchase item it will make a big difference and it can even help bring in new customers to our store.  Shopper Gabriella Montel likes the idea of a tax break.  I did not know about the sales tax holiday. But now that I do I might go shopping with my kids.  She is planning on picking up clothes for her daughter who is in kindergarten.  I think it is great. It is always nice to save money. And of course money is tighter 'ecause of the recession.  Consumers like the tax break so they are an easy win for politicians to. At a law signing ceremony last month Illinois Governor Pat Quinn was enthusiastic about his state's first sales tax holiday.  It is designed to get our consumers in Illinois back into the marketplace back into shopping back into having confidence in our economy.  Illinois is facing a 13 billion budget deficit and Governor Quinn has faced criticism for signing a law that could worsen that deficit. But the governor says he is hoping the tax holiday will actually increase state revenue.  We have great hopes that this will produce a revenue surplus because when people come into the marketplace to buy school supplies they may find other items that are non-exempt that they want to buy.  Nicholas Johnson is with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities a research group that focuses on how fiscal policy affects low and middle income Americans.  What the evidence shows is that sales tax holidays cause people to shift their spending not to increase it. So there is no increase in retail sales consumption.  Johnson says there is a decrease in state revenues. And for many states that is a loss they cannot afford right now.  States are facing the biggest budget shortfalls in history and this is an additional cost to them. They are a gimmick that costs states funds that they otherwise could be using for education for health care for transportation and for the other core services.  Carolyn Beeler NPR News Washington. 