 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. The poor economy has silenced dozens of July Fourth fireworks. In some cases city governments say they cannot justify the expense considering tight budgets. In other cases sponsors have withdrawn support because their balance sheets are bleeding red ink. NPR's Jeff Brady checked in with a few cities that have canceled their celebrations and he begins in Colorado Springs.  I am standing in Memorial Park near downtown Colorado Springs' huge open space here. Off in the distance I can see Pike's Peak and on the evening of the Fourth of July  thousands of people the local symphony is playing    But this year if you show up hoping for a few fireworks and a big celebration you are going to be disappointed because about all you will hear are...  Yep nothing but crickets because Colorado Springs' City Council says it cannot afford the 75000 price tag for the celebration. Sales tax revenues were down 20 percent last year. Vice Mayor Larry Small says the city cut 200 employees and shaved 51 million from its budget.  Our public works department is almost gone. The only thing we are doing in-house now is pothole filling and snow removal.  Small says ending the city's Fourth of July party was one of the toughest decisions the council has had to make.  It is a very meaningful celebration. And when you have to go so far as to eliminate that you know you are in desperate times.  At the entrance to Memorial Park there is a sign saying the event is canceled this year. Most people here seem to understand the decision but a few question the city's priorities. Ms.  I think it is a bad decision and I think it is going to come back and kind of bite them in the butt.  April Kubek notes that personal fireworks are illegal in the city and without a public display she predicts more illegal ones this year. The city has said it will enforce its ordinance against fireworks and another against drinking in the park just in case anyone was planning an impromptu party. Search the Internet and you will find reports of canceled celebrations across the country. Among them is Ipswich Massachusetts which bills itself as the Birthplace of American Independence. Mr.  We were among the first that were objecting to the taxes that the British were charging us.  That is Pat McNally. He chairs the Ipswich Board of Selectmen. That is their city council. For more than 30 years a local conservation group launched fireworks over Ipswich Bay but it cannot afford to do that anymore. There are a few places around the country where fireworks were threatened but then saved at the last minute. La Jolla California is one of the wealthiest communities in the country. For almost a quarter century folks there relied on the generosity of a local restaurant owner for their fireworks. But this year the economy has hurt him too and he cannot afford to be so generous. That prompted Adam Harris to employ his guerrilla marketing skills to raise 27000 in fewer than four days. Mr.  We used Twitter. We used Facebook. We used email campaign. We made phone calls to the media.  Now Harris and his helpers are creating a nonprofit group to raise money for next year's celebration. The future of Colorado Springs' July 4th celebration does not look quite as bright. The city is going to have to make even deeper budget cuts next year. Meantime the local Army base and the Air Force Academy have invited residents to view their fireworks displays. Jeff Brady NPR News Denver. 