 The NFL's handling of players involved in domestic violence cases has drawn widespread criticism. And its big-name sponsors including Verizon Anheuser-Busch and Visa are playing close attention. As NPR's John Ydstie reports they have a lot at stake.  Sponsors are not just advertisers. They are a select group of companies who together pay more than a billion dollars a year to wrap their own brand in the NFL's aura.   NFL Thursday night football sponsored by Verizon XLTE.  Verizon's four-year contract with the NFL - which allows it to stream games through its cellular network - costs the phone company a quarter of a billion dollars a year. A number of major NFL sponsors issued concerned public statements after the release of a video showing Baltimore's Ray Rice knocking his fiance unconscious and child abuse charges against Minnesota star Adrian Peterson. Most of those statements echoed this one from Visa which said domestic violence in any form is unacceptable. It has no place in the NFL or our society more broadly. But it is likely there is a lot more than that going on behind the scenes says Larry Chiagouris Professor of Marketing at Pace University in New York City.  There are phone calls being made - meetings being held - in which people are saying flat out in much more direct and colorful language get your act together. We do not want our brand associated with a problem.  Chiagouris who spent 25 years in the marketing business says these are calls the NFL needs to listen to.  Basically the NFL survives - mostly thrives - on the sponsorships and advertising much more than let us say ticket sales or other such things. Without sponsors there is no NFL.  And last Friday NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said the league is listening.   We have been in contact with our sponsors and what we have said is we are going to clean up our house. We are going to get this straight and were going to make a difference.  Goodell said the league is developing a new tougher policy on domestic abuse and will implement educational programs on domestic violence for league and team personnel. But how much leverage do sponsors really have to ensure the NFL does clean up its act? After all the league delivers them a massive audience - and does it in the last three months of the year just when advertisers want to reach consumers most says Stephen Greyser Professor of Marketing at Harvard.  If we look at the fourth calendar quarter of the year what do we see? We see Thanksgiving. We see Christmas. We see a lot of consumer purchasing.  So even though the last thing a sponsor wants is to be associated with controversy they are hesitant to walk away from the NFL says William Chipps of the consulting firm I.E.G.  These companies that sponsor the NFL are - you know needless to say - are huge Fortune 50 companies and kind of the risk there is if they step away there is a good chance their competitor is going to fill their shoes.  But the calculation about whether to stay or walk away from the NFL is different for each business says Larry Chiagouris.  The brands that clearly have a very clear linkage to the NFL based upon the audience - and that would be the beer brands and the soda brands and such - they will probably stay. But there are brands - you mention Cover Girl - there are brands that you wonder did they really have to be there? Do they have to spend their money on the NFL?  William Chipps says so far the vast majority of sponsors is staying put. After all they signed contracts committing hundreds of millions of dollars which they might not be able to recover.  So it is not a situation where they can kind of just say OK we are not happy we are going to just walk away right now.  Chipps says he thinks unless the situation deteriorates further next year at this time most major sponsors will still be with the NFL. John Ydstie. It is the NPR News Washington. 