 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. CBS is off the air for millions of Time Warner Cable customers. The two sides are battling over how much the TV network wants to charge Time Warner for access to its channels. Between a third to half of your cable bill pays for individual channels everything from ESPN to SPIKE and Syfy channels you may never watch. NPR's Dan Bobkoff has been looking into the cable business and he has this look back at the birth of the bundle.  This is what it sounds like when negotiations between a cable company and a television network spill out into the open.   Time is running out and Time Warner Cable is not listening.  CBS is driving up the price you pay for TV.  CBS wants Time Warner to pay a lot more to carry it. Time Warner says CBS wants too much. But it is not a totally even fight. CBS shows have fans.   No Under the Dome no Big Brother.  All Time Warner can do is talk vaguely about price.   Demanding an outrageous price increase to...  Exactly how much Time Warner pays CBS is confidential. And this right here is the foundation of the cable television business. CBS needs cable companies to carry its programming so it gets lots of eyeballs for its advertisers. Time Warner cannot live without popular channels like CBS or its customers will flee. They are frenemies. They cannot live without each other but right now it seems they cannot live with each other.   Say no to Time Warner Cable...  You would never see it listed on your monthly cable bill but nearly every channel you get has a secret price. Industry analysts SNL Kagan estimates that whether you watch it or not six cents a month goes to the Hallmark Channel 60 cents a month goes to CNN and get ready...   ...5.54 each month for ESPN the most expensive channel around. Needham  Company estimates that ESPN rakes in 7 billion from cable customers even though many never even watch the channel. It was not always like this.    ESPN everything worth seeing.  This is what ESPN's sounded like when it signed on the air for the first time in 1979.   And it is going to be a big part of our future the SportsCenter with George Grande.  This was a Wild West time in cable television. Nobody knew what programming was going to be.  Steve Effros is a cable industry consultant. In the '70s he says it was an open question that the special-interest channel like ESPN would make it.  Will ESPN get the money to be able to compete with ABC NBC and CBS for whatever baseball games right? Nobody knew.   In its early days ESPN actually paid cable providers just to get into your living room. At the time most cable systems could only fit 20 channels so they could be picky about what they offered. But then it is the '80s people start to watch these upstart cable channels. That meant more advertising. And before long it was the networks like ESPN that had the power.  They became a channel that was recognized. The cable operators then found themselves in a position where they had to carry it as opposed to you know have the leverage not to carry it.  And it is at this moment when channels like ESPN started demanding big fees from cable providers. Which is why for a cable guy like Ben Hooks this business got a whole lot better for the networks and a whole lot worse for him.  It is really gone crazy absolutely crazy.  Hooks runs Buford Media. It is a cable provider with about 7000 customers in rural Texas. Over the years he is watched programming go from its smallest expense to its biggest with sports channels like ESPN leading the charge to higher prices. But he thinks the business is at a breaking point.  I think there is going to be a market correction.  Hooks' hands are tied. He wishes he could tell his customers how much each channel costs. But if he told them he would violate confidentiality agreements. And he jokes they would come after him.  I am told I would not want to be around.   ESPN as you might expect has a different view of its pricing. Ed Durso is a vice president there. And he says the total cable package is still a good deal for cable subscribers.  What you are buying is an array of services and products and choice through cable. And you get all of that you know for a price that we think is quite compelling actually in the entertainment world.  But soon another network will follow the ESPN playbook. Fox Sports 1 premieres this month. SNL Kagan estimates it will get nearly 80 cents a subscriber on day one. If it is a hit expect that fee to rise fast in the coming years adding yet more to your monthly bill. Dan Bobkoff NPR News.  