 In Pennsylvania they are rationing booze.   If you go to a state store you may only be allowed to buy two bottles of your favorite alcohol.  The State Liquor Board says with supplies running so short they had to create purchase limits for individuals and businesses on certain brands.   Forty-three products are on the list. It includes bourbons Champagne Hennessy and Patron.  Purchase limits are also newly in place at Costco.   No more stocking up on toilet paper cleaning supplies and other items at Costco.  And unlike the start of the pandemic it is not because people are panic-buying.   It is because of supply chain issues overseas.  Many more companies are dealing with the same thing.   Supply chain delays...  And product shortages...  For all types of goods.  Nike is warning of delays through next year. Home Depot and IKEA are literally chartering their own shipping vessels to move product faster. And even though it is still September...   Tis the season for holiday panic. Global supply chain delays are threatening to disrupt shipments...  Retail experts on network TV are already saying stuff like this about the holiday shopping season.   There is not a lot of inventory so if you - the longer you wait the more of a premium you are going to pay on not just shipping but also the price of those items.  So yeah shipping delays are one big part of the problem right now. Another is labor. Domestically there have been shortages of truck drivers warehouse workers and dockworkers. Internationally COVID spikes have hobbled factories in places like Vietnam Indonesia and Malaysia. This global shortage of labor is also not going away anytime soon. I spoke to an economist at the University of Michigan Betsey Stevenson - she is a former member of President Obama's White House Council of Economic Advisers - about why this labor shortage is going to continue for a while. All right so Betsey Stevenson before we even talk about how jobs and the supply chain are connected can I just ask you have you even started your holiday shopping? - because I sure have not.  Oh well I actually have been pushing my children to give me their lists for what they might want. And I have...  .  I have actually already bought a few things for the holidays.  Wow look at you. OK so you are totally on top of it.  I am very worried. You know my kids notoriously tell me on like December 15 what they want for the holidays and then I am like in a mad scramble. And I have told them this year that they will get donations to charity only.   And I was like and you will love them. They will be great donations to charity for you this year.  .  But if you actually want a present for yourself let me start thinking about what you want now.  That is very impressive. But I just want to ask you why are we even at this point? Like you know we all remember how hard it was to get Clorox wipes masks toilet paper at the beginning of the pandemic. But it is been more than 18 months. The supply chain is still out of whack. Why are we even talking about starting holiday shopping now in what September as soon as pumpkin spice hits the shelves? What is going on with the supply chain?  Well you know I love that you started with last year's problems because I think you want to think about there being three issues with the supply chain. One can be that we are changing what we consume. Last year we all discovered a brand-new love of hand sanitizer and Clorox wipes and they just could not keep up with that newfound demand that quickly.  Yeah.  But you know they have learned and there is a lot of new companies making hand sanitizer. Same thing with masks. You know we all discovered a brand-new love of masks and they had to - companies had to change what they were producing in order to meet all these shifts in demand that occurred because our preferences have changed. In order to fight y we are living our lives what we want is different. The second reason - it is what economists might call a bank run right? You fear that everybody else is going to go ahead and take their money out of the bank. What we saw last year was a toilet paper run. You feared that everybody else was going to buy toilet paper and there would be none left for you.  So you would stock up.  Yeah your best response to your fear about what everybody else is going to do is going to be to go out there and buy toilet paper. So when you think that other people are stocking up your best response is to stock up even if you do not believe that there is any actual real problems out there. And so we see stores now that are like hey we have been burned by this before. And you know Costco's already got the one toilet paper per person please sign up. And that is just because they do not want these toilet paper runs which kind of create artificial problems because they are really just about people panicking. Now the third thing - a lot of companies just cannot run things the way they were being run prior to COVID. And it is important for us to realize that COVID's affecting the entire world. And most of what we want in life involves people doing something. So there are entire factories shut down because too many people in the factory have COVID for it to be able to operate. There are people getting sick and dying and getting sick and dying is making it hard for them to produce the stuff they were producing before. I think we get so focused on what COVID means for us and the United States that we forget that there are people all over the globe who are sick and dying right now. And because they are sick and dying they are not making computer chips or they are not making cars or they are not making clothes.  All right. So yes deaths from COVID are certainly a factor. But this global shortage of labor - there are other factors that have contributed to that right?  One thing to think about with COVID and where are the workers - and I think countries around the world are struggling with this - is there is been also a reduction in movement of people. So we do not have immigrants coming in doing some of the jobs that they used to do before. In our country in other countries we do not - we just do not have people traveling to where they might be able to make a great contribution. But it is not obviously just immigration. We are also seeing that job - the characteristics of jobs have changed. And those characteristics have maybe made the job more dangerous less pleasant. That means people might not want to do that job anymore or they might be demanding higher pay in order to do that job. And so we have a lot of reallocation going on in the labor market. So people want to hire but people also want to change jobs. Quits are at an all-time high right now. People are quitting jobs.  Yeah.  And job openings are also at an all-time high.  Yeah.  The great thing about there being so many openings out there is that means there is lots of opportunities for you as a worker. So if your job got worse if there is more of a risk that you get sick if people are being ruder to you because you have to ask them to put on a mask in your store well you might just be looking for something else to do. And we are seeing a lot of workers changing industries. We are seeing a lot of them changing occupations. They are looking for better opportunities and they are holding out for better wages. And they can afford to hold out for better wages because there are so many opportunities out there. But that holding on for what you want that is creating a slowdown of workers being allocated to new jobs.  Walk me through how this simultaneous lack of a continuing supply of workers and the disruption to the global supply chain how those two things are connected.  Well one issue is that we do not need workers in some places right now because we are not getting the goods in from abroad. Workers themselves are part of the supply chain. And so they can be creating their own disruption. Maybe cannot find enough workers to complete the job. But maybe you are a construction site and you have got the workers to lay the bricks but you do not have the bricks. So you do not want to be hiring more workers because you cannot even keep the ones that you have busy because you are not getting the supplies in. And that is going to slow down your desire to hire because even though you got plenty of people wanting you to build for them you do not have the materials so you do not actually need the workers. At the same time we have record job openings and record quits. So there is just a lot of turmoil in the labor market right now and turmoil in the product market. And I think that it is also the case that customers are changing what they want to buy and they are still trying to figure some of that out.  So let me ask you. There is a lot of churn in the job market as we were talking about as people are rethinking all of their options. Employers are dealing with instability because of COVID. What do you think? What is it going to take for people to get back to work?  I think partially we do not know what the new normal is going to be. We do have to decide how it is that we want to live and that may mean some people work less. That may mean some people retire earlier than they would have without the pandemic and they are not going to unretire. But maybe the other people are just in the process of changing jobs. We are going to come out of this perhaps more productive with people in better jobs with higher job satisfaction.  Well how long do you think it will take for all the things you just described to settle and for people to start working?  Really no one can answer the question of how long it is going to take because we do not know the path of COVID yet. But I think we will have come to a place where we have ongoing economic growth where our labor force participation rate has recovered and we have you know a lot - millions of more people in the labor force than we have today. But there is another path. That is a path where we do not make a lot more progress with the vaccination rate. Because we do not make a lot more progress with the vaccination rate a more deadly variant of COVID erupts. That causes us to have you know more slowdowns if not shutdowns but slowdowns. And we definitely saw the economy slow down with the delta variant. And if we continue to have those slowdowns then I think we have - what we have learned is a pandemic that changes what we do for a year for 18 months ultimately changes what we want. So not only can I not tell you what the path looks like but I do not even know what the end point is if we are on a path with a new more deadly variant of COVID on the horizon.  I do not even want to imagine that darker path. Betsey Stevenson is a professor at the University of Michigan and former member of President Obama's White House Council of Economic Advisers. Thank you very much for joining us today.  It was a pleasure talking with you.  