 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. It is a marriage only Hollywood could dream up.  Ms.   Would not you think I am the girl the girl who has everything?  That sugary red-headed mermaid Ariel hooking up with the armor-clad tough guy Iron Man.  Mr. ROBERT DOWNEY JR.   Sometimes you have got to run before you can walk. Ready? And three two one.  That is right. Today Disney announced it is buying Marvel Entertainment and its 5000 characters for - gadzooks - 4 billion. Los Angeles Times reporter Dawn Chmielewski covers the entertainment business including Disney and she joins us now. Dawn Chmielewski what do you see the advantages are for each side here? Ms.  Well this is a really interesting acquisition. For the Walt Disney company acquiring the Marvel catalog of 5000 characters gives them entree to a young male audience that loves film and that they have been struggling to reach or they would like to reach more deeply. For Marvel this gives the corporation gives the comic book publisher access to Disney's global reach.  So Disney already had a strong base with girls in Hannah Montana and any number of films. And now with Marvel they can reach more of the boys and hopefully expand their base. Marvel looking for a global base in what advertising product placement what kinds of things? Ms.  Well Disney is such a varied corporation. Some think it is unique in being able to exploit all the various characters in the Marvel universe. Not only does it have television and cable outlets including a budding cable channel called Disney XD that is trying to reach young boys with programming designed to appeal to them but they also have deep relationships with retailers like Wal-Mart which would be appealing to Marvel which is trying to place you know place toys and other products at retail. And they have a well-established videogame development so they could help further explore Marvel's characters in the interactive realm or indeed even create online worlds that were built around the fantasies that Marvel's creative community has already designed in the comic book pages.  Yeah. It does seem there is a flaw here. There are other studios that have longstanding and hugely lucrative deals for Marvel movies and characters. Paramount has Iron Man 20th Century Fox has X-Men Sony has Spiderman. Disney I guess at least in the short term gets none of that right? Ms.  Well Disney will own Marvel. So in the case of Iron Man for example it will benefit from the proceeds. Paramount is distributing the film that Marvel is creating. But you are absolutely right. I mean much of the low-hanging fruit has been already exploited by other studios in town. What Disney is hoping that through its experience in trying to create franchises out of characters in television and animation that they can find other characters to mine within Marvel's universe.  You know a lot of the Marvel characters were created by Stan Lee a legend in the world of comic books. Do you think this is a dark day for Marvel fans fans of Spiderman and The Fantastic Four now joining the house of Mickey Mouse?  Ms.  It is a very good question. But I think there is some precedent here. Disney especially under Bob Eiger has been careful not to damage the culture of companies that Disney has acquired. Think most recently about its major acquisition of Pixar in 2006. Disney has allowed John Lasseter and Ed Catmull to not only preserve the culture at that delightful Emeryville studio but also bring some of the sensibilities to revive the animation studio at Disney.  Okay. Dawn Chmielewski with the Los Angeles Times. Thanks very much. Ms.  Thank you. 