 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Madeleine Brand.  And I am Robert Siegel. Microsoft and Yahoo are together at last. The two companies have formed an Internet search and advertising partnership. It' Google. Here's NPR's Wendy Kaufman.  To understand this deal it is important to know one key fact. More than 65 percent of online searches are done using Google. And Google makes lots of money from the ads that accompany those searches. Yahoo has about 20 percent of the U.S. search market and Microsoft about eight. Right now neither company has enough market power to get as many advertising dollars as it would like. But a partnership of the two companies could allow advertisers to reach a larger audience than they would have individually and thus generate more revenue for both companies. Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz put it this way in an interview with NPR. Ms.  I think we are going to make it easier for users and frankly more compelling. I mean 30 percent is a lot better than 20-something and eight.  The deal announced today runs for 10 years. Microsoft with its deeper pockets and technology resources will perform the searches done on Yahoo. Yahoo visitors will still see the Yahoo brand but the power behind the search will be Microsoft's search engine Bing. You may recall Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer tried to buy Yahoo for more than 47 billion last year. But that hostile attempt failed. Now Microsoft seems to be getting much of what it wanted from Yahoo at a fraction of the price. Microsoft's Ballmer participated at the NPR interview as well. He too talked about the benefits of having a stronger force to compete against Google. Mr. STEVE oft The number one guy is a big serious competitor. So nobody should just say hey life got easy but life sure got easier. It gets easier in the sense that we have more scale. And scale in this case is not just about money and efficiency. Scale is actually about the quality of the product. On the Google site one out of ten times the most relevant thing on the page is the ad not the algorithmic results.  Microsoft will not pay Yahoo any money up front in this deal. Instead Yahoo will get 88 percent of the revenue related to search for the first five years of the agreement. By essentially outsourcing search Yahoo saves the cost of running and updating a search engine. And the company will be able to focus on other things. But many analysts suggest that while this is a good deal for Microsoft it is not a good deal for Yahoo. Danny Sullivan editor of Search Engine Land a search related blog says you do not want to give up search. It is the thing that makes the most money online. Sullivan says perhaps Yahoo simply decided this was the best deal they could get. Mr.  If they did not do a deal at all potentially what would happen is Microsoft continue to be out there hovering over them and clouding their future. Employees that are involved with search can continue to abandon them and then they cannot even provide the search in a competent way down the line.  Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz contends of course that the deal is an excellent opportunity for her company. Google is watching all of this closely says Mark Mahaney a senior analyst at Citigroup he says the question for Google is this. Mr.  Does it change their overall share of basic Internet users' searches? This kind of combination does not by itself do that. It could do that but there is no evidence that it will do that.  In other words combining number two and number three in search does not necessarily mean more market share than the two companies now have on their own. Still Google is expected to oppose the deal which must be approved by regulators in the U.S. and Europe. Microsoft and Yahoo believe they can show the deal will actually create more competition and they hope to get a thumbs up from regulators and close the deal next year. Wendy Kaufman NPR News Seattle. 