 When the Birkenstock shoe company was created the Declaration of Independence was still two years away from being written. So it only took 246 years for the humble sandal to become what this fashion expert calls the world's hottest shoe.  This culture searches for Birkenstocks. They went up 225. Birkenstocks were the hottest products.  That is Morgane Le Care from Lyst a fashion search engine for online shopping. Every few months Lyst compiles data from across the web on searches for brands and of course sales. And from April through June Birkenstocks just owned the footwear category.  This quarter obviously there was a lockdown. So people were not going to the office anymore. And it was not about being glamorous. It was all about being comfortable.  Even before the pandemic Birkenstocks had become an unlikely high-fashion crossover. In 2017 models wore them on the runway at Paris Fashion Week. There have been collaborations with luxury brands like Valentino and Rick Owens.  And now in 2020 Birks are considered the king of what is known as the ugly shoe category.  After all the sneakers and the Crocs and the UGGs and the Tevas every couple of months there is a new ugly old shoe that makes a comeback.  It is been such a major comeback that many retailers are now sold out. Even Morgane Le Care who works at a fashion shopping website cannot find a pair.  I keep looking. And maybe one day I will finally have it in my size .  While some search in vain during this pandemic. Others have hoarded the double strapped sandals echoes of toilet paper or hand sanitizer.  I actually counted and I have five pairs of Birkenstocks. I have a Birkenstock for every outfit.  Steff Yotka reports on emerging fashion trends for Vogue - yes Vogue. She says it is not just Birkenstocks. Comfort fashion has taken over the industry.  We just saw the digital fashion weeks that happens in Europe. And some of the most popular items were hoodies track pants completely knit dresses that you could wear at home and feel super cozy in.  For Yotka this is part of a long-term effect the pandemic will have on the way we dress. Forget suffering for fashion. These days just wear what you want.  You know now we are all in our homes looking at all of our stuff every day. You should just dress the way that makes you feel happy. There is so much other stuff happening in the world. Why not be comfortable and wear clothes that you like?  So no such thing as a fashion faux pas anymore. Want to wear socks with your Birkenstocks? As long as you cannot see them on Zoom who is going to judge?  