 After a series of mixed signals about the strength of the U.S. economy the job market offered a big thumbs-up today. According to the Labor Department U.S. employers added 224000 jobs last month. NPR's Scott Horsley reports that is more than three times the number of jobs added the month before.  The better-than-expected jobs report suggests that economic expansion which is already the longest on record still has a ways to run. President Trump cheered the big jobs numbers as he prepared to board his helicopter for a long holiday weekend in New Jersey.   Those were really unexpectedly good and our country continues to do really well.  Notable within the report are solid job gains in manufacturing and transportation two sectors that are highly susceptible to trade disruptions and which had been flat or down in previous months. On average the economy's been adding about 172000 jobs a month this year that is down from last year's pace of 223000 but chief economist Sarah House of Wells Fargo Securities says the job market remains resilient amid tariff battles and other challenges.  We are still looking for this economy to continue to expand. And even with some of these headwinds we think overall the economy remains in pretty good shape.  After the blockbuster jobs report the Federal Reserve may feel less pressure to cut interest rates but President Trump is still beating that drum. Trump says the strong economy could be even stronger if already-low interest rates were cut further.   We are going to be breaking records. If we had a Fed that would lower interest rates we would be like a rocket ship. But we are paying a lot of interest and it is unnecessary. But we do not have a Fed that knows what they are doing so it is one of those little things.  The stock market dropped this morning amid worries the Fed would not cut interest rates. But as the day wore on investors seemed to reconsider and by the closing bell stocks had made up much of the lost ground. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 