 When Hurricane Ida came ashore almost two weeks ago most of Louisiana's commercial fishermen were right in the way. The storm thrashed boats docks and whole towns essential to the shrimping industry. And as NPR's Frank Morris reports that was just the most recent in a long series of powerful blows.  Louisiana Highway 1 runs all the way across the state. The southeast end of it hugs Bayou Lafourche - normally a safe harbor for shrimp boats that Hurricane Ida turned upside down.  You are looking at a sunk boat right here a cabin of the boat right there a sunk boat right there. Yeah. It is full of them. By far the worst I have ever seen.  Patrick Danos works on a dock that serves these shrimp boats and he says that at least a hundred in this part of Louisiana are sunk or wrecked on land.  A boat smashed up right here. Another boat is halfway on land that sunk. Another sunk boat right here. So people like that they might never get their boats back. You know what I am saying?  Most of these boats are their own little enterprises hauling shrimp out of the gulf and spreading the proceeds around the local economy. Thomas Hymel with Louisiana State University says that when one of these boats sink a small business goes under.  Most commercial fishing vessels in Louisiana are not insured. There is no insurance because you cannot afford it. So they just take their chances.  Lately they have just been taking their lumps. Last year a record three hurricanes and two tropical storms battered the 3000 commercial fishermen working off the waters off Louisiana. Normally this is the most productive fishery in the continental United States - a 2.5 billion industry. But Ida crashed at all.  This was the bad one. This was the one that shuts down all of the shrimp docks. It shuts down the you know processing plants that are down there. Our supply chain in this industry has just been exploded.  That means that even seaworthy vessels cannot buy the supplies they need. The smaller ones have to have ice lots of ice to keep their catch fresh. They need fuel and they need a place to sell the shrimp they haul in. All that is down. And some of it is just concrete rubble and wadded up steel as Patrick Danos points out.  This right here was a shrimp company. This was a shrimp factory right here. Look the Seafood Shed - nothing left flat.  I mean there is something left - the iron-willed people who work this industry.  My name's Dean Blanchard and I buy and sell shrimp out of Grand Isle La.  It is an expansive operation that took a direct hit from Ida.  Hey where Doc  went? Getting the truck?  Blanchard is getting a big industrial generator delivered. It will likely take weeks to hook this remote barrier island back up to the grid. But Blanchard says he will soon be back in business at a steep cost.  Oh yeah yeah. We got a mess. We got a mess. About 750000 I got figured so far. And every time - every day I look it is a little bit more. It is going to be a million dollars by the time I pay for everything out of my pocket.  Fortunately for Blanchard he is got a pretty deep pocket. Many in this industry do not. Because as storms battered production last year a raging pandemic pummeled demand.  All the money stopped so there is no money.  Jim Gossen with the Gulf Seafood Foundation says that much of the catch here goes to restaurants. They suffered during the pandemic and since Ida many in New Orleans are shuttered once again.  Their market has really suffered. So you throw this in the mix and - pretty steep mountain to climb.  Some shrimpers are already making plans to leave. Chieu Tran originally from Vietnam is a deckhand on a large trawler that sunk in the storm. Ida took the roof off his home too so he is got to fix that. Then he is moving on to fish elsewhere.  Now after about maybe one week I done my house . I go to Alabama.  Others here have roots that are just too deep to move.  My grandfather owned a net shop. And then my dad made nets. And then I made nets.  Gerald Griffin stands in the wreckage of a commercial fishing net shop in Golden Meadow La. as water pours in. Wet nets and big spools of rope to make them hang in the dim ambient light. Griffin expects this whole hurricane-mangled village to be off the grid for a month. Almost everyone's got storm damage but few have income until the fishing is back. And yet he is smiling.  You just keep going . Just keep working and keep working. That is the one thing about us down here. We are survivors. We know how to survive off the land. So it is easy for us. Just get back on your feet and you go again.  Major storms can be rejuvenating. Dean Blanchard says the shrimp always come back stronger after a hurricane. Others see an opportunity to build safer harbors so storms like Ida will not wreck as many boats. But for some shrimpers it may be too little too late. Frank Morris NPR News Grand Isle La.  