 OK so the Dow Jones tracks how 30 big companies are trading. These companies are all American all blue-chip. This week's GE news got us wondering why 30? And how relevant is the Dow these days as a measure of the health of the economy? Well Charles Geisst of Manhattan College is the author of  A History and he joins me now. Professor Geisst welcome.  Thank you very much.  All right so why 30? Why is that the magic number of companies to include?  I think it just evolved that way over time. The original index which was devised by Charles Dow in the late 19th century included 12 stocks and the 12 largest companies in the country at the time representing a sweep of the different kinds of industries which were considered the mature-growth companies.  GE it is worth noting was in that original bunch. Is that right?  It was one of the originals. And it is the only one which survived until just a couple days ago.  Wow. Well let me fast-forward us to the central question. How relevant is the Dow in 2018 as a measure of how the U.S. economy is doing?  The Dow today is less relevant than the other two major indices which are reported which is of course the Nasdaq index and most importantly the Standard  Poor's the SP 500 index.  And why is it less relevant?  Well first of all it is only very large companies which are waded into the index by virtue of their price. So in other words they are all fairly pricey stocks. They are not necessarily representative of the overall market because for instance one notable exception is Google which of course trades under the corporate name Alphabet which is not a member of the Dow. And without them it is sort of difficult to imagine that the index would be representative of the entire market.  You know another thing that strikes me is that the Dow is volatile compared to some of the other markets that one might look to as a measure of the U.S. economy. Is that a factor?  It depends. I mean certainly it is been more volatile most recently. But essentially the Dow has always been looked to as an indicator of the strength of the economy. And I think that may be the thing that is changing the most.  How so?  Well when the Dow started marching into the 20000s I mean most media outlets certainly hurled at the occasion whereas Nasdaq - most people do not understand that Nasdaq has increased much more. But that is almost never talked about. It is occasionally mentioned.  Yeah and why is that? I mean if you looked at anybody from - I do not know - the president of the United States to your average American most of us could get you - could tell you ballpark where the Dow is. Relatively few could tell you about the other indices. So how do you square this argument that it is maybe less relevant matters less than it did in days past with the fact that it is the one we all kind of follow?  I think the only way to explain that is that it is the one we were all following for probably way too long. You know it was the first measure of the market. It is been mentioned in the press for instance even before there was meaningful radio or certainly television the measure of the market for well over a hundred years - probably 120 years the name has been recognized. Nasdaq in those terms is probably less than half that age. And the Standard  Poor's basically is nothing more than a statistical index. And most people would not know what Standard  Poor's is other than some people might realize it is a rating agency. So I think it is a historical hangover from a period that we cannot quite seem to sober up from quite yet.  Do you think a hundred years from now we will all still be talking about the Dow at whatever it is at closing at 200000 or wherever we are?   It would not surprise me I mean if we have not been able shake it over the last 120 years. I guess maybe over the last 30 years it is been less relevant than before. It is a good chance it will go on for a bit.  Professor Charles Geisst - he is author of  A History. Professor Geisst thank you.  My pleasure. Thank you.  