 Now in today's ALL on trial. The company is in federal court today fighting government charges that it colluded with book publishers to drive up the price of electronic books.  The Justice Department claims publishers used the introduction of the iPad as an opportunity to set higher prices. Five publishers have already settled civil charges with the government but Apple has not. Laura Sydell is in New York covering the first day of the trial. Hi there Laura.  Hello there.  So first of all why is Apple making a stand here in going to court rather than settling?  Apple says - you know  because we did not do anything wrong. And I also think because Apple is concerned that when it negotiates other deals for other kinds of content in the future they do not want the government looking over their shoulder. So I think that is also part of the motivation for sticking it out.  Laura you have been watching the first day of the trial. What exactly does the government allege Apple was doing to fix prices?  Well basically they say that the publishers were very unhappy with Amazon's pricing of 9.99 on books and so they talked to each other and said let us come up with a better model. And essentially Apple joined them and became part of a conspiracy that would make the price of e-books be higher because the publishers would be happy and Apple would make more money. And that is the core of the government's case.  And Apple's response?  Apple's response is that it did nothing of the sort. It came into this as a novice to the book publishing business and it was simply trying to be competitive and to come up with a way for competitive pricing. It used what is a typical model for it which is it said hey we will take a 30 percent cut and you set your prices. And that is all Apple did. It really had no knowledge or understanding of what the publishers wanted other than what it saw in the newspapers.  But give us some context here. What is happened to prices for e-books since Apple got into the market?  You know this is a point that Apple's attorney made really strongly. He said what kind of antitrust price fixing case do you have when actually the prices of e-books have gone down or remained the same? So what kind of a case is the government really making here? Because when you look at the market for consumers the market is actually pretty good. You know at one point all books were 9.99 and that was Amazon's pricing scheme. Right now you can find books for as little as 2.99. So I think that is going to be a crucial part of Apple's case going forward.  So Laura what is next in this trial? What should we be on the lookout for?  Lots of bigwigs coming through. So you are going to see the heads of major publishing houses come through here. You are going to see Eddy Cue who is very high up at Apple and he is the man who negotiated all of these deals and I think his testimony is probably going to be most important. And of course you are going to be seeing emails from the late Steve Jobs. And crucial in this case is motivation whether or not Apple was actually motivated to fix and raise prices. And as Apple's lawyer said we have a problem when it comes to Steve Jobs because unless we have a seance we are not going to be able to get him to really talk about his motivation.  Laura thank you.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Laura Sydell talking about the federal trial of Apple for allegedly fixing e-book prices. 