 There is a heated debate over the use of antibiotics in farm animals. Critics say farmers overuse the drugs. Farmers say they do not. One reason the argument is hard to settle is that nobody knows for sure exactly how farmers are using antibiotics. The government does not collect that information. Many public health experts say it should because the problem of antibiotic-resistant bacteria is growing. NPR's Dan Charles reports.  When Dr. James Johnson a professor of medicine at the University of Minnesota decides that a patient needs an antibiotic  Will this drug even work? Or am I dealing with a strain of bacteria that is now resistant to it?  Resistance is turning up everywhere and increasingly involves our first-line favorite drugs. Everyone knows we are in a real crisis situation.  There is no easy way out of the crisis because antibiotics are so valuable. Everybody wants to use them. And the more they are used the more likely it is that bacteria will become resistant to them. We need restrain ourselves Johnson says - just use these drugs when they are absolutely necessary. And we need to know much more about how they are being used.  Otherwise we are sort of flying blind.  Do you think we are flying blind right now or do we actually have the information we need?  No not at all. I think we are mostly flying blind at least in the U.S.  There is no comprehensive data on how doctors prescribe antibiotics to people he says. And we know even less about all the antibiotics that are given to chickens turkeys hogs and cattle. On the farm antibiotics are used to treat disease to prevent disease even to help animals grow faster. All that antibiotic use does create lots of drug-resistant bacteria. And those bacteria can end up in people in various ways. There is a huge debate over how big of a problem this might be. Morgan Scott in the College of Veterinary Medicine at Kansas State University is trying to figure out the answer.  As a researcher it is an intriguing area to be in but it is also frustrating to be in because the data are really not there.  The only solid numbers on antibiotic use on the farm come from the Food and Drug Administration. Every year the FDA lists the total quantity of each major class of antibiotics sold for use in all farm animals. But Morgan Scott says those overall totals do not tell him what he would like to know.  At the moment we really cannot identify whether certain uses of antibiotics are less or more risky than others.  He would love to know the patterns of antibiotic use which drugs are used on each kind of animal and for what purpose all across the country. If scientists tracked this over many years they might be able to see which patterns of use create more drug-resistant bacteria. There is a country that does collect this information. Denmark has led the world in efforts to control antibiotic use and antibiotic resistance. Every year it publishes a big volume of numbers. And Morgan Scott cannot get enough of them.  Diving into these data and obviously visiting Denmark itself is kind of like Disneyland for those of us who like big data.  There are lots of people who want something similar here. They include public health experts also activist groups like the Union of Concerned Scientists. There are bills pending in Congress that would force the FDA to collect this data and publish it. But pharmaceutical companies and agricultural groups do not like that idea. They do not believe antibiotic use in animals is causing much of a problem for human health. They also do not think that detailed national statistics would even be useful.  The amount of antibiotic used does not correlate to the potential public health threat.  That is Ron Phillips a spokesman for the Animal Health Institute which represents companies that sell veterinary drugs. Phillips says if you really want to figure out which agricultural practices produce drug-resistant bacteria study them up-close. Look at a few individual farms. What drugs are being used how bacteria adapt. But do not create a big national data collection system he says. It would be a waste of money and the numbers would just be misused by advocacy groups that are campaigning to restrict the use of antibiotics by farmers.  The widespread quotes that you see about how much is used in animal medicine as opposed to human medicine they are meant to scare people not to inform people.  On the other hand Morgan Scott at Kansas State University thinks better numbers could actually mean less suspicion and fear. Many people want to know exactly what meat producers are doing he says. When information is missing they are inclined to assume the worst. Dan Charles NPR News. 