 Well joining us to address those questions is Dan Neil the automotive critic for the Wall Street Journal. Good to see you.  Hi.  And we have heard the figure of roughly 40000 for a couple of years now. What does 41000 sound like to you as the price of a Volt?  And also I would think this car is a little bit between the Industrial-Age invention we call the car and an electronic device. And so I think it is priced more according to iPads and iPhones than the old Chevy.  Let us explain this car a little bit here. It has a battery that you charge up overnight. It takes 10 hours with normal house current. It will run 40 miles on that charge and then when the charge starts to run out there is a four-cylinder gasoline-powered motor that does not actually drive the car but it generates electricity that drives the car.  It is - it really solves the big problem with electric vehicles and sort of the American mindset which is about range anxiety.  It is very hard to figure out how much of a bargain this is in terms of running it. If you charge the car during off-peak hours when electricity is relatively cheap that should not be that much. You will spend less on gas but they recommend using premium gasoline. It could save you I do not know 1000 a year if you started using this. Does that make it cost competitive or is this just I want to own a plug-in hybrid car?  In the short term these are for people who want to make a difference and sometimes those emotional appeals cannot be penciled out on the ledger.  I have not driven a Volt but I have sat in one. And you said the battery is the big cost component but it is also just big.  Yeah.  And the battery takes up so much space that there is a huge hump running down the middle of the car and the rear of it is reduced to two bucket seats two small bucket seats. It is a compact-sized car with an interior that feels like a subcompact.  The Volt is you know a small city car four seats. It is just in some ways a demonstrator that this technology is feasible.  What do you think the future of General Motors or an exotic side dish for a small part of the public?  This technology could be very very helpful for GM in the long run though and helpful for the U.S. overall because we really have to establish an electrical vehicle infrastructure. This is one car and one way to do it.  I should say by the way it is 41000. That is the base price. Fully loaded it gets up to about 45000.  I think floor mats are extra yeah.   Dan Neil thanks a lot for talking with us.  Thank you.  Dan Neil who is automotive critic for the Wall Street Journal. 