 Depending on how you look at it America's total debt is equal to more than 90 percent of our total economic output. That is the highest level of debt since the end of the Second World War. But it is not the highest level in the world. Japan's public debt for example is more than twice as big as its annual income. Still according to Ken Rogoff a former chief economist at the IMF and now a professor at Harvard once an economy crosses 90 percent it is a dangerous place to be. He and his colleague economist Carmen Reinhart looked at the financial history of 44 countries over the past 200 years. And they found that in many cases once a country hits that 90 percent level there is a good chance its economy will begin to suffer. Prof.  There is no hard and fast number but 90 percent seems to be a useful threshold where when you are an advanced economy like the United States the United Kingdom France Germany when you get above that level it starts to hit your growth. Remarkably lower than that it is not so obvious that it affects your growth although I must say much more research remains to be done. But when you start getting over 90 percent on average over the last couple hundred years that is been associated with 1 percent lower growth. Now that may not seem like a crisis but it really can add up. That is a lot of money.  Now obviously we are talking about this in the context of the United States' debt-to-GDP ratio exceeding 90 percent total debt of the United States. So that is a problem based on the data that you have gathered right?  Yes. The United States is certainly up at a high debt level. In fact if you add in state and local debt - and that is sort of reasonable to do to look at the whole government system - it is higher than it is ever been. It is even higher than at the end of World War II. And I think even more worrisome is at least up to this point there is been no conspicuous political will to rein it in. The deficits explode and that is not even counting Social Security Medicare these old-age programs that are not factored into the debt level. So I think we certainly have reached a worrisome level. We are not at a crisis level. We are after all the United States. But I do think we have reached a point where we do need some kind of idea of how we are reining it in over the next five to 10 years in a firm and credible way.  So if we are approaching let us say a crisis point you would say that you could understand some of these legislators these lawmakers on Capitol Hill who say I will not re-vote to raise the debt ceiling under any circumstance. We have got to take care of this now.  I am not very sympathetic to that. I mean it is really like a completely artificial crisis. We certainly do not want to default just for the heck of it. We do not want to default say well we just - we are worried about 10 or 15 years from now so we are going to default now. I do not think creditors are going to feel a lot better about that.  Would you argue that we need to tackle the debt issue right now immediately even at the risk of slowing down the economy temporarily?  Well I think we need to approach the problem holistically. First of all no we cannot dramatically bring down our deficit because tax revenues are very low because of the recession and we need to do things fairly gradually to look at the long picture. But there is certainly a lot of things we can do. Of course spending exploded with the fiscal stimulus and there is ideas to rein that in. But also we need to improve our tax system. It is really a mess. It is incredibly complicated. Rates are low and yet there are all kinds of loopholes and ways to get around things that really need to be removed and we can get a more efficient tax system and frankly collect more revenues with less harm to the economy than we have now.  That is Ken Rogoff. He is a professor of economics at Harvard University. His most recent book is called  Eight Centuries of Financial Folly that is co-written with Carmen Reinhart. Ken Rogoff thank you so much.  My pleasure. 