 From the studios of NPR West in Culver City California it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Eric Westervelt. Heavy fighting continued in Gaza today. Israel's prime minister said his country will continue its military operation as long as needed to stop Hamas attacks. In spite of that conflict and those raging elsewhere around the globe for much of this year the stock markets have been steadily rising. But they may now be showing a few signs of weakness. Yesterday the major markets in the U.S. Europe and Asia all ended down. It was the Dow's worst week since January and the worst week in two years for the S and P 500. Erin McCarthy is a reporter for the Wall Street Journal. I asked her if dip in the markets had anything to do with those global conflicts.  It might. There was actually a lot of confusion about the drop on Thursday and Friday. People were sort of scratching their heads about it. Some analysts attributed the drop to some of these geopolitical conflicts. Others pointed to disappointing earning results out of Europe and out of companies in the U.S. And some of the other thoughts were longer-term people are looking at the Federal Reserve and when they might be raising interest rates which is still pretty far down the road but given some positive U.S. economic data this week people are wondering when is that going to happen? And that will obviously have a big impact on markets.  Right. So the stimulus programs from central banks around the world have been pumping money into the market and the U.S. Federal Reserve is part of that punch bowl. But that is going to slowly go away. The taper as they call it. You know what happens when our economy is strong enough that the Fed ends its assistance?  Well it is - people are still pretty confident that markets will have a good level of support even when the bond-buying program ends - which people are saying will probably happen in October - but even when that finishes up interest rates in the U.S. are really really really low. And that is been another pillar of support for markets since the financial crisis. So even when the tapering wraps up there is still going to be a pretty good amount of support for the markets.  So what is your take? The dip Thursday and Friday in the market was a bit of an anomaly. I mean the markets have been doing pretty well since January in spite of all of this global conflict correct?  Yeah. They have been doing really great. You know for the past five months it is been just on an upward trajectory. But one of the things a lot of analysts have been saying is you know given that it is been rising so steadily it is due - or it has been due a little bit - for a pullback. People might be taking a step back taking profits looking at the market looking at the geopolitical situations corporate earnings and taking the opportunity to close out some of their positions.  So what is your take? What would it take to really rattle global markets? I mean there is  no oil in Gaza. And it was surprising to some that even the Ukraine fighting had not rattled markets that much either.  It has been surprising. I think one of the things like you mentioned is the oil market. So far there have not really been any disruptions to oil production globally. So for now that is not a huge impact. If in some way oil production was disrupted I think that could have a spillover effect into other markets. Other factors could be if the U.S. got more involved in some of these geopolitical conflicts. So far you know they have had largely a diplomatic role. If that changed I think that could get markets a little more worried.  Always seems to come back to oil and whether the U.S. is going to put boots on the ground.  Yeah absolutely. That is a big factor. And people are also looking at the Federal Reserve the U.S. Central Bank and how they are gauging the situation. And so far the Fed has not really signaled a lot of concern about these geopolitical issues and their economic impact. So while the Fed seems not super concerned markets will also take that as a cue that maybe they should not be.  That is Erin McCarthy. She is a reporter with the Wall Street Journal. Erin thank you.  Thank you. 