 Now where consumers banks and rap music intersect. When Congress rewrote the nation's financial rule book this summer it set up a new agency to safeguard consumers. Now President Obama has to decide who should run that agency and he is getting a lot of advice much of it telling him to pick Harvard professor Elizabeth Warren who proposed the idea for the Consumer Protection Bureau. NPR's Scott Horsley reports.   It is high noon for President Obama as he makes his pick for a new financial sheriff. Mr.  Elizabeth Warren...  Mr.  We got your back.  Liberal groups are collecting signatures a dozen senators have written the president there is even a YouTube music video - all singing the praises of Elizabeth Warren.    Elizabeth. Got got got a new sheriff. Warren. Got got got a new sheriff. Elizabeth. Got got got a new sheriff Warren. Elizabeth Warren. Ms.  I dont know about you but I cannot remember a time when a position that needs to be confirmed by the Senate had a rap video in support of an individual.  Julia Rosen's group the Progressive Change Campaign Committee has collected more than 200000 petition signatures for Warren who also serves as a watchdog for the government's bank bailout program. The plainspoken Harvard law professor has become a folk hero for bank customers. And Rosen says it will be disappointing if Mr. Obama picks anyone else. Ms.  Elizabeth Warren has a proven record of standing up to Wall Street on behalf of the consumers. And the public is telling President Obama that she is absolutely the best person for the job.  Warren's pioneering research into the causes of bankruptcy and the financial traps that ordinary Americans fall into made her a crusader for consumer protection. But it didnt make her any friends in the banking industry. George Beattie who heads the Nebraska Bankers Association says Warren would not be a popular pick among bankers. Mr.  I really dont think she would be a good fit. It is not that I doubt her intelligence but I dont think she has practical experience necessary to run a consumer protection agency.  Beattie remembers a conference call in which Warren tried to persuade rural bankers that a standardized loan contract designed to protect consumers would also be good for banks. He came away doubtful that the professor understands his business and he shared that worry with the senators who would have to vote on her nomination. Mr.  Regardless of what you think of her she has become sort of a lightning rod and has picked up a lot of baggage as a result of that.  Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd also worries about Warren's political baggage. In a call to the Diane Rehm Show Dodd argued there are other qualified candidates. So why pick a fight in the Senate over Warren?  People could be great nominees and Elizabeth likely be a terrific nominee.  Is she confirmable? And there is a serious question about it.  Warren has also tangled at times with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. But White House spokesman Robert Gibbs had only nice things to say about Warren noting that she and the president met to discuss the consumer job shortly before Mr. Obama left on his summer vacation. Mr.  Elizabeth Warren is a terrific candidate. I dont think any criticism in any way would disqualify her. And I think she is very confirmable for this job.  Warren would need at least some Republican support to win confirmation and thats a challenge since most Senate Republicans voted against the consumer agency. Still financial reform is one area where Mr. Obama has been eager to challenge Republicans evidently believing the public is on his side. Petition gatherer Rosen adds picking Warren is an opportunity for Obama to re-energize some of his disillusioned supporters on the left. Ms.  A fight on behalf of consumers and making sure we have an advocate at the helm is a good thing to do and a fight well worth having.  The president's choice could be a signal then not only of how tough the new Consumer Protection Bureau will be but also how combative Mr. Obama will be heading into the November election. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 