 When the price of oil is very high it makes sense to buy a truck or to build an offshore drilling platform. As we have just heard when the prices go way down some of those sensible decisions become too costly to pursue. What about drilling in the Arctic Ocean or plying the tar sands of Canada? Do those 90-a-barrel decisions still make sense when the price of oil's in the 40s? Well Barbara Shook is a senior reporter at large an analyst at the Energy Intelligence Group. She spent years covering the oil and gas industry and joins me from Houston. Welcome to theprogram.  Thank you very much.  We are looking today for a bit of a scorecard here Barbara. For example in Alaska where President Obama recently OKed exploration in the Arctic Sea what is the price point where it makes sense for a company to make a massive investment in Arctic Sea oil platforms?  No one knows on that particular project except Royal Dutch Shell. The price could be 60. The price could be 80. But whatever it is it is not 40. If I were going to place a bet I would say someplace in the 80-per-barrel range.  Eighty dollars per barrel range - tar sands - oil from tar sands - is there some price point people doing that have in mind at which it makes sense and below that it does not?  Probably a minimum of 50 a barrel U.S. It is cheaper in Canadian dollars because they pay their bills in Canadian dollars.  Well if I am in the oil business and I am looking for a project that really checks out at 80 a barrel and the prices down here you know - in the high-40s today - do I really wait or do I just assume look the price is going to come back up at some point? I can build it before it is the right price for a barrel of oil because I assume three four years out it will be a different market.  Are you ExxonMobil or are you mom-and-pop drilling company?  . Well let us say...  Are you you know...  Let us say I am mom-and-pop - I guess the answer if I am mom-and-pop - do not do it is what you are going to tell me.  That is correct.  And if I am ExxonMobil...  How big is the project? What - how does it check out against a sleight of variables? Is the - this in a politically stable location? How big is it?  So you are saying size matters and the bigger the more likely I am to invest in it.  Absolutely.  By the way is there some moment in recent history - the '80s or whenever it was -  They will compare today's circumstances to the 1980s. And they do not want to repeat the 1980s for sure.  What is in the mind of any oil person when they think of what went wrong in the 1980s?  I think first and foremost is the number of people who were laid off. Millions of people lost their jobs in the 1980s. And it affected recruiting for companies for decades after - still does in fact. A lot of college students who have the choice between going to work for an oil company are going to work for another kind of technology company - might choose to go to work for Apple rather than for Exxon.  So part of a lesson would be do not expand in ways that you will regret very shortly and end up laying off the very people you have been able to attract.  Yes. They want to protect the best and the brightest.  Well Barbara Shook thanks for talking with us about the price of oil and the consequences of it.  It is been my pleasure. Thank you.  Barbara Shook is senior reporter at large and analyst at the energy intelligence group in Houston. 