 I am Melissa Block with our weekly segment All Tech Considered. It is no secret that there are not a lot of women in Silicon Valley and the tech industry in general. But there is one exception - marketing and public relations. Women there are not writing the code or building the chips they are selling the product. But as NPR's Laura Sydell reports their crucial role in the success of many tech companies is often overlooked.  A couple of years ago a mobile dating app called Tinder entered a very crowded market for online matchmaking. It required extra work to make women feel safe signing up. The company's VP of Marketing Whitney Wolfe was essential to that effort says Bloomberg Businessweek reporter Nick Summers who profiled the company last year.  She went around the country visiting different sororities promoted the app there - these different college campuses. And the number of users tripled. She made some very important contributions in making women feel safe in signing up for the app.  When Summers wrote his profile of Tinder Wolfe was not part of the story he was told. Instead he heard about the supposed co-founders Sean Rad and Justin Mateen.  They were very eager to make it seem as if they had done this all on their own.  Then a few weeks ago Whitney Wolfe sued the company for sexual harassment and discrimination. Wolfe had dated and then broken up with co-founder Mateen. And after the breakup she claimed he harassed her. Wolfe claimed she was fired for complaining and had her co-founder title taken away. Summers wrote another article.  When this lawsuit came out and I learned that there was a woman involved that was an opportunity to go back and revisit this idea of creation myths and the way that people -and in this case a woman - the way that people can be written out of these sort of stories that startups tell about themselves and the way they were born.  The fact that Wolfe is a woman may be one reason she was written out of the story. Another may be that she is in marketing. And in many ways the people who do marketing by definition are there to sell someone else's story. Yet if you look around the world of tech this is where the women are. In Silicon Valley one of the most important PR and marketing firms was founded in the 1970s - Regis McKenna Inc.  It was pretty much 90 percent women.  This is Cathy Cook who started work at Regis McKenna Inc. in the early-'80s. She says a lot of the men in the Valley used an unflattering term for those women.  I have always believed it was some snarky reporter referring to all of the women who worked at Regis McKenna Inc. as Regettes.  They were Regettes then. Today they are often called PR chicks. And they have made their way into pop culture usually as airheaded women obsessed with clothes and parties like the characters on Comedy Central's Kroll Show PubLIZity.    I am Liz. I am an amazing person with an amazing life.   And I am Liz. I am a college graduate and I expect the best. I am the driven one.   And I am trying to have a life. Our PR firm is called PubLIZity.   It is based off our names.  But Cathy Cook's time at Regis McKenna INC. proved to be a lesson that good marketing and PR can be more important than the best tech. Intel was a McKenna client in the 1980s. It dominated the market for microprocessors. Then Motorola released a new chip that many thought was better.  Companies were starting to use Motorola chips. And the truth was that although Intel had a lot of brilliant brilliant pioneers working there their technology probably was not as competitive as it should be.  Regis McKenna Inc. and Intel came up with a campaign called Operation Crush. It was a feat of marketing. The campaign took the focus off the quality of the chip and put it elsewhere.  The service and customer support and I think the end of the discussion came sometime later when IBM chose the Intel microprocessor for its first PC.  And that is how Intel got a lock on the PC industry that has lasted over 30 years. Many of the women who started as Regettes went on to found their own firms. Among them Melissa Waggener Zorkin co-founder of Waggener Edstrom which handles almost all of Microsoft's PR. Cook went to work for Steve Jobs at NeXT and then off to Pixar. Brooke Hammerling the founder of Brew Media Relations says she created her own firm because she got sick of a mix of dismissive tech guys and sexism.  We were in the background very much where companies did not want to - certainly CEOs - did not want to think that PR had anything to do with success of the company and that they are PR girls were sort of just there to write press releases.  But in a world in which many tech start-ups are  fighting for recognition in crowded markets more investors like Deborah Jackson want marketing and PR built in from the ground up.  It is absolutely mission-critical just as important as the technology. You really need both pieces in order for a company to be successful.  Though Jackson and many women would like to see more diversity among the people who actually program and make the tech they would also like to see credit given to the contributions women are already making in the tech sector. Laura Sydell NPR News San Francisco. 