 Tomorrow the Trump administration is imposing tariffs on 34 billion worth of Chinese imports. As a result hundreds of products could become more expensive. The administration says it is targeting unfair trading practices by Chinese companies. But according to researchers most of the companies affected by the U.S. tariffs are not even Chinese. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  Joe Cohen started designing power snow shovels in high school. He was soon selling them on the home shopping channel QVC where his products became something of a fixture.   This has got to be the most easy convenient - by the way he will show you how little it weighs in a second - snowblower to own and use.  Today the company Cohen started called Snow Joe sells 700 different home and garden products. They are designed in New Jersey but mostly made overseas.  I mean there is just no other alternative. If there was a source in - you know somewhere here absolutely it makes sense to produce it. But there are none.  Some of the products Cohen sells are made in China. They include garden tillers and cultivators which are included on the Trump administration's tariff list.  We are going to do everything in our power to maintain our cost to our retailers and ultimately the retail price but 25 percent's a really big number. Sooner or later unfortunately the price will ultimately go up and consumers will pay more for it.  The company's plight underscores the unintended consequences of the tariff war between the United States and its trading partners. Mary Lovely professor of economics at Syracuse University says U.S. tariffs may be aimed at China but in a recent report she said most of the companies that will be hurt are not Chinese. That is partly because of how intertwined global supply chains have become. For example Lovely says other countries still buy elevators made in America.  The U.S. is able to make elevators successfully partly by importing some of the less skill-intensive parts and then assembling those elevators here in the United States and then exporting those elevators to the rest of the world.  Lovely says a lot of the items targeted for tariffs are parts and pieces of products that are imported from China and assembled into finished goods in other countries.  Sixty percent of all the trade between U.S. and China actually takes place through these multinational supply chains.  Because the tariffs are hidden inside these complex supply chains consumers will not see price increases right away but they will eventually. Mabuchi Motor is a Japanese company that makes small motors used in autos and medical devices. The motors Mabuchi makes in China are on the U.S. tariff list. Anne Hoef is treasurer of the company's U.S. distribution arm. She says Mabuchi will have to pass on the cost of the tariffs to its customers the auto and medical companies that it sells to.  They are going to simply pass that cost on to their customers which in many cases is the U.S. consumer. This is not going to hurt China. This is going to hurt us.  Hoef says the company could leave China and find another country to make motors in but that would take a while.  I mean this could take two to three years before we are up and running with a new line. That is just not practical right now.  And even if it wanted to relocate it is not clear where Mabuchi could go. The company also uses a factory in Mexico for some of its manufacturing. It can bring the products it makes there into the United States because of the North American Free Trade Agreement. But with President Trump renegotiating ot clear how long it will be able to use that plant either. Jim Zarroli NPR News. 