 COVID-19's been hard on everyone including this mouse.    Hey there. It is your best pal Chuck E. Cheese.  For those who need an introduction Chuck E. Cheese is the mouse-cot - sorry we had to - the mouse-cot of a chain of family entertainment centers. But he is under some stress.    Do not you ever just have one of those days where you do not feel like doing anything?  Yeah like a day when your company files for bankruptcy? That is the kind of day Chuck E. Cheese had last week.  Before we go any further let us explain Chuck E. Cheese to the uninitiated. It is part arcade and part restaurant. Parents bring their kids to run free play games touch things have a good time touch some more things. It is a favorite for birthday parties. All the zinging and dinging of these games and the screaming mostly mirthful of these children could bring out the Grinch in any parent. But for the kids...  So quintessential to the childhood of a lot of millennials or like people kind of like in my age range. It is just something that many of us experienced.  That is instructional tech consultant Jess Klass  of Chicago. Part of that experience - picture a ball pit full of children full of plastic balls all rolling around together. For parents it felt like rolling your kids through an airplane bathroom after a cross-country flight.  Yeah and that was before COVID-19. Humorist Dave Barry wrote to us to pile on after he heard the bankruptcy news.  I quote This is a sad day for America especially for families who will no longer be able to celebrate their children's birthdays by eating seriously mediocre pizza and watching fights break out between other birthday-celebrating families.  David Henkes is with the restaurant consulting firm Technomic. And he says Chuck E. Cheese is stuck with big stores and big debt.  Eatertainment's always been very challenged in order to stay relevant with the consumer. Our projection looking ahead for 2020 and into 2021 is that it is going to struggle for a number of years.  Bad news for Chuck E. Cheese. But we learned a new term - eatertainment.  