 Let us go to the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue now to NPR's David Welna who is at the Capitol. David what are congressional leaders saying about those meetings today?  Congressional leaders have really tried to avoid making any statements about what is going on in the talks and maybe because they do not have that much to share with us at this point. There was another meeting late in the afternoon in Speaker Boehner's office with Minority Leader McConnell Majority Leader Reid and Minority Leader Pelosi. Pelosi and Reid left the meeting sort of stony-faced afterwards and said nothing. But Reid put out a statement beforehand saying that neither he nor Pelosi would agree to a short-term arrangement. So it looks like that is what is in the works right now.  David there is been talk about some kind of deal where Mitch McConnell Senate minority leader Republican leader that is behind this idea that essentially Republicans will vote against a debt ceiling limit. The president would then veto it and that would allow him to raise it. Does there seem to be support for that kind of idea at least in the House?  No. In the House there is definite opposition to that idea. There is support in the Senate on both sides of the aisle for that. But because that is a solution that does not have the corresponding spending cuts for every dollar that the debt ceiling has increased many House Republicans say they would not vote for it. In fact 87 of them have sent a letter to the top two Republicans leaders in the House saying do not support this and do not bring it to the floor.  David there are some congressional Republicans who say they will not vote for a debt limit increase under any circumstances. Could you imagine a scenario where you have got sort of a coalition of some House Republicans and House Democrats essentially putting this over the top?  Well it would have to be something that would have something in it for both sides of the aisle and that is really what they are looking for right now. There is a recognition that there has to be deficit reduction accompanying an increase in the debt ceiling if only to prevent the ratings agencies from downgrading U.S. Treasury. That is a real danger that people in both parties recognize is out there. And I think that there is a recognition now that they are dangerously close to the edge. In terms of trying to get something through the Senate you need - if there is opposition to a piece of legislation - you need at least 120 hours of debate to get a single piece of legislation through. That really means that they have to have something on the floor of the House no later than Wednesday and get it to the Senate by Wednesday night if they are going to make the August 2nd deadline.  Wow. The clock is ticking. That is NPR's David Welna from Capitol Hill. David thank you.  You are welcome. 