 This Saturday new security procedures go into effect which will change the way you reserve flights. It is part of a government program called Secure Flight. These procedures came out of recommendations from the 911 Commission. NPR's Wade Goodwyn has the story.  Passengers are already required to have the name on their boarding pass match the name on their government-issued ID. Starting Saturday theoretically at least passengers will be required to supply both their birth date and gender too. Paul Leyh director of the TSA Secure Flight program says it is a soft rollout. Mr.  Different carriers are going to be - they are asking for information at different times. So if they do not ask you for this information for a reservation made on or after 815 not to worry. It is a phased-in approach.  Before Secure Flight was instituted each carrier had to collect passenger data and match that information to the terrorist watch list. The process was inconsistent. Now the federal government is taking over. Leyh says that by matching passenger names with birth dates and gender it will speed things up and improve security. Mr.  It helps us to better identify the known or suspected terrorists. But at the same time it also helps to clear those ones that are not known or suspected terrorists but may have similar names.  Before if your name matched the watch list the airlines were in the awkward position of having to tell you no and throw up their hands that there was nothing they could do. Now passengers will be able to contact the TSA directly and sort out the problem theoretically in time to still make their flight. Southwest Airlines expects to start implementing the program sometime in October. Eighty percent of Southwest customers book online and that means a redesign of the carrier's Web site. Spokesman Paul Flaningan says that while I used to be able to book my Southwest flight as Wade Z. Goodwyn those days will soon be over. Mr.  People will have the ability to set up profiles using - with a Rapid Reward signup. And we were taking people who use their nickname. That is all going to go away.  Flaningan says Southwest approves of the changes. They are happy to have the terrorist watch list matching taken out of their hands. And they like the way the TSA is implementing the program.   If you are traveling on Southwest Airlines Flight 23 just to let you guys know there have been a gate change and that flight will be departing from gate number one.  Across the runway from Southwest headquarters at Love Field the airline's passengers are more mixed about the Secure Flight program. Mr.  First I think it is ridiculous but more importantly if they are going to instigate new rules and regs they have got to do a lot better job of publicizing it.  Wes Reeves works for an oil company and flies regularly. Reeves thinks the TSA has done a half-hearted job investigating the names that are already on the no fly list that there are too many average Joe's on there who have got nothing to do with terrorism. He says his birth date is on his ID already his gender is a no brainier and that these procedures are not making him feel safer. Mr.  More does not make better.  Two gates down Vicky Nixon is a bit more positive. She wants to feel safe when she gets on a plane and she says she does feel safe but as a woman of a certain age she would prefer a little more discretion. Ms.  Gender does not bother me. I do not know about my birth date. I - you know I am not giving out my Social Security number.  Ms.  It feels a little personal.  But Nixon and Reeves do not get a vote. Within a few months booking your flight using your name your birth date and your gender will be as much a part of flying as taking your shoes off and putting them in the plastic bin. Wade Goodwyn NPR News Dallas. 