 The board of Wells Fargo is rescinding 41 million of compensation for CEO John Stumpf. It is a move known as a clawback. The prospect of clawbacks was raised last week at a Senate hearing about Wells Fargo's sales scandal. Employees opened up as many as 2 million unauthorized accounts for customers without their knowledge. To talk about clawbacks and how they are used we are joined now by Richard Bove of Rafferty Capital Markets. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  Wells Fargo is paying 185 million fine for those practices. The bank fired 5300 employees and senators were enraged by the fact that no one at the top had been punished. Was a 41 million clawback a suitable response by the bank?  Well I think that the bank is approaching this thing on a gradualism approach. In other words it wants to take as little as possible until someone tells it it has to take more.  This would be presumably 41 million worth of stock options that Mr. Stumpf has been given but he obviously has not exercised yet.  That is my understanding.  And as a share of his compensation as being CEO of a big bank how does 41 million in stock options rank?  Well it is pretty significant. It is about one third of the profits that he is made we will say from his position at Wells so it is not an insignificant amount of money. Amazingly bank presidents just do not make as much money as baseball players. At one point I compare the salaries of the four if you will CEOs of the largest banks in the United States to the infield of the New York Yankees and the New York Yankees infield actually made more.  Well was Jeter at short and Rodriguez at third at the time that you made that comparison?   Yes yes they were. Yes they were.  That was an unusual infield that you were comparing it to. Do you think that the message here - you say that Wells Fargo is responding doing what it feels obliged to do and seeing if that is enough. Does it drive home some point about accountability and what CEOs are supposed to be doing about their banks' practices?  Yeah and I think it is totally appropriate. In other words we are in a situation where what Wells Fargo did was totally unacceptable at every level. And what is really harmful about what they did is that it is going to set off another witch hunt in banking which is going to harm in my view the economy and people across the United States.  When you use the word witch hunt it sounds as though you assume that what was being done at Wells Fargo was egregious and unlike anything else going on any other any other bank.  Yeah well to my knowledge every bank in the United States uses cross-selling techniques. I mean if you walk into Macy's and you buy a suit they are going to tell you this tie looks good with it. If you walk into McDonald's they are going to say do you want some fries with that order? Cross-selling is you know a normal portion of the way things are sold. It is the method...  Yeah.  ...In which they are sold that is the problem here.  But Macy's just does not throw a tie in and charge me for it. I mean they tell me about what is going on. That was not clear in this case.  Yeah no I mean I think that what Wells Fargo did here is unbelievably unacceptable. I think that executives should be held accountable. I think that firings and pay clawbacks are all in the realm of what should happen here. But you know that is a Wells Fargo situation. What is now going to happen is the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is going to bore into every bank in the country. And we have seen events that are going to affect the way Congress looks at the Hensarling bill which is supposedly going to restructure Dodd-Frank. So this thing has impacts which are significant well beyond what Wells Fargo did.  Richard Bove thank you very much for talking with us about it.  Thank you.  Mr. Bove is vice president of equity research at Rafferty Capital Markets. 