 The international jeans manufacturer Levi Strauss  Co. has taken notice of the broad range of backsides with a new product line of their iconic five-pocket trousers. It is called Curve ID and it launches September 2nd. And to find out more about this and the effort to cater to curvy girls I am joined by Robin Givhan the Pulitzer Prize-winning fashion writer for the Washington Post. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  So what took them so long?   But the jeans market has grown exponentially. Jeans have become the go-to garment for many people. And they are acceptable in a vast array of situations. But they remain sort of one of the holy grails of the fashion industry the perfect-fitting part of jeans. It ranks right up there with finding a comfortable pair of stilettos.  And it is almost like finding the unicorn in your backyard.  Exactly.   And there have been surveys that show that women have something like six pairs of jeans in their closet of which they wear two pair on a regular basis. So there is clearly a gap between women's desire to wear jeans and the jean industry's ability to fit them.  Right now Levi' slight curve demi-curve and bold curve for women who have a little bit more bump in the rump. Now there is curvy and then there is really curvy and when I look at these pictures these women all look to me to be fairly slim.  So one thing that I think is really admirable here is the recognition that just because you are thin does not necessarily mean that you do not have hips that you can still be a size six and have a derriere that is not going to fit into jeans that have been really cut for a boy's figure.  I am going to say goodbye but before I do I am just going to make one observation. When people talk about curves through the hip or the rear or the waist or anything it could be described as a problem or perhaps just a fact.  I like to think of it as a fact.  I do too.  A very nice fact actually.   Robin it is always good to talk to you.  You too.  Robin Givhan is a fashion writer for the Washington Post. 