 Donald Trump released a statement today saying his campaign chairman had resigned. Trump thanked Paul Manafort for his great work called him a true professional but did not say why Manafort was leaving. Yesterday the Associated Press revealed that Manafort's lobbying firm had secretly done work for pro-Kremlin Ukrainian officials. Manafort has not released a statement or resignation letter. But if he does there is a good chance that it will not say everything. NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports resignation letters are often works of fiction though not always.  Juda Engelmayer has seen his share of corporate scandals.  Failures lawsuits arrests financial breakdowns tainted food.  All things he is handled as head of Crisis Communications for 5W Public Relations. It is no fun he says dethroning a Titan over a big mistake.  Counseling a client who is done something wrong and trying to A convince them that they have done something wrong B telling them to come out and say it to the public that is loved and adored them for a long time - not easy to do.  Engelmayer says there are shareholders and potential lawsuits to consider. So often the less said the better especially when there is a pending investigation or emotions are running very high. And that is also why so many end up saying I want to spend time with my family.  It is code for I am not going to be around. It is code for because of what is happening not only am I leaving this company but I am most likely not going to be employed by another company for a long time. You are not going to see me. You are not going to see my face come up or my name come up for a while.  In one classic example Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling cited personal reasons for his abrupt resignation months before the company filed bankruptcy. He was later convicted on 19 counts of fraud and other crimes. The point of resigning amid scandal is to get out of the way to try to stop the chatter. Many just end up prolonging the pain by neither resigning nor apologizing straight up. Think of Bill Clinton's parsing of words about his affair with Monica Lewinsky or earlier this year when Alabama Governor Robert Bentley issued a perplexing statement after an affair with an aide was revealed.   I love many members of my staff - in fact all the members of my staff. Do I love more than I do others - than I do - you know some more than others? Absolutely.  So is there anyone who can apologize and handle an ousting with aplomb? Andrew Mason gets props for his resignation style. Mason founded Groupon and took it public. But by March 2013 it faced cascading problems in its accounting declining revenue and stock price.  I got fired and I went home and I sat on my couch and I wrote the letter.  The letter opened with I would like to spend more time with my family - just kidding. I was fired today. Mason now CEO of a walking-tour company called Detour says he cringes at most resignation letters.  They often go to such great lengths to convince you that they were not fired or that the company will be beleaguered and in the middle of an extremely-high level of crisis. And they do not even mention that. And it just struck me as so insincere so I just did not want to be that.  People embraced his unflinching approach - talking about missed financial expectations his own accountability and joking about shipping off to a fat farm. Based on the response Mason thought others might follow.  For a while I was hoping that my resignation letter might catalyze a change in tone or approach a broader change in approach and it has not at all.  He says he might have felt more pressure to be more opaque if he would been thinking about a new job or raising money for a new venture but Mason says he was not.  To lie about that would give me a sense of shame. And it was just the wrong way to end it and I wanted to go out on a note that allowed me to be proud regardless of how people might perceive it.  After writing the letter Mason says he got off his couch and checked into a fat farm. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 