 Now we present for your inspection the humble butler.    Good morning Master Bruce. Rise and shine sir.    Good evening. I am Spartacus the Goldman's butler.    Geoffrey go fetch my tools.   You mean your knife and fork?   In American popular culture the butler tends to serve up comic relief. Or like Batman's Alfred he is more of a friend than a servant. But one show has brought back the classic butler with a vengeance.   Yep you public-broadcasting-type's all know Downton Abbey. Mr. Carson oversees the help downstairs. Here he explains the responsibilities to another servant.    To progress in your chosen career William you must remember that a good servant at all times retains a sense of pride and dignity that reflects the pride and dignity of the family he serves. And never make me remind you of it again.  Since Downton Abbey made its debut in 2010 the demand for real butlers has surged particularly in a country that has over a million millionaires.  One of the main reasons that the butler has caught fire in China is just this craze down Abbey over there.  David Katz is a contributing writer for GQ. In a recent piece he explored the lives of modern-day butlers.  These days most of the demand is actually coming from wealthy individuals in the emerging markets - rich Russian oligarchs or vastly wealthy Chinese. In fact because China is such a booming economy there is a huge service industry. And even middle-class Chinese can hire servants now. But when you are talking about hiring a proper British butler the guy in the uniform who obeys a certain protocol of service what you are hiring is essentially a status symbol.  So the Chinese employer does not want a Chinese butler though. They want Jeeves.  That is right. They want an Anglo person that telegraphs to their other equally wealthy friends that they can afford to do this.  So you went to butler school. Where is this place? What is it like?  It is in the U.K. in London. And the school that I went to - and there are several - is designed to take people who already have pretty serious service experience and really take them to the next level of buttling - which by the way is the real and proper word for what butler's do. So much of being a butler is what you do not do in front of your principals. I mean...  Principal is your...  ...Right that is butler speak for the very rich person whose beck and call you are constantly at. Our instructor himself a life-long butler said imagine that you are serving a dinner party for your principal. And you get a call from your wife or your partner that your child is sick. What do you do? Now almost everyone in the class and keep in mind these are people with a large degree of service experience said OK well you get someone else to cover. You make sure everything is set. We were all chastised. Your employer should never even know that your child is sick. Your problems we were told are not your employer's problems. And if you cannot deal with that the life of a proper British butler is not a life for you.  Wow. So that is an extreme level of dedication. How well do they get paid?  Very well.   It obviously depends on the market. In places like the U.K. or even in the U.S. you will start maybe at 30000 U.S. dollars a year and then quickly work your up to several 100000 a year once you are more established. However if you go someplace where the butler demand is really really high right now such as Dubai or a lot of places in China you can start at 60000 a year and not even have to apprentice as an underbutler before you are head of household.  And do they tend to stay with their principal for their lifetime like Alfred and Batman or is that...  Very much no these days actually. They used to and there is a certain pride in those that do. But because of the great demand like with any great market there is been a lot of jumping around lately. And this kind of bugs some of the older butlers. They see guys staying with people for two to three years and then jumping to be paid more or have an easier life.  So when you were in butler school what was hardest about it for you because buttling is not something you are aspiring to?  One it was just the kind of practical ability to serve. I am not very good at it. And I would drop arugula and you know it was just - I was a mess. But my bigger problem was I had very hard time keeping my ego in check. You know you cannot resent the people that you are serving. You have to believe in service as something beautiful in itself. And you hear them often say we serve but we are never servile. They really believe in what they do. And often times they believe they know more than the nouveau riche employers that have hired them. That it is their job to impart a certain wisdom to these people. And so that is why if they feel like their boss is just hopeless often times they will walk away and get another job.  David Katz is a contributing writer for GQ. His piece The Real Butlers Of The .001 Percent is in the May issue. David thank you.  Thank you. 