 Now we are going to get a dealer's perspective on the 15 billion settlement between Volkswagen and the U.S. government. Matthew Welch is general manager of Auburn Volkswagen. That is located just outside Seattle Wash. Mr. Welch thanks for joining us.  You bet my pleasure.  How did you hear about this settlement and what was your reaction to it?  Well we have been anticipating it for nine months so reading it this morning it is - how do I feel about it is - it is extraordinary. I mean it is - nothing's ever been done like this in the car business before.  Is it the kind of settlement that dealers were hoping for?  Well it is definitely huge. I mean when you are talking about billions of dollars this is 15 billion - you know that Toyota got fined 1 billion last year. So it is bigger than we ever imagined. The great news for the customer is it really takes care of them. So reading through it I mean my goodness some of my family members have diesels. I have over a thousand of our guests and customers that have diesels and we never thought they would be compensated to this level for cars they already love.  Is there anything in this settlement that benefits dealers that compensates dealers what you and the others have experienced in this deception?  You know there is no fee that we get for buying a car back. You know I do not believe that there is going to be monetary compensation in that regard but the fact that whatever the customer chooses will come through the dealership.  So to take advantage of the settlement any owner of a car would have to go to their Volkswagen dealer and...  Right and they can go to any Volkswagen dealer. But the fact that we are the point of contact to help them through this and be able to answer their questions and be able to walk them through the process - eventually we will maybe be able to fix the cars. Certainly we will have warranty work that will be great for our shop but we are not in this for the compensation. We are in this to get back to doing business.  Yeah. In the nine months since we learnt about Volkswagen's deception from the EPA until this announcement what did that do to your business? Were people avoiding Volkswagen until they saw this all settled?  Yeah the sales are definitely off...  Yeah.  ...Because 30 percent of our business was diesel in the Northwest. However used TDIs as well as used cars have been successful and then the new car gas models have all been very hot and in short supply. We are almost out of cars right now.  Fifteen-billion dollars has got to have an impact on Volkswagen down the road. I mean it is got to sideline something else that they would have spent 15 billion on.  Certainly and with the number of brands and makes that they have I am certain that would adjust things around the world. And there is probably only a few companies in the world that could compensate that much and still stay in business. So yes it will affect investment at some point. The good news for us in the United States is that the next two years was already set.  Trust seems to be at the heart of this whole issue...  Yeah yeah.  ...For customers as well as dealers like yourself. You have to have trust in the manufacturer...  For sure.  ...For that matter. Do you feel that you can trust VW now?  I do believe that the new leadership in the United States is trustworthy and then the folks in charge of it in Germany that we have met this year I feel are very trustworthy. And I believe that they are going over and above to make things right.  Matthew Welch a Volkswagen dealer in Auburn Wash. - Mr. Welch thanks for talking with us.  You bet. Thank you. Have a great day. 