 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS Considered. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. And Huzzah the bulls are back on Wall Street at least for today. The way things have been going yesterday's stock drop set up a big buying opportunity. The Dow the P were all up at the close. In a minute we will check in on one of the world's biggest investment funds. But first for the broader view Jim Zarroli joins us now from New York. Hey there Jim.  Hi Michele.  Let us start with the big news. The Dow Jones industrial average was up almost 4 percent today but we have been seeing some wild swings lately. We have all been seeing  much like a rollercoaster on Wall Street. Should we take today as some sort of encouraging development?  Well I think it is another reminder of what a volatile time we are in. You know we are seeing huge trading volume almost every day. We see triple digit swings in the Dow. I am not sure that anyone can really completely make sense of it. I mean I think if you want to understand what happened today you could look at several things. First the government said unemployment claims fell just a little below 400000 again last week. Also Cisco had very good earnings. These are not the kinds of things that you would see - expect to see if the United States was entering a recession which is what everyone has been so afraid about.  The picture seems to be a lot less clear in the rest of the world and there is been a lot of nervousness about the eurozone this week France in particular. Are there signs that things might be stabilizing a bit there?  Yeah France has turned to become sort of the epicenter of the debt crisis. And it is not the French economy. Compared to the rest of Europe France is really doing okay. It is the banks the major French banks that are in trouble. They own a huge amount of bonds from some of the really troubled countries in Europe. Now that was not a problem when the debt crisis was contained to countries like Ireland and Portugal which are small. But some people are now getting more worried about Italy and Spain which are bigger. And a lot  again a lot of French banks just have exposure there so you are hearing rumors about everything. There were rumors today that some Asian banks had cut their credit lines to French banks which would be a very big deal. There were rumors that the rating agencies were going to downgrade French debt the way Standard  Poor's downgraded U.S. debt last week. They say they are not going to do that. The French government by the way is saying the banks are in sound shape but of course that is  you know remind you that is what everyone said about Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers right up to the point that they collapsed. So you know who do you trust?  Well other than trying to reassure the markets that their banks are on solid ground what else are European governments trying to do to gain control of the situation?  Well one thing they are doing is focusing on short selling. And short selling as you may know is a way of betting that a stock will fall. It is always done a lot by hedge funds. A lot of people think that short-sellers add fuel to the fire when you are in a time like this. Back in 2008 several countries including the United States banned short selling for a while. Now tonight the French government says it is banning short selling of bank stocks. Some other countries say they are also going to be banning a kind of short-selling. Whether this will make a difference you know is something people can debate about. But as soon as the rumors started coming out you saw shares of a lot of European banks go up. But the point is we are just in a wild time. And you are seeing that reflected in the financial markets.  That is NPR's Jim Zarroli speaking to us from New York. Thank you Jim.  You are welcome. 