 New U.S. poverty numbers come out tomorrow but the nation's traditional poverty measure is not necessarily the best way to measure poverty. As Pam Fessler of NPR's Planet Money Team reports the official numbers leave out some crucial information.  Ronald Reagan had this famous quote.   But Christopher Wimer a researcher at Columbia University says it might only look like that because of how the government measures poverty.  If we are measuring poverty in a way that does not actually capture some of the main things that we do to fight poverty in this country then of course you are going to be able to tell a story that we fought a war on poverty and poverty won.   The government counts the poor using a 50-year-old formula. It looks at an individual's or a family's cash income to see if it falls below a certain line. But it does not count things like food stamps and other aid.  Things like school meals. Things like housing subsidies housing assistance.  Even though such benefits can help a struggling family get by.   Take Ann Valdez of Coney Island Brooklyn. She is 47 a single mother with a teenage son at home. We meet at the boardwalk near the amusement park where she used to work as a teen.  Hey Bud.  How you doing?  Really good.  But today Valdez has no job has not had one for awhile. And by government standards she is extremely poor.  Cash I am getting something like 130 every two weeks for me and my son.  That is from welfare and all that is counted as income in the poverty measure. What is not included...  Food stamps is 367.  That is once a month. The government which requires Valdez to do 35 hours of unpaid work a week for her benefits also pays 283 a month for public housing. Valdez says her apartment would cost four five times that amount on the open market. And then there is health care.  I have Medicaid. But thank God my son and I do not get too sick.   We do not get sick too often.  Valdez still has a tough time making ends meet.  No we are not living the life of Riley. OK?  But depending on how you do the math she is getting at least three times and probably a lot more than what the official numbers show.  Is she still poor and by whose definition? Linda Gibbs New York's deputy mayor says the answer is important.  If you are in the business of saying poverty is a problem - we want to overcome poverty we want to help people to not live in poverty - you have got to know what you are talking about.  So a few years ago the city developed its own poverty measure. It was frustrated that the federal one was so limited. New York now looks at the impact of benefits and cost-of-living and in fact the federal government has since adopted a similar supplemental measure. Gibbs says the city has learned some valuable things like how much children are helped by public assistance. But she admits even New York's measure gives only a limited view.  What it is intended to tell you is point in time how many people are living below what we believe is the minimum level of sustenance necessary to meet - make ends meet. And that is not to have a big fancy life. It is not even to have like an OK life. It is just meeting the bare minimums.  But as some people see it there is more to poverty than that. And if you are going to fight a war you have to know what you are up against. Take Ann Valdez again. There is much about her life that the numbers do not show like the fact that she is not only on public aid she feels stuck there as she sees others around her getting ahead. For her it is also about hope.  Poverty is like being trapped in a room you cannot get out of with straps restraining you tight enough that you feel sometimes you cannot breathe.  So some researchers are trying to find a different way to measure poverty that goes beyond income. Wimer and his colleagues at Columbia are following 2000 New York households tracking what they call Material Hardship  Can you keep the lights on? Has anyone missed a meal? Do you avoid going to the doctor because you do not have enough money?  We are also looking at sort of some non-economic measures of disadvantage too. So that includes things like health. That includes things like kids' healthy development getting good grades in school being ready for school when they start school.  And others are asking squishier questions. How do you feel about your life? Is your community a place where you want to live? Are you happy? Deputy Mayor Gibbs recalls going out with those measuring poverty in Great Britain. They not only asked if everyone in the household had shoes and a good winter coat but also...  Can the parents go on a date with each other without the kids at least once a month? It is a totally different way of really getting at sort of a more quality of life standard rather than you know how much money do you have and how much money do things cost?  So what are we talking about - government-subsidized babysitters for the poor? Probably not. But Gibbs and Wimer would say until you get a better picture of the problem it is hard to know the best way to help. Pam Fessler NPR News.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 