 Foie gras is a delicacy in Europe but the fatty goose or duck liver is banned in many countries because the birds are usually force fed which many people see as cruel. Now a Spanish farmer and an expert on migratory birds claim they have found a more ethical way of making foie gras. Lauren Frayer went to a farm in southwest Spain to learn more.  Five hours drive southwest of Madrid I pull into a tiny village with a church in a square filled with songbirds where Eduardo Sousa and Diego Labourdette are waiting.  Lauren.  Si Diego.  Hola.  .  They are an odd couple. Eduardo is a jovial fifth-generation Spanish farmer. Diego is a soft-spoken academic a migratory bird expert. And together they are in the foie gras business.  .  The market for foie gras is incredible. France makes millions of kilos a year Eduardo explains as we amble around his 1200-acre goose farm. That is another world from what we do here. Most foie gras production uses gavage a brutal practice in which tubes are forced down the geese's throats and their stomachs pumped with grain. Their livers grow 10 times bigger with large deposits of fat which makes foie gras so rich. Here instead of being force fed these are wild geese who fatten themselves up naturally. Diego explains.  .  The natural cycle for the wild goose of Europe is to migrate south to Africa each fall he says. They stop here in Spain on their way to eat and gain energy for the long flight. They eat calorie-rich acorns olives figs and seeds and double their bodyweight in just a few weeks then they are slaughtered before they can continue south. Feathers are plucked for goose down. Some of the meat is cured and the goose livers are seasoned and boiled whole. A bell rings in the farmhouse. It is time to try some.   The farm's caretaker sings flamenco as we eat.  .  The food tastes faintly of all the wild herbs olives and nuts the geese themselves have eaten.  .  Songs have the smell and flavor of the land they are from just like our geese says the caretaker-turned-singer Domingo Diaz Escudero. They are part of nature.  .  A few years ago this foie gras won the Coup de Coeur a coveted French gastronomy award that caught the attention of a famous New York chef Dan Barber who visited this farm and gave a TED Talk afterward.   I went to Spain a few months ago and I had the best foie gras of my life the best culinary experience of my life.  Barber's TED Talk went viral and now there is a waiting list for this foie gras. A small jar costs more than 200. There is a website but the only place you can buy in person is a tiny storefront near Eduardo's farm where we meet a Spanish-American couple who have come all the way from San Francisco.  We just watched it on TED Talks and then I made him stop here on the way to Madrid. I was really excited to see the product.  Alegra Cabellon takes a selfie with Eduardo and buys several jars of his foie gras. It is only sold in Europe for now but Eduardo is awaiting a certificate to sell it in the U.S. soon. For NPR News I am Lauren Frayer in Badajoz Spain. 