 Right in the path of Hurricane Florence there is an area where pigs far outnumber people. A big worry is the state of hundreds of open-air lagoons filled with manure. Torrential rain could cause them to overflow. Here's NPR's Dan Charles.  Katy Langley lives on the North Carolina coast downstream from a bunch of hog farms and she thinks about them a lot.  When you fly over the area I mean you cannot throw a rock without hitting one.  She works for an environmentalist organization Sound Rivers.  You just see these long barns and these big square shapes that looks like Pepto-Bismol pink because swine waste is bright pink - fun fact of the day.  Actually it is bacteria feeding on the waste that turn the ponds pink. Those lagoons are a little bit like compost piles. It is a cheap way to handle manure but they are just sitting there open to the weather thousands of them with a Category 4 hurricane coming. Langley is worried that a lot of manure is going to end up in the rivers. Farmers are worried too like Marlowe Vaughan in Goldsboro N.C.  We are going to probably get you know hit on the nose with this and flooding is our biggest concern.  They spent part of the day on her farm pumping liquid waste out of their lagoons spraying it as fertilizer on nearby fields so there is more room for rain from Florence. If farmers are doing this the lagoons should be able to handle almost three feet of rain. But they have never actually had to deal with that much. I mean if you got two or three feet of rain would that flood the lagoon?  We do not really know. I mean we try to pump down as much as we can but you know after that it is kind of in God's hands. I mean we are kind of at the mercy of the storm.  Here's the really bad scenario - water starts overflowing erodes the lagoon walls and the walls collapse spreading animal waste across the landscape and into rivers. Some lagoons and hog houses could also be inundated by rising rivers. About 60 of them lie within what the state considers the 100-year flood plain. Vaughan's seen other hurricanes. The farm's come through OK but she says it sounds like Florence could be worse.  Well we really just do not know. We have no idea what is going to happen. But everybody's very very very worried and very concerned so please pray for us .  Dan Charles NPR News. 