 Many renters around the country are about to get a new landlord. Two publicly traded companies in the rental home business are planning to merge. Together the Blackstone Group and Starwood Waypoint Homes own more than 80000 homes. They were part of a wave of investors who saw business take off when they bought up foreclosed homes and turned them into rental properties. Now to talk more about this merger and the rental industry is Ryan Dezember. He is a reporter for The Wall Street Journal. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  So to begin I understand this business really grew out of the housing crisis 10 years ago when these companies started buying up foreclosed homes. What were they looking for? And how fast did the business grow?  Well they bought very quickly. And they bought sometimes often sight unseen. They were looking for houses often that could accommodate families so they bought you know usually three bedrooms or larger two bathrooms or more attached garages. They want good school systems low crime rates and often a homeowner's association to help keep an eye on the properties because they are not in the neighborhood like a traditional sort of mom-and-pop landlord who would live in the neighborhood.  So where did they end up buying these homes? I mean can you overlay a map of the foreclosure crisis with a map of where investors flocked to buy?  Yeah you sort of can although they tend to - you know they are not really in Detroit but they are heavy in Atlanta and Phoenix. It is a very Sunbelt-West Coast sort of thing with a few of the sort of boom towns in between. They have their big footholds in Florida Atlanta Phoenix Las Vegas parts of Texas.  So there are two communities that are going to be affected by this. One the home buyer - right? - who is out there...  Correct.  ...Trying to buy a home right now and one the renter. Can you talk about to start how this has affected rental markets?  Well this spring we went to a town - a suburb of Nashville called Spring Hill. There is a big GM plant there. It is a big industry town very good schools relatively affordable homes relative to other suburbs there that share the school district. And investors have flocked there. And they are really going head-to-head in bidding wars for single-family homes one at a time. These buyers are dispassionate. They do not care about the carpet or the paint color. They have a model and a formula. And if the numbers work they will buy it. And they will buy all cash. And they will usually win. For renters you know it is significantly more to rent these homes than it would have been to buy the same homes for the same price as these firms have bought. But they make no bones about it that they are in the business of getting as much rent as they can so they tend to be in areas where rents are going up. And therefore they are charging more.  In the end for you does - did this feel like a kind of curious legacy or coda to the housing crisis?  It did. It did because you know there were all these homes that were foreclosed. They were on the courthouse steps. These guys really came in and mopped it up and bought a lot of houses. Now they did not do that everywhere. They picked their spots. They picked the desirable neighborhoods and desirable properties. But this business probably would not exist without that shock to the system that made tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of homes available for cheap and available to buy en masse.  So with this merger what is the wager that these companies are making about the direction of the housing market or our interest in being homeowners?  In the short term it is really about a lack of homes. You know home builders have yet to catch up to demand. And a lot of would-be buyers cannot because tight lending little savings and you know possibly poor credit from the financial crisis or from student loans. Longer term this is sort of a bet on you know homeownership not being a key ingredient or a key component to the American dream as it has been in the last couple decades.  Ryan Dezember of The Wall Street Journal. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. 