 Six hundred dollars a week - for millions of people who have lost their jobs in this pandemic that 600 is all that stood between them and financial ruin. That benefit expired on July 31. And now Republicans and Democrats are deadlocked on whether to extend it. And we wanted to hear from people who had been getting that money and understand what it means to lose it. Sandy Villatoro lives in Phoenix Ariz. She is the mother of two. And she was laid off from her job as a hotel housekeeper in March. She lost her extra benefits last month and she says since then it is been really hard to ask for help.  Well at first I did not want to apply for unemployment because - I do not know if I am allowed to say this - but I have DACA and my husband is also petitioning for me. So like I did not really want to apply for unemployment benefits. And then I am in a group on Facebook with a bunch of DACA recipients and they are like no unemployment has nothing to do with that. It is paid by your employer so you should be fine. So I was like OK maybe I should because my bills are piling up. My husband's check was not enough for all the bills that we had before I was laid off. And I had a lot of bills from when I had my daughter still coming in from the hospital. So it was all just coming so fast that I could not keep up with it.  The extra 600 that you were getting - what difference did that 600 make in your ability to survive and for your family to survive?  Honestly it helped me pay for all the bills that I had. I actually used some of that money to pay ahead on my car. So I thought ahead like with all the money that I was getting from the 600. I was paying ahead like the bills that I could possibly like tell them hey you know can I not pay it this month just in case you know?  And now that you do not have it?  I am going to have to work with what I can and ask them if they could you know help me with a couple months where I do not have to pay it.  And what are like your - you and your husband's biggest expenses? Like what are kind of the top few things that you have to pay first or I guess the biggest expenses?  Mostly our house. The - we are renting a house and that is a thousand dollars a month. I had to get Internet service for my son since he started going back to school. And the service that we had before was like the cheapest one. So we had to get another better one 'ecause the one that we had before was not working for his remote learning. So it is not like wants that we want. It is needs. You know we need a vehicle to get back and forth. We need to live under a house you know under a roof.  It sounds like rent is a worry. And that is a very basic need especially with a new baby.  Yeah exactly especially in this heat. I do not want to be you know having to move house to house in the heat. I do not want to be homeless if anything in this heat. So it is really hard. And we just want someone to like listen to us. We are not lazy people. We are hardworking people that just need a little bit of help for now.  Is homelessness like a real worry? That is a lot.  Honestly it is. It is. And I have stayed up nights just hoping that some miracle will come that I do not have to resort to that  or you know having to ask someone to let me stay with them for like a little while I get back on my feet. I feel so vulnerable. Like I do not - I hate asking for help. I hate asking for hands-out . But you know it is something I need at the current moment. My kids need it. You know it is so hard just to even say I need it.  So as you are looking ahead like to the next month or two without that additional money what is the thing that worries you the most?  Just losing my mind and losing my house losing everything that I have worked so hard for. I mean like I want to go back to work. I worked every day for you know five years at the current job that I am at. You know and it is so hard just not to see myself working anymore you know? And I just want to get back to normal is pretty much what I am trying to say.  Sandy Villatoro lives in Phoenix and she is been talking to us about what it is like to deal with financial insecurity during this time. Sandy thank you for sharing your story.  Thank you for having me. 