 It is not your imagination. Your credit card fees and interest rates are going up. Federal legislation limiting those fees does not go into effect until next February. So between now and then banks and credit card companies are raising rates on a lot of customers. John Ulzheimer is tracking the changes for Credit.com that is a consumer site and he joins us from the studios of Georgia Public Broadcasting in Atlanta. Now I understand that Citi has raised rates on some cards as high as 30 percent. How many other banks are doing the same thing? Mr.  Citi is one of many credit card issuers who are changing their terms of a large portion of their cardholder accounts to be a little bit more favorable to the bank and less favorable to the consumer. We have seen this really across the board with most of the top 10 and top 15 credit card issuers. You know the guys that everybody recognizes because they are the ones that you know we all have their cards in our wallet.  Yeah like Chase Capital One Discover. Mr.   Chase Capital One Discover Bank of America and pretty much anybody that is a well-known credit card issuer is going through some sort of process where they are changing the terms of our accounts in such a way that makes it more expensive for us to have their cards.  What else are they doing besides raising interest rates? Mr.  It is the trifecta is actually what we are calling it. It is the raising of the interest rates. It is the lowering of the credit limits and it is the raising of the minimum payment requirements. And a lot of these things are happening in concert which actually makes it difficult for some consumers to be able to make their payments on time. And in some cases it is pushing them into default and having an adverse effect on their credit.  So what is the explanation on the part of the companies? Mr.  That is an interesting question. The explanation that we are getting back varies depending on who we are talking to and what issuer we are talking to. We are hearing some issuers state that the economy is to blame for their changes. And we are hearing some issuers state that it is the new legislation that is coming down the road in February of 2010 that is causing them to make these changes proactively when they are still allowed to do so pretty much for any reason. We are also hearing from some issuers that are stating that their cardholder base is becoming more risky and so that they are making these changes in order to compensate for the downside risk of many of their cardholders.  Now does not this kind of violate the spirit of the law in that they are - the law says that these companies are not allowed to raise rates exorbitantly? And they are going ahead and doing it before the law takes effect. I imagine some people on Capitol Hill are not too happy about that. Mr.  No and the people on Capitol Hill certainly are not happy. Consumers certainly are not happy. And then the watchdog groups are also certainly not happy. But you know with all due respect we all expected this to happen. There is this pocket of time between when the president signs the Card Act and when it becomes enforceable law and that is a one-year period. And we knew that the credit card issuers were going to finish their proactive housekeeping before it actually became more difficult for them to do so. So no one likes what they are doing but it is certainly not illegal what they are doing. Is it immoral unethical? I mean those are up for debate certainly. And more consumers are finding themselves becoming the victim of some of these practices.  So what can we consumers do in the face of all this? Is there a way to avoid these high rates? Mr.  Absolutely. There are a variety of ways and I am going to give you a few examples. First vote with your wallet take your business elsewhere if you do not like how your credit card issuer is treating you. Second maintain very very strong credit reports and very very strong credit scores and you find yourself somewhat immune to what is going on in the credit environment right now. And last but certainly not least be very very selective about where you use your credit card. Be very conscientious of the fact that you issuer sees where you are shopping and sees the patterns that you are exhibiting. So avoid cash advances and avoid using your credit cards at what are referred to as questionable merchants places like pawn shops tire retreading stores massage parlors marriage counseling. Things like that are going to set off a red flag.  And you do not have to stick with the big guys. You can go with the small banks or the credit unions. Mr.  Absolutely. Credit unions are not doing these things to consumers. They did not need a Card Act to teach them and mandate how they treat customers properly. There are over 10000 credit card issuers in this country and we tend to focus just on the top 10 or 15. Take your business elsewhere if you do not like how you are being treated.  John Ulzheimer is the president of Consumer Education at Credit.com. Thanks. Mr.  It was a pleasure. 