 The global economy is powered by petroleum in cars and planes power plants plastics. The pandemic sent demand for fuel plummeting and now some major energy groups say the decline will stick around into next year. In fact NPR's Camila Domonoske reports the change might be permanent.  The International Energy Agency issues a monthly report on the state of the oil market. Every decimal point is closely watched. Neil Atkinson is the head of the Oil Industry and Markets Division at the IEA.  We would be agonizing about changing the growth up or down by 0.1 million barrels per day.  That was before the pandemic. In the report that came out this morning the numbers are a lot bigger than that and they are going down.  So there is some negative vibes out there.  It is not just the IEA. OPEC the global oil cartel just revised its expectations down. Also this week Trafigura the world's second-largest oil trading company said there is a huge glut of oil on the way. Things were bad for the oil market this spring when the coronavirus caused a collapse in oil as lockdowns put a halt to travel.  Does not matter if the price is zero. If you cannot drive anywhere there is no demand response.  A price of zero sounds hypothetical but at one point prices actually went negative. Still this summer many in the industry were feeling optimistic. China's economy seemed to bounce back. There was hope the global economy would recover and demand for fuel would come surging back. Now...  It just does not - to be a simple case of this horrible thing comes along in the first six months of the year and then mercifully goes away again and we can all go back to normal. It is just not happening like that.  And this immediate pandemic-driven drop in demand - it comes in the middle of huge uncertainty about the future of oil and gas because of climate change. In fact there was another big report on the future of energy this week from BP the British energy giant that is planning for a future with less petroleum. BP says it is possible this drop in demand is the start of an even bigger shift and the world will never again use as much oil as it did in 2019. That is if the planet moves to take action on climate change.  Let us say BP is correct right? And you know BP's not the only one that sort of sees the peak demand is in the past right?  Carolyn Kissane is an energy expert at New York University's Center for Global Affairs.  You have a - you know an industry that is - we could say it is in decline right? It is changing very rapidly.  For a while now the oil industry has considered what a future of declining demand would look like. That might have seemed like a distant future but the pandemic is raising questions right now.  I think the idea that - you know that we have passed peak demand - and I think once that gets into people's heads and especially into like the corporate heads then they are like wow if that is the case then maybe everything I was thinking six months ago has to be revised because now we are looking at a very different future.  It is hard to predict exactly what happens next especially these days. A lot depends on government policies and of course the pandemic. But Kissane says one thing is clear. Whether demand comes back eventually or declines from here on out the months and years ahead will be tough for oil producers. Camila Domonoske NPR News.  