 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Laura Sullivan. We will get back to the hurricane in a few minutes. First though  Steve Jobs stepped down as CEO of Apple after running the company for nearly 25 years. The very first Macintosh the latest iPad - he is changed the way millions of people live their lives. All of this got us wondering how Steve Jobs stacks up against the other technological titans of American history. So we got in touch with Marc Greuther. He is the chief curator at the museum dedicated to Henry Ford outside Detroit. The museum's actually a shrine to all sorts of American innovation. It includes Thomas Edison's laboratory complex and the Wright Brothers' original bike shop. Marc Greuther joins us fittingly by iPhone a product that took off the minute Steve Jobs introduced it.  The effect of the iPhone even in its - just at the - the few years it is been available has been immense. I mean it is very different for instance than - you know if you think back to Thomas Edison and think to the demonstration of the electrical system that he put on in late 1879 it was actually decades before you know middle-class homes actually had wiring in them as built you know? So that is a great example of a quite well-refined innovation that it took a long time to really gain any adhesion.  So you know Edison was clearly an inventor but that is - in some ways is that a little bit different than what Ford and Steve Jobs did as more innovators?  That is a good - there is definitely a difference now. I mean if we can think of a typical inventor we could imagine someone eager to create a device but who then did not necessarily have any plan for taking it any further. Edison was adamant that anything he invested his time in actually had some possibility in the marketplace. And he was acutely aware of how ensnared you could become in unproducible over-complex devices. So he is both. With Steve Jobs again it is a mixture. What really I think astounds is the understanding of latent needs. That is a common ground with people like Edison and Ford - more so with Edison. No one was banging on the door at Menlo Park requesting electric light. The iPhone - who was wandering around clamoring for a personal computer in their pocket? But little did we know that is what we wanted. And Steve Jobs and his collaborators they had figured that out. You know what you do not need this. You do not think you need this but you are going to love it. That is for me a signature part of innovation.  Everybody can picture Jobs up there holding court at those giant press conferences where he is unveiling - you know in his black turtleneck unveiling his new...  Right.  ...product  And one more thing. And he introduces some...  Exactly. The wardrobe and the manner and the sense of a performance - a persona if you will. But done properly everyone goes along with that. It is part of the deal.  It almost seems like Jobs himself has become part of the Apple brand. Were Ford and Edison like that too?  Oh in the sort of first decade or so of Model T production the Model T as a vehicle Henry Ford as the leader of that company those were eagerly reported. They were quite well-understood and they were very much intertwined very much so. And you see with Edison certainly in the early 20th century things like phonographs even if you look at the trademark it is his stylized signature. There was a sense that these were all products that were very very close to the names associated with them. They were not just goods with a brand stamped on them. So I think that follows through to Steve Jobs and Apple as well.  Is there some trait that makes all of these people - Ford Edison and even Steve Jobs - the great innovators that they are or have been?  I think it is a combination of things. Tenacity is a huge part of it a sense of vision a way of articulating that. The beautiful thing is you know you can analyze this to a high degree. You can start partitioning out all manner of behaviors and traits and it does not tell you how to do that. There is - I think that is part of the magic of how we encounter visionaries and leaders of this sort - is that there is this extra element in there that is very hard to pin down.  Marc Greuther is chief curator at the Henry Ford. Marc thanks so much for joining us.  You are more than welcome. It is been a great pleasure. 