 GM and the United Auto Workers union are still in contract negotiations on Day 3 of the auto workers strike and that means work has stopped at more than 50 GM facilities. The GM plant in Lordstown Ohio has been quiet for months. It closed in March and almost a thousand jobs disappeared. We spoke with Lordstown Mayor Arno Hill two weeks after the plant went dark.   Right now you know everybody's in a state of limbo wondering should they take a transfer? Should they try to wait it out? The ripple effect is what is really pretty devastating for our area.  With the fate of Lordstown on the negotiating table we wanted to check in again. Mayor Arno Hill welcome back to the program.  Thank you very much Audie. Glad to be here.  Can you describe how things have been in Lordstown since GM left?  It is been a little bit quieter - not a lot of truck traffic. You know we do have a couple other projects going here in town. You know we have a TJX Home Goods distribution center about a million and a quarter square foot. But other than that you know we had a lot of residents take transfers. We have some who were kind of waiting it out some who...  With that did it bring other kinds of closures? I do not know if other kinds of stores or...  You know Lordstown does not have a lot of business in here. We are still very rural. We had one restaurant close because you know you have to have foot traffic. We have had a couple other places which you know there for a while it took a little bit of a downturn. But they said they are riding it out. They do see you know that there is a little bit of light at the end of the tunnel. Hopefully it is something GM-associated but we do have other businesses which are looking. And we are keeping our fingers crossed that you know down the road we will be OK.  When you talk about down the road and when you talk about something GM-connected what would you like to happen? I know that Lordstown has come up in the conversation about negotiations.  I would love to see another product come in or...  From GM.  Well with GM - you know we would like to see another vehicle come in. But you know we have been told that they do have overcapacity and because they have overcapacity you know they made a business decision. It is been brought up we might get a battery plant. So we are kind of looking to see what options we have. You know we are in a state of limbo. We are waiting to see what happens. And hopefully there'ill be some sort of resolve and hopefully we do get - still remain part of the General Motors family.  When we first got on the line you joked I was reaching you on your village cellphone - just a reminder that you are very much in touch with the citizens in Lordstown. What are people saying to you?  You know a lot of people said we sure hope we do get a product. They are thankful that we do have other businesses which are looking our way. Naturally GM has been the mainstay here for 53 years and that is a pretty long run.  One more thing. Last time we spoke you were hoping to meet with or talk to President Trump. He was near your town at the time and he would mentioned Lordstown in his tweets. Have you been able to talk to him yet?  No I have not talked to him. I have talked to some of the governmental affairs people from the White House. I have not talked with the president yet. I would love to.  If you got the chance what would you want to say in this moment?  I would say Mr. President you know I hope you can bring us some business and hopefully you can work with General Motors you know just to keep the plant a viable option. You know he said a long time ago - he said we would like you know - do not sell your house. And you know a lot of people do not want to leave. You know we have a great cost of living here. We provide a lot of services in Lordstown but it affects the entire Mahoning Valley. And I would say you know we would like you to work with General Motors and help us secure our future. Until we find out what sort of resolve we have we are kind of a wait-and-see mode Audie.  That is Arno Hill mayor of Lordstown Ohio. Thank you for sharing this with us.  OK - appreciate the call.  