 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. For our series Beginnings we have been talking mostly about how life begins. But today we look down the road to the challenges of childcare.  In a moment we will have a conversation with a group of parents here in the U.S. about finding help to look after your children. But first we go to Sweden. On a recent visit to Stockholm NPR's Philip Reeves discovered parental leave policies so generous many American parents would be green with envy.  Sweden is basking in the summer sun. Gustaf Upmark is sitting outside a cafe in a quiet wooded suburb of Stockholm near the Baltic Sea. His daughter Elisabeth is at his side. He is 35. She is one.  She is a really happy little child. And - yes exactly. And she is curious about life and I am trying to show her the way things go. Now she is throwing things everywhere.   It is a weekday. Most of the city's at work including Upmark's wife. He is doing the parenting alone today as he has been for two months now.  She just gained three teeth last week so it was just - seeing just how she evolves is just great.  Upmark is a sales engineer. He is been able to spend so much time with Elisabeth because of Sweden's unusual parental leave laws. He is says these have really helped them bond.  I think you gain a lot of trust and confidence from your child when you get this opportunity. A lot of trust in there. I mean she would trust me with anything.  Gender equality is so much more advanced in Sweden.  James Savage is managing editor of The Local an English language news outlet based in Stockholm.  The proportion of women going out to work in Sweden is higher than in many many many - most other countries. Wage differentials are smaller in Sweden than in many many other countries.  Sweden's parental leave laws are especially progressive. Here's the deal. Working parents are entitled to 480 days leave per child. These days can be taken anytime before the child turns eight. Parents can share these days if they like though two months are allocated to fathers. These are two months dads must use or lose. A parent's entitled to 80 percent of his or her salary with a cap of 143 a day though some employers top this up. Savage says most Swedes are happy with these arrangements.   Yes it is tough. But there is nobody serious who is making steps to change it. It is an incredibly popular system.  The policy's an attempt to level the playing field. Here as almost everywhere else employers were reluctant to hire women for fear they would become mothers and need a lot of time off. Now in theory it is no different for fathers. In practice though Swedish moms still use far more of the parental leave allocation than dads. Swedish government statistics show that last year women used three quarters of the entitlement. James Savage again.  The takeup is so low because Swedish men are still higher earners than Swedish women on average which means that the family takes a bigger financial whack. Also there is plenty of evidence that women want to take more of the leave. It is often women saying I want to be at home with my children.  Feminist author and journalist Maria Sveland has a slightly different explanation.  Actually I think basically why men does not stay at home with the kids is because they lose money. Staying at home with a small child is really really hard work.  Sveland wants the system changed to pressure parents into sharing leave more evenly. She would like to raise the amount of leave allocated specifically to fathers from two months to six.  And if you as a man do not use your six months then it will just vanish.  Sveland was one of the few mothers in Sweden who divided parental leave equally with her husband when their first child was born. It was tough she says. Her husband got some important work out of town so she wound up doing the first seven months alone. He took the next seven and the tables were turned.  He would say in the morning when do you get home tonight? And I would say well I think I will be home at six. 15 and then I had him on the phone saying where are you? You were supposed to be here at six.  You get to understand what the ladies have been putting up with for eons. Taking care of kids multi-tasking fixing the home cleaning the home doing the laundry.  Ian Bald was born of an American father and a Swedish mother. He works in Stockholm in media and PR. His wife is a child psychologist. Sweden's parental leave was a big factor in deciding where to raise their two kids.  You know I do hold the passport and I am very proud to hold a U.S. passport. But when it comes to this when it comes to this kind of lifestyle no I would not have had it in the States and that was a big consideration for me.  Bald has no regrets about choosing Sweden.  I mean I was able to see my daughter's first steps. I was the one who caught her at home. And that - there is no way to equal that.  Philip Reeves NPR News. 