 Businesses are hiring at a rapid clip. U.S. employers added 850000 jobs last month. Wages are also up. For President Biden it is cause for celebration on the eve of the July Fourth weekend.   More jobs better wages - that is a good combination. Put simply our economy is on the move and we have COVID-19 on the run.  As fear of the pandemic fades Americans are spending freely so businesses need more help. But not everyone is rushing back to work. NPR's Scott Horsley who is at work joins us now. Hi Scott.  Good to be working with you Ari.  June saw the strongest month of job growth since last summer. What does that tell us?  It tells us the economic recovery is picking up steam. Job gains have increased in each of the last two months as businesses try to ramp up to keep up with this surge of demand from consumers many of whom are now eager to put the pandemic behind them and go back to doing the things they used to do whether that is going to restaurants or movies or ballgames. So that is encouraging. But even as the job market is improving it is still a long way from fully healed. We are still short about 6.8 million jobs from where we were before the pandemic. And the unemployment rate actually inched up a bit last month to 5.9. What is more as strong as the job gains were in June many employers say they would have liked to have hired even more people but they just did not have enough applicants.  And so what does that mean for their business? How are they coping?  Well in some cases employers have had to turn away business because they just do not have enough workers to meet demand. They are also in some cases offering bonuses and incentives to attract more workers. Wages in the private sector are up about 3.5 percent from a year ago. And in the leisure and hospitality sector which is especially hungry for workers right now wages have gone up about 7 in the last year. You know thanks in part to a more generous government safety net workers do not necessarily have to jump at the first job opportunity that comes along. So employers are in a way competing in some ways against that safety net. As far as the White House economist Cecilia Rouse is concerned though that increased worker bargaining power is a feature not a bug.  Employers are having to increase wages provide better working conditions. They are offering bonuses in order to attract workers. What it is saying is that workers have choices and that is a good thing.  Now some employers are starting to acknowledge they have to do better. They cannot just take it for granted that when they hang out the help wanted sign workers are going to come running.  Of course not all employers are the same. So which industries are seeing the biggest swings in employment?  Once again bars and restaurants were at the top of the list. They accounted for more than 20 of all the job gains last month. Hotels and recreation centers were also staffing up. Retailers were adding jobs. But there is a shift now from early in the pandemic. Now it is clothing stores that are hiring not grocery stores. So we are dressing up and going out. We are not doing as much home cooking. Factories added 15000 jobs last month. That is been held in check by the semiconductor shortage that is been plaguing automakers. Factories are also having to compete now with other industries for workers. A couple of encouraging signs - the U.S. added 25000 child care jobs last month and also a lot of jobs related to in-person schooling. And both of those should make it easier for parents who have been busy looking after their kids to find jobs in the months to come.  And as we said the economy's not fully recovered. So far the U.S. has about 7 out of 10 of the jobs that were lost during the pandemic. What - when should we expect to get the rest back?  Well if hiring continued at the pace it was in June it would take about eight more months. It could happen faster if more people come into the workforce. That could happen this fall when more schools reopen and when the enhanced unemployment benefits are set to run out nationwide. Forecasters at the Congressional Budget Office said they think we will be back to pre-pandemic levels of employment by the middle of next year. That is about two years sooner than they were predicting in February. And there are a number of things driving that improved outlook - aggressive federal spending the much-improved public health picture and stronger spending by consumers many of whom saved up a lot of money during lockdown and now they are ready to celebrate.  NPR's Scott Horsley with some good news. Thanks Scott.  You are welcome. 