 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. Stocks took another big slide today. The Dow Jones Industrials and the SP 500 had their biggest point losses in more than a year and a half. The slide began yesterday when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the Fed could begin dialing back its economic stimulus later this year. NPR's John Ydstie joins us now. And John the stock indexes were down more than 1 percent yesterday more than 2 percent today. What is going on here?  Well Robert investors and traders are saying that the market is still digesting the Fed's message that it will begin dialing back its stimulus because it looks like the economy is strong enough to get along without it. So one of the calculations that investors are making is whether the Fed is right and the economy is strong enough to move ahead with dwindling Fed support. I think today we have seen that a lot of investors have concluded it is not and so they are betting the economy may slow. That would hurt company profits which are the foundation of stock prices so those investors decided it is time to sell.  But in fact Bernanke said yesterday that if the economy does not slow down then the Fed will not end its support.  Yes he did. But the market players kind of ignored that. They do not do nuance very well much to the chairman's frustration. But there is another factor here besides economic growth  the Fed is currently pumping 85 billion a month into the financial system through its bond purchases and trillions of dollars over the past five years. A lot of that money has found a home in the stock market and helped push the indexes up to record highs. So now if the Fed starts dialing back those cash injections - tapering is the current market term - can high stock prices be supported? Well many investors believe they cannot so they are selling now. In fact some folks are calling it the taper tantrum.   And also presumably if the Fed were not buying up all the bonds in the country then interest rates might go up and the bond market would be more attractive.  That is right.  We have seen some big market declines in recent months but investors always seem to decide the next day or a couple of days later that there are now bargains to be had and prices go back up. This could happen again this time?  You know it is hard to tell. I think it is true that the U.S. economy is on firmer footing than it is been for a while. Housing is recovering. State and local governments are in a much better shape. The economy is weathering the federal budget cuts of the sequester better than many had expected. Chairman Bernanke pointed all this out yesterday. But globally things are still dicey. Europe remains in recession. There are continued signs of slowing growth in China. In fact there was another report to that effect today and that played a role in the stock market's big slide. The problem is if China's growth slows it hurts the profits for U.S. exporters.  Even so though it does seem ironic on its face that what has set off this two-day decline is essentially a fairly positive message from the Fed chairman.  You know it is. But I think the market is weighing how much they believe they depend on these injections and how much they could get along without the training wheels and just a strong economy.  Thank you John.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's John Ydstie talking about another rough day on Wall Street. 