 This month federal regulators fined Wells Fargo 185 million dollars for opening checking and credit card accounts on behalf of customers who had no idea that was happening. The bank has promised to try to make restitution which is a lot harder than it sounds. One big question is how to compensate people whose credit scores were hurt by what the bank did. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  Regulators say that over a five-year period some two million credit card and deposit accounts were opened that may not have been authorized by the bank's customers. And though no one knows for sure it is almost certain that the accounts had a big impact on customer's credit scores. For one thing each time a credit card is issued to a consumer it is noted on that person's credit report. And that is just the beginning of the potential problems. Chi Chi Wu is a staff attorney at the National Consumer Law Center.  If that account had an annual fee the consumer does not know about this account. They do not pay the annual fee. So now the consumer has these late payments showing up on their credit report. And that is pretty damaging.  In some cases Wells Fargo employees would transfer funds into the new accounts from one of the customers' existing accounts. That could result in late fees or fines for insufficient funds. Ira Rheingold executive director of the National Association of Consumer Advocates says that would have a direct impact on someone's credit score.  You may not have qualified for a mortgage or you might have been dinged by you know getting charged a little higher interest rate because of what was reported wrongly on your credit report.  But the potential impact goes beyond the customers' finances. These days credit scores are routinely checked by potential landlords by employers even by cell phone companies. Wu says someone who has racked up too many overdraft fees because of unauthorized accounts may have trouble getting another checking account.  Once something affects a consumer's credit report and credit score it has the potential to have a lot of impact across the consumer's entire economic life.  At last week's Senate Banking Committee hearing Democrat Jon Tester of Montana warned Wells Fargo's CEO about what was at stake.   I am telling you that if information was sent into the credit bureaus because of these falsely open accounts. The impacts on this are far far far more than the fees or fines that could be associated with that.  Wells Fargo is already contacting customers to find out whether they wanted the accounts opened in their names and it is promised to do right by those who were hurt. But unwinding the damage will not be easy. Again Ira Rheingold...  What happened to the consumer who the employer looked at their credit report and did not give him a job because they saw they had all these credit cards open? How do you figure that out?  Likewise he says how does Wells Fargo calculate how much it owes someone who had to pay a higher mortgage rate because of the inaccurate information it sent to the credit bureau? It would mean contacting the person's lender and trying to determine why it charged the interest rate it did and that would require a lot of detective work. Wells Fargo says it wants to make good by its customers but figuring out how to do that will be a tall task. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 