 So far this year there have been nearly 30 congressional hearings on financial regulatory reform - a lot of talk and not a lot of action. The White House issued its own overhaul plan back in June. Central to it the Federal Reserve would be the primary overseer of financial risk. There are lots of critics of that including the smaller regulatory agencies that would lose power or even cease to exist. The administration is trying to reign in those dissenters but so far unsuccessfully. NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports.  The same people sitting before the Senate committee on banking housing and urban affairs had days earlier been summoned to the Washington equivalent of the principal's office. On Friday Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner unleashed an expletive-laced tirade on the country's top financial regulators. According to the Wall Street Journal he was angry that their disagreement with some aspects of the financial overhaul could possibly derail reform efforts altogether. For Republicans this bit of news was like red meat. Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee asked the panel to verify the newspaper's report.  Generally speaking did it capture the essence of the attitude in the meeting?   FDIC Chair Sheila Bair demurred leaving John Dugan the Comptroller of the Currency to shift uncomfortably in his seat. Mr.  I - Senator it was a candid conversation about institutions I mean our agency's different views on the different subjects and I Sen.  It was a generally fair article. Mr.  There must - a lot of it was true. Sen.  Okay. So here's  If Geithner hoped his lecture would quell dissent it did not turn out that way. Regulators reiterated their misgivings with the administration's plan. Bair who heads the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation told the committee she supports much of the administration's plan including the creation of a body to regulate consumer financial products. But she said consolidating regulation under the Fed comes with its own risks. Ms.  I think if you have a single-monopoly regulator there can be - that contributes to regulatory laxities as opposed to having competition among regulators.  Bair's assessment runs directly counter to one of the administration's main points. It argues that by strengthening the Fed's ability to oversee all risk in the financial system that can help shut down loopholes that help some financial regulations escape regulatory scrutiny. But given that that plan would take power away from some of the smaller agencies Montana Democrat Jon Tester noted that Bair and Dugan might be on the defensive.  Taking off your hat is your individual department leaders because I know turf does play a role. I mean if somebody said I am going to dissolve your farm I would be a little upset with it. But just tell me how we can get these gaps closed without doing something like this and why this would not be a good idea.  On this count the panelists appeared to find agreement. You need uniform standards so banks cannot go shopping for the most lenient regulation. Daniel Tarullo is on the board of governors of the Federal Reserve. He also said today's economy is global and far-reaching so ensuring financial stability across the system would require a supervisor over the major institutions. Ranking member Richard Shelby from Alabama among others pointed out the Fed already had much of that authority even before last year's financial crisis. It simply failed to employ it. Tarullo a newcomer to the Fed did not deny this. Mr.  I really do believe there is plenty of blame to go around everywhere but I do not honestly think that all roads lead to the Fed on this. I mean Bear Stearns  Well which do not lead to the Mr.  Well I would say  Tarullo said that many places had failed and that is why the Fed and everyone else needs to change. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 