 Think about the way you shop for groceries. Would you buy food at a steep discount if it had a shorter shelf life? That is a question being put to the test at a new store in Boston. It opened today with shelves full of surplus and aging food. Curt Nickisch of member station WBUR talked with the first customers sniffing out the produce.  The nonprofit grocery store is in the low- to middle-income neighborhood of Dorchester called The Daily Table. It is selling canned vegetables two for a dollar one dozen eggs - 99 cents. Potatoes are 49 cents a pound.  That is good. It is cheap - everything good.  Noemi Sosa  marvels at the prices that for Boston are phenomenally low. The reason - most of the stock is donated by food wholesalers and markets. It either did not sell or it is surplus.  As you can see right here we got a pile of bananas at 29 cents a pound. They are Chiquita bananas. There is no little black spots on them. Those probably have another three or four days before you start to go banana bread.  That is Doug Rauch the former president of supermarket chain Trader Joe's who was frustrated by the amount of nutritious food that went into dumpsters just because it is nearing its sell-by date. Meanwhile millions of people do not eat very well but Rauch had to fight the critics who said he was just dumping food rejected by rich people on the poor.  It' Checking out with the cashier customer Manuel Goncalves  admits he surveyed the expiration dates before putting food in his basket.  I looked around and I saw the date. I saw the food  back and I felt comfortable enough to come back and buy as much as I can. How much are we?  Thirty-forty-six.  Oh that is it? Wow.  For just over 30 he walks out with what looks like enough groceries to feed his family for a week. Besides selling staples Daily Table is also cooking up prepared meals on a rotating menu.  The recipes have to change every day because the donations change every day.  Head kitchen chef Ismail Samad says even though the food is not as new as what is in your local supermarket that does not mean it is bad.  The top of the kale might be getting a little light green. We cut that off and saute it up.  Samad hopes customers in Dorchester eat it up. If they do founder Doug Rauch wants to expand this model to other cities across the country. For NPR News Curt Nickisch in Boston. 