 If you go to the movies this week you might find yourself sitting in a sold-out show of Dawn Of The Planet Of The Apes the summer's latest blockbuster. Or you might be sitting in a nearly empty theater down the hall watching something far less popular. Well here's the thing - the ticket price to the blockbuster is exactly the same as the less popular movie. Jacob Goldstein from our Planet Money team wondered why.  Think about airline tickets. If a flight is not selling well you are probably going to get a deal. If there is a flight everybody wants to get on you are going to pay more. This is called variable pricing. In the past decade technology has made it much easier to do. And among other businesses major league baseball teams have started using variable pricing in a big way. It used to be maybe 10 for a bleacher seat and say 100 bucks to sit behind home plate. Today the price of a ticket is not just about where you are sitting. The price of the ticket is based on...  The pitcher the opposing team the day of the week the time of the year the playoff implications.  ...This is Barry Kahn. He runs a company called Qcue that helps sports teams do variable pricing. And he is not done with that list of things that affect baseball ticket prices.  To how the building's selling or even other events that are competing in town.  Kahn says this works great. And yet the movie industry for some reason puts the same price tag on every seat.  I mean the fact that almost every movie - and that ranges from flops to blockbusters that ranges from opening night to it is been in the theaters for three months - is basically a single price is crazy.  So I asked Kahn how would it work if movie theaters varied their prices? In a world where movie prices are based on demand - you know this part is coming - you are going to pay more to see Dawn Of The Planet Of The Apes on opening night.  You know when you see a movie that has a line at the door when you actually cannot get to see that movie at that theater I mean if you have run out of seats in that theater the theater should be charging more.  Kahn said he could easily imagine say 20 for a hot new movie. And he said if you are the only theater in town showing that movie and you have sold out most of the theater in advance then maybe you can go big.  You know maybe it is 75 bucks maybe it is 100 bucks for those last four seats. I could not imagine doing this across the entire theater but I could imagine that if you four seats left.  There is a flipside. Kahn says tickets to flops could be much cheaper. In fact they might even be free - at least free with an asterisk.  Some comedy clubs I feel like are good example of this where there might be no cover but there is a two drink minimum. Could you do something like that? Where maybe you do not even - you do not even charge to go in - but you have to at least go purchase two things from the concession stand.  Knocking a few bucks off when a movie's not selling charging a few bucks more for the hot new movie - that all seems at least plausible so why has not it happened in the real world? To find out I called up Byron Berkley who owns a small chain of movie theaters in Texas and is on the board of the National Association of Theater Owners. He says cutting the price for an unpopular movie could send the signal that the movie might not be worth seeing at any price.  We do not want to give the public the impression that any of the movies that we play are stinkers. We do not want to be part of setting a value on the movie.  And he says if he tried to raise prices for a blockbuster there would be angry townspeople with pitchforks outside the theater or something like that. So. that is going to happen either. Even if Berkley did want to start experimenting with prices there is one other big thing that will stand in his way - the movie studios. Berkley like every other theater owner has to negotiate with the studios for every single movie he gets. And these negotiations can get tense.  We are in bed together but you know we kick each other often times during the night.  This tension between the theaters and the studios turns out to be a big part of the reason every movie is the same price. All those millions of dollars the studio spends on previews and posters and TV ads for a big new movie all that goes out the window the minute a moviegoer sees that a ticket to The Lone Ranger is on sale for a buck fifty. Berkley pointed out that theaters do cut prices for matinees they charge more for 3-D movies for IMAX. The only thing you cannot do he says is change the price based on the movie itself.  That seems to be - invalid. It is - it is one of those - one of those things that you do not mess with I guess. I do not know . Tradition. I do not know what it is .  Jacob Goldstein. NPR News. 