 Michigan has an apple problem on its hands. It is the country's third-largest grower of apples after New York and Washington. The Michigan apples will soon be in short supply. The problem is not the summer drought. It is a killing freeze that came late in April. Now it is harvest time statewide and growers are picking only 10 to 15 percent of their normal crop. NPR's Noah Adams sent this report from an apple region in west Michigan known as The Ridge.  Standing on a hillside overlooking thousands of healthy but mostly barren trees the Michigan State University Extension agent takes a sip of coffee and a deep breath thinking about last April.  This spring 2012 is going to be probably one for the record books.  Amy Irish-Brown lives right here on The Ridge and remembers the start of all this. It was last October - very mild weather on into the winter mostly rain not snow. And then in March it got up to the 80s close to 90.  That mild winter no frost in the ground and as soon as that warm weather came and lasted for a whole week the trees just started growing.  Buds appeared blossoms even tiny five-millimeter apples.  Here on The Ridge we made it until about the end of April. April 27th was a cold morning. We had some spots that got down to 24 22 in some of these really low cold areas.  The region called The Ridge is in the western part of the state near Lake Michigan. Actually it is a series of ridges some 800 feet high. About 65 percent of the entire Michigan crop comes from The Ridge.  My name is Joe Rasch. I have been basically a apple grower full-time since '84. And I would say we are two degrees from disaster most springs. And this year it caught up with us.  Joe Rasch has orchards on several farms on The Ridge. The April night when it started to get so cold he took a nap and then got in his truck at midnight.  I was all over our farms. I have got seven of the big - you see those wind machines down there up on a pole?  Mm-hmm.  And they rotate every five minutes and that is what we were doing all that night is making sure the machines were running and watching the helicopters fly around. And people were burning hay bales and everything else. But I do not try to make supplemental heat. I just do not know what you can do to heat up acres of countryside.  The Apple harvest this year for Joe Rasch he figures is less than 10 percent of his usual crop. Abel Banderas is Joe's foreman.  We usually have like 60 70 workers. This year we have got 20 - big difference.  Right so the ones that you cannot use what do they do?  I heard they went different states to work. Hopefully next year we have a better season and they come back.   About 75 apple growers on The Ridge and nearby take their fruit to Jack Brown Produce.  As the fruit comes out of the washing and drying operation it is being singulated onto six lanes of this Durand-Wayland grater that we have here. There is a camera for each lane. And as the fruit is...  On this sorting line Gala apples go into three-pound bags.   The company president is John Schaefer and we go sit in the lunchroom so he can outline the challenge ahead and it is tough. A 15 percent harvest means the packing house will shut down for much of the year to come.  We are normally an 11-month of the year operation. We will start packing when harvest starts about mid-August and we will generally go into the following July. This year I think it is going to be about the first of November when we finish.  No apples means no jobs. And the growers as well without apples being sold from storage will not have anymore money coming in until the 2013 harvest.  The little goats are always the highlight. People love to go in there and hold them. Are not they cute?   These baby goats are one-week-old at Schwallier's Country Basket Farm Market. Judy and Phil Schwallier are the owners. They will have cider and doughnuts a corn maze but no U-Pick apples this time. So years from now when the stories are told about the 2012 freeze and the harvest on The Ridge in west Michigan here' they started naming the apples.  When we found our first apple we gave it Alice. And then we found our second - just like the hurricanes we found our second one we gave it Brian and the third one Camille. And we got up to Rachel. We found in other words about 20 apples.   That is how short they are. There is none out there.  The value of the missing apples - Michigan State puts that figure at 110 million - that would have been wholesale money to the growers. But the people you talk to on The Ridge they all say next year the 2013 crop that is going to be a great one. The trees are resting and gathering strength. Noah Adams NPR News. 