 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  But tucked in among the battles of divided government there was a glimmer of bipartisanship. As NPR's Andrea Seabrook reports it happened at a meeting of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction the so-called supercommittee.  But today somehow some way all of that was short-circuited by the man who runs the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office Doug Elmendorf. He immediately dispensed with the question of blame and laid out the options for the supercommittee.  Putting the federal budget on a sustainable path will require significant changes in spending policies significant changes in tax policies or both.  At one point Arizona Republican Senator Jon Kyl suggested that the government might raise money by tackling Medicare fraud or by selling public lands.  Will you work with us to try to help us identify the potential policy that could result in on a cost benefit analysis significant savings if we were to implement it?  Yes. We certainly will but can I just also caution. I am not against working with you on any issues that you want us to work with you on but there is no evidence that suggests that this sort of effort can represent a large share of the 1.2 trillion or 1.5 trillion in savings for this committee.  Trillions with a T he reminded them. Another argument Elmendorf short-circuited is about timing. Generally these days Republicans argue Congress should cut spending now to fix the budget. Democrats want to increase spending now to spur growth in the economy. Elmendorf's solution?  Cut taxes or increase spending in the near term but over the medium and longer term move in the opposite direction and cut spending or raise taxes.  That very idea slashes across partisan boundaries. Do what Democrats want then do what the GOP wants. He even had a solution for Republicans worried that their phase could be put off. Write their part into the law now Elmendorf said.  If specific changes are enacted into law this year then I think there is a much greater chance that they will take effect when the time comes. Then if what is enacted into law this year is simply a set of objectives for total amounts of spending or total amounts of taxes or other sorts of benchmarks.  So it turns out the supercommittee members might have a superhero at their disposal a man who can bend steel or at least the political equivalent that is if they choose to listen to him. Andrea Seabrook NPR News the Capitol. 