 Since August 2008 state and local governments have cut 242000 jobs and that number is expected to grow with many states facing massive deficits. This public sector drag on the recovery could hardly come at a worse time just as the private sector is starting to eke out some growth. NPR's Tamara Keith reports from Atlantic City where 20 police officers were laid off last month.  Robert Mooney grew up in Atlantic City and says he decided to become a police officer when he was a small kid.  My best friend was killed when I was younger and it kind of motivated me. I always thought about it.  He finally reached his goal three years ago. But then last month he had to turn in his gun and badge. Mooney was among the 20 Atlantic City police officers laid off. Ofc.  You are a police officer you take care of people all of a sudden all that is gone. So your identity is tarnished.  In total 39 city workers were laid off in what Mayor Lorenzo Langford is describing as the first round. The city has requested state permission for another 93 layoffs later this year. Mr.  It is never easy. We are talking about people's livelihoods you know. Things are tough out here. But at the same time there are certain mandates we have to come into compliance with. And so you have to do what you have to do.  One of those mandates  balancing the city's budget. At the moment Langford says there is an 11 million deficit. Mr.  The city of Atlantic City has been caught betwixt and between as the old timers used to say in the midst of shrinking revenues at the same we have had increased expenses.  Now city leaders say the unions could have given up more. And police officers say they are being unfairly targeted by the mayor. And maybe that is what you would expect from Atlantic City with its famous boardwalk and infamous history of public corruption. But when it comes to budget problems Atlantic City is just one of the bunch. Mr.  We are starting to see more of it around the country and it is not just police and firemen it is teachers as well.  Jon Shure is at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities a group that is been pushing for Congress to give more aid to states. He says the revenue picture is starting to improve  only slightly though. The problem is stimulus funds that help state and local governments through the last couple of years are running out. Mr.  So you turn off that tap and it sounds like productive belt tightening but really it threatens the recovery and makes the quality of life worse for people.  This may sound like a whole lot of hyperbole but even Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress state and local government layoffs are having an impact. Mr.  They are still in a cutting mode and seem likely to cut several hundred thousand jobs going forward. So that is a drag on the economy no question about it.  In his report to Congress Bernanke said these layoffs  more than 200000 in the last two years are among the things slowing the recovery. But Brian Riedl a research fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation says it does not make economic sense to send more federal money to help state and local governments. He says what we are experiencing now is just a normal part of the boom and bust cycle of government spending. Mr.  During booms money flies in and states run huge surpluses. During recessions revenues plummet and they often have to lay off a lot of people.  Which means there are a whole lot of people out there like recently laid off Atlantic City police officer Troy Maven Sr. Mr. TROY MAVEN SR.  I bought a house right when I went into the academy. Like right now it is tough. Like I do not know what I am going to do. Trying to make ends meet it is just horrible.  He never thought he would be in this position. He never thought the city would lay off police officers. But it did. And so have a lot of other cities forced by a soft economy to make difficult choices. Tamara Keith NPR News. 