 Cities throughout the world see the tech industry as key to their future including cities in China. China's now trying to move from manufacturing into high-tech and service industries. And as NPR's Anthony Kuhn reports that has created an opportunity for one of its poorest provinces.  Every year for the past three years southwest China's Guizhou province has put on a huge international expo to highlight its new role as a big data hub. Dell Qualcomm and other tech firms have booths here. Guizhou is landlocked and mountainous and its economy ranks 25th out of 31 Chinese provinces. But it picked big data to make the most of certain natural advantages.   It is blessed with a special climate. The average annual temperature here is only 59 Fahrenheit.  That is Ray Chan in charge of big data projects for Foxconn the Taiwanese electronics company that makes iPhones Kindles PlayStations and other gadgets in China. He says big data is the key to Foxconn's strategy to upgrade its business.   We got our start in manufacturing but we are actually transforming ourselves into a service company.  As a matter of fact China's government wants all of China's industries to upgrade with the help of new technologies such as cloud computing networked appliances and eventually artificial intelligence. That requires analyzing huge amounts of data to make companies more efficient and storing that data on servers. And that is where Guizhou's climate comes in. There is a cutting-edge example of it about an hour outside the provincial capital. So here I am at the Foxconn Green-Tunnel Data Center. What they have done is they set up a sort of wind tunnel in the space between two mountains. And in the tunnel they have got 6000 data servers. And the wind flows through this tunnel at about 2 to 3 meters per second. It saves them a lot of money on electricity and cooling costs. Companies in Guizhou are not just collecting big data on businesses. They are collecting it on people in order to improve urban services and education. Xia Yiping is co-founder of the bike-sharing firm Mobike. Riders use a smartphone app to locate and unlock their bikes which are equipped with tracking devices. Xia says all this generates a lot of useful data.  So we use this data to improve our product experience. And secondly we use the data to dispatch and redistribute the bicycle based on the user  requirements.  But privacy advocates are concerned that the rise of big data could empower Big Brother. So I asked Xia Yiping... Are you worried that big data could make it easier to have too much surveillance of citizens?  I think that the government will actually realize that. And actually they are drafting a lot of the legislations around that to protect our private information.  Last month China's new cybersecurity law came into effect. It bans companies from selling users' personal data to third parties. Chen Gang is the Communist Party secretary of the provincial capital Guiyang. He says big data has not only fired up the city's economy but also kept its environment clean and its society orderly.   Through the use of big data there is been an obvious improvement in public safety. We have protected the good guys and punished the criminal elements.  That big data he adds comes from an abundance of surveillance cameras on the city's streets. Anthony Kuhn NPR News Guiyang.  