 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. Climate change is predicted to be a negative overall for agriculture. As we heard on this program yesterday it could even threaten corn production in the U.S. corn belt. But as NPR's John Ydstie reports there are some benefits to climate change. In North Dakota conditions are now better for raising corn and production is going up.  When I was growing up in Wolford North Dakota up near the Canadian border wheat was king. It had been the dominant crop since the prairie was first plowed in the late 1800s. So it was kind of strange to go back this summer and find Larry Slaubaugh a local farmer filling his 18-wheeler with corn.  We load in the front and in the back because with corn you cannot load that whole thing. It would be way to heavy.  Twenty-five years ago it is very likely the river of grain flowing out of this steel grain bin up the auger into Larry's truck would have been wheat. In fact it likely would have been durum wheat the variety used to make most pasta.  This was the durum triangle. But there is hardly anybody raises durum in this country anymore. And it used to be all durum back when you was around here. That is what it was - durum. Because of a change in the weather pattern the durum area moved west rather than right where we are standing. This was durum.  Durum was largely phased out in this area in the mid-1990s when a disease called scab which thrives in damp conditions caused crop failures. Dan Selvig who farms with his brother a little northwest of the Slaubaughs says his family farm was hit.  I remember dad saying that there is a few years there you know they had scab and rust and yeah pretty much go no crops. I think the weather has something to do with it. Like today it is really humid. Wheat really hates humidity.  That is one reason the Selvigs have moved into corn. Larry Slaubaugh who is 70 years old now and farms with his son and grandson says there is no doubt it is gotten wetter around here in the past 20 years.  Generally you know in North Dakota you would cry for rain more than you would cry because you got too much. But then the wet seasons came along here in '93 and the pattern is really changed.  North Dakota's assistant state climatologist Daryl Ritchison says rainfall here is two to three inches greater on average over the past two decades.  And of course that is the average over that time period. There is been years where of course we have had literally eight or 10 inches above average.  That may not sound like a lot but it is a big change from the semi-arid conditions that prevailed in the previous 60 years. Because of a warming trend the growing season here has also increased two to three days a year in the last couple of decades and by two weeks over the past century. Ritchison says the added warmth and moisture have helped make corn a successful crop in North Dakota.  Especially the increase in moisture has allowed for better yields and more profit in corn than say if we had some of the lesser moisture we had in the '70s and the '80s.  Corn and soybeans which also like moisture now cover about 15 percent of North Dakota croplands says Ritchison. And the number of acres keeps expanding. The Slaubaugh farm is a prime example of corn's advance.  Ten years ago we probably would not have any.  And how many are you planting this year?  Oh at least 1500 acres.  Changes in weather patterns are not the only reason for the move to corn. The crop is also more lucrative. Corn produces much bigger yields per acre than wheat. And Greg Mitchell a seed dealer in Rolla North Dakota says corn's success in the state has been helped by better-engineered corn varieties that can mature faster - in just over 70 days as opposed to 85 days in some older varieties.  To me it is got way more to do with the genetics - the earlier maturity than anything the climate's got to do with it.  But Mitchell also acknowledges corn thrives in North Dakota's current wetter warmer conditions. Wheat is still the dominant crop in North Dakota and corn a distant runner-up. But changes in climate and markets have produced an historic event on the Selvig farm this year.  This year we do not even have wheat on the farm. It is the first time ever that I am sure this farm's never had wheat.  The first time since Selvig's great-grandfather Karl plowed up the prairie here more than a century ago. John Ydstie NPR News. 