 So why did the Cash-for-Clunker fund dry up so quickly and did it boost car sales? Gary Dilts is going to help answer those questions for us. He is in Detroit where he is senior vice president of Global Automotives at the big market research firm J.D. Power. Welcome to the program Mr. Dilts. Mr.  Yeah. Hi Robert. Nice to hear from you.  1 billion at 3500-4500 per sale assumes something around 250000 car sales. Mr. Dilts how does that number compare with what the car companies were doing or what they might have been doing in the month of July without the Cash-for-Clunkers program? Mr.  You know in terms of incrementality we are again having a look at how much of that was really back-loaded business that found its way you know when this program was announced. We think of the 250000 - about 40000 of it is probably topside business. We are also not certain how much halo business may be coming into the market you know from people that are just curiously looking.  Halo business? Mr.  Yeah right halo business. In other words people that are curiously coming in to find out if this program apply to them. They end up in a showroom. The find some - a vehicle they like and they end up driving home in it even without the help of the government.  Could even be an inefficient fuel vehicle but they are are on the lots that they buy the car there. Mr.  It is - a lot of good product out there and a lot of people have not seen it for a long time.  So you think about 40000 sales for the month might be attributable to Cash-for-Clunkers? Mr.  Well in terms of incrementality yeah. We think the billing obviously is going to be around 250000. We think of that about 40000 units -probably going to be you know business that the auto industry would not have seen this year.  And to put that in the context of the entire car market nowadays we figure it is running at about 10 million new vehicles sales retail per year. Mr.  Yeah. We look at the 2009 model year at about 10 million units. Again that is down from 12.6 million prior year.  We would expect to see even at the level of 10 million which is not great 700000 new car sales 800000 per month something like that. Mr.  Yeah. It does not quite work that way. The seasonality it does not work that way. But I mean it is going to be close to a million-unit-car month here in July. It is the way we expect it to shake out which will be a little bit less about a 100000 units less than it was last year in July.  So in a word I mean the Cash-for-Clunkers by your standards a success or not such a big deal? Mr.  You know I would give it an A for initiative. I think the execution of it they are going to have to put these kind of - this program on a calendar rather than on a checkbook basis so that the market knows when the program begins and when it ends so that they can execute more efficiently against it.  What does that mean exactly? You are saying that if people do not know exactly when the program is in effect or how long the money will last then it is more difficult to sell cars to people and Mr.  Well you could probably - this is the end of the month and you have 20000 car dealers out there today with contracts that they are not certain whether there is money behind this Clunker program or not. So how do you finish your transaction with a customer if you are not certain that the government checkbook is still standing behind you? You got a 4500 commitment. Do you make it or not?  Let us say I am a car dealer and there is no Cash-for-Clunker program. How good a trade-in offer can I make and still hope to make money on the new car sale? Mr.  Well I mean if they are driving into the dealership it is already got some significant value if it is you know functioning so we - it is a couple of 3000 at the worst that a dealer can put on a trade here. And again that is the way they did the math to calculate the value here of 3500 to 4500 on the incentives.  They are setting that value beyond the range of what a dealer could typically offer somebody for a car that is still running. Mr.  Yeah. They have to or otherwise there is no incremental value. You are no lift to the consumer. So it is got to be on average a little better than what they can get in the way of a trade.  Do you think that programs like this can actually change people's tastes in what kind of cars they are going to buy or just bring out the people who are more interested in fuel-efficient cars and get them to the dealership more quickly than it will get people Mr.  You know both. I think it brought some curiosity for sure. The shopping over the last couple of weekends has been pretty aggressive and for sure it is got people looking at MPG as part of the equation not just price. So I think it is good for the industry and certainly good for the environment to be heading in this direction.  Mr. Dilts thanks a lot for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you.  That is Gary Dilts Senior Vice President of Global Automotives at J.D. Power the market research firm. He spoke to us from Detroit. 