 There is an annual debate in the U.S. over the song of the summer. The consensus this year seemed to be Butter by Korean pop group BTS or at least it was until Butter was replaced by Permission To Dance also by BTS. Stacey Vanek Smith host of our podcast The Indicator From Planet Money looked into the band that has become a global economic force creating jobs billions in revenue even moving the needle on South Korea's GDP.  Tamar Herman is a reporter for the South China Morning Post and author of  Blood Sweat  Tears. She says as big as having a song of the summer is - much less two songs of the summer - this is like a blip for BTS which has been on a streak of success that is almost hard to fathom.  They are just so big. You cannot just look at BTS and be like ah yes this is just the same cloth reshaped. No it is a brand-new cloth.  BTS fans are devoted. In the last couple of years they started bringing in so much money the South Korean government decided to try and measure the economic impact of the band. Park Chan-Wook is head of cultural industry research at the Korea Culture and Tourism Institute.   We have some tools that can help us make estimates from the Bank of Korea which lets us see the impact of sales growth spilling out to other industries.  An online concert held by BTS during the pandemic brought in more than 70 million in ticket and merchandise sales. But like Park Chan-Wook says there is a major ripple effect. BTS's popularity is fueling tourism to Korea study of the Korean language interest in Korean movies television fashion and food. All told BTS is bringing in an estimated 5 billion a year to South Korea. That is around half a percent of the country's entire economy.   The influence impact of fandoms are huge and started to spread globally with the success of BTS.  BTS fans are known as A.R.M.Y. and there are huge groups of A.R.M.Y. in the Philippines Indonesia Brazil and The Indicator. Michael He is our intern and he is a huge BTS fan. Wait did you learn Korean?  I am terrible at Korean but...  Wait you learned Korean for BTS?  I learned Korean from their songs.  This is not unusual according to journalist Tamar Herman. She says many of BTS's fans A.R.M.Y. they connect with the band and with each other through the study of these songs.  Literally like a linguistics class - so this word means this thing but it also can relate to this situation in Korea and history.  And fans respond by buying everything BTS touches. And BTS is touching a lot of stuff. The band has not been shy about brand partnerships. They have collaborated with Samsung Galaxy on a BTS phone with FILA on a sportswear collection with Hyundai on the Palisade model that ended up in six-month backorders with Baskin-Robbins Coca-Cola Louis Vuitton and McDonald's on a special Happy Meal. And in every case everything sold out. Stacey Vanek Smith NPR News. 