 In the New York Times this morning we read a story about love and baseball. We' a man named Jeffrey Quick age 69 is putting up for auction a small collection of memorabilia. The items including an old gray uniform a wallet and a signed baseball come from one of the game' Lou Gehrig. But it is how these items came into Mr. Quick's family more than half a century ago that gets us to the heart of the matter. And we are joined now by Jeffrey Quick who lives in New Jersey. Welcome to the program Mr. Quick.  Thank you.  First I want you to tell me about your mother and how she met Lou Gehrig.  She was introduced by a mutual friend of the family introduced her either to Lou or Lou's parents Mom and Pop Gehrig Christina Gehrig and everyone knew here as Mom Gehrig.  And how would you characterize their relationship? How did they get to know one another?  Well she from what I understand she did date him some. She never spoke that much about it. I do not really have a lot of detail about what they did when they were dating. My mom was pretty young at the time. Regardless of what happened with my mom and Lou there was a lasting and I would say even perhaps a loving relationship between my mom and his family.  Can I ask you about that? Because Lou Gehrig's mother in particular was said to have a say sometimes in the people that Lou Gehrig would bring home and decide to date. He was a bit shy with the ladies. He lived with his mother until he was 30 years and she sometimes vetoed the few women that he did bring home. Do you know if she initially vetoed your mother when they started dating?  It could have been vetoed by Mom. Perhaps Mom Gehrig thought just not right for marrying my son but I really like this person 'ecause she obviously liked my mom because the relationship lasted for years and years. It is a mystery and it will forever remain a mystery because as I mentioned my mom just never disclosed that much about that aspect of a relationship with the Gehrig family - that is between my mother and Lou.  So your family had a longstanding relationship with the Gehrig family and the New York Times in its coverage today has a photograph of you. You were born after Lou Gehrig had died. But in this photograph you are four you are playing in a washtub and Christina Gehrig Mom Gehrig is looking on and she is smiling at you. And she is smiling I mean from the viewer's perspective she looks like she is smiling at you like you are the grandchild that she never had.  It probably was a bond there. Perhaps she did look at like that as the grandchild she never had. That picture by the way was taken up in Bushkill Pennsylvania just on the banks of the Delaware River. My mom and dad had a very small vacation place there. It was pretty rustic.  So Mr. Quick let us talk about this memorabilia. How was it then that it passed on to your family?  Some of it may have even passed to my mom before Mom Gehrig passed away. But when she passed away in the early 1950s her estate was left to my mom and one other lady.  Were there any letters or anything else that tell us a bit more about Lou Gehrig the man?  I have a Christmas card that he sent to my mom. It was just as I recall it was just signed. I am guessing if there were letters - and there probably were some types of communications. For whatever reason I do not know whether my mom destroyed them but they did not survive. And it is a little bit consistent with her not having said much at least about you know her relationship with him.  Well Mr. Quick it is been a pleasure to talk to you. Thanks so much for sharing your memories and telling us more about this memorabilia.  Well it is my pleasure and I am happy to be on the program.  We have been talking to Jeffrey Quick. He is putting up for auction a small but valuable collection of items that Lou Gehrig's mother Christina Gehrig gave to his mother Ruth. 