 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Noah Adams. Last Friday you will recall we heard about 216000 jobs disappearing that is what the Labor Department said. Some people were encouraged saying the number could have been higher. We thought we would take a look here on Labor Day itself at one product still being made in the U.S. in a factory still running three shifts. It is the KitchenAid stand mixer. This is the big heavy one 200 and up an investment both in money and in your counter space.  It may be surprising to learn that this mixer and all the KitchenAids all over the world they all come from Greenville Ohio. That is a small town in West Ohio pretty close to Indiana. The KitchenAid factory has been open there since 1941. I went out to take a look but I stopped first in downtown Greenville where the company has a retail store. It is called the KitchenAid Experience Center. You will see every model of mixer and blender in every color. People come for cooking demonstrations. Sometimes customers arrive as if on a pilgrimage walking through the front door in amazement. Downstairs there is a mixer museum featuring especially now a cobalt blue K5A model that was owned and used and signed by Julia Child. Bon appetit she inscribed on the bowl. Fifty or so other vintage mixers have been donated and here's an example of the very first. Store manager Gloria Keller-Brinley shows me the 1919 Model H. Ms.  It stands oh I would say relatively 24 26 inches high and it weighs approximately 65 pounds and they were made four per day and the average cost was 189 which was equivalent to about 2000 today.  That was 1919. Ten years before that an engineer Herbert Johnson had invented the mixer idea for bakeries. He made the Hobart. It held 80 quarts and then came the five-quart countertop concept. Ms.  They did not know what to name it  the CEO and the vice president and the engineers and one wife was particular on it by saying it was the best kitchen aid she is ever had  I do not care what you call it.  The KitchenAid factory is on the outskirts of town a modern building long and low and vast. You cannot see it all at once. About 700 people work here making the mixers and the KitchenAid blenders as well.  Parts come in from all over and leave together in boxes ready for the stores. KitchenAid's Sarah Erisman walks me through the factory. Ms.  You can see that they are loading parts onto the line. They are getting ready to go into the paint room. The parts that they are loading right now are called pedestals. They are going to be going through a wash a rinse and a dry before it actually goes into the paint booth to get painted and we are going to go in and see a little bit more of that.   empire red onyx black pearl metallic licorice. White is the one I can name it is just the white  the pedestals we saw getting set to ride through the paint room and especially the part that KitchenAid refers to as the wire whip. I call it a whisk. They are being made here by Sherry Wopplehorse. Ms.  What you see Sherry doing here looks like that is the five-quart wire whip. She is putting the wires in her shank pressing on her pedal there and it actually crimps that wire into the shank and locks it in there.  You did that in less than a minute. Ms.  We have to do 600 in eight hours. So yeah we have to do them pretty quick. Mr.  I have been doing this job for almost 17 years.  Tony Mikesell local guy four years in the Army back home to KitchenAid. He has a couple of lathes at his work station. And during his shift each day Tony will process 5000 parts. Mr.  I machine down the hub gear that is in the nose of the mixer for all the attachments and stuff to go into and also face off the back of a couple gears so they mesh correctly in the transmission housing.  The KitchenAid factory seems to run without effort. A worker will pick up a part that has just arrived and where it makes sense robotic machines do even faster and more precise work.  how many stand mixers does the company make here? KitchenAid will not say really but Sarah Erisman offers an estimate. Ms.  During our busy season we have been known to build around 7000 units a day mixers a day but that is during our really high-peak busy season. I am not sure where our schedule is right now. It just depends on demand you know? With the economy being like it is you know it could be a little lower than that.  Late summertime brings the Great Darke County Fair permanent fairgrounds right there in Greenville.   KitchenAid is a big company now owned by Whirlpool. Whirlpool has annual sales of 20 billion. A tiny portion goes to help out the local county fair. KitchenAid sponsors the 4-H Club Teen Bake-a-Rama.   Four young people are in the competition using hand mixers to whip up brownie butter hoping for the judges' delight.  This one looks great. This one looks great. This one fell apart. Either he underbaked it or he tried to pull it out of the pan too soon.  Ms.  Our first place goes to Sara Carroll.  Mr.  Thank you all contestants for competing and we ask that you stay after for pictures. Thank you.   Alex Neikamp hands out the prizes. Neikamp is 17. Usually he enters the contest. This year he is helping run it. He has been baking since grade school growing up with a KitchenAid mixer on the counter in his family's kitchen. Mr.  That is probably my favorite utensil in my kitchen. I especially like to make lemon meringue pie on it because you can make your crust your filling and your meringue all in one.  So in the years to come when you are out on your own with your own kitchen what is going to happen to that mixer? You are not going to get to take it with you. Mr.  Well I am hoping when I get married that I will get one for a wedding present.  Alex Neikamp talking with us at the Great Darke County Fair. He is a 4-H Club member a home baker who will someday own a KitchenAid stand mixer made in his home county the small town of Greenville Ohio.  I am Noah Adams. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 