 Prices at the gas station and at the grocery store keep going up in the United States. That is putting a strain on people's pocketbooks even as wages are rising too. The Labor Department said today that inflation in July matched its highest level in nearly 13 years though there are some signs that the spike in prices may be peaking. Well for more we have got NPR's Scott Horsley here. Hey Scott.  Good afternoon.  All right where are we seeing these big price increases?  Gasoline prices are up really sharply more than 40 over the last year. Rents are also going up and food keeps getting more expensive especially food that you eat outside your home. The price of restaurant meals jumped almost a full percentage point between June and July. That is the sharpest one-month increase in four decades.  And why? Do we know why prices are rising so fast?  Yeah we have seen a really strong rebound in consumer demand during the uneven recovery from the pandemic recession and supply has just not kept up so that is a recipe for rising prices. Now as you mentioned this may be the high watermark for inflation. Prices in July were up 5.4 from a year ago. That is the same as June which was the highest since 2008. But the price increase between June and July was only about half as big as the month before so we might see inflation cooling off in the months to come. Some of the prices we have been watching carefully actually came down last month.  Oh that is interesting. Like what? What - where are prices dropping?  Well the price of rental cars and airline tickets came down in July. The price of used cars also appears to be leveling off. All of those had been big drivers of inflation earlier in the year and the fact they are no longer pushing the price index up supports the argument that both the Biden administration and the Federal Reserve have been making that a lot of these inflationary pressures are temporary. They are the result of you know pandemic shortages in things like computer chips that eventually will work themselves out. Now that said the Biden administration is taking pains to let people know they are on top of this and that they are watching inflation very closely because there is a lot at stake you know for family budgets.  Yeah.  The average wage increase over the last year was about 4. So if inflation is 5.4 that completely wipes that out.  I got to ask you Scott as a former White House correspondent about the politics here. You said the Biden administration is at pains to be seen as being on top of this. They are worried about - what? - political liability for the president?  Yeah it is a potential liability if these prices prove not to be temporary. Certainly Republicans are trying to score some points here. They are trying to blame higher inflation on the big spending bills that have been pushed by the president and by congressional Democrats. And there are some signs that the White House is feeling that heat especially when it comes to gas prices which often have an oversized psychological impact. The president acknowledged this afternoon that gas prices are higher than he would like even if they are not as high as they were back in say 2014.   Today gas prices are lower than they were early in this decade but they are still high enough to create a pinch on working families.  So the administration kind of put on a show today urging OPEC and its allies to boost crude oil production faster than they have already promised to do so. And the White House is also calling on the Federal Trade Commission to look into whether there are some other forces that might be pushing gasoline prices up. I have to say though these are the kind of things politicians often do when gas prices are in the headlines and they are really more symbolic gestures than anything else.  NPR's Scott Horsley. Thank you Scott.  You are welcome.  