 One barometer of how the U.S. economy is faring is the volume of goods being shipped across the country. That is the business of CSX a freight rail company. They are predicting record earnings this year. They are also planning to hire at a time when a lot of businesses are not. So we asked the CEO of CSX Michael Ward for his read of what is going on in the economy.  Volumes are up slightly and most markets are showing some signs of recovery. So we are encouraged it is going to be a continued growth but we think it is going to be a gradual recovery of the economy.  And as a freight rail company I wonder if you can give us some examples of how recent downturns in certain sectors of the economy have affected your business.  Well we touch pretty much almost all parts of the economy. We move a lot of automobiles a lot of coal lumber steel chemicals consumer products. So when the economy goes down some segments are not that impacted. For instance we move a lot of product to farmers who grow chickens and pigs. And of course during a recession people still eat. So probably about 35 to 40 percent of our business is very sensitive to the economy.  So during the downturn in that sector that is sensitive to the downturn where did you see business drop off?  Well we saw a very dramatic reduction in shipments of automobiles as well as products that will support that - metals chemicals plastics - as well as the intermodal business which is where we take a truck off the highway and put it onto a rail car. Obviously with the consumer demand down that business as well was impacted.  The CSX just posted a really strong second quarter. Revenue was up 13 percent to 3 billion. Earnings were up 28 percent. How much of those gains can you trace to exports to demand coming from overseas?  Well we participate in the export market two ways. One is exporting products. There is a great demand by China and Brazil for coal. That business for us two years ago was 22 million. It was 30 million tons last year. And we expect it to be over 40 million tons this year. So there is a great demand for that coal overseas. When the intermodal business which is containers of consumer products coming into the United States we saw that grow about 10 to 11 percent last year and it is up about 6 or 7 percent this year.  Mr. Ward you are also running a company that has a workforce that is grown smaller over the last few years. You had about 30000 workers in 2010. Back in 2006 you had 36000. So about 17 percent fewer workers now. Why is that?  Well two things. One obviously when the business is down then we need less people to handle the trains. In addition we are always as every business must do getting more productive and finding ways to do things more smartly. But as we look at this year we are going to be hiring about 4000. About 3000 of those are to cover our expected attrition but 1000 are there for projected future growth and for some technology deployments we will be doing.  So a net gain of 1000 still will not put you back to where you were say in 2007?  No. I do not think we will get to those levels for quite a few years.  What do you think that says for the overall employment picture in the country if a company that is doing as well as yours is financially is not getting back to previous levels?  Well Melissa I guess I view that a little bit differently. I think there is going to be 4000 people that at the end of this year are going to be feeling pretty good about what their life is. You know our jobs - we are 90 percent unionized company. And a high school graduate can come to our company and make 75 to 100000 a year in an industry that the jobs are not very exportable overseas. So I think those 4000 people are going to feel very very good about our company and where the economy is heading.  You mentioned earlier Mr. Ward that you have seen that workers have been able to be more productive even though you have fewer of them. I wonder if the lesson here for a lot of companies is we have been able to make more money with fewer workers. We have seen productivity go up. It has not hurt our bottom line and the fact it is helped and maybe we do not see a need to change. Maybe hiring will not bounce back.  Well again I think we are going to continue hiring at our company. It will be some time before we get back to the 36000 you have referenced. But I think if you look over the next three to four years we will be hiring more people than we are seeing in our attrition.  Michael Ward thanks very much for talking with us.  My pleasure Melissa.  Michael Ward is the CEO of the freight rail company CSX.  CSX is an NPR underwriter. 