 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. With five days before the debt ceiling deadline  There is no compromise. The House is to vote shortly on Speaker John Boehner's two-step plan authorizing borrowing for a few more months. GOP leaders have likely rounded up enough votes to pass that measure and send it onto the Senate but Democratic leaders there say the Boehner step is dead on arrival. NPR's David Welna reports on what is likely to happen next.  While his bill to raise the debt ceiling and cut spending was still being debated in the House chamber Speaker John Boehner held a news conference this afternoon. His bill he predicted would pass and be sent over to the Senate.  When the House takes action today the United States Senate will have no more excuses for inaction.  On the Senate floor Majority Leader Harry Reid seemed to agree with Boehner that the speaker's bill would pass the House but Reid also noted that all 53 members of the Senate's Democratic caucus had sent a letter to Boehner to inform him they would not vote for his bill.  As soon as the House completes its vote tonight or this afternoon the Senate will move to take up that message that they sent to us. It will be defeated. They know that. The American people now should understand that clearly.  Reid called the speaker's proposal to increase the debt ceiling by 900 billion a Band-Aid approach which would necessitate another debt ceiling ordeal and default scare within six months. But Republican leader Mitch McConnell portrayed the choice facing the Senate as either passing the Boehner bill now or sending the government into default.  So what is worse Mr. President a default now or a potential default six months down the road? Because if those 53 Senate Democrats follow through on their threat to filibuster the House bill that is what they will be doing. They will be ensuring default now rather than working with us to prevent it later.  Senate Democrats are rallying behind the bill their majority leader has proposed which would raised the debt ceiling enough so it would not have to be dealt with again until after next year's elections but it too lacks enough votes to move forward. New York Democrat Chuck Schumer says the only solution is a bipartisan compromise.  The idea that we will take Boehner's bill and pass it or take Boehner's bill and tweak it and pass it is not what is going to happen. And so we would urge Speaker Boehner and all of our Republican colleagues to sit down and negotiate.  Reid insists his bill already is a compromise since its debt ceiling increase is offset only by spending cuts while it contains none of the tax revenue Democrats have sought to reduce deficits. Still Reid seems ready to amend that bill.  I am happy to talk to any of my Republican colleagues - I have talked to several of them. I am happy to continue to listen to reasonable suggestions to make the Senate compromise legislation even better.  One possible compromise would reduce the amount by which Reid's bill would raise the debt ceiling so that issue would have to be revisited possibly a year from now. The Senate will likely reject Boehner's bill in a procedural vote this evening showing it cannot pass. Reid's bill could then be taken up as the last resort. But to advance there would have to be bipartisan support meaning a deal would have to be struck. White House spokesman Jay Carney is still optimistic.  Congress has a way of waiting until the last minute to do the right thing. We remain confident that it will.  The hanging question is whether the markets still share that confidence. David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 