 Today U.S. stocks started to make back some of Monday's big losses early but that rally fizzled by the end of trading. The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished down more than 200 points. That is on top of the 588 points it loss yesterday.  Big swings in the market can feel like a crisis but economists say what we are experiencing is actually a correction. Gillian Tett is the U.S. managing editor for the Financial Times. I asked her to explain the distinction between a crisis and a correction.  In this case I think correction really means an adjustment if you like because the reality is stock prices have been very pumped up by superfluous monetary policy in the last couple of years. They have got way ahead of where the economic fundamentals are. And so in a sense what is happened the last week or two is that stock prices have really come back into line - back into gravity if you like - with where the real economy is.  What would look different if it were in fact a crisis rather than a correction?  Well in a crisis two things tend to happen. Firstly you have a dramatic level of almost irrational panic where people try and sell everything they have got. And secondly it tends to spread out and affect the real economy and companies and consumers lose confidence and stop buying things or investing in things or creating jobs. And thankfully that has not happened yet.  What we saw over the last couple of days in the stock market did not look like a gradual orderly course correction. It was kind of all over the map. What is going on there?  Well there is certainly been some really wild dramatic gyrations in stock prices and they are up and down. When you look at what is happened to the stock price of things like Apple it is astonishing. Now there seems to be about three things going on here. Firstly the markets are very thin right now because it is August and you have a lot of the seasoned traders away on vacation. You have got less volume than anywhere in the markets. And so there is a long tradition of people overreacting during this vacation season. Secondly you have got a lot of very confusing noise coming out about the real economy. I mean the workings of the Chinese economy are about as mysterious as the workings of subprime mortgage CDOs back in 2007. People just do not know what to make of the news coming from the other side of the world. And thirdly though you have also got a change in the structure of markets because in recent years we have seeing a big increase in the amount of computer-driven trading high-frequency trading algorithm trading call it what you like. And that appears to be making stock prices a lot more volatile as well.  I am intrigued. You said this may be linked to the fact that it is August and people are on vacation. Do you mean that we are seeing like the junior varsity team executing trades and that is why there is been so much volatility?   Well I am sure the junior varsity team feels like they have grown up 20 years in the last three or four days. But the reality is that you know many of the most seasoned and senior traders tend to go on vacation this time of year. And yes we can all remain in contact with our iPhones and our iPads and whatever else while we are on the beaches. But traditionally you have had a lot of pretty wild market movements in the month of August historically.  If we look at the U.S. economy right now apart from the stock market unemployment is down new home construction is up things look relatively good. Do you expect the sort of frightening events of stocks in the last couple of days to spread to other parts of the economy?  Well the U.S. economy right now if you were grading it at college or high school is probably a B-plus in the sense that yes things are certainly recovering. But it is not dazzling. The one thing that is really clear however is that it is a lot better than the stock market crash over the last few days would actually indicate. Whether it spreads to the rest of the economy depends right now on what happens to that elusive issue of competence. Remember the economy is not just about statistics. They are also about psychology. And if people start to feel so nervous about the future that consumers do not go out and buy that new washing machine or companies do not go out and create jobs then yes it certainly will start to spread to the real economy. And we have seen plenty of cases in history where that is happened before. But if investors simply shrug their shoulders and say well you know what? The stock markets are crazy. You know we do not really trust the way they are operating but hey it does not affect us then actually this week's squall will end up seeming like a huge summer thunderstorm rather than a significant change in the season. We just do not know as of yet. But an awful lot depends as well on what happens next with the Federal Reserve and whether they raise rates or not.  That is Gillian Tett U.S. managing editor for the Financial Times. Thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you. 