 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block in Washington.  And I am Madeleine Brand in California. Starting today shoppers interested in a General Motors car can either go to their local dealer or they can go online to eBay. GM and eBay have teamed up in the hopes of jumpstarting sales. So far this is just available here in California. W.J. Hennigan is a reporter for the Los Angeles Times and he wrote about the plan in today's paper. And tell me how it would work exactly. Would you just go online to eBay and bid on a car like you would for anything else? Mr. W.J.  Not exactly. I mean they really have two options there that you can either negotiate a price like you would normally on a car lot. You can go in there and say all right well I will bid this much on a car. Or you can go back and forth with the dealer or you can choose to go with a fixed buy-it-now price which is a price that is set below normal sticker price.  And if you haggle would you get even less than that? Mr.  Well it is up to the dealer really. I mean things might work out in your favor. But the good thing is about being online is that you know you always have that option to back out where you might feel pressured out on a car lot.  Right. So you can say you know never mind I will just go with the sticker price. Mr.  Yeah. I mean it is one of those things where it is easy to opt out. The best thing about this is - what GM's really pushing is that everything's done on your own terms. A lot of the times when you try to go purchase a car you feel a lot of pressure. But with this GM is saying you know it is all on your own terms.  But this is a big purchase and most people like to actually sit in the car that they are going to buy right? Mr.  That is a good point. A lot of the times this is the second-biggest purchase that you are going to make in the course of your life and you know people do not really want to leave that up to chance. They like to look the salesman in the eye they like to shake his hand but this does not really rule that out. You could go out on the car lot see the car that you are going to buy talk to a salesman or two but there is no added pressure of having to buy there. You can go back at home see the same car on eBay and make the purchase there.  So why is this a good thing for the dealers? Mr.  At first it was kind of a scare card. I mean dealers that I talked with they were a bit apprehensive about the whole thing. You know GM had already axed hundreds of dealers and they thought maybe this was a way that GM was going to go directly to the consumer. But now that the details have been revealed they are excited about it. They think that it is opening up new avenues opening up to a broader audience and they have their chance to maybe show their wares to consumers that do not live in the neighborhood but live miles and miles away.  And this is only available in California. How come? Mr.  That is right. It is a trial period here in California until September 8. GM said we wanted to do this in California because they are more of a tech savvy community they are trendsetting but also the numbers are pretty telling as well. GM only has about 13 percent of the market share here in California. And you know looking at the bigger picture they have a 19 percent share of the market nationwide.  So this is only being unveiled in California but what is the long-term strategy for GM? Will they unveil it in other states? Mr.  I mean this is an interesting time for GM right? I mean they are coming out of bankruptcy. They are trying to stake out a new kind of image for themselves. People that I spoke with over at GM they said that this has big potential that they want to unroll this nationally. But you know we are going to have to see what happens here in California first.  Well thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you.  That is W.J. Hennigan. He is a reporter for the Los Angeles Times. And his article on GM selling cars on eBay online is in today's paper. 