 There is a saying going around these days - the future of work is now. The pandemic has turned millions of us into virtual workers. And there is another trend that is been less obvious - permanent full-time jobs going freelance. That is severing ties between companies and employees as NPR's Uri Berliner reports.  Diana Gill was having her early morning coffee at her New York apartment when the messages started coming in from the boss's office. Can you get on a call this morning?  With the president. And then of course I knew what that meant.  She was being laid off from her job as executive editor at Tor Books. Gill was given a month's notice and she had plenty of projects to keep her occupied. So the new reality did not register at first. But then...  It was May and I was like well there is re's certainly not jobs right this minute.  That is when it sank in. She was a freelancer. Her 24-year career as an editor at New York's top publishers was over. Now editing book-length manuscripts is a specialized skill so Gill's been pretty busy so far. But she was thrown into the much less secure world of freelancing where the money and gigs are unpredictable.  Freelancing is feast or famine so kind of comes in waves. And I know at some point there'ill be less of it. So I am looking at that and sort of what to do and how to sort of make it work as a business.  Making it work as a business becoming a free agent - that is the challenge predicament - however you want to phrase it - facing many Americans.  The percentage increases are alarmingly big.  That is Julia Pollak labor economist with the job site ZipRecruiter. ZipRecruiter tracks the proportion of job postings that are temporary rather than permanent and it is gone up dramatically during the pandemic.  The share of temporary job postings in communications for example was only 12 prior to COVID. It jumped up to 48 in April and May. And though it is come down a bit it is still very very high.  A similar story in fields like HR and advertising.  In marketing the jump was from about 8 historically to 28 post-COVID.  Part of this shift is predictable. When the economy is shaky and the outlook uncertain employers are reluctant to hire permanent workers. And now tools like Zoom are creating more flexibility in the workplace. White-collar jobs can be done anytime anyplace by any capable person with a phone and a laptop. Work is untethered from the office so workers do not build personal connections with their bosses.  I think now you know lots of companies are starting to think like hey maybe we do not really need these full-time employees.  Stephanie Caudle is the founder of Black Girl Group a freelance staffing agency.  I think now you know these companies are starting to see like hey having these folks at home is saving me money. Hey I do not see those people so do I really need to be giving them benefits?  As the recession dragged on the ax has fallen on a wide range of workers. And some workplace experts say a lot more white-collar jobs will be done by contractors probably forever. But starting a freelance career after getting laid off is not something people do by choice says Caudle.  You almost begin to freelance out of necessity. You do not have time to you know cry or be down or depressed because you lost your job. You still have bills to pay and those bills do not care that you lost your job.  The freelance economy was enormous before the pandemic and has grown even larger during it. Two million freelancers have been added in just the past year. That is according to the freelancing platform Upwork. Upwork's study claims a majority of freelancers who have started since the pandemic say no amount of money would convince them to take a traditional job. A very different picture emerges on the job site ZipRecruiter. Here's the company's labor economist Julia Pollak.  The vast majority - 90 of active ZipRecruiter job seekers - are looking for a permanent full-time position.  A job with benefits like health care a job with a sense of purpose and mission where you make real connections with your co-workers. Pollak says that is what most workers want. Uri Berliner NPR News. 