 President Trump is ratcheting up the pressure on China over trade. The administration today threatened to raise proposed tariffs on Chinese imports from 10 percent to 25 percent. That would turn the ongoing tensions between Washington and Beijing into a full-fledged trade war. To help us explain what is unfolding we are joined now by NPR's Jim Zarroli. Hey Jim.  Hi.  So how did the White House explain why it is doing this?  Well the United States has already threatened to impose tariffs of 10 percent on 200 billion-worth of Chinese imports. And senior administration officials said today that President Trump has told U.S. trade representative Robert Lighthizer to consider raising the tariffs to 25 percent. This is not a done deal. There is going to be a comment period for instance before this would go through. But clearly there is this effort now to show that the administration is not going to back down. It is going to step up the pressure and sort of take this as far as they need...  Right.  ...It needs to.  So how is China responding so far?  Well when news of this threat of a tariff increase came out today Beijing issued a statement - a strong statement saying it would not give in to blackmail and threats. And U.S. officials say this has been China's response all along. They - the administration says it is been in talks with China. Over and over again it is asked it to address concerns about its unfair trade practices. The U.S. wants China to act more on a free-market basis stop preventing U.S. companies that want to do business there from entering the market. China has not addressed these concerns the administration says. And in fact it is retaliated with tariffs of its own. The administration says they have essentially doubled down on their unfair practices and there is no sign now that they are going to reverse course.  So this constant one-upping I mean what does this say about the current state of the talks between U.S. - the U.S. and China?  Well I - it says the countries are - they are playing sort of a big game of chicken. I spoke today to Michael Camunez who was in the Commerce Department in the Obama administration working on trade issues. And he says he thinks this has the potential to really escalate now.  I think it is a very serious situation. I think it would be a very complicated thing to get out of because I do not see an easy remedy once we go down this path.  And Camunez says one of the problems is that the Trump administration still seems to be talking out of both sides of its mouth. You have Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin who has been trying to come to some kind of deal with China to resolve these issues. But there are others in the administration people like Robert Lighthizer the U.S. trade representative who - who is often seemed to be on a different page.  There are folks in the White House that really think that the best approach to China is a very aggressive one. And that position clearly seems to be prevailing.  So what does this all ultimately mean for American consumers? How are they going to feel all this?  Well it is not clear. I mean one of the interesting things that is happened here is that as these trade tensions have played out really all over the world we have seen what often happens which is that people - investors turn to safe havens like U.S. Treasury debt like the dollar. And the Chinese currency has actually weakened. So on the one hand you have - and that tends to make the cost of Chinese imports to the United States lower. So on the one hand you have these tariffs that are supposed to increase the cost of imports. But the Chinese currency is weakening so the costs are going down. So in general we cannot really tell what the impact is yet. But I think it is safe to say a lot of businesses and a lot - especially a lot of farmers are very nervous about where this is going.  That is NPR's Jim Zarroli. Thank you Jim.  You are welcome.  