 Despite the rise of these ride-sharing companies the traditional rental car industry is fighting back. And they might be winning. Here's NPR's Sonari Glinton.  I am standing in the middle of a rental car parking lot. But it does not look like you would imagine a rental car parking lot.  Well it is filled with Rolls-Royces Bentleys Ferraris and Mercedes.  OK and tell me your name.  My name is Logan Hoffcamp and I work for Beverly Hills Rent-A-Car. You say I need a Lamborghini. I need it now. We will have it to you as soon as possible.  How much is a Lamborghini going to run me?  Our Lamborghinis start anywhere from 1400 a day up to 3500.  A day.  Per day yes.  1400 a day - I can buy a car.  When you are dealing with a half-million-dollar car that is the rate.  Ride-hailing services surpassed rental car companies with business travelers this year. But revenues from rental car companies have grown. What explains this seeming paradox? Well rental car companies have broken free of the airports. It is not just luxury car rentals but the rental car giants expanded their branches into urban and suburban areas. Hoffcamp says you can get TVs or a case of diapers delivered to your door - why not a car?  The idea that you can get anything you know exactly what you want delivered in two hours is what we do at Beverly Hills Rent-A-Car is we go for that exact product. That is where everything else needs to move. I think that is where the industry needs to go. I mean that is that exact vehicle to your door exactly what you want. And I think that is something Hertz does not offer.  The rental car business is alive and well.  Jeff Foland is with - you guessed it - Hertz.  So for example even in a market like San Francisco where ride sharing is fairly mature we have not seen a market change. And we are renting cars at about the same level today we did a few years ago. And in fact the market continues to grow.  Foland says one of the things that the rental car companies have on their side is experience in a tough part of the business - fleet management.  Hertz has been in the car-sharing space with hundreds of thousand cars and tens of millions of customers for a very long time around the world. We have been in business for almost a hundred years. We know a thing or two about car sharing.  What is exciting to consumers is the whole buyer experience - think apps on your phone versus long lines at the airport. But Alec Gutierrez with Kelley Blue Book says it is the boring stuff like fleet management that makes money for traditional rental companies.  From a cost management perspective the rental car companies are best suited to manage large fleets of vehicles which ultimately allows them to keep costs down.  Gutierrez says the rental car companies make money on the gas the insurance the car washes. They buy cars in bulk. Then they make money renting them. And then they sell them at a profit. Knowing how to move and maintain and make money off the cars - fleet management - Gutierrez says is the future for the car business especially if you are a rental car company.  Because they have the experience in managing large fleets of vehicles negotiating contracts to purchase large fleets of vehicles at cost at scale and ultimately as autonomous vehicles come online and really truly reshape the way we think about car ownership and fleet management it is the rental car companies that are best positioned for long-term success.  The guys at Beverly Hills Rent-A-Car have let me at least sit in a Rolls-Royce Dawn. It costs about 330 thousand and I tell you you cannot get further from the rental car line at the airport than this. Sonari Glinton NPR News Beverly Hills. 