 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Today mortgage giant Fannie Mae announced it made a 10 billion profit this past spring. That is a remarkable turnaround considering the government had to bail out Fannie Mae along with Freddie Mac when the housing bubble burst five years ago. It is certainly good news for taxpayers. It is also good news for homebuyers who count on the two companies to back most of the country's home loans. But not everyone's happy. Some investors in Fannie and Freddie are angry because they are not getting a share of the new profits. NPR's Chris Arnold reports.  The government bailed out a string of companies after the financial crisis -banks automakers. But when it came to Fannie and Freddie the terms of the bailout were different and quite harsh. Basically Fannie and Freddie are stuck under the government's thumb with the U.S. Treasury taking all of their profits.  It is plainly illegal and that is what matters.  That is Matthew McGill a lawyer for some of the investors who are suing the government.  The government never took that position with respect to General Motors or AIG or any of the many dozen banks that the Treasury bailed out in the midst of the financial crisis.  Under the original terms of the bailout back in 2008 Fannie and Freddie were required to pay the Treasury a 10 percent annual dividend on their rescue money. But then home prices started rising and Fannie and Freddie were becoming very profitable again. And that meant that the companies would be making more money every quarter than they were required to pay back to the government. So McGill says the Treasury and regulators last year...  They changed the terms from a 10 percent dividend to every dollar of profit the companies make ever.  From the taxpayers' point of view that might actually sound like a good thing because this move by the government insures that taxpayers get paid back before anybody else. But McGill says that after the bailout investors bought Fannie and Freddie stock or held on to it and they based those decisions on the original language of the bailout. And he says by drastically changing the rules four years later the government overstepped its legal authority.  The government pulled the rug out from under all investors when it changed the rules and seized for itself every dollar of profit Fannie and Freddie ever will earn.  So here are the big overall numbers. In total Fannie and Freddie took a combined 187 billion in bailout money. But estimates are that by next year they will have paid back that full amount. Still under the terms of the bailout all of those payments are like penalty fees or interest. The whole deal is structured so that Fannie and Freddie could never get out of the government's control if Treasury did not want to let them go. So even after they have paid back all of the money that they got in the first place through the bailout they still just have to keep paying.  Just yesterday and today Fannie and Freddie released their quarterly earnings which are a combined 15 billion in three months.  Yeah that is a lot of money.  It is. And the government takes it all.  For its part the Treasury Department said that it is not doing any interviews because of the pending litigation. But in a statement a Treasury official said quote We fully believe that our actions have been lawful and appropriate. And speaking at a recent conference Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said this in response to a question about why the bailout is now structured the way it is.  It was set up in a way to save our financial system and it was set up in a way for taxpayers to get repaid. I think that it has worked.  Critics of the lawsuit say that many of the plaintiffs are just hedge funds trying to siphon money out of Fannie and Freddie and the government. But the plaintiffs are not all hedge funds. Steve Berman is a lawyer in another lawsuit against the Treasury.  One of our clients is a police officers' pension fund thousands of pension funds invested in Freddie and Fannie.  Berman too says that grabbing all the profits and giving the companies no way out amounts to an illegal taking by the government.  And the government just cannot take people's property like that. That is what the Constitution provides you. If you take something you have to compensate.  Meanwhile Fannie and Freddie making all this money again has caught the attention of legislators in Washington. Some are pushing for a bipartisan compromise on what to do with these two giant government-controlled companies that are still propping up the housing market. Chris Arnold NPR News. 