 People in the U.K. are also worried about their economy now that they are leaving the European Union. Many though not all economists are predicting that the country will now enter a recession. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  Before last Thursday the U.K.'s economy appeared to be fairing pretty well. While much of Europe is just emerging from a long period of deflation and recession growth in Britain exceeds 2 percent. Simon Johnson is a professor of entrepreneurship at MIT.  I would hesitate to call it a boom but the economy is certainly considerably more robust than most of their European Union partners.  The Brexit vote changed everything. Almost immediately the British pound fell sharply stocks lost ground and the major credit rating agencies lowered the rating on U.K. government debt. Leaving the EU threatens to knock out one of the underpinnings of British growth. Thirty percent of the U.K.'s economy is made up of exports and almost half of them go to EU countries. Andrew Goodwin is chief U.K. economist at Oxford Economics.  So there are lots of issues about - sort of about how we can actually trade with the EU going forwards if we do not have a formal free-trade agreement.  One of the leaders of the Brexit campaign Nigel Farage says the U.K. faces a recession with or without the EU. The uncertainty has only grown worse because of the political turmoil in Britain and the open question of who will lead it when Prime Minister David Cameron steps down says Simon Johnson.  Nobody quite knows what sort of government's going to come in. And that uncertainty absolutely discourages consumer spending discourages investment so the chance of recession is substantially increased by this.  But Andrew Goodwin is a bit more sanguine at least in the near term. Goodwin says the uncertainty about the U.K.'s future means it will attract less foreign investment and he thinks growth will slow to about 1.4 percent through next year. But he does not think a recession is imminent.  We acknowledge that companies are very nervous and that they will be quite reticent about investing and committing to big investment plans while there is so much uncertainty. However we do not think the impacts on the consumer sector will be quite as large.  For now the U.K. is still part of the EU and at least for a while business will continue as usual says Thomas Simons chief money market economist at Jefferies and Company. Simons says the longer the uncertainty continues the less investment the U.K. will attract. But he also says as long as the EU survives and the U.K. can clarify its legal and political ties to the rest of Europe it could eventually find its footing.  Outside of the EU they will actually have fewer restrictions and regulations that are part of their businesses by people outside of the U.K. So they can make policies that better suit their overall business needs which should be beneficial for the economy in the long run.  But right now there is considerable pessimism about whether that can happen and the financial markets have been reflecting that. The Bank of England is doing what it can to reassure investors. Bank officials are expected to meet next month and cut interest rates. There is not much room to cut since rates are already very low. But doing so could send a message to the markets that officials are at least doing something. Jim Zarroli NPR News. 