 The crisis in Greece is taking a toll on the entire Greek economy because the Greek government has struggled to pay its debts creating an atmosphere of uncertainty. Banks have pretty much stopped lending in the country. Now most businesses can no longer get loans. As NPR's Jim Zarroli reports the problem is forcing Greek businesses to find new ways to survive.  Stellios Boutaris hails from one of Greece's best known wine making dynasties. His family owns the Kir-Yianni vineyard in a picturesque northern village.  an enormous dimly lit space permeated by the smell of red grapes.  Here's the winery. These are all stainless steel tanks.  Nearly every piece of equipment we pass he says is imported.  Cork from Portugal bottles from Italy paper from Turkey. It is crazy. Unfortunately Greeks are very much traders. They are not much producers.  And that is left companies like his in a big bind. Boutaris heads into his sunny office overlooking the hills and settles down on his couch dressed in a crisp monogrammed shirt. Boutaris who studied at Wesleyan in Connecticut has been pushing his industry to modernize. When the crisis began the bottom fell out of the Greek market. Winemakers like Boutaris survived by exporting more with some success. But now Greek banks no longer have money to lend. And foreign banks do not want to do business in the country.  In Greece in general the businesses have collapsed. There is no credit in Greece now. How can you do business without credit you know? The thing has completely completely collapsed.  Because companies cannot get loans they have to pay for everything they buy - all those barrels and bottles and wine vats - in cash.  Now you are squeezed from both sides. Because you have trouble collecting money because some of the wholesalers have gone out of business so it is very very difficult to sell. So you try to get cash from them. Not everybody can afford it. And your suppliers want to be paid in cash. So really the circle has completely broken. It is you know the chain of business is completely broken.  With credit so tight Boutaris has had to delay some projects like building a new wine cellar. It is a far cry from the old days. Before 2008 credit was as easy to get as a suntan in Greece. Olga Panagopoulou and her husband run Conex a canned fruit company in Athens. She says bankers used to call her all the time.  Because sometimes they press us OK take the money take this equipment do this or prepare this or whatever. They beg you over money you know. Eight years before they begged you.  Today the money stream has dried up. It is a huge problem. Conex has a brief window each year to pick and can fruit. And during that period it needs to buy a lot of things like sugar and tin cans and citric acid. But customers tend not to pay right away. So the company borrows money to get by until it is paid. Only now it cannot get a loan.  That means that we have to hurry up to move fast to find the funds to press the clients to pay right away.  The company has also had to press its shareholders for money. Conex has laid off some employees but it cannot afford to lose too many workers during canning season. Panagopoulou insists that companies like Conex can compete on the world market.  But the problem is not to export or to produce. The problem for Greece is to find the funds in order to produce. This is the real problem and the big problem now.  But as long as the economic turmoil drags on lenders are likely to avoid Greece. And even competitive companies will struggle. And with the unemployment rate near 25 percent Greece needs to hold on to all the private sector employers it has. Jim Zarroli NPR News.  