 Officially the recession ended two years ago but that is not reflected in the jobs numbers.   Our economy as a whole just is not producing nearly enough jobs for everybody who is looking.  NPR's Tamara Keith explores why job growth is so stagnant.  Every month there is this exercise where economists and pundits predict the top-line job creation number in the Labor Department's report. This month almost everyone said they thought payrolls would grow by 100000 jobs or more. 30 a.m. the number came out. It was low just 18000.  Oh God I do not believe it was pretty much what I thought.  It was like getting a kick in the stomach. I mean to see almost no jobs created in the month of June was just devastating.  That was Ian Shepherdson of High Frequency Economics and Diane Swonk chief economist at Mesirow Financial. And their reactions were pretty typical. There is a common refrain in economics - one month does not a trend make. But May's jobs report was also weak. So that is two months. Is that a trend?  That is a slowdown. Now you have got to ask yourself why would that happen?  Shepherdson thinks he knows exactly what happened and he says everyone should calm down and take a deep breath.  What happened in the spring well oil prices went up. I mean that is it. It is as simple as that. Oil prices went up. I do not know why people are looking for these more complicated explanations or these end-of-the-world explanations when the real story is staring them in the face every time they go and fill the tank up.  Still Diane Swonk says two tepid months of job creation are a real setback.  The recovery is still extremely fragile. We are still in an uphill battle and it is going to be that way for some time to come.  Ray Meyer of Saint Louis Missouri had been unemployed for more than two years when he started working temp jobs back in March.  I just am finding that these temporary jobs that I am working on tend to treat their temporary employees differently. And I guess because we are disposable.  He used to be a regional manager for a bank. Now he is making about 15 an hour with no benefits and no job security.  If my conviction was strong before to get a permanent job someplace my conviction now is even more strong if possible.  Diane Swonk of Mesirow Financial says we can expect this recovery to be slower and more painful than those in the recent past because it came out of a financial crisis that is crippled the housing industry. She is still optimistic about the economy long term but less so than before these two months of stagnant job growth.  Even as we return to more robust job growth frankly the hurdles are so low what is robust job growth at this stage of the game. It is not enough to make most Americans feel good about this economy.  Tamara Keith NPR News Washington. 