 One thing we' Arcane financial jargon that most of us non-experts might not understand can have a big impact on well us. Today Alex Blumberg and Adam Davidson from our Planet Money team examined one bit of financial jargon that is threatening to grow into another global crisis.  A lot of people when they try to tell a story  I caught a fish Adam and I swear it was bigger than my sister. You should have seen the teeth on this thing.  Now sadly the people who pump up drama they do not tend to work in finance. People in finance seem to have the opposite instinct. They take dramatic things and then use complex jargon to make them sound as boring as possible. Like right now several countries in Europe might be effectively bankrupt. Now that is dramatic.  But finance people this is how they say that. They say sovereign credit spreads in Europe are widening.  Credit spreads in Europe they have widened to record levels over the past couple of months.  They are still above 911 they are above the '81 recession and they are above the '74 recession.  . That is again an indication that credit risk is rising.  That is all footage from CNBC. So what does this mean? Why is it dramatic to say credit spreads are widening?  Here let us demonstrate. Alex why do not you play the role of a financial basket case. You have a horrible credit score you never pay your bills on time you have got lots and lots of debt.  I will try.  Oh you could do it easily I know. And I will be who I am a responsible citizen a great job sterling credit history.  I think that role's going to be a stretch for you.  Not for me. All right let us both apply for the same loan from the same bank. All right action.  Oh man. They lent me this 100 bucks I asked for but I have to pay it back with 30 percent interest.  Yeah that is because you are a financial basket case. They do not trust you. Me on the other hand I got that same 100 loan and they trust me so much I only have to pay 5 percent interest. End scene.  So that difference there between the 5 percent to responsible citizens like Adam and the 30 percent to basket cases like me that is called the credit spread. All right and let us go back and apply this to Europe. Germany right now is the responsible citizen there the Adam if you will. They are in the best financial shape and when they borrow money they pay a low interest rate. But other countries they are seeming more and more like me  Ireland Portugal Spain Greece. It is costing them more and more to borrow money. The interest rates they have to pay are going higher and higher. In other words credit spreads between them and Germany are widening.  Now this week it is not like back in April and May when there were all those terrified newscasts about the imminent collapse of the European economic system. This week instead  Credit spreads across much of Europe have widened.  But that actually means things could well be worse than they were in April and May. There is a real and apparently growing fear that some countries in Europe have not gotten their financial act together and are in more serious trouble than people imagined. If credit spreads widen more we could see an already sick global economy get much sicker.  And this serious  Credit spreads are widening. I am Adam Davidson.  And I am Alex Blumberg NPR News.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 