 Drivers for the ride hailing service Uber stand to get 100 million in a class action settlement with the company. That settlement was called historic when it was reached in April. But now some drivers say the amount it should be higher. They say their lawyer is not fighting hard enough. In the face of all this the lawyer is slashing her fees to prove her good intentions. NPR's Aarti Shahani reports.  The last couple of weeks have not been pretty.  The attorney does not work for our side at all and we reject she represent us at all.  That is driver Adam Shaheen talking about the attorney Shannon Liss-Riordan. We were standing in the lobby of the federal courthouse in San Francisco decompressing after the most recent hearing on the Uber class action. The case was brought by drivers who say they are employees entitled to overtime and other benefits. Uber says they are independent contractors. Driver Mohamed Hajyousif was there too.  I do not want to accept the weak settlement that - you know that lady - she accept for us.  She is been working on this for three years with many many drivers.  Right right but look at the results. After three years she come up with very weak settlement.  Uber's lawyer who would been fighting tooth and nail with her before seemed to be the only person in the courtroom defending the deal they struck up in April. As driver Hajyousif recalls the judge Edward Chen scolded her for it.  He said that she give Uber 99.99 discount.  This 100 million settlement could have been much much more. The judge criticized Liss-Riordan for leaving money on the table. Now other lawyers could always take up the claims for clients who decide to opt out of this payment.  That is true. If they opt out they can litigate. But...  Lawyer Chris Morosoff who represents a Los Angeles driver spells out the but.  But they are going to be litigating on their own and it is very difficult. Their claim's probably you know maybe worth 10000. I am probably not going to do it and neither is any other wage-an-hour employment lawyer in the country to be quite frank.  Which means it is not worth his time.  We had to overcome a lot of hurdles to get to where we got in this case.  This is Shannon Liss-Riordan the lawyer everyone was just criticizing.  This was not easy. This was a very hard-fought case. This has been the hardest fought case of my career.  Liss-Riordan sits down with NPR to explain herself. She is just submitted a notice to the court that if the settlement is approved she would like to reduce her fee by 10 million. That is about half. She wants Uber drivers to know she is not afraid of fighting. She says just a realist. Before she represented them she litigated on behalf of taxicab drivers. She managed to get a quarter billion dollar injunction against Boston Cab. The company appealed. She won. The appealed again.  Everyone thought I was going to win. I thought I was going to win.  Workers and activists were cheering her on.  And then you want to know what happened last spring? Much to my shock and amazement the Massachusetts Supreme Court reversed.  Which means the whole case went away - same thing happened when she fought for Skycap workers in the airline industry. Liss-Riordan repeatedly told the judge in the Uber case hey if you do not like the proposed deal send it to trial I will go to trial. But she is not convinced she would win there. The case would go before a jury in San Francisco a city where she points out...  I cannot walk half a block without overhearing someone on the street talking about Uber. Oh have you called your Uber? Oh where is your Uber? Oh I got to go get an Uber.  Liss-Riordan wants to clear up a misconception. If Uber keeps operating as is does not reclassify drivers as employees even if they are driving full-time and overtime drivers can still sue. Drivers in New York recently filed a suit and she says her settlement does not set a bad precedent for them.  And the future's the future.  OK.  This does not resolve anything for the future. It resolves this particular claim that I have been litigating for the last three years for the past.  Liss-Riordan has asked Uber to match her and also contribute 10 million more to drivers. The company has not responded. The judge has not yet ruled on the proposed settlement.  That was NPR's Aarti Shahani. She is interviewing Uber drivers about their work so if you are a driver and you would like to talk email technpr.org. That is technpr.org. And please include a screenshot of your last weekly earnings statement from your Uber app. 