 There is a gasoline shortage in Florida and it is getting worse. As Hurricane Irma heads towards the state a lot of people are on highways trying to get away from the storm's path. Even those that are staying put are filling their gas tanks to be on the safe side. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  All over Florida today gasoline stations were shut down their empty fuel tanks roped off or covered with plastic bags. Where gas was available long lines of cars waited to fill up. Aaron Izquierdo brought his father's car to a Shell station in Doral today.  It is horrible man. Just yesterday I was in line for about two hours to wait for gas. And then by the time we got to the pump there was no gas.  Irma is following close on the heels of Harvey which hit Texas and Louisiana and shut down a quarter of the nation's refining capacity. But the problem in Florida is not supply. It is demand. James Miller of the Florida Retail Association says usually gasoline companies know where a hurricane is going to hit and can target supplies to that region.  But unfortunately because everyone panicked due to the uncertainty and quite frankly the size of the storm we ended up with shortages in multiple areas of the state.  As a result 40 percent of the filling stations in the Miami area were without fuel today. It was 60 percent in Gainesville. Even in Tampa which is far from the expected landfall more than a third of the stations had no gas. Patrick DeHaan is a senior analyst at the website GasBuddy.  The amount of motorists filling their tank is overwhelming the system. Trucks cannot get to stations fast enough. And at the rack or what some might call a fuel terminal tanker trucks just cannot be loaded as fast as motorists are filling their tanks.  Officials are trying to keep supplies flowing. To keep fuel trucks coming in they have waived restrictions on the number of hours that truck drivers can work and are even giving trucks police escorts. And the White House has lifted rules to allow foreign-flagged ships to bring in fuel. Still it is dicey finding gas. Scott Alderman of Broward County went for a bike ride today.  I happened by a gas station that did not have gas. But a tanker was pulling right in. And like the pied piper there were like 15 20 cars following him.  Alderman has lived through hurricanes before and he knows that if the electricity goes out during the storm it may be days before gas is available again. So as soon as he saw the tanker coming he took action.  I raced home on my bike to tell my wife hey you need to go fill up. And she had about an hour wait within five minutes of me getting home and telling her.  Florida gets almost all of its gasoline through seaports and once they close tonight it will be that much harder to get fuel. But people typically tend to stop driving as much in the aftermath of a big hurricane as they rebuild their lives and supplies should gradually balance out again. Jim Zarroli NPR News.  