 The CEO of Equifax is out. The credit reporting company revealed earlier this month that it suffered one of the worst data breaches in history. As many as 143 million Americans had their personal information stolen. Richard Smith's resignation today was effective immediately. And it comes as investigators continue looking into the company and the entire credit reporting industry more broadly. NPR's Chris Arnold has been following all of this and he joins us now. Hey Chris.  Hi Ailsa.  So with all of these investigators circling the serious implications of the breach the terrible publicity does it feel like this resignation was just bound to happen?  I mean it certainly was not surprising right? I mean this was just such a colossal disaster for this company - and not just for this company. I mean this is echoing throughout the entire credit reporting industry because this was not like oh they got some credit card numbers.  Right.  This was Social Security numbers names birth dates addresses. And then on top of that there were missteps made in the wake of this big hack where people called up and they said hey can you put a freeze on my credit report so that I will know if somebody's trying to open a credit card or borrow money in my name? And then Equifax started to charge people to do that. And they were very upset because...  Right.  ...You know like now they are making money off of this debacle. So the company stopped charging them. One big thing that the company needs to decide now is whether the CEO gets a big multimillion-dollar retirement package after heading out the door.  Were there other signs of problems at Equifax before this whole hack was disclosed?  Not really. And this might raise your eyebrows a bit. So back on August 17 the CEO Richard Smith - he gave this very upbeat talk about how Equifax's bright future. And keep in mind this is several weeks after the company knew about this hack but had not yet made it public.   Our goal financially in the next five years or so is to go from about 4 billion of revenue to 8 billion from a valuation of 20 billion to 40 billion. And to do that we are focused on a couple of things important to us.  And one of those things he went on to explain was that Equifax could become a leader in fraud prevention which in retrospect is a bit stunning right?  Yeah.  So this could obviously raise some questions - the CEO talking up Equifax after the company knew it was about to release this bombshell hack announcement which has since sent the stock price down nearly 30 percent.  And I gather some executives were selling stock well ahead of that announcement.  That is right. According to regulatory filings several senior Equifax executives sold 2 million worth of company stock after the hack took place. Equifax says that the executives had no knowledge of the breach at the time that they sold the shares. But as you would imagine there've been calls for the SEC to investigate that.  So you know Equifax and other credit reporting firms - these are companies that determine your credit score. In other words they affect whether you can borrow money or whether you can get a job. Their entire existence is built on compiling sensitive data. So how does the industry change after all of this?  For years consumer advocates have complained that it is hard for people to see their credit reports. You have got to jump through a bunch of hoops to kind of - it is once a year or something you can see them. Also when you find a mistake it can be very difficult to get the errors fixed. So now the question is does this hack change the landscape? You know now these companies have been compiling all of this private financial information about all of us without our permission. And if it turns out no look they cannot even keep it safe will Congress come together and make them play by a different set of rules? There is a bill in the Senate from Elizabeth Warren. And it is called the Freedom from Equifax Exploitation Act which...  There is a bill named after Equifax now.  Yeah which in this case is not so good. And as you can see from the name at least some lawmakers are very fired up about this.  All right. That is NPR's Chris Arnold. Thank you very much.  Thanks Ailsa. 