 The New York Stock Exchange suspended trading for more than three and a half hours today thanks to what was called a technical problem. Trades were routed to the many different electronic exchanges that now operate so the business of buying and selling stocks went on. But the episode is a big embarrassment for the New York Stock Exchange which over the years has seen a steady decline in its share of trading volume. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  Even before the market opened the New York Stock Exchange sent out a warning that it was having system issues says Eric Hunsader of Nanex which provides financial data to investors. As the morning dragged on Hunsader says there were more signs of trouble. The amount of stock trades handled by the New York Stock Exchange - usually about nine percent of the market total - began to fall.  They were slowly dropping to eight percent seven 45 five four three two one zero.  Hunsader says the problem appears to have been some sort of technical glitch.  45. That was the beginning of some problem. It started - showed up and progressively got worse.  Whatever the cause the NYSE was able to offload most of its trades to other electronic exchanges. And though there were isolated interruptions investors for the most part were able to continue with their trading. But at the New York Stock Exchange which in years past has been a hub of frenzied activity 30 and the digital screens above the floor were suddenly blank. Chris  is an options trader who did not want his last name used because he is not supposed to talk to the press.  They just to give you a heads-up. Cannot trade these products.  are halted and that is it. I called all my customers and said I can still work for you. Just give me your orders and I will trade it on another floor.  The NYSE finally reopened a little after three. The major indexes finished down by less than two percent. The outage was a big black eye for the New York Stock Exchange. In an interview on CNBC Exchange President Tom Farley tried to make the best of the incident noting that investors had been spared any real inconvenience.   We need to make sure that stocks including NYSE-listed stocks can continue to be traded. Fortunately in this instance they can continue to be traded although it is not - it is not a good day. I do not feel good for our customers who are having to deal with the fallout.  Farley said the incident was not due to hacking. Instead it was an internal technical issue. Brad McMillan chief investment officer at Commonwealth Financial Network says the stock market has simply become a lot more complex in recent years. There are more players doing a lot of different kinds of trading.  You have more and more market actors trying to act more and more quickly. At some point there is going to be a glitch and occasionally it is going to be bad enough to shut the whole thing down.  In August 2013 for example a technical glitch actually shut down trading on the NASDAQ Stock Exchange altogether in what was later blamed on a software bug. For three hours traders were unable to buy and sell shares of major companies such as Microsoft and Facebook. This time around McMillan says the market actually survived pretty well.  You can look at this as kind of a live-action stress test of the overall financial system which has actually done quite well.  Disaster was averted but the incident is one more reminder of how complicated the financial markets have become and how much they depend on technology that runs smoothly. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 