 COVID-19 has forced many families to improvise child care. For some it is been like a months-long bring your child to work day. Paul Montanaro runs a pizza shop in the Bronx and that is where his daughter Francesca has been spending most of her days since her school shut down in March. As part of their Hunker Down Diaries series Radio Diaries brings us her story.   Katonah Pizza Pasta please hold. Dad we have someone on line one.  Thank you Frankie . Can I help you?  Hello. I am Francesca Montanaro. 57. I am at my dad's pizza shop Katonah Pizza.  Thank you buddy. Want some plates and napkins for that?  Since my mom's an ICU nurse she is on the front lines and she cannot really watch me. So every day I go to my dad's pizza shop help out making pizza...   OK here it goes. Katonah Pizza Pasta please hold. Right now I am making pizza boxes. Here you go Robert .  Thank you so much.  OK. Sometimes I feel bored mostly because there is nothing really to like do here for like an 11-year-old like me. Like it is not like it is a jungle gym or anything like that. It is a pizza shop. Dad do you have a couple minutes to talk?  Yeah of course.  OK so I am going to just ask you a couple questions. Do you think business is busy or not that busy?  Well with the pandemic I am short-staffed. We have had workers scared to come in. And we have a school right across the street from the pizza shop and I have had a big customer base from that with teachers and school kids. But we have not had that. We have lost all that because of this. Now we are doing trays of food for 30 nurses 40 nurses for the police officers EMS. It is been able to keep my business afloat.  Like when your customers walk in like what are your customers' emotions?  Well they are all different. I have some customers that come in that just look miserable. I mean they come in and they are - you know they are not working. They are stressed out. Some of them have you know sick family members. Some of them have actually lost family members. And then you know you have customers that are just exercising riding bikes. They come in and they just - no big deal and you know we just got to hang in there and do what we got to do.  So now that I am more at the pizza shop does that stress you out more or not?  Well to be honest with you it does stress me out only because I know for a kid your patience is what it is. And sometimes I see that you are bored and you do not know what to do with yourself. But still it is been great. I see you learning the register and you know how to handle money now. And I want you to also know that you are very calming and you are very soothing to me. Having you there in my time of stress or whatever has actually calmed me down because you are built that way.  So the hardest part for me is you are usually busy and I feel like some days I could just sit in the back without you even noticing me.  Well I understand what you are saying. It is what it is right? And - well I do want you to know that sometimes I feel very guilty that you are there with me so many hours because mommy does not come to pick you up until like sometimes seven oclock at night eight oclock at night. And that is probably why I give you more money than I should because I want to make sure that you are happy. And I think that you have handled it very very well. And I just want you to know that I am proud of you for that. Actually I do remember the day that you made your first pizza pie like three weeks ago. And I do remember sometimes you would sit there and you would just watch me for a long time. And you would see how I would work the dough and you see I would put the sauce and the cheese on. And you took that in and you made the perfect pie. It was like perfectly round. I could not believe the amazing crust that you made. Even my pizza guy was like oh my God she is a natural.  Do you think you would want me to take over the pizza shop and run the business?  I would not want you to do what I do only because - I mean I have been doing it for the past 23 years and it is tough. It is not an easy business. And honestly I think what mommy does being a nurse is a lot more important. Whereas I can feed people mommy can save lives. And not to say that I am not intelligent but I see how you are and I see what you can be and I know that that would be a lot more than what I have been in my life and am. And I think that you are going to use that brain and do much better things than what I do.  Yeah.  Hold on a second. How many slices you got buddy?  I got three plain one chicken...  Francesca Montanaro sitting in Katonah Pizza Pasta in the Bronx.  Your total is 17.50. Thank you very much.  Francesca says she is hoping to become a nurse or a psychologist. In the meantime she will be spending her summer at the pizzeria. Her audio diary was produced by Sarah Kate Kramer of Radio Diaries. You can hear more stories from the Hunker Down Diaries series on the Radio Diaries podcast.  