 Japan has the oldest population of any country on Earth. Nearly 27 percent of the people there are 65 or older. And the population as a whole is shrinking which means so is the workforce. Part of the government's solution is to get more older people to keep working and that is not easy in a country where the mandatory retirement age has been 60. NPR's Ina Jaffe covers aging and she went to Japan to see how the country is managing that change.  It is good to feel like you are making a contribution. That is why 67 year old Hiromi Yamamuro is still working at Tokyo-based Sato Holdings. He sells products that are designed to help the environment.   We are developing new products every single day so there is no end to it. Plus the purpose is to create an environmentally friendly world and it is just so much fun.  In Japan staying in the corporate world past 60 is unusual. Yamamuro's says his wife would like him to stay home and his friends who are retired just do not understand him.   They say I must be crazy. How much more are you going to keep working? And they tell me I should do something that I like doing but this is what I like doing.  The Japanese government would like to see more older workers like Yamamuro. A few years ago they passed a law requiring companies to raise the retirement age to 65 but full compliance is not required for another nine years. Sato Holdings is one of the few companies that is open to retaining workers past the age of 65 says Shigeki Egami Sato's head of Human Resources.  From a company point of view this is very important - to provide many options how to work as a company. And at this moment we have around 15 employees working after 65 years old.  Out of a total of how many employees?  Around 1800.  One of the reasons the number of older workers may be so low is that there is not much financial incentive to keep them going. That is because in Japan when employees approached the traditional retirement age of 60 their salaries were cut drastically. In the United States this is called lawsuit material but it is accepted practice in Japan. Professor Atsushi Seike is a labor economist and president of Keio University in Tokyo. He says salary structures need to change so that more older people can stay on the job because if they do not...  Both social security systems and the Japanese economy as a whole would not be sustainable.  It seems contrary to Japan's image as a nation of hardworking industrious people that there are such significant obstacles for older adults who want to keep working. And they do want to. A government survey showed that seven in 10 adults over the age of 60 want to work until they are in their 70s or as long as they are physically able.   That seems to be the plan of a 80-year-old Nenosuke Yamamoto. He repairs and reconditions abandoned bicycles collected in his area of Tokyo.   I feel if I keep on working I might not age as much. I might not have dementia or other sorts of aging issues.  Yamamoto got this job through a public-private partnership called Silver Center Workshops. The jobs are for people past mandatory retirement age. And they are usually part time and low-skill - housecleaning for example or park maintenance. But for Yamamoto repairing bicycles is not a make-do job. It is a cause.   What I want to do is to spread the idea that bicycles are fun. I have always been involved in bicycles workwise whether it is racing or repairing or sales. And I wish more people would understand how much fun that is.  Silver Center jobs only pay about four or 500 a month but Yamamoto says that what is important to him is not the money. It is the chance to keep pursuing his lifelong passion regardless of age. Ina Jaffe NPR News.  