 From NPR News this is ALL THING CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Noah Adams. Beginning today all federal contractors are required to use the government's online E-Verify systems. That is to make sure employees are eligible to work in the U.S. As NPR's Ted Robbins reports the rule finally goes into effect after four delays and an unsuccessful legal challenge by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Valenzuela Drywall a Tucson construction company began using E-Verify more than a year ago even before Arizona required employers to use it to try to cut down on the number of illegal workers in the state. Here' When the company hires someone the new employee fills out an I-9 form and shows two forms of ID - same as before. But instead of calling the Social Security Administration to check the documents payroll manager Anna Romero logs onto the government's E-Verify Web site.  Ms.  You just enter you know last name first name Social Security number date of birth the day they started and it comes right out whether they are authorized to work.  She even says she likes that fact that she can print out the authorization for her records something she could not do before. Ms.  It is simple straightforward. It gives you step-by-step instructions. It is not difficult at all.  Valenzuela Drywall is one of some 145000 employers nationwide using E-Verify. Thirteen states already make its use mandatory. Now it is mandatory nationwide for any company doing work for the federal government. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and some other business associations tried to stop the rule from being implemented. Lynn Shotwell is executive director of the American Council on International Personnel which represents large companies. Her problem is that federal contractors are now required to check not just new employees with E-Verify but all employees. Ms.  If you have 60000 or 100000 employees you know there is a great expense involved in the time and the effort that it takes to re-verify everyone. And that is really our biggest concern.  The rule does give companies 30 days after a contract is awarded to enroll employees. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services administers E-Verify. Spokesman Bill Wright says E-Verify is quicker and more accurate than older methods. Earlier versions were not so accurate. At one point 20 percent of all workers were flagged as illegal. But after years of refining the program Wright says the rate is down to three percent. And less than one-tenth of those are mistakes wrong numbers wrong names rather than illegal workers. Mr.  That basically means 2.8 percent just under three were found to be not authorized to work in the United States.  E-Verify system works that is exactly what it is supposed to do.  Any worker who is flagged has eight working days to resolve the issue. During that time they cannot be fired. E-Verify will flag someone who uses a phony name or Social Security Number. But its weakness is that it does not verify identities of workers who may illegally be using other people's legitimate names or numbers. Lynn Shyotweel again. Ms.  So if someone presents you with false identity documents that are perhaps stolen they could show up as legally authorized to work when in fact they are not.  Bill Wright admits E-Verify is not perfect but he says it is better previous systems. Mr.  You know we are all working to help make the system at least combat a little bit more of the identify theft and identity fraud. But you are right it does not eliminate it.  At Valenzuela Drywall Anna Romero says they had had very few suspicious checks using E-Verify. Some were just a wrong digit in a Social Security number a couple were unauthorized workers. But the reason they have had very few probably has nothing to do with E-Verify it is more the economy. They are just not hiring much these days. Ted Robbins NPR News Tucson. 