 The House plans to hold a series of hearings on Big Tech and the threat of monopoly power. Meanwhile regulators plan to probe four tech giants in particular. The drumbeat to crack down on Facebook Amazon Google and Apple is growing louder here in the U.S. NPR's Aarti Shahani has been following the latest developments. And Aarti to begin it is been a long time - right? - where the American political establishment has been criticized for basically giving tech giants a pass. That does not seem to be the case now. What is going on?  Yeah that is right. The House Judiciary Committee announced yesterday they are going to hold multiple hearings on antitrust issues. So much like we saw lots of investigation and testimony on Russian interference in U.S. elections and the role of Facebook in that lawmakers are turning to look at the economics of Silicon Valley and equity fairness. I would say this shift got a real jump-start with the presidential candidates earlier this year especially Elizabeth Warren calling for the breakup of the largest companies. What is interesting with the House move is that it is bipartisan. In a statement Congressman Doug Collins a Republican from Georgia - he said lawmakers have got to take a look at whether the market remains competitive. I do not think that means he is going to echo Warren's call any time soon though. And it is not just Congress. According to multiple news reports the Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission are going to probe specific companies and they struck a deal to divide up the work. Justice may take Apple and Alphabet - that is the parent company of Google - and the FTC Facebook and Amazon.  What is the thinking behind that division of labor?  So antitrust is a quick label for a long list of concerns. One concern is mergers that make a company way too big. The FTC formed a task force a few months back to look at that. Think Facebook acquiring WhatsApp and Instagram Amazon buying Whole Foods and Audible. So that could be why the FTC is focusing on those two companies. Meanwhile critics have raised questions about what is happening inside the big app stores. Are developers of apps getting a fair deal? Are consumers? So it could be that is why Justice would take Google and Apple.  Aarti how does this compare to the developments in the European Union? They have been at the forefront of the so-called techlash.  Yeah. It is absolutely the case that Europe has acted quicker. They have drafted and passed laws on hate speech. They have leveled multibillion-dollar fines against Google and Apple. But whether or not they are a model of action - well you know that depends on who you ask. I spoke with two lawyers both antitrust experts - one from Paris the other Chicago. The Paris lawyer says listen you Americans fell asleep at the wheel back in the 1980s. You let your antitrust approach focus way too narrowly on one issue. If consumers are getting a bum deal because Facebook is free according to the American approach it cannot be bad. But he said European regulators understand the real problem is competition. When companies get way too big there is no space for startups. Now Randy Picker - he is at the University of Chicago Law School. He thinks the U.S. needs to take a hard look at Big Tech. But he does not want Americans following the European approach even if they have been far more aggressive.  I do not think they have accomplished very much. I do not. They have extracted a bunch of money but have they actually changed competition on the ground in these areas? I do not think so.  He says what might really matter is looking at specific well-defined ways companies have gotten too much power - say over data over industries - and then make them share.  So what can we expect to see in the coming months?  Well I would say years not months. Tech CEOs are going to be sitting in hearings answering hours of questions much like we saw Mark Zuckerberg do last year. Investors are going to keep an eye on this. So stocks will go up and down a lot. And this question of whether tech companies are too big - the outsized role they play in everything we do the fact that one platform can reach you know more than two billion people - that is becoming a mainstream political issue.  That is NPR's Aarti Shahani. Aarti thanks.  Thank you. 