 It is the end of an era in Chicago. Trading on pork belly futures ended last Friday. So we thought we would put together a little explainer for those of you wondering there was a market for pork bellies in the first place. And we begin with a movie.    Oh William my boy.   Right on time. Come in. Come in.  That is Trading Places from 1983. Here Eddie Murphy is ushered into a conference room ready for his new job as a commodities trader. At the table in front of him is coffee eggs bacon and toast.    No thanks guys. I already had breakfast this morning.  But this is not breakfast. This is money because these are commodities.    Now what are commodities? Commodities are agricultural products like coffee that you had for breakfast wheat which is used to make bread pork bellies which is used to make bacon - which you might find in a bacon and lettuce and tomato sandwich.  And as NPR's Zoe Chace reports the bacon lettuce and tomato sandwich used to power the entire Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  I dialed up the meat pit at the Chicago Board of Trade. Brian Muno answered the phone.   Hello.  Hey Brian. It is Zoe.  Zoe how are you?  Despite his schmaltzy ringtone Muno is unsentimental about the end of pork belly futures trading. Even though he started on the floor in the summer of 1975 - and his father had been a pork belly trader for 10 years already - that was the pork belly trading heyday.  I mean there was more demand. You know like in the late summer months when tomatoes would come in season you know people with BLTs.  Muno says that in much the same way that eggs and toast are improved by bacon so were the fortunes of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  In the early '60s we were primarily like a butter and egg exchange.  In the mid-'60s the Chicago Mercantile Exchange was looking for something more exciting to bet on than omelets. A product you could buy cheap store and then sell for a higher price.  And they came up with bacon because they could store it. And it basically allowed the exchange to stay in business.  Pork bellies were once the most popular product on the trading floor in Chicago. Traders would buy up shares of frozen pork belly slabs in Chicago warehouses. They would then sell the bellies when demand for bacon was high.  They are not going to drop them off in your front yard they are going to be in a warehouse in a frozen warehouse. But a lot of people figured you know if it cost them a dollar a pound to keep bellies in storage for a month that if they could sell those March bellies a dollar and a half higher than they would have to pay for them in February that they could make 50 cents a pound by doing so.  If anything bacon is even more popular now than it was then. So why would trading on bacon end?  Now the industry standard is more of a fresh belly. You know once the hog is butchered they take that belly and they are going to slice it right then.  The meat industry changed. It became more efficient. Bacon producers would not sell bellies that have been sitting in a warehouse for months. And financial products grew more complex SP futures currency futures interest rate futures edged out pork bellies in the '80s - though its death knell was Friday. You also may have noticed that the demand for bacon is constant. It no longer changes with the season.  Bacon on anything to me is good. Bacon cheeseburger bacon pizza - that is just me.  It is not just you. Zoe Chace NPR News. 