 Business leaders converged today on the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative in Washington. These are makers of clothing strollers flashlights and electronics just to name a few. And they came to speak about what would happen if the government goes through with plans to impose tariffs on all Chinese goods. Our next guest testified at today's hearing Rick Helfenbein. He is the president and CEO of the American Apparel and Footwear Association. Welcome to the program. And did I get your name correctly though?  You absolutely got my name...  Good. This is NPR. All right so let me quote something back to you from your written testimony. You say that you support efforts to fix the trade problems with China but you do not want your members to be international pawns in a chess game. It sounds like you all have run out of patience.  We are beyond having patience. You know we have been threatened with this for some time and now it is - they have nibbled at the edges. Now they just whacked us on the head with a tennis racket. So we are - quite frankly we are panicked as a group for all those reasons that the American public really needs to understand. Forty-two percent of all apparel coming into America comes from China. Seventy-two percent of all footwear comes from China. And we do not exactly have a place to go which means quite frankly that prices will go up that sales will go down.  You are not planning on absorbing...  And jobs will be lost.  ...Any of this cost?  You know for - some of our products have been hit with 10 over the last couple months and we have been able to finesse that - is a really good word. You cannot finesse 25. You cannot hide it. You have to add it to the cost. And you know it is - you know everyone says oh well you just go somewhere else or you make it in America. We would love to make more in America. We do not have the capacity. It is not possible.  That is my next question. I assume the Trump administration would be saying look this is a great opportunity.  Oh it is a wonderful opportunity except it does not work. Made in America is 3 of the market and it is been growing dramatically. It is up from 2.8  to 3. But you cannot take all the clothes that we have and suddenly move them back here. Plus you know there just are not factories to do it.  The argument from the president has been that tariffs work to trust him that he has a plan.  Well you know they had a plan for the Hindenburg. That did not work. They had a plan for the Titanic. That did not work. This plan is not going to work. He is always liked tariffs. His big idea is you know to use them as a tool. If they are a surgical tool that is fine. But he is starting to use him as a weapon of mass destruction and we do not find it funny.  The president is a businessman self-described - right? - and was always talking about as a candidate his appeal to the business community. Is this eroding some of that?  Yeah it is eroding it because when you when you go back to the rhetoric it started in the campaign. They are stealing our jobs. And then it became the trade deficit. Well jobs are at the lowest level in 50 years and the trade deficit got worse. So we have totally lost confidence that this is a really good idea on how to solve our issues with China. Make no mistake. There are issues with China but you solve them at the negotiating table. You do not do this. And think about the numbers 'ecause that is the scariest part - 550 billion if you - that we import. You know what that is? That is a million dollars an hour and you are going to tariff that at 25 and say do not worry about the economy. I would worry about the economy.  One last thing - we just have a few seconds left. Is the White House hearing you yes or no? What kind of response are you getting?  You know on and off they hear us. We certainly are doing our best to communicate with them and our membership is communicating with them. But you know Article 1 Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution says this power actually belongs to Congress yet the president - it was outsourced to the White House. The president is using it as a weapon. If it was a surgical tool that is one thing but a weapon of mass destruction we do not like.  Rick Helfenbein is president and CEO of the American Apparel and Footwear Association. Thank you for speaking with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 