 100 Billion - that is how much Iran stands to recover from frozen bank accounts once sanctions are lifted under the new nuclear deal. The Treasury Department says the money comes from Iranian oil sales and it is been piling up in international banks over the past few years. But as NPR's Jackie Northam reports there are questions about what Iran can do with the cash.  Oil is one of Iran's most valuable commodities and sanctions or no sanctions Iran found buyers over the past few years. Month after month millions of dollars of oil revenues were added to its ledgers. But Iran has not been able to get its hands on that cash. It is frozen in overseas banks.  The money is sitting in China India Japan South Korea Turkey and Taiwan. Those countries were buyers of Iranian oil.  Mark Dubowitz the executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies says Iran has not been able to access the roughly 100 billion sittings in those banks because of sanctions imposed by the U.S. in late 2012. Dubowitz a sanctions specialist who is critical of the deal says the mostly Asian nations buying oil from Iran agreed to hold the funs in escrow until the sanctions are lifted. In other words Iran sold them the oil but could not move the cash back home. But Iran was allowed to spend the money on buying goods from those countries says Dubowitz.  And they tried. I mean - and that is why you saw Chinese goods in particular flooding Iranian stores and markets. But the problem was that try as they could Iran just could not find enough to buy to spend down those accounts so the money effectively continued piling up as Iran sold more oil.  Dubowitz says the system basically cut off Iran's access to the bulk of its foreign reserves. But now with the nuclear deal Iran will be able to access the 100 billion once it is been verified that it is implemented nuclear-related measures under the agreement. That could take up to year. Dubowitz says there is concern what Iran will do with the money.  We have no ability to constrain Iran if they want to spend all hundred-billion dollars on funding Hezbollah or other terrorist organizations but when you are getting a hundred-billion-dollar-plus cash windfall even if you are spending 5 to 10 percent of that only on your support for terrorism you know that is an extra 5 to 10 billion.  During a press conference Wednesday President Obama acknowledged some of the money could go to Hezbollah or for stirring up trouble around the Middle East. But Obama says it is part of the agreement and it is their money.   We are not writing Iran a check. This is Iran's money that we were able to block from them having access to.  It is very likely the bulk of the 100 billion will not even be sent back to Iran says Elizabeth Rosenberg who worked on the Iran sanctions issue at the Treasury Department and is now with the Center for a New American Security.  Something that Iran will be interested to do is get access to that money and move it to places where they would like to invest or do deals. And once they can move it into Europe for example they will be able to engage in different purchases or investment opportunities and seek new partnerships.  Rosenberg says Iran's GDP in 2014 was roughly 400 billion. She says while 100 billion sounds like a lot of money it pales in comparison to the economic relief Iran can expect to get if and when companies begin to trade and invest with it which could be an incentive for Iran to stick to the agreement. Jackie Northam NPR News Washington. 