 President Trump tweeted today that he is surprised that Harley-Davidson is moving production of some of its motorcycles overseas and he is urging the company to be patient. Harley-Davidson says it will manufacture some of its motorcycles abroad to escape rising European tariffs. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  Harley-Davidson is the quintessential American brand a name that conjures up freedom and the open road.   We believe in going our own way no matter which way the rest of the world is going.  And Harley-Davidson is a very American company in another way. It does most of its manufacturing in the U.S. Partly for that reason President Trump often heaps praise on Harley-Davidson. During a joint address to Congress in 2017 he said he had just met with officials at the company.   In fact they proudly displayed five of their magnificent motorcycles made in the USA on the front lawn of the White House.  But the company is now breaking ranks with Trump over his trade policies. This spring the White House imposed tariffs on European imports. Europe quickly retaliated making a variety of American goods more expensive including motorcycles. Europe is Harley-Davidson's biggest foreign market with almost 40000 customers there last year. Darwin Holmstrom has written several books on Harley-Davidson.  I was just to Sweden and I actually saw quite a few Harleys relatively speaking. There is a core market that wants to sort of have this American biker image.  The European tariffs would raise the cost of each motorcycle sold in Europe by about 2200. Today the company said it would try to avoid the tariffs by moving production overseas. Harley-Davidson has plants in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and it already had plans to close a third factory in Kansas City next year. Joe Capra is with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers which represents the plant's employees. He is no fan of President Trump's tariffs.  We are going to end up with a trade war that is going to cause us to have less production over here and prices are going to go - skyrocket.  But he also notes that the company is already slowly moving production overseas to plants in India and Brazil. The quintessential American brand is becoming less American and the current trade tensions promise to accelerate the process. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 