 Big question of course is how do Republicans in the House where they are the majority how did they react to the president's speech this evening. We are going to find out from one member of the House leadership right now. Congressman Tom Price of Georgia is chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee and a member of the Budget Committee and the Ways and Means Committee. Welcome to the program once again.  Thank you so much Robert. Good to be with you.  In a nutshell your reaction to the president's speech - is it a positive step from your standpoint?  Well it is curious because oftentimes in the chamber itself you feel something or sense something different than the televisions and I cannot tell you what the television showed. But in the chamber it felt from my perspective to be a desperate speech. It was mostly political - I think Mara mentioned that that it was really the reelection - beginning his reelection platform. It was mocking and dismissive of many of the proposals positive proposals that we believe we have put on the table. And it - I thought it was less than productive for the political discourse that must occur this fall as we attempt to try to solve these remarkable challenges we have.  Well let us pick apart some of what he asked for today. Continuing the payroll tax holiday both for employers and employees Republicans on board with that possibly?  Well it is a tax reduction in his eyes. In fact it is just a shift of the money to pay for Social Security. So from a policy standpoint it does not make a whole lot of sense. It is a good nugget from a rhetorical standpoint for the class warfare that he seems intent on fighting. But you know whether or not that survives I do not know. It does not make a whole lot of sense from an economic standpoint because the money to pay Social Security recipients has to come from somewhere. If it is not going to come from the payroll tax then it is going to come from the general fund. And so then you are just borrowing from Peter to pay Paul.  Extending unemployment benefits and also giving a break to employers who hire the long-term unemployed or hire veterans for that matter.  Well the unemployment insurance issue is interesting because even Alan Krueger his newly selected chief economic advisor has written significant work on how this is a disincentive to return individuals to the workforce. We are at 99 weeks right now I assume the president wants us to go to 151 weeks with his proposal today. Once individuals are out of the workforce for three years which is what that would be then they lose significant work skills. And so again it sounds good but from a policy standpoint...  Very tough sell you are telling me. In the brief time left should I even bother asking about the infrastructure spending? If you are down on the payroll tax I assume that is a nonstarter.  We are strongly in favor of infrastructure spending.  You are?  But we believe it ought to be paid for as a priority of the federal government as opposed to spending money that we do not have to pay for infrastructure improvement.  Well he says he is going to tell you how he is paying for it.  I cannot wait.  Okay Congressman Price thank you very much.  Thank you.  That is Congressman Tom Price Republican of Georgia chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. And obviously not very enthusiastic about what the president asked of the Congress today. 