 Here's how some are describing the latest U.S. employment numbers - not good pretty bad far below expectations. That was the reaction when the Labor Department announced just 38000 jobs were created last month. So is this the beginning of a trend or is it an aberration? NPR economics correspondent John Ystdie reports.  Everyone expected the job growth in May might be a little subdued. Analysts knew a strike by Verizon workers was going to subtract 35000 jobs from the total. But most economists anticipated about 160000 jobs would be added. So Diane Swonk of DS Economics says the paltry gains were a body blow.  It was a lousy report not only in its total which was hurt by the Verizon strike and we know those workers are now back at work so they will come back in June. But even beyond that the losses were broader and deeper than we expected and there were downward revisions to the previous two months.  That put the average job growth for the past three months at about half the pace of last year. Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump tweeted that the jobs report was terrible. Speaking for the Obama administration Labor Secretary Thomas Perez acknowledged the numbers were disappointing. But he argued a slowdown in job growth is an expected outcome as the economy gets closer to full employment.  When you are getting close to the summit of the mountain - and we are not at full employment yet but we are inching closer to it - what ends up happening you tend to have lower job growth numbers in any given month. But that is offset by the fact that you see wages go up and that is exactly what we are seeing now.  Wage growth has picked up a bit in recent months. Wages are about 2.5 percent higher now than a year ago. But in May they were once again subdued. Dyke Messenger who runs a small manufacturing firm in Salisbury N.C. says Perez's theory makes some sense. His firm Power Curbers builds machines that make curbs and gutters for housing developments and commercial projects. Messenger says he is actually added jobs in the past month to meet demand. But he says the workers he needs are getting hard to find.  We employ mostly skilled labor. And there is real demand and we have had upward pressure on pay which in the overall scene is good because you know it attracts better people. And people's standard of living rises which helps all of us.  Messenger says he was not surprised to see more jobs lost in manufacturing in May. He points out that firms that make stuff for the oil and gas industry and agriculture are still hurting. But he was surprised to see that the economy lost 15000 construction jobs because he says there is lots of residential and commercial building going on across the country. Economist Diane Swonk who is based in Chicago thinks the lack of skills may be a factor restraining construction hiring too. She says lots of workers left the industry during the Great Recession.  Some of those skilled workers just are not there especially in the skill trade carpenters electricians welders people that we need on big projects. In fact even if Chicago they have had to delay some projects because of an inability to find some of those workers.  Whatever the reason for the lousy May jobs report Swonk says it will convince the Fed to hold off raising interest rates later this month and possibly skip July too. John Ydstie NPR News Washington. 