 This next story is what happens when there is an increase in the price of beef and in substance abuse - cattle rustling. Jacob McCleland of member station KGOU reports on a surge in livestock theft that is putting some ranchers on edge.  Susan Edmondson cracks open a red gate at her farm near Henryetta Okla. Black Angus cows stream by into the pasture swatting away flies. Edmondson's herd is a little smaller now. Cattle started disappearing one by one last fall. At first she thought they had just wandered off but over the winter more and more went away until she had lost 12 mama cows and 16 calves. The culprits - teenage cattle thieves. Edmondson knew them well.  Two of the kids are my neighbors. Two of the kids were on my kids' football team. You know I have coached them Little League I have took them to rodeos with us. They live right across the street from me. I can see their house from my house and they ate at my dinner table.  One of them a 19-year-old now sits in the county jail.  I do not know. It is like 65000. It was a huge hit. It was a major hit.  It is low risk high reward really.  John Cummings is a special ranger for the Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association. It investigates agricultural crimes in Texas and Oklahoma. He calls himself a cowboy cop and he looks the part - cowboy hat jeans boots. But make no mistake these are real officers with guns and jurisdiction in Texas and Oklahoma. About 4000 head of livestock have been reported missing or stolen in the two states this year. That should outpace the number taken last year. Lately Cummings has seen more calves go missing as their price rockets up.  So sometimes there are no brands no ear tags nothing you know so they are a little easier to steal physically and they are sometimes easier to sell without detection because they are not marked and they are hard to identify.  In Oklahoma a 525-pound calf can go for 1300 at auction. A few years ago it would have been 800. It is not all market-driven. Cummings estimates more than two-thirds of the thefts involve drug and alcohol addiction.  We have had cases where people have actually stolen cattle taken them to local person and put them on their land and in exchange got drugs for those cattle.  And meth imported from Mexico remains the drug of choice in rural Oklahoma though heroin is becoming a problem. There've been a few granddaddy cattle heists like 1100 head taken from a fast-food chain's farm in Follett Texas but the vast majority are just a handful of cows.  Most ranches in Oklahoma are small under 50 head. The profit margin's small so it does not take much of a theft to put them in a bad situation.  A bad situation like the one Susan Edmondson now faces. She sells calves every year to make her loan payments.  It just puts me in a bind. I mean people do not think anything about it when they are like oh somebody just stole a cow or they took a cow or this or that. But when it is that big of a hit I mean it - I do not know if I can make my payment this year. I mean it - you know it is devastating.  Ranger John Cummings says stealing cattle is tantamount to stealing bread from somebody's family. And that is something a rural jury is not going to forget. For NPR News I am Jacob McCleland in Norman Okla. 