 Sometimes saying sorry is not enough like when the bank you lead creates as many as 2 million fake accounts under the names of real customers. The CEO of Wells Fargo John Stumpf went back to Capitol Hill this morning taking blows from the House Financial Services Committee. The hearing went on for four hours and as NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports his apologies did not go very far.  The last time stump was on Capitol Hill he swore in with a bandaged right hand. Then the Senate Banking Committee issued its beating. Today Stumpf entered the ring again this time with his arm in a splint and plenty of new problems. He is at least 41 million poorer after the board clawed back a good chunk of his compensation earlier this week. Yesterday the bank's home state of California said it would sharply curtail the business it does with Wells Fargo for a year. Stumpf began by emphasizing the ways the bank is trying to right its wrongs - getting rid of sales targets and reaching out to affected customers.   Any fees these customers may have paid already has been refunded and we are developing a process to deal with any other forms of harm.  This did not appease committee chair Jeb Hensarling of Texas. He questioned why Stumpf did not warn the board sooner after similar problems surfaced in its mortgage business in 2011.   But if you saw the problem in one area of the business why did not you thoroughly investigate in the other?  There is no question Mr. Chairman. We should have done more sooner.  Again and again the committee pressed Stumpf for a timeline what he knew and when he knew it. Then they questioned why he did not immediately disclose the problems to the board of directors. Stumpf tried to explain that problems existed in only about 1 percent of accounts which he said was not materially significant and therefore did not merit a warning. But California Democrat Brad Sherman said Stumpf's story did not square with the bank's firing of more than 5000 employees connected with the unethical sales.   The peak firings according to your own documents was in 2013. So you knew you had a problem then.  Correct.  Why did not you tell shareholders our penetration rates are phony our new accounts are phony accounts and you...  Around the same time Stumpf sold off 13 million dollars of his shares. New York Democrat Carolyn Maloney did not accept his explanation that the two things were unrelated.   It seems that when you found out about the fake accounts instead of helping your customers you first help yourself.  For the second time Stumpf met with calls to step down here from New York Democrat Gregory Meeks.   You came out here and said I apologize the buck stops with me. And you have to also admit that criminal activity was going on in your bank. Then you should be fired because it stops with you.  Again Congressman the board has that power.  Michael Capuano a Massachusetts Democrat went further posting a photo of a man he said was convicted of robbing a Wells Fargo Bank.   Why should not you be in jail? He did not use a gun. You got the money back. I understand that at his arraignment he said he was sorry.  Today Capuano warned is just the beginning and indeed it very likely is. Wells Fargo faces local state and federal probes as well as allegations it violated a host of banking and securities laws. It also faces a fresh round of lawsuits including from former employees and investors. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 