 There are more than two million missing households in the U.S. That is how economists describe the fact that fewer people are striking out on their own to find places to live. A surprising number of Americans in their twenties and early thirties are still living with family or with several roommates. And the latest numbers out this week show that is continuing to hurt the recovery in the housing market. NPR's Chris Arnold has more.  A year ago the housing market was looking like it was finally recovering. Sales and prices were picking up. But then home sales fizzled. They are now down about 7 percent from last spring and a big reason for that is that younger Americans are having an especially tough time since this recession.  We would love to buy a house right now but we just do not have anything saved up currently.  Marissa is 26-years-old. She works in the state auditor's office in Boston and on her lunch break she is come outside the statehouse here with its big golden dome of a roof. Schoolkids on a field trip stream out of the building.  Stay together.  The kids happily head back to get packed into a crowded school bus and Marissa Szabo does not have much more space than that in the apartment she is renting in Boston. Like many twenty-somethings she is living with a lot of roommates.  The most I have had - five. I currently have three. And yeah I have never even been able to consider getting a place by myself just because of how high the rent is.  The high cost renting is one of the things that is made life tougher for Szabo and other millennial's. And now she is ready to settle down and move in with her boyfriend. He is 28. They are talking about getting married having kids and they are kind of done with the roommate thing.  We are starting our lives together. We wanted it to be together not together plus eight or three or however many.  But those high rents combined with student debt and stagnant wages mean for young people right now it is just very tough to save money for a down payment to buy a house. And Marissa Szabo and her boyfriend were getting frustrated as they looked for an apartment even just to rent by themselves.  Some places were asking for first last security and then a broker's fee too. So that is five months rent right upfront. And we both just sat down and said all right are we willing to take all of our money and light it on fire?  So when you are in your twenties and you have no place else to turn what do you do? Szabo and her boyfriend have decided to move in with her mother who it turns out has an extra bedroom. So that way they can save up a down payment and buy a house in a year or two.  And my mom has been so awesome and supportive about it. She does not want rent or anything like that. We will help with the utilities and we will do some repairs around the house for her and she will be happy she says. So I think it is just a win-win situation for us.  That is cool yeah I think a lot of parents - you know as long as you do not stay too long.  Exactly exactly - right now she is like yeah you are back. I am like for a little while mom .  For a few years now economists have looked at all these millennials living with parents or roommates and they have said that has to be pent-up demand. And soon as young people finally move out on their own that'ill mean more first-time homebuyers. It will create more job. It will help the whole economy. The only problem with that scenario is that it is still not actually happening yet.  That is right. The first time homebuyer is really absent from the market.  David Crowe is the chief economist for the National Association of Homebuilders. He says only 16 percent of new home sales are going to first-time homebuyers. That is half of normal. And in terms of the numbers of new homes that are actually getting built...  We are not even halfway back.  It is actually remarkable just how stunted home construction still is. The country has not been building this few homes since World War II and things are not getting much better. New numbers out this week from the Commerce Department show that construction of new single-family homes fell about 6 percent in May compared to the month before. Mortgage applications were down this week too. Still Crowe expects that the market will keep recovering - just very slowly. Chris Arnold NPR News Boston.  This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 