 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. And we begin this hour with the health of the U.S. economy. In a moment we will mark the fifth anniversary of the collapse of Lehman Brothers with the man at the center of the financial crisis then-Secretary of the Treasury Henry Paulson. But first news from the Labor Department today. The U.S. economy gained 169000 jobs last month and the unemployment rate ticked down to 7.3 percent as fewer people looked for work. The jobs report has taken on special significance because it is the last one before the Federal Reserve meets to decide whether to scale back its efforts to boost the economy. NPR's Chris Arnold reports.  We saw a job gains last month in home building manufacturing and retail but the report had a downward revision for the two months before which was not such a good sign. Overall most economists agree that it is good to be gaining jobs but the pace remains frustratingly slow.  This is unhealthy. It suggests ongoing weakness in the recovery in the labor markets of the United States.  David Kotok is chief economist and investment officer at Cumberland Advisors. He did not like to see that downward revision. Also the labor participation rate fell again. That means that more people have stopped even looking for work and a lot of people. This reading has not been so low for about 40 years.  It is back to where it was in the late 1970s which means there is millions of people who have either opted out given up cannot find a job or the demographics are changing some combination of all of the above. The bottom line of the participation rate is that the recovery is not robust and the trend suggests that it is not likely to become robust.  You notice Kotok said the demographics might be changing. This gets at a fundamental question about what is happening within the economy right now. Randy Kroszner is a professor at the University of Chicago. DR.  There is a big debate in economics right now of whether this very low participation rate - what is that due to?  Maybe a lot of people are just frustrated. There are not enough jobs and wages are stuck and stagnant. But that is temporary and most of them will come back to work. Or the structural scenario is that aging baby boomers just give up and decide to retire for good. And if a lot of that is going on that could change the balance of workers versus retirees.  Fewer people who are working fewer people who are paying taxes who are paying Medicare Medicaid who are paying Social Security.  And more retirees drawing down benefits. Basically everybody knows we have problems with Social Security but those problems could get much worse if millions of Americans do not go back to work.  It is just not going to be sustainable without major change.  For its part the White House is seeing the glass half full in this report. Jason Furman is President Obama's new chief economic adviser. He calls the job growth steady and solid.  2.2 million jobs added over the last 12 months but there is more we need to do. We need to make investments in our growth in our job creation. We need to make sure we are not getting in the way of that by Congress failing to pay our bills and pass a budget.  In other words please no more debt ceiling standoffs. Furman also says that government cutbacks have hurt job growth. The Federal Reserve is watching all this very closely of course and one thing that it is been doing is injecting 85 billion a month into the financial system. Economist David Kotok says that the Fed does not want to turn off that money spigot too soon but waiting too long might spur inflation or cause other problems. If you were wearing the chairman's hat what would you do?  If I were the Fed chairman - and I am certainly not - but I would be tapering now at a very gradual rate. Instead of 85 billion something somewhat smaller.  Kotok says that might make markets less nervous than they have been lately if it showed that the world was not ending just because the Fed began to pull back. Chris Arnold NPR News. 