 Frito Lay workers who have been striking in Topeka Kan. for more than two weeks are voting today on a new labor agreement. Frank Morris of member station KCUR reports the proposed contract eases some working conditions at the plant and would raise salaries. But those concessions may not be enough to compete in a tight labor market.  Yeah.   Unions rule.  One thing you learn talking to the strikers outside the sprawling Frito-Lay plant in Topeka - the people who make Cheetos Fritos and chips - they can work some long hours.  I am a very hardworking woman. I work like hell.  Hellen Teater done up in a bright red shirt and big white hat says she has very little time for family.  I have no time to go work for them because I have been working seven days a week - like 84 hours a week.  Eighty-four hours a week. Teater says the money's good up to double her normal 20 an hour wage with overtime. In a statement Frito-Lay says only about 2 of its Topeka workers average more than 60 hours a week. But the company routinely forces workers to pick up extra hours and to skip scheduled days off even those with seniority like Marlon Smith.  I mean I have been here 22 years and I still get forced for seven days a week maybe like two or three twelves.  Two or three 12-hour shifts. The contract Smith and others are voting on today would guarantee one day off a week. It would also end what workers call suicide shifts - two 12-hour shifts with only eight hours in between. There is a proposed 4 raise over the next two years but that may not be enough. Workers have more leverage now and the signs of that are impossible to miss.  They just put this up last week. We were out here. We watched them put it up.  Brad Wiese is pointing out a new billboard just across from the Frito-Lay plant right where the picketers stand.  It says the J.M. Smucker's Company now hiring multiple positions shifts and pay rates comprehensive benefit packages. So that is pretty much telling us hey come on out.  Wiese says at least half a dozen companies are actively recruiting disgruntled Frito-Lay workers if they cannot get the contract they want today. For NPR News I am Frank Morris in Topeka.  