 These hearings at the U.S. Trade Representative go on for several days. And the witness list reveals just how intertwined the U.S. and Chinese economies are. For more on that we are joined by NPR's Jim Zarroli. He is been covering the trade dispute between China and the U.S. And Jim we just heard about how clothing and footwear companies could be hurt by these proposed tariffs. How many other companies are saying the same thing?  A lot of them are saying that. Over the next week or so the government is going to be hearing from hundreds of them - businesses and trade groups companies that make all kinds of things - you know medical devices baby carriers cashmere sweaters. A lot of these are companies you have heard of like New Balance Kenneth Cole Gorton's Seafood. And some of them are - maybe you have not heard of them but they sell products you may have in your home like Loftex which makes towels and throws. And their products are found on you know shelves at Walmart and Costco and Kohl's. Now a few of these companies that are going to be testifying say tariffs are a great idea like Revere Copper products says it is been hurt by what it is called - what it calls China's long history of cheating on trade. But the vast majority of these companies testifying say the tariffs are going to hurt them.  Give us an example of what people from these companies are telling you.  I spoke with Patricia Nash who heads a company that makes pocketbooks and other kinds of leather goods. It is based in Tennessee but she makes her products in China. She says if she did it here the items she sells would cost two or three times as much. There simply is not a labor force that can make leather goods as cheaply and efficiently as the Chinese. Last year she was hit with the first round of tariffs. She had to raise her prices and she thinks demand for the leather goods that she sells has softened as a result.  And that is the kind of thinking we are starting to see with a lot of different people. It is just that - you know it was just that straw that broke the camel's back. It is starting to impact the business.  Now Nash is actually not testifying at the hearings this week. Somebody else from her company is going to do so. She is actually in China because the manufacturer she deals with there are thinking of moving production to other countries as a way of kind of getting around the tariffs. Countries like Cambodia Vietnam - they can export to the United States and pay little or no tariffs.  So do you see a lot of companies talking about moving their production headquarters away from China?  Yeah. You are already seeing that being talked about a lot. Foxconn which makes iPhones in China has already said it is ready to move some of its production to other countries. But you know it is not easy to do. You know look at the company Wolverine which is based in Michigan. It makes heavy-duty work boots. And Wolverine was one of the companies that wrote to the government to complain about the tariffs. And it says it is not easy to move production out of China. It takes years of planning to establish new factories.  And what about moving to the United States? Is that reasonable for these companies?  You know a lot of companies always say they would like to do that but they cannot - it is too expensive there is not the labor force they need right now not the manufacturing infrastructure. So it does not seem to be happening to any great extent so far. But you know that is the kind of change that would not be happening overnight anyway.  That is NPR's Jim Zarroli. Thank you Jim.  You are welcome. 