 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. The past few years have not been good for the banking industry' reckless lending housing bust and of course massive bank bailouts. Banks even admitted rushing foreclosures with sloppy paperwork. Well at least one bank is now trying to improve its image in the eyes of some families. As NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports it is giving away some of those foreclosed homes.  55 in the morning on April 27th last year when a tornado cut a path toward Wanda Naylor's Pratt City Alabama bedroom.  They say it sounds like a train and that is what it sounds like.  Shattering glass and blocks of wall bore down on Naylor.  Everything was gone. When I looked up I was looking up at the sky looking outside. And I mean it was just like I was outside.  The 64-year-old bus driver took shelter in a motel until insurance ran out threatening to leave her homeless. But Naylor caught a break. Bank of America donated homes for tornado victims through Habitat for Humanity. And for the first time in her life Naylor became a homeowner at a cost less than her previous rent.  When they told me I was approved I just started praising the Lord just started praising the Lord. I just said thank you Jesus. Thank you Jesus. Oh hallelujah. Thank you Jesus.  Bank of America has been giving away some of the homes it has repossessed through foreclosure. Today the bank is announcing it will give away 2500 homes over the next two years many of them to Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans like Matthew Sheffel. Sheffel served for 12 years and is now a single father of five nursing wounds to his arm. Earlier this week he received the keys to a donated house in San Antonio.  It is a wonderful feeling. I mean to finally have a place to get the care that me and the kids need more stability and a place to actually call our home.  Steve Boland is mortgage outreach executive for Bank of America.  It is really just an unbelievable feeling 'ecause you realize the impact that you are having for that family. While they are expressing so much gratitude to us I got to tell you you know the feeling for us is equally gratifying.  The keys are handed over with lots of ceremony. At these events local bank employees often stock the house with food and supplies. Boland says you know those shows that refurbish homes and then hand them over to a family that invariably falls to their knees and cry for joy?  It felt like that.  Still public resentment of banks runs high. A June Gallup poll showed Americans have record low confidence in banks. And Boland acknowledges this.  It is nice to be able to do something positive out of what is been clearly a very difficult period in our industry.  The giveaways may not change the broader public's view of banks but they have for Leroy Sisco.  I am the wrong guy to say anything bad about these institutions. I love them.  Sisco is a retired Army lieutenant general. Now he heads the Military Warriors Support Foundation. Sisco's foundation works with the banks to identify vacant homes where a wounded veteran wants to live. Sisco says he approached Bank of America about the idea last year. Chase and Wells Fargo also support the effort. Unlike Habitat for Humanity which sells its homes through no interest loans Sisco's foundation gives them away mortgage-free. Both Habitat for Humanity and the veteran's foundation require financial counseling as a precondition to getting a house to ensure the family can hang onto it. For Eric Griego and his wife getting a free home did solve his financial worries.  Huge weight of stress off both of our shoulders.  Griego an Army Scout lost a lung several ribs and survived battlefield surgery after taking a bullet through his neck while on duty in Afghanistan. The 24-year-old his daughter and his wife who is in the Air Force received their keys this week. He says it felt strange getting the hero treatment when he says so many others served longer or lost more.  The ones who did not come home they do not get as much recognition as they deserve.  Griego worked as a bank teller before his deployment. He says he understands why people get frustrated with banks but he also says they are not monoliths.  I think a bank has a different reputation than the people that work for it.  They plan to move into their three-bedroom house in Tucson Arizona next month. Yuki Noguchi NPR News. 