 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. The bad news is that the nation's labor market is limping. The good news - at least according to President Obama - is that it is still moving in the right direction.  We are not headed there fast enough for a lot of Americans. We are not headed there fast enough for me either. The recession dug us a hole of about 8 million jobs deep.  And months like June are not going to get the country out of that hole anytime soon. The government's monthly jobs report released this morning found layoffs of temporary census workers more than offset private-sector job growth. Overall the economy shed 125000 jobs last month. NPR's Tamara Keith reports.  Here's how you get to that number. The private sector created 83000 jobs but the public sector - government - was in serious negative territory. The census cut its payroll by 225000 in June. Kathy Lee was among those cut. She started in April as an enumerator counting San Diego residents who had not sent back their census forms. Ms.  And we went knocked on their doors and tried to fill out the survey with them.  Lee says she knew the job was temporary but she hoped it would last until she found a full-time permanent job. Then one day in early June her census gig ended abruptly. Ms.  And it was like oh - no I think we are pretty much done. This will be your last day. Like literally that is what happened.  But temporary census workers were not the only government employees who got layoff notices in June. Kenny Drews was a patrolman in the Franklin Township Police Department in New Jersey. Mr.  Oh I loved it. I wanted to be a cop since I was kid.  Now he is applying for unemployment and so is his wife a kindergarten teacher. He says they both lost their jobs because of tight local budgets. Mr.  It is not so much the money that is the hard part but we both loved what we did. I was just interested in it and I wanted to do it. And my wife loved kids and she wanted to be a teacher.  So far this year state and local governments have cut 50000 jobs and many economists expect it to get worse - which puts that much more pressure on the private sector to lead the way out of this jobless recovery says Philip Jefferson. He is a professor of economics at Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania.   It is not until we see robust job growth in the private sector that Americans are going to start to feel better and feel as though we are really turning the corner.  So what is robust? It would be a lot more than the 83000 private-sector jobs added in June. Ms.  The direction is right but there is definitely room for improvement.  Lisa Lynch is dean of the public policy school at Brandeis University and a former chief economist at the Labor Department. The private sector has created jobs for six months straight - but not enough she says. Ms.  Really what you want to see is month after month of 200000 or more jobs added to the economy - the majority of those coming out of the private sector.  And we are not even close to that right now. Ms.  No 83000 is a long way from 200000.  One bright spot in the report comes with such a massive caveat that no one is celebrating. The unemployment rate dropped to 9.5 percent. Peter Morici is an economist at the University of Maryland. Mr.  The unemployment rate fell simply because 650000 adults quit the labor force. They stopped looking for work. They gave up frustrated - so they do not count.  Morici says if you count all the people who are discouraged and those who would like to work full time but only have part-time jobs the unemployment rate would be more like 16 percent. Tamara Keith NPR News Washington. 