 So how to explain that SP decided to downgrade U.S. debt while Moody's and Fitch have not? What calculations go into these decisions anyway? Is it more art than science? Roben Farzad is considering those questions for Bloomberg BusinessWeek and he joins me now. Roben welcome back to the program.  Melissa how are you?  I am okay thanks. Is it mathematical formulas that lead to these credit ratings or are there other criteria that they are using as they make these decisions?  It is nominally mathematical. I mean you know there must be a rhyme or reason to it - this is ultimately the study of balance sheets and whether you have enough money coming in the door to pay the bills going out the door. But in this case I mean when these guys turn around and they are brought before Congress time and again they say that it is above all else their constitutionally protected editorial opinion. So it is decidedly subjective.  And it is interesting because SP's explanation on Friday was short on numbers. It was long on the subjective evaluations of the U.S. political process what they called brinksmanship that they have been seeing.  It is at the intersection of where soft political analysis and you know where you guys are not getting along meets actual numbers. For example if the Bush tax cuts are allowed to continue again even after Obama extended them the first time around that then supposes that you know they are not going to sunset and you are going to have a windfall of tax revenue coming in after they are over.  And it is interesting too 'ecause if you look at the Moody's latest analysis - and again they have not downgraded the U.S. - they say our debt is not out of line with other Triple-A rated countries. The U.S. economy they say has high potential for rebounding and they point out the almighty status of the dollar. They are looking at this in a whole different way it looks like.  Yeah our economy is a beautiful Rorschach that way - you could just look at it in thousands of different ways. Moody's in its statement in confirming the Triple-A rating is saying that look in the end we are still the reserve currency. In fact more so now that there is all this global volatility - you look at what is happening in Europe. We are that redoubt of safety the world over. And even after all this tomfoolery in Washington our borrowing cost has been going down. I mean if anything you would think that would be punished with higher bond yields and these bond rating firms would have a case for taking our ratings down but that is not happening.  Roben what are the mechanics here - when a ratings agency makes a decision like this how do they do it? Is it a committee? How many people are involved? Do they vote on it?  You know we all like to wait downstairs by the building and wait for white smoke to emanate from the chimney.   But it does not happen that way. It is a committee that meets. They have specialties with sovereign debt corporate debt. We know that they have committees that look at mortgage financing and they were off by years and by trillions of dollars. I mean people seem to forget that and they come together...  Back in the financial crisis leading up to 2008.  That is right. That is right. They come together and then rut it up higher rungs in the corporate ladder. And ultimately somebody signs off and you get that statement on a Friday afternoon.  Can you think of other examples of countries whose ratings have either been upgraded or downgraded and what history has shown about whether those ratings were justified?  They were somewhat timely I think in the late-'90s when you had the rolling emerging market crises what with Malaysia and Thailand in 1997 and Russia in 1998. But those were pretty slow motion wrecks. I mean you kind of knew that Russia was not necessarily going to be good for its money that oil revenue was plummeting. So they had a lot of lead time to make somewhat timely calls on sovereign debt. The United States is a whole different beast. It is orders of magnitude larger than any other economy out there. And the fact that this is happening four years into the financial crisis says a lot about their timeliness.  I am kind of stumped by something I read from Fitch the ratings agency Fitch. They said this - the long-term credit performance of the Triple-A rated versus AA-rated issuers is statistically negligible. So Roben if that is the case why all the big fuss about this?  There is a big fuss because for whatever reason even after the credit rating agencies got it wrong a lot of fund managers - the majority of fund managers and bond fund managers and pensions and institutions universities - have it in their charter that they could only buy super clean Triple-A rated debt. It is like buying a wedding ring it has to be this size carats and it has to have 99.9 percent clarity. In the grand scheme of things people cannot tell it apart from one that might be several notches down. But you want to buy the best of the best. And it is an element of diffusion of responsibility. It is the fact that it would too difficult for bond managers to go out there and do their own shoe leather research and they end up relying - some would say too much so - on the ratings agencies.  Okay Roben Farzad is a senior writer with Bloomberg BusinessWeek. Roben thanks very much.  Thank you. 