 Some borrowers who want to modify their loans are being offered a surprising solution. Lenders are suggesting what some people call extreme short payoffs. From WCPN in Cleveland Mhari Saito reports.  Kimberly Gates sits in her small fenced-in backyard because the inside of her two-story brick bungalow has been taken over by construction workers. That is because Gates says she did not ask enough questions when she bought her Cleveland house in 2004. Later she discovered the house had structural problems that her adjustable rate mortgage was completely upside down and that the title company owner who worked on her loan went to prison for fraud. Things got worse when she temporarily lost her job as a home health aide. She fell behind on her mortgage and the penalties and interest kept mounting. Ms.  So the value of the house is 36000 and the land is 14000. And I am owing almost 100000 on the principal.  The not-so-lucky servicer of this toxic asset was Florida-based Ocwen Financial Corporation. In late June Ocwen charged off the loan. That means that the company took the write off but Gates still owed the money. Ms.  So I called the mortgage company and they told me that I can settle for my home. And I said well settle for how much? He said well you owe - between 90000 to 100000 so you can settle for 9000. I said oh wow okay let me call you back.  Gates then called her housing counselor at Cleveland's Community Housing Solutions. Andy Nikiforovs heads the non-profit and says Ocwen ultimately agreed to take 6000 to settle Gates' debt. Mr.  We have seen a number of cases now in the last month or two where lenders are in fact willing to write off a significant portion of the outstanding mortgage - some cases 80 percent some cases 90 percent.  Gates got her payoff funds from a forgivable loan from the state of Ohio and a low-interest loan from her county Cuyahoga. Gates' mortgage is now 53 a month. Paul Bellamy heads the Cuyahoga County Foreclosure Prevention Program. He says the rescue fund was set up to help keep people in their homes with their original mortgage. Mr.  Now people come to us and say we have got a servicer. If we can just get 3000 together they will walk away from a five-figure debt and call it a day.  Bellamy says the county has helped nearly a dozen of what he calls extreme short payoffs loan servicers willing to cut this kind of deal say avoiding foreclosure costs is smart in tough real estate markets. A Cleveland State University study found that the median price of foreclosed houses in Gates' neighborhood is 8000. Paul Koches is senior counsel at Ocwen Financial. Mr.  To the extent we can cut a deal with a borrower on a short payoff that according to our calculations would return more money to the investor than the investor would realize in a foreclosure. That all makes sense.  Borrowers and loan counselors say an extreme short payoff offer can feel like winning the lottery but the lucky streak ends if you cannot make the payoff. Bus driver Matthew Sloan fell behind on the mortgage on his suburban Cleveland house after diabetes forced him off the job. Earlier this month his loan servicer GMAC offered him a payoff deal on his 140000 mortgage. Mr.  Forty thousand dollars? You do not see that every day. But right now I just do not have 40000. If I did you know I would buy this house. I would buy this house just like that.  Sloan has 45 days to find funding and is considering options from loans from other banks to private investors. He has not had much luck. But despite the challenges loan counselors welcome these extreme short payoff offers as another tool to help clean up the mortgage mess. For NPR News I am Mhari Saito in Cleveland. 