 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. There is been a major change of plans in the House of Representatives. It was scheduled to vote on Speaker John Boehner's debt ceiling bill but as the House neared the end of a debate GOP leaders stopped the proceedings and postponed the vote. This could be a hiccup or it could mean that the speaker does not have enough votes in his party to pass his bill. NPR's Andrea Seabrook joins me now from the Capitol. Andrea what is going on right now?  Well Michele not much. The House as you said just suddenly stopped debate right near the end of it. So we were all sort of watching expecting them to turn to the actual votes that were coming up. And it appears that the Republican leadership staff signaled to the administrative staff of the House of Representatives that in fact they would not be going to votes they were postponing proceedings. And they suddenly turned to a series of completely noncontroversial bills basically you know turning to anything else you know to regroup. I mean this is Michele a clear indication that the Republicans do not have the votes or they do not have them yet.  And looking here it sounds like the GOP is drawing out votes on things like a post office naming bill to give Speaker Boehner enough time to scramble for votes. How is he trying to do that? What kind of arm-twisting is he doing?  He spent the entire day calling rank and file bringing them into his office. We know that the Republicans have gotten fairly close. They need 216 of their own votes - that is because there are two people who are out right now normally it would be 218. We know that they are awfully close. But we also got word today that Democrats had pretty much shored up the Blue Dogs  those are the conservative Democrats who many many times on bills like this vote with the Republicans. Remember five Democrats voted for the Republicans' so-called Cut Cap and Balance bill last week. We heard from Democrats that those Blue Dogs promised not to vote for this and that may very well be why Boehner is coming up short at this point.  Andrea do us a favor remind us briefly what is in Boehner's plan and why he is having trouble getting support from his own party.  Well the plan would cut 915 billion over 10 years. That is not as much as many many Republicans would like. But it is more than the amount that the bill raises the country's credit limit by which was Boehner's ultimatum. The bill also cuts 22 billion in the first year. There are people who think that could be more. It creates this super-committee that would fast-track legislation to the House and Senate floors. A lot of Republicans do not like that either because they think that could mean more revenue-raisers or tax increases in the future. And you know those are the basic problems that Republicans have with the bill. The bill would also force another round of all of this again next year  cuts and debt ceiling raisers.  Now the vote has been postponed would suggest that they are going to try to do this later. But what happens if the bill dies if he does not get enough votes?  Yes and let me say that the speaker's office says that this is a postponement that they will vote on the bill later today. And the administrative staff both parties have been told - stay here do not go anywhere we are going to vote on this. These are the same people though who have been saying they have the votes already all day so that makes it questionable. If the bill were to fail if they were to never go to a vote it would be a big signal that Boehner never found the votes and then it is a serious serious problem for Boehner in the leadership of his own party. If he cannot bring up a bill and pass it then he is got real problems within the party. In terms of the actual bill though the Senate was not really going to take this up anyway. So we go forward with Harry Reid's plan.  Andrea thank you so much.  My pleasure.  That is NPR congressional correspondent Andrea Seabrook. 