 The Federal Reserve cut interest rates today for the first time in over a decade. The move is designed to give a boost to the slowing U.S. economy and extend the decade-long economic expansion. Although the Fed's action was widely telegraphed in advance the stock market reacted negatively. Major indices fell more than 1. NPR's Scott Horsley joins us now to explain the Fed action. Welcome back to the studio.  Good to be with you.  Scott by most outward appearances the U.S. economy seems to be in pretty good shape. We have got unemployment near a 50-year low. Employers have been hiring workers at a steady clip. Do I have that right? I mean why did the Fed need to cut interest rates?  We have seen some slowdown in economic growth. We learned last week that the economy grew at an annual rate of just 2.1 in the spring. That is down from 3.1 earlier this year. We have also seen a slowdown in manufacturing partly because of the various trade tensions that are underway. We have also seen slower growth overseas. With all that though Fed Chairman Jerome Powell did not characterize this rate cut as a rescue effort for an ailing economy. Rather he described the economy as relatively healthy and said the Fed's cutting rates in an effort to keep it that way.   There really is no reason why the expansion cannot keep going. Inflation is not troublingly high. If you look at the U.S. economy right now there is no sector that is booming and therefore might bust.  Ordinarily when we have unemployment this low we might expect to see the Fed raising rates to ward off inflation. And in fact the Fed was doing that as recently as December. But inflation has stayed really low - in fact too low as far as the Fed's concerned. So the central bank does have room to lean on the side of goosing the economy.  At the same time the stock market fell. So what are the markets telling us?  It is a little puzzling because you know the Fed did almost exactly what everyone was predicting it would do. At first when the news broke there was actually a little market reaction. It was while Powell was holding his news conference about a half-hour later that we saw a pretty rapid slide in the market. Investors seemed to be unhappy with Powell's suggestion that the Fed might cut rates this one time and then be done when the market would like to see additional rate cuts. Powell did however backtrack a bit and left the door open for additional cuts if economic conditions warrant.  How did the president's comments figure into the Fed's decision? - because Trump has been agitating for a rate cut for months now.  Right. The central bank insists it is not responding to the president's comments but rather to what is happening in the economy. But Powell also says he and his colleagues are not going to hesitate to cut interest rates just because that is what the president's asked for just to kind of show they are willing to stand up to Trump.   We never take into account political considerations. There is no place in our discussions for that. We also do not conduct monetary policy in order to prove our independence.  The Fed is keeping an eye on what other central banks around the world are doing. The president's been complaining that other central banks are cutting their interest rates and giving a boost to their economies. And in Trump's mind that comes at the expense of the U.S. so he is wanted the Fed to do the same. Not everybody on the Fed's rate-setting committee was in agreement about today's rate cut. Two Fed officials voted to leave rates where they were.  In the end what does this mean for ordinary Americans?  This will mean slightly lower interest rates on things like car loans and credit cards. Mortgage rates which tend to follow the bond market have already fallen. So in a sense the Fed's just sort of catching up to what is happening in the mortgage market. Consumer spending does account for more than two-thirds of the U.S. economy so it is - this is an important leg of the economy that is being propped up here. But you know consumer spending was already pretty strong. The weak spot in recent months has been business investment so we will have to see if this rate cut helps to stimulate business spending in a way that prolongs the expansion. Powell is determined to do that because he says there are a lot of Americans who are only now beginning to feel the fruits of economic growth even though it is been underway for more than a decade.  That is NPR's Scott Horsley. Scott thanks for explaining it.  You are welcome. 