 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. Tomorrow at the White House President Obama will sit down with the leaders of Congress of both parties to discuss a deal to raise the debt ceiling. As NPR's Mara Liasson reports the two sides act as though they are dug in perhaps more than they are in reality.  A deal on the debt ceiling and the deficit seems out of reach if you listen to Republicans accuse the president of holding out for higher taxes or Democrats accuse Republicans of slowing the recovery in order to win the next election. But this morning at a Bloomberg breakfast the president's top political adviser David Plouffe said all the white-hot rhetoric is misleading. Mr.  You know what we are focused on is less sort of the external theatrics than the progress that is getting made privately.  Indeed on Sunday night Republican speaker John Boehner went to the White House unannounced to talk with the president. The Republicans still insist any deficit deal be completely free of tax hikes while the White House continues to insist on what it calls a balanced approach cuts in defense domestic and entitlement spending and some increases in revenues which would involve at least some tax hikes. David Plouffe. Mr.  And if our sense has been to make the numbers work you are going to have to have a revenue-positive situation.  But Plouffe is talking about a long-term plan to cut the deficit over 10 or 20 years that the president hopes to negotiate with the Republicans. In the short-term it is possible the parties will reach a smaller deal raising the debt ceiling and reducing the deficit by about 2 trillion. For the Democrats there would have to be some tax hikes in the form of closing loopholes for oil and gas companies for instance or corporate jet owners. And for Republicans well for their bottom line we went to the GOP's ultimate enforcer of tax orthodoxy Grover Norquist the nation's most prominent anti-tax activist. Mr.  As long as there is no net tax increase it is not a violation of the pledge.  The pledge of course is Norquist's brainchild an oath signed by the vast majority of Republican officeholders not to raise taxes ever. But Norquist says there would there be no net tax increase if the debt ceiling deal also included tax cuts. And President Obama wants tax cuts in order to stimulate the economy. In particular he wants to extend by one more year the Social Security payroll tax cut he negotiated with the Republicans in December. Mr.  If the president is talking about faster depreciation schedules for corporate jets if he wanted to eliminate those and cut the Social Security tax so that it was revenue neutral that would not violate the pledge. It is actually one of the easiest things to fix in the discussion about the debt ceiling increase.  Of course without a net revenue increase there would be less deficit reduction in the short-term. But closing tax loopholes is something many Republicans are willing to consider including Wyoming Senator John Barrasso.  I did vote to eliminate the ethanol subsidies which I thought that was a waste of government money. And I also believe that this is not the time to raise taxes on anyone when we are in economic situation like this.  Did not you just raise taxes on ethanol producers? Sen.  I did vote in favor of the ethanol ending of those subsidies. I will also say that this is not a time to raise taxes.  So there you have it. The trick in any deal is to allow Democrats to say they raised taxes on somebody but for Republicans to say they did not raise tax revenues. It is the kind of double talk that deals are made of under divided government. That is if there is a deal at all. There is always the possibility that the two sides will not be able to come to an agreement and then someone will get blamed if the government defaults and the markets react badly. A recent Pew poll showed 42 percent would hold Republicans responsible 33 percent said the president. Former Bush Treasury official Tony Fratto says that is one reason speaker Boehner has such a tough job. Mr.  Because Republicans are driving the process right now I do not believe there'ill be much question as to who would take the brunt of the blame should that happen. It would most likely be Republicans.  Fratto says the Republicans have benefited from the debt ceiling debate because the deficit and spending cuts are Republican issues. But he warns they need to be careful not to overplay their hand. As for the president David Plouffe suggests he has something to prove to the American people. Mr.  And if their leaders can come together and bridge some of these tough divides it is going to have some short-term and maybe long-term impact in people's confidence.  In particular people's confidence in President Obama. Mara Liasson NPR News Washington. 