 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. We begin this hour with mixed news today from the Labor Department. The unemployment fell to 7.4 percent last month. That is the lowest it is been since December 2008. Still the economy did not add as many jobs as analysts had expected. And as NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports it is not just the quantity of jobs that has many economists worried it is also the quality.  At 162000 new jobs the hiring rate is slower than it has been on average in the last year. In July as in previous months most of the jobs added were in low-paying positions which might help explain why average hourly wages also fell. Those numbers come as no surprise to Morris Cornley who says jobs are in short supply especially the well-paying kind.  The economy might be getting better for some but it is not getting better for the fast food workers and the retail workers that are making 7.35 an hour. It is not getting better for me.  For over two decades Cornley did have a good job driving trucks and making 17.45 an hour until getting laid off three years ago. His job search landed him at Jimmy John's Sandwich Shop in Kansas City working for minimum wage. This week Cornley joined a nationwide strike demanding fast food chains pay a 15hour living wage. He says his kids and grandkids work in the industry but three generations of fast food paychecks still is not enough. Cornley says he shares food scraps with his dog.  A lot of time we eating off the same plate.  Close to 60 percent of the jobs created since the beginning of this year are in the lowest third of the pay scale.  So when you really look at that it is not surprising that we are not getting the economic growth out of this new job creation.  Daniel Alpert is managing partner of Westwood Capital and a fellow at the Century Foundation a think-tank. In the absence of middle class jobs he says people are settling for low wage work.  These tend not to be full-time positions. You are sort of getting a double whammy. Not only are you getting a lot of low wage jobs but you are also getting a lot of part-time jobs.  Alpert says there are essentially too many people looking for work. This week President Obama proposed - and the Republicans rejected - what the president called a grand bargain including tax cuts in exchange for investments in job training programs. But Alpert says that is not enough to fix the U.S.'s biggest long-term issue - an oversupply of labor.  I feel that it is important that people actually understand the nature of this quoteunquote recovery. This is not playing out like anything we have seen before and in fact it is a very sick recovery.  Mark Vitner is a senior economist with Wells Fargo. He takes a more optimistic view of the low wage boom and what it means.  Typically a lot of the folks that are working jobs at restaurants and retailing are in some sort of state of transition. And I think that is where the economy is today. The economy is in a state of transition.  In other words many unemployed people will need retraining which can take years. Eventually he says the workforce's skills will match the needs of the new economy and better paying jobs will return. But that is cold comfort to Kareem Starks who ran out of funds before he could complete his college degree. Starks had worked planting trees for New York City Parks and Recreation earning more than 17hour grooming himself he thought for a new green economy. That job ended two years ago.  I must have went on like 50 60 interviews for different green job positions and I did not get anything.  Starks now works two minimum wage jobs one at McDonalds and another at a security firm. He says he has colleagues who have also slipped down the pay scale.  You know it is hard to get back in those positions once you fall off. You got to climb your way back up. Like they say it is an entry-level job but we are not getting anywhere. They keep us at entry level instead of letting us move up.  McDonalds named Starks employee of the month in June but what he really wants is to get paid 15hour or at least the opportunity to work more than the 30 hours a week he gets. I asked him whether he would consider some job retraining or perhaps completing his college degree.  You serious? I cannot even afford to buy myself lunch sometimes.  Starks says he does not have a lot of alternatives. He has a job - two of them in fact - they just do not pay enough. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 