 America's factories are in a slump. Manufacturing activity shrank last month for the first time in three years. Factories are particularly sensitive to slowing global demand and the trade war with China is not helping. While manufacturing is a relatively small part of the U.S. economy its slump could be a warning sign for others as NPR's Scott Horsley reports.  HM Manufacturing in Wauconda Ill. makes a wide variety of products for companies ranging from food makers to the aerospace industry. CEO Nicole Wolter says most of her business is holding up well but she has seen a slump in demand for the kind of pulleys and gears she sells to the auto industry.  I can see that orders for that section have completely almost come to like a grinding halt.  And orders are not the only indicator of factory activity that are dropping. According to the Institute for Supply Management which tracks the sector measures of output and employment also fell last month. Wolter's employees are still working overtime but the average factory workweek has been slipping.  People are laying off third and second shifts and going down to 32 hours or 34 hours. That does not seem so exciting.  This downward trend did not start overnight. Factories have been tapping the brakes since April but August was the first time in three years that the index showed the manufacturing sector actually shifting into reverse. Gregory Daco of Oxford Economics says the slump looks like more than a momentary blip.  Manufacturing activity is gradually not just cooling but also contracting. And if you look at some of the forward-looking components of the ISM index businesses in general are not very optimistic about the outlook.  An index of new orders was the lowest since 2012. Factory job growth has also slumped to less than half what it was last year. Factories are feeling the effects of slower growth in countries like Germany and China. On top of that there is the trade war which has thrown a monkey wrench into both imported supplies and exported products.  Manufacturing is definitely impacted tremendously through uncertainty.  Lisa Winton runs the Winton Machine Company in Suwanee Ga. which makes machines for fabricating metal tubes the kind of things you might find in a refrigerator or outdoor furniture.  There is just so many different things that have small bent tubes on them and we build the machines that cut bend form that tubing.  Wolter says whenever the direction of the economy is uncertain companies are reluctant to invest in that kind of equipment.  When we are shipping capital equipment and it has a four-month lead time people want to know in four months when they are paying for that product that they are not going to have an additional tariff because that is not in their budget.  The big question now is whether the slump in manufacturing will be confined to that sector. So far the broader economy has held up pretty well thanks in large part to robust consumer spending. But Daco says there is always a danger that factories' woes could spread.  And the main channel is going to be via confidence that is gradually going to erode as well as via financial markets which have already started to show some initial signs of worries as the trade tensions have increased.  A University of Michigan survey released last week showed tariffs had begun eating into consumers' confidence and today the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled nearly 300 points. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 