 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. Across the Midwest this summer scientists are trying to assess the effects of agriculture on the nation's waterways. Some three dozen scientists are collecting water samples and counting fish eggs in about 100 streams. As Abbie Fentress Swanson reports from Missouri they are looking for pesticides and nutrients used in farming.  Eleven miles northeast of Centralia Missouri chemist Dave Alvarez dons waders and a bright reflective life jacket before wading into Goodwater Creek. Plenty of fish live in these murky slow-moving waters along with snakes crayfish mussels and snapping turtles. When the water reaches his waist Alvarez dips a bottle attached to a long rod into the stream.  So with this bottle here we are collecting water samples trying to catch any runoff that is coming down through for the pesticides. I just take this bottle. I dip it in the stream. I do it at equal distances across the creek. That way I kind of get a mixture a good representative sample of what is flowing through here.  Alvarez is part of a team that is immersing itself in the ecology of streams from Ohio to Nebraska. It is an effort to understand just how agricultural runoff changes water quality. Years ago scientists did not test for much in the water except for nutrients and heavy metals but now they are able to measure even the tiniest amounts of mercury pesticides and livestock hormones. Diana Papoulias is here checking cages of minnows for eggs.  We know that some of these chemicals that we are finding in the runoff from the ag fields can affect reproduction and egg production. Whether they are at the concentrations that can do that or not we do not know yet.  Farm runoff is an even more pressing concern because of the extremely wet spring here. Bob Broz is a water quality specialist at the University of Missouri and says narrow windows of dry weather meant that farmers had to apply pesticides and fertilizer in between storms.  Anytime you have these heavier rainfalls during the spring after a drier period when you could have got something put in the field you are going to see in most cases a large amount of runoff.  And because last year's drought prevented some parched fields from absorbing fertilizers an extra load of nutrients is flowing into Midwest waterways and will end up in the Gulf of Mexico. U.S. Department of Agriculture soil scientist Bob Lerch says once there they threaten aquatic life.  There is the direct impact on the aquatic ecosystem and then there is the downstream impacts on say drinking water or a reservoir or a recreational water body.  Agricultural runoff feeds into lakes and rivers that hundreds of towns draw their water from. For example herbicide runoff from a farm in Centralia Missouri might end up in Goodwater Creek which empties into the Salt River which then flows into Mark Twain Lake. That lake provides drinking water for 70000 residents. And water treatment plants spend millions on chemicals to clean up that water.  That is 900 pounds of powdered activated carbon and that is basically metered into the water.  At the plant he manages in northeast Missouri Mark McNally points out a massive bag of fine black powder being funneled into untreated water. It is removing atrazine an herbicide widely applied to cornfields in the spring. This powdered carbon alone costs about 130000 a year a bill the plant has to pass onto customers.  Aunt Agnes you know on 3rd Street has to pay more for her water because we have to recoup our money. I mean we are not in the business to make money. But we cannot go broke.  In Central Iowa rivers record-high levels of nitrate runoff are making it more difficult to meet the demand for clean drinking water. Des Moines Water Works manager Bill Stowe fears long-term effects.  Our concern obviously is that once you shake customers' faith in the safety of tap waters you turn them to other sources like bottled water which is certainly a competitor. It changes our business model and puts us at risk in the long term as a viable utility for providing drinking water for a half million people.  Back at Goodwater Creek scientists here say results from the Midwest stream study will trickle in after the fieldwork is complete in August. Over the next several years they will replicate the study in other regions to try to learn how farm runoff is affecting water quality across the country. For NPR News I am Abbie Fentress Swanson in Columbia Missouri.  That story came to us from Harvest Public Media a public radio reporting project that focuses on agriculture and food production. 