 Hundreds of the biggest names in tech media and finance are gathered in Sun Valley Idaho this week. They have come to an invite-only conference hosted by a private investment bank called Allen  Co. Mark Zuckerberg is there. So is Tim Cook and Warren Buffett to name just a few. NPR's David Gura did not get an invitation but he is there anyway and joins us now. Hi David.  Hey Ari.  Tell us more about this conference in Idaho that you have plopped into. Is it just trying to gather big names and big money? Is that the point?  You got it. I mean it is a chance for these big names to mix and mingle. This is the 38th year this conference has taken place. It was canceled last year and this sparks a return to in-person dealmaking after many months when that was not possible. For Allen  Co. the organizer the hope is if or when a deal comes together Allen  Co. will get a cut of that deal. Now one of the participants here is David Zaslav. He is the CEO of Discovery and he recently announced a big deal with ATT for Warner Media. He talked to reporters when he arrived and I asked him how dealmaking has changed.  I think as much as during the pandemic people were on Zoom it is personal relationships. They still matter a lot. That is one of the great things about this business - a lot of really talented people. And you know so I think ultimately deals get done based on strategic alliance what makes sense alignment and trust.  A lot of this deal-making of course takes place in private. The proceedings here are entirely off the record. And there is a lot of security and there are two reasons for that. Yes it has to do with safety but also it is for the participants' comfort. Allen  Co. wants them to get to know each other so they can build on that trust David Zaslav mentioned.  It kind of sounds like Davos in Idaho. Can you just give us a sense of what it feels like there?  Yeah. It is - basically Allen  Co. takes over this ski resort. So the participants have the run of the place and the bank really restricts where reporters can be. We are in these press pens shouting questions at people as they walk by. But there are these elaborate dinners. There were big tents on the property for parties lots of outdoor activities. You know I have covered this event before and there are some things that are different this year. For one everyone had to be vaccinated before they got here. There were COVID tests when guests arrived. And a lot more of the panels and programs are being held outside. In the past executives brought their families. There is a nickname for this - summer camp for billionaires. In the past Allen  Co. would hire babysitters to take care of kids. This year the bank decided no families.  OK so who have you seen?  You know you find yourself doing a lot of double-takes while you are here because this is such a small resort. So you see Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg walking with her fiance. There is Reed Hastings the CEO of Netflix sitting outside a coffee shop with Reid Hoffman who ran LinkedIn. I saw Anderson Cooper riding around in a golf cart with the media mogul Barry Diller. Everyone has a name tag here which is kind of hilarious. I mean Mark Zuckerberg we know who you are.  Right. What about the actual purpose of the conference? You said it is deal-making. Like what is happening officially?  Yes. So meetings are happening on the side but there are panels and programs every morning and that is all off the record. As I said the bank does not publicize topics but you can piece together what everyone's likely to be talking about from the guest list. There are several executives here who have invested in digital currencies. As you know Bitcoin and its competitors have taken off during the pandemic. The heads of some companies that focus on artificial intelligence are here. AI is being seen as a promising trend in tech. Many executives I have talked to are also interested in the growth of sports betting. The heads of the major sports leagues are here along with some team owners. They are balancing the possibility for more gambling with concern about how that could be regulated. And then there is a focus on streaming video. Just a few weeks ago Amazon announced it plans to buy MGM. There were producers here and directors - a lot of people Ari who were talking about what is being made and how we are going to watch that going forward.  NPR's David Gura in Sun Valley Idaho thanks a lot.  Thanks Ari.  