 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  A federal program that is provided thousands of jobs for low-income people is now on the chopping block and that brought workers employers activists also Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter to Washington today with a message for Congress.  The employers love this program but most importantly the workers and their families and certainly their children love this program.  NPR's Cheryl Corley reports.  That is how David Sullivan who would been unemployed for two years got his maintenance job at a small Comfort Suites Hotel on Chicago's Michigan Avenue.  Things are tough everywhere. Nobody's got any money so no businesses want to spend too much money. But if they get me in at 10 an hour and see okay I am worth actually hiring and paying the wage a better wage then that gives me an opportunity.  Comfort Suites general manager Natalie Furka says in addition to Sullivan the hotel was able to add three more people to its staff including a housekeeper and two welcome ambassadors normally employed at more posh hotels.  Being a brand new small business opening in 2009 we have just seen our service levels our trip advisor scores go up having these people at our hotel. We would have not found them otherwise and it is made such an impact to our business.  But Illinois has already sent out pink slips to thousands of workers announcing the fund's September 30th end. Sheena Howard has worked at Benford Brown  Associates a small Chicago accounting firm since May and had hoped to be there longer.  LaDonna Pavetti with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities says the 37 states that operate subsidized employment programs have helped about 247000 people survive this rocky economy and it would be unfortunate if Congress does not extend the subsidy.  It would be different if the unemployment rate was sort of coming down at a rapid pace but it is not.  Sue Tuffin heads of the Mesa County Workforce Center in Grand Junction Colorado where unemployment has floated around 10 percent for more than a year and a half.  We are going to be basically terminating about 100 individuals. I can guarantee you that the majority of those folks will be right back in my door and back on public assistance if they have not been hired permanently.  And Linda Martin the director of Family Assistance in South Carolina says that state's welfare caseload dropped a thousand cases because of the subsidized jobs program.  You know if you have something to offer besides welfare people want to take it and they want to go to work.  Cheryl Corley NPR News Chicago. 