 NPR's Robert Smith reports.  Kids today they do not know how good they got it. This afternoon Haga Celebi was not lined up waiting for some rusty swing. She was collecting these bright-blue blocks - some as big as she is - and making...  I am not exactly sure. I am just going to try to build stuff and then see what happens.   And then whatever it looks like that is what it is right?  Yeah.  There is no shortage of possibilities here.  Because you can make your own playground. You can make your own kind of stuff and you do not have to pull all the stuff that other people make.  It was so much fun that the kids were ignoring the mayor of New York City on the other end of the playground cutting the ribbon and bragging about the 7 and half million price tag.  You betcha.   The Imagination Playground began - as do many things in New York City - with a cranky architect. David Rockwell has two young kids and he lives in Lower Manhattan. And as he watched them play on the same set of swings and monkey bars he thought there must be a better way.  And I was obsessed with trying to figure it out.  It turns out there is a theory of playgrounds that' Just get the big structures out of the way and let kids be kids. So Rockwell designed the park as a large figure eight - with sand water pulleys and those blue blocks.  And as you will see there is hundreds of movable objects. Nothing is tied down and the options are endless.  It would be easy to dismiss the new Imagination Playground as a boutique project. But during a brutal recession the city of New York has opened one sparkling new playground after another. And this is where the economics question comes in. Since when did playgrounds become the priority during a downturn?  Playgrounds are all about avoiding risk.  Susan Solomon is an architectural historian who wrote the book  Revitalizing Community Space. Even from the beginning playgrounds were literally about playing it safe designed in the early 1900s to keep poor immigrant children from getting hurt in the street or drowning in the river. And you would have recognized those designs.  Because by then you are already dealing with the sandbox the slide the seesaw.  And New York City was happy to clone those early playgrounds during the 1930 cheap cookie-cutter designs easy to maintain easy to clean. Solomon says there were a few playground innovators in the 1960s like Richard Dattner but when she asked him why he quit   I do not want someone whose kid breaks their arm to sue me for all I am worth.  Which brings us back to the Imagination Playground. There are still plenty of lawyers and lawsuits around. What changed? Well first of all New York did. The middle-class started to stay in the city to raise their families and the city discovered something.   They could be built as economic development tools.  And when you do that that is when people say you know I am going to stay in this neighborhood. I am going to move to that neighborhood. I am going to invest. I am going to keep my business here or expand my business.  Robert Smith NPR News New York. 