 Hi.  Great to be here.  First what happens on August 3rd? Are there specific bills that the U.S. obviously would not pay on that day?  In any case as you go forward through August the government will be approximately 44 percent short on the month as a whole.  In August actually.  In August.  That soon. And how much of that would be interest or principal due bondholders? Could the U.S. actually say if you have a federal paper we will pay you but all the seniors and everybody else will have to wait for their money?  A relatively small amount in these terms is interest and there really would be no problem for the federal government to pay interest on its bonds. And we do not project based on our work that there would be a default on our debt obligations on our bonded indebtedness.  If let us say the Treasury said well pay the seniors their Social Security pay the creditors what they are owed on paper pay Medicare what would not be paid in that case?  What you did not pay which you were not able to pay is a single dollar for defense including active-duty military pay including the whole Pentagon and all payments to creditors in the defense area. You could not keep the Justice Department. We would not have 1 for the FBI for the courts for the prisons. So - and it goes on and on. The Education Department would be closed and many many other Cabinet departments. So however you move the chess pieces around here you lose.  Would not raising the debt ceiling reduce or increase the country's debt in the long run?  So the sense of our work is to show everyone what it really means not to raise the debt limit by August 2.  When you were at the Treasury by the way managing public debt did we come up against the debt ceiling did it have to be raised at all during that time?  Yes it did. We did not have this kind of public battle over it at that point although there were big public battles both before and after my era. We had kind of private hair-pulling sessions with the Hill but nothing remotely like what is happening now.  People pulling out their own hair or people pulling out other people's hair?  Principally pulling out my hair.   OK. Well I hope you are having a better debt crisis this time.  I am. Does it look real my hair?  It does absolutely. Jay Powell thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you. Great to be here.  Jay Powell former undersecretary of the Treasury during the first Bush administration currently a scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington D.C. 