 All right let us take a step back now and examine something else President Trump said yesterday after his meeting with the European Commission president.   We want to further strengthen this trade relationship to the benefit of all American and European citizens. This is why we agreed today first of all to work toward zero tariffs zero non-tariff barriers and zero subsidies on non-auto industrial goods. Thank you.  Yes you heard that right - zero tariffs. This is not the first time the U.S. has pursued removing tariffs between the two economies. And joining us now to talk about the goal and the challenges of getting to zero tariffs is Simon Johnson. He is a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and he is now at MIT. Welcome.  Nice to be here.  So Republicans and Democrats have long been in favor of reducing tariffs between the U.S. and European Union. Can you just first explain why are there still tariffs between them?  Well you have to remember we are living in a trading system that was created a long time ago. There were tariffs a hundred years ago. They were brought down after World War II. It is been a long difficult process. Republicans and Democrats do not agree on very much and not all of them are on board with lowering tariffs. But over a 50-year period administrations from both parties have pushed for lower tariffs and lower tariff barriers with many countries including with Europe.  And just to make it clear the tariffs right now between the U.S. and the EU are quite low.  That is right. That is right. It is been one of the great success stories of the postwar trading era although obviously there are still some barriers including these non-tariff barriers like rules and regulations about what kind of food you can sell in different markets.  OK. Is getting to an absolutely zero-tariff reality or a nearly zero-tariff reality between the U.S. and the EU actually possible?  Yes you could do that. The EU itself is a trading arrangement. Obviously it is a political union of sorts now. But the basis of it was a customs union lowering tariff - tariffs lowering our barriers. There are zero tariffs zero restrictions on trade within the European Union. So could we be become more integrated with Europe - yes. Those - they are rich countries. They are highly productive. They produce similar things to what we produce. We sell them cars. They buy our cars. We buy their cars. It could be - work just fine with zero tariffs.  But what about the political realities? I mean what about the U.S. steel industry farmworkers all these constituencies that President Trump says he wants to protect? He has to signal that he is trying to protect them. How do you negotiate around those political realities even though economically it could work in theory?  Oh that is why it is taken 60 years to get to this point. Look agriculture's a different matter. And Mr. Trump definitely did not say yesterday he was lowering tariffs and restrictions on agricultural trade to zero. So be very clear about that. And the Europeans do not want that either. So agriculture is in a different...  OK.  ...Is in a different category. The you know various unions and various other people are concerned about imports but they are mostly concerned about imports from low-wage countries such as China. So that is a whole different...  Right.  ...Conversation. Europe is high wage high productivity. They sell us similar goods to what we sell to them. And that is a very different basis for trade. A lot of companies are highly integrated across the U.S. and the European Union including the U.K. at the moment. So that is a very different kind of a category for trade.  As we have said this is not the first time an administration has talked about zero tariffs between the U.S. and the EU. The Obama administration tried to work out a partnership with the EU to remove almost all tariffs as well. Is what President Trump suggesting now all that different from what the Obama administration was trying to do with the EU?  No. It is actually exactly the same I think. And it was a curious omission perhaps but not - fairly obvious why they would omit the fact that what - the announcement yesterday was very much building on and will build on what the Trump - what the Obama administration started in 2013. It became known as the Transatlantic Trade Investment Partnership or T-TIP.  T-TIP.  Right. And the goals of T-TIP were exactly the goals stated yesterday by Mr. Trump and by Mr. Juncker the president of the European Commission.  All right that is Simon Johnson of MIt is Sloan School of Management. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 