 The embattled CEO and co-founder of WeWork has stepped down. Adam Neumann is a charismatic and controversial figure. He built a network of leasable office space now in more than a hundred cities around the world. Joining us to discuss Neumann's swift rise and fall is NPR's Yuki Noguchi. Welcome to the studio.  Hey Audie.  What is the reason Neumann gave for stepping down as CEO?  The short answer is that Adam Neumann is the central reason the company is not going forward as planned with its IPO. That is the sale of shares to the public for the first time. WeWork is burning through a lot of cash. He had a lot of conflicts of interest at the company. And most importantly he wielded too much control over the company. And all of that led to a plummeting of the valuation of the company that he started from close to 50 billion earlier this year to about a third that. You know WeWork is a household name today but it did not even exist a decade ago. And in that short period of time Neumann and his company built a vast network of office spaces. It is hugely popular among young people and startups but it is not popular enough to generate a profit yet.  It is one thing for Neumann to be out as CEO but does that mean he is actually gone from WeWork altogether?  No he is going to continue on as non-executive chairman. That is a position with a lot less responsibility a lot less power. And removing him as CEO does address some investors' and board members' concern that you know he had too much control. You know as the - as big as the company was as many big-name investors as it attracted Neumann still controlled a majority of the company's voting shares which was a big concern. Now it appears he will cede much of that control. But the way it had been structured Neumann had the power to override almost any decision and seldom do you see an executive with that kind of control. I talked to Charles Elson an expert on corporate governance at the University of Delaware. He told me he was writing a paper on WeWork's structure.  It is entitled We Work For Adam Neumann .  All right so that is a joke. But what it gets at is you know what Elson thinks is a problem. Everything led back to Neumann. And Neumann was - also has - you know as visionary as he was he had a bit of a reputation for some erratic behavior and for encouraging a hard partying culture at the company.  I mean it was more than reputation right? I mean tell us about some of the other things that made him controversial.  Yes. Well we are talking about his unusual financial dealings with the company. He borrowed several hundred million dollars from his own company over the years which is unusual. He also sold a big chunk of his shares before the company went public - also unusual for a founder to do. But the thing that really got people exercised was the fact that he trademarked the word we which is weird enough maybe on its own but then he sold those rights back to WeWork for about 6 million. I spoke with one of WeWork's earliest and biggest individual investors about this. His name is Joey Low. He is a huge fan of Neumann and WeWork but this is what he had to say about that trademark deal.  When you are the head of a big company you do everything in your power to make your company succeed and you are not looking to make what is basically small money for him because he is made so much more. I think that was in bad taste.  So in response to such criticism that deal was unwound. But the reputational damage was already done.  Why did not anyone catch this sooner?  That is a fascinating question. I think Neumann you know was a visionary. He had this kind of generational you know appeal to investors and employees and they got excited about it. He was very charismatic. For example Joey Low that investor told me he intended to invest a little bit of money in WeWork but then ended up investing tens of millions just on the power of Neumann's vision.  You know it is like the Pied Piper. Like you know he would be playing his flute and people would just follow him.  And by the way Low still believes in the company and that vision. He says there is still great promise in this model of building offices where people can sublease space and be part of a community.  That is NPR's Yuki Noguchi. Thanks so much.  Thank you. 