 Climate change is creating both challenges and opportunities for business and agriculture is one of the sectors that feels the effects most immediately. Tomorrow we are going to hear about some opportunities for farmers but today some challenges. NPR's John Ydstie has this story about how new weather patterns are making it harder to raise corn in the middle of the Corn Belt in Iowa.  Farmers have always had to manage their business with one eye on the weather for good reason. It can make or break their bottom line. Just ask Seth Watkins who raises corn and cattle in southern Iowa about the weather two years ago in 2012.  Well we started out with an extreme ground and then that was topped off by the worst hailstorm we have had ever. That is how we lost 40 percent of our crop.  Two studies released this summer have warned that in coming decades climate change will threaten corn production where it is grown on the western plains of Kansas and Nebraska but also dramatically cut yields in Corn Belt states like Iowa. It is a big deal because corn is the nation's largest crop. Over a trillion dollars of business revenue is produced on the back of corn production each year - think meat ethanol and sweeteners for soft drinks.  Are just to mark this ephemeral gully? Or - what was the purpose of this stake?  I think it is probably marking the gully.  Yeah.  Today Seth Watkins is walking through a test field east of Demoines with Iowa State University agronomist Matt Leibman. They are looking for a way to adapt to the challenge Iowa farmers have faced in recent years from soil erosion caused by torrential rain events that are becoming more common. Leibman has the developed a new technique for curbing erosion by planting strips of native prairie plants at strategic locations within cornfields.  We had a mixture of prairie species. This is a goldenrod. We have cup plant over there which is a sort of a signature prairie plant. It is a silphium species. There is Indian grass and big bluestem in here.  The deep-rooted resilient prairie plants can help hold the soil in place as climate change produces more violent storms with heavy rains.  We slow down the water and allow more of it to seep into the ground rather than run off. We want to retain the nutrients that might be washed out into the stream and keep them on the crop fields.  Erosion is just one challenge for corn producers. Higher temperatures and dwindling aquifers used for irrigation are threatening corn growers on the western plains. And Leibman says farmers in Iowa have faced multiple threats in the past years.  We can wind up with conditions like we had last year where we started out incredibly wet and there were several hundred thousand acres of north central Iowa and southern Minnesota that never got planted followed by seven or eight weeks of almost total drought.  Seven Watkins says there is no question. Just getting a crop planted is challenging.  They always used say you have 12 days get a crop in in the spring and I have not seen them for several years unfortunately.  Nice day out.  Beautiful day.  About ten miles from Leibman's test fields along a busy highway Gene Snetselaar runs a small implement dealership - no tractors just things like planters and wagons. He says farmers are buying new equipment to cope with the weather changes including more planters so they can get their crops in faster in a wet spring and new grain wagons with tracks like a military tank instead of wheels.  I had a customer about two years ago - bought his first track wagon. And then he commented that next spring - I see him and he says those were wise words last fall. If I did not have that track wagon I do not know how we would ever gotten the crop all out because a cart with tires on it - we would have probably been stuck with it all the time.  Growing conditions across the Corn Belt have been favorable this year and a bumper corn crop is expected. But scientists warn action needs to be taken to cut the carbon emissions that contribute to climate change. If that does not happen the changes in weather patterns are likely to overwhelm the farmers' attempts to adapt. John Ydstie NPR News. 