 Caitlin Kenney from our Planet Money Team reports on just what brides are getting for their money.  Before wedding gowns reach stores across the country they come here to New York International Bridal Week.  Style 2053 is definitely one of our top looking dresses so far this season.  What dresses you will see in stores this fall those decisions were made here in April. To figure out why those dresses cost what they do you first need to understand what goes into making them.  It is not just a white dress. It is the fabric and it is the workmanship and it is the lining and it is the fit.  Anne Barge has been designing wedding dresses for over 20 years. She points to a dress on one of her many racks and says here let me break it down for you.  Here you are looking at a dress that has 25 yards of pure silk satin in it.  How much does that cost?  Over a hundred dollars a yard for just the satin not the tulle. And then on top of it it is a very expensive embroidery which is done in India because they do the most beautiful handwork of anywhere in the world.  Yurizan Morales works for the designer and I asked him what this dress cost.  In dollars it would be around 2700.  If it was not a dress for a wedding if you were just selling it as a regular dress do you think it would sell for the same price?  No it would not.   Designer Anne Barge gets this. When she talks about her dresses she is selling emotion.  It is the dress of your life. And if there is ever one picture your ancestors have of you it is the one in your wedding dress.  That is a lot of pressure to put on a bride to be. Veronica Guerrieri was married last summer in her home country of Italy and she says she felt it.  They were trying hard to convince me that it was the best day of my life that I should not have thought about economics.  Not thinking about economics is hard for Guerrieri because well she is an economist at the University of Chicago. She says we are part of the reason prices are so high. They are high because that is what we are willing to pay.  I think on average there is a lot of status and signaling going on on wedding days.  And this urge to spend a lot to send a message it applies to brides with all kinds of budgets.  We are for the middle man that works hard.  Maryanne Marchese owns Angel Bridal on Staten Island. The dresses in her store sell for between 700 and 2000.  I had a customer that the price was - that the gown was beautiful. And she says well you know what that is too cheap she says. I am looking to spend more money.   I said let me change the label. Let me change the price. I will add a two or three in front of it will you be happy?  Caitlin Kenney NPR News New York. 