 But we want to go back to your original game plan today Steve and that was to talk about cars.  You know I wanted to talk about a high-tech product that is actually made in the U.S. here Tesla. Tesla as you may know makes high-end electric cars. They have a big plant near me in Freemont California. And tonight in Los Angeles Tesla is rolling out a network of superchargers. Basically these are filling stations that can top off car battery packs completely in just 45 minutes. Many of these stations will be solar powered. And executive at Tesla said they were hoping to make these fill-ups free forever for anyone who buys one of their cars. Yeah free is not bad. But...  Yeah.   ...even if Tesla owners have to pay for electric fill-ups a network of supercharging stations across the country could make long-distance electric powered road trips possible.  And what do you think Steve? Does Tesla really have a chance to become an important player in this market?  Well you know living in Silicon Valley it is easy to believe anything is possible right? But when it comes to cars and the automotive industry I thought we needed a little gritty realism. So I called Sonari Glinton - Sonari covers Detroit and the auto industry for NPR - and asked him to help me report this story. Here he is.  Starting a car company is not easy. The first step is building a car people want.  Sonari I think Tesla has actually checked that box. Its new car the Model S is a thing of beauty. It is a four-door Sedan. It has hatchback. It can seat five adults and two little kids in jump seats in the way back. It has a sleek front hood bonnet if you are British but underneath there is nothing. No engine. Instead it is a bonus trunk. They call it a frunk.   All right. Frunk. Let us just dwell for a second on that word. OK Steve frunks aside.  Frunks aside the reason it can have a frunk is that the engines that power this car are relatively tiny. And that means there is a lot more space inside.  On the outside it is a bit like a Jaguar sleek but curvy.  It is gorgeous. It inspires unseemly lust in middle-aged men.  All right speak for yourself.  All right. Absolutely. You know I spent a lot of time behind the wheel of a minivan but this car got me in touch with my inner teenager. Dayo Gomih at Tesla took me out for a test drive.   The car will absolutely blow people's minds. And I think that is the handling  The model I was driving can go from Los Angeles to San Diego and back on a single charge. That is more than 250 miles. And Dayo Gomih says this car has the lowest center of gravity of any made. Most of the weight in the car is in its batteries and they are spread out underneath the floor. So it handles a lot more like a Porsche than a Ford Taurus.  If you want you know give it a little bit yeah yeah.  I will give it more gas. All right. So we are going into the cloverleaf. I am just going to accelerate through this.   Wow. Holy cow.   Oh. Oh. Oops.  Oops is right.   Yeah I know. Actually the car was OK. I scratched the rims and the tires needed to be replaced. But the suspension was fine.   Actually Tesla is designing a car Steve that you could probably handle one for the minivan SUV crowd. It is going to have the same kind of power and the similar price tag as the car you almost wrecked.  Yeah. But you know Elon Musk Tesla's CEO says eventually the company will make another car that many more of us can afford.  It is really been my goal from the beginning for Tesla to produce a mass-market car.  Right now the Model S sells for between 50 and 100000. Tesla's first car sold for even more.  You know at Tesla we did I think receive some unfair criticism of - because of we had the Tesla Roadster. And people were saying well why are you making this expensive sports car as though we somehow felt that there was a shortage of sports cars for rich people or something. But in fact even though I try to take pains to say look our goal is - from the beginning has been to drive forward the electric car revolution and we needed time to refine the technology get to version two get to version three. And really with version three the 30000 car that is were it becomes mass market.  To do that become mass market Tesla has to become a real car company. The price of the batteries need to plummet and consumers' tastes have to change.  You know they have 10000 orders for the Model S already and they moved out of this little garage in Menlo Park where they made the Roadster into a giant factory in Freemont California.  That is just step one. Now Tesla needs to start making 500 cars a week which will mean they will need supplier networks distribution networks dealer networks service networks. Getting a factory up and running is hard. Michelle Krebs is an auto analyst at edmunds.com and she was telling us both about how General Motors retooled a Detroit plant to make the Chevy Volt.  It was a nightmare. I mean I was there. I - there were robots dumping sealant on the floor because they were not aiming in the right place and these little automated guided vehicles going around the plant taking parts but did not know exactly where they were going. All of this is very complicated difficult stuff.  And getting manufacturing right is just the beginning. When millions of Americans think of electric cars they still think of golf carts.  Yeah I do not know. Maybe that is changing. Almost anyone who has seen a Tesla or driven one becomes a fan. And a couple years ago years ago Elon Musk hired a guy named George Blankenship. Blankenship's last gig was to build Apple's retail stores for Steve Jobs. And when you walk into a Tesla store today you feel that. I swung by the opening of one in Portland Oregon a few weeks ago. It was little. It was in an upscale mall. There were touch screen displays on the walls and just one car inside. But it was packed with people who were looking but not buying. I was curious what brought you in today.  It was not this. We just saw it when we walked by.  Mark Goodwin and his wife Debbie were walking through the store touching the car peering inside the frunk. Have you ever thought about buying an electric car before?  Well it is out of my price range to be honest with you. But yeah I love the technology and I love the direction it is going. Yeah.  I asked George Blankenship when Tesla would convert people like Goodwin into real customers and he did not hesitate.  I believe that everybody who comes through the door this weekend is going to buy a car from us in the next 10 years. And so that is...  You really believe that 10 years?  Firmly believe that. I firmly believe because what is going to happen...  A friend of mine once described Silicon Valley as the epicenter of optimism and George Blankenship believes. But to finance Tesla's future and George Blankenship's belief that Model S needs to be a hit. A whole lot of plastic surgeons and venture capitalists are going to have to buy this thing before Tesla will have the cash it needs to make the next car a truly affordable Tesla. Just turning a profit will not be enough. But in many ways Tesla has already turned the car industry on its head. Ten years ago none of the big car makers were building electric. Now most do. Tesla made electric cars cool. And while that might not guarantee its success it is probably already changed history.  But the question is does Tesla have a future? In Detroit I am Sonari Glinton.  And I am Steve Henn NPR News Silicon Valley. 