 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. The stock market usually likes good news about the economy but that is not always the case. This morning stocks opened down sharply just after the government announced a surprisingly large drop in initial claims for unemployment benefits. In fact claims fell to the lowest level since before the recession and the Dow Jones Industrials ended the day down 225 points a decline of 1.5 percent. NPR's John Ydstie joins us now to talk about this seemingly perverse reaction to the good news. Hi there John.  Hi Audie.  So help us understand this big sell-off because you had fewer people going to claim unemployment benefits and that would seem like a sign that economic growth is picking up.  Yeah. Well the big reason for the sell-off today was the Federal Reserve. Remember over the past few years the value of stocks have not been all about the strength of the economy and the potential value of companies. It is been about all the money the Fed is pumping into the financial system. So the first thing a lot of investors thought when they saw the positive job number was not oh good the economy's getting better and the prospects for companies I own are improving. No their first thought was uh-oh this makes it more likely the Fed is going to dial back the 85 billion a month it is been pumping into the financial system. And of course much of that money has been making its way into the stock market. So if the Fed dials back there will not be as much money coming in so stocks are not going to be as valuable.  I mean have not we heard this before though? Back in June the Fed chairman Ben Bernanke said that the Fed could start reducing the amount of money it is injecting into the system as early as September. And I know we have had a couple pretty solid job reports since then. So why this negative reaction?  Well you are right. The markets have had plenty of time to digest the Fed's plan. And remember they did sell off sharply back in June after the chairman first made this suggestion. Of course then they recovered and actually hit new highs. Today I think there are some other complicating factors. Despite the good jobs number there were some negative comments from Wal-Mart the nation's biggest retailer about sales going forward. Another retailer Kohl's agreed with that. Yesterday Macy's also reported disappointing results. And today the big technology equipment company Cisco reported it is cutting 4000 jobs because of concerns about the global economic situation.  So I am hearing you say here that there is conflicting news basically. Good news on jobs but bad news on consumer demand.  Right. And investors are thinking hey Fed policymakers have been really focused on the job market and it is improving. So they are likely to dial back the stimulus. The concern for investors is that the overall economy maybe is not that healthy. Just look at Wal-Mart and Cisco. And if the Fed gets the timing wrong that could mean the economy will slow again and that will not be good for company profits and stocks or your 401.  John thanks for explaining it.  You are welcome Audie. 