 Economists love to complain that politicians do not pay enough attention to economic incentives when they write laws. Our Planet Money team hears this criticism so often that it' How would you run things? Well today Chana Joffe-Walt introduces us to an economist who is trying to run his own economically pure society his family.  The first opportunity Joshua Gans had to test the power of economic incentives in a controlled environment came when his daughter B. was 2. Joshua's an economist an expert in incentives. He talks about them all the time in the classroom at the University of Melbourne. So his daughter B. was 2 and in diapers. Joshua wanted her not to be in diapers anymore. B. was perfectly happy with the system that existed.  B. would receive a jelly bean every time she went to the toilet. New policy in place B. suddenly had to go to the toilet a lot. A few years later her brother needed to be potty trained. And B. who is now 11 years old jumped into the incentive system once again. Ms. B.  Oh I remember that.   You want to say what happened when your brother was toilet-trained? Ms.  Well I realized that if I helped my brother go to the toilet I would get rewarded too. So I realized that the more that goes in the more comes out. So I was just feeding my brother buckets and buckets of water until I guess...  Ms.  Yes. Mr.  That was my idea. It did not really work out too well.  As B. grew up Joshua faced a new problem.  yo-yos candy. She went on a tear about needing some Heeleys those shoes with wheels on them. So Joshua began to think about a new economic tool allowance.  As a reward for services provided such as using the toilet or say washing dishes or making the bed. Joshua had ruled that way out after B. pumped her brother full of water. So the second approach to allowance is to use it as a tool to teach kids budget constraints. Joshua told B. Okay anything you want that is nonessential you buy it with your own allowance. Mr.  However that just does not quite occur. A child comes forward with a very nice dress that she is found in the store  Oh we agree that is nice as well. And all of a sudden the credit card's out.  If she comes forward with a dress that you do not like then it has to go through allowance? Mr.  Ah ones we - yes ones we do not like then it is far more likely to go straight to the allowance.  But that seems like that gets in the way of the idea of teaching budget constraints right? If you have arbitrary rules about what you have to pay for yourself and what your parents pay for. Mr.  It is very difficult indeed.  This it turns out is a problem governments in a free market face all the time. People in society want things leaders do not always like - things that harm the environment things that are bad for society like drugs or candy. B. tells me her dad has a rule about candy. Ms.  If you want to buy candy with your allowance you have to pay to your parents and 100 percent health tax.  Just as Joshua subsidizes dresses he likes he taxes candy. He tried to calculate how much B.'s candy consumption would add to his health costs for instance increased dental visits say and he landed at 100 percent it is a pretty hefty tax. But you know what? It worked. Mr.  That is it. I have no revenue from the health tax whatsoever which is a bit of a shame...  Mr.  ...because this might have been the way to claw back the enormous allowance that she is getting.   You have never paid the health tax? Ms.  Never ever.  Ms.  I realized well that is just a rip-off. Why would I want the candy then?  Of course just as people evade government regulation by crossing state lines for cigarettes or fireworks B. can go to her grandmother's for tax-free candy. Economists call this leakage. Parents can design their own rules but the scarce resource of a parent and governments for that matter too is attention. Two-year-olds seem to have unlimited time to figure out how to use regulation to their benefit. That is something they share with say bankers. Mr.  When it comes down to it the policies need constant adjustment. It is actually an issue of management rather than just setting the parameters correctly.  Joshua still an economist and a parent remains faithful to the idea of incentives driving behavior. But he is a little more weary about his ability to use them to get what he wants. Chana Joffe-Walt NPR News New York. 