 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  I am Audie Cornish. And it is time now for All Tech Considered.   We start with Apple. It scored a big victory this weekend in its ongoing patent war with Samsung. The Obama administration overturned a ban on imports of the iPhone 4 and the iPad 2 that had been imposed by the U.S. International Trade Commission. The last time an administration overturned an ITC ban was in 1987 under President Ronald Reagan. NPR's Laura Sydell joins me now to discuss this rare move. And Laura first why was this ban imposed and why did the Obama administration overturn it?  Well it was imposed because Apple did not want to pay the price that Samsung was charging on certain patents. And the Obama administration - in fact any administration - has a right to step in and overturn a decision by the U.S. International Trade Commission though it is very rare. In this case Michael Froman who is the U.S. trade representative said after consulting with various parties he decided that the potential harm of this sales ban would be significant to consumers and the U.S. economy.  But we are talking about you know the iPhone 4 and the iPad 2 these are older models of these products?  That is very true. They are older models. Not only are we talking about older models but in this case it only affects products sold by ATT. So I spoke with an analyst who said Apple hardly sells any iPad 2s anymore and it only sells about one million ATT iPhone 4s. So the appeal of that product however is on the lower end - people who cannot really afford the most expensive and newest Apple products. I think the ruling had more to do with a concern that Samsung was using what are essentially industry standard patents to hold Apple hostage. You know anyone who uses a mobile tablet and connects wirelessly is probably using technology that follows these standard patents. And as you know Samsung lost a big patent case to Apple last year and it has to pay out hundreds of millions of dollars in damages. So there is some sense that Samsung may be using these patents to get back at Apple.  Will this affect other companies?  As a matter of fact it likely will. For example Dolby Industries and Qualcomm also have these kind of standard patents. And this may affect the price they are going to be able to charge people to use those patents. That could be good for consumers. It could bring down the price of a lot of devices.  So politically should Apple take today's move as a sign that the Obama administration is on its side?  Ah Washington giveth and taketh away. Meanwhile Apple lost an antitrust suit last month over e-Books and the Justice Department just announced what it would like Apple to do in order to make up for this.  Apple from now on when you are negotiating with anyone in your iTunes store - that means TV film anything - we want you to report back to us. So in that sense I think Apple is probably not so happy with the Obama administration.   That is NPR's Laura Sydell. Laura thank you.  You are welcome. 