 The summer travel season is coming to an end and it is been a tough one for airlines. Families because of the recession are sticking closer to home and business travel is down. This fall Jet Blue is looking to get more people to fly. It' buy a 599 pass and you can fly as much as you went from early September to early October. And joining us to talk about that is Rudy Maxa. He is public broadcasting's travel guru formerly host of THE SAVVY TRAVELER. Hi Rudy.  Hi Madeleine.  So is this a good deal or not?  This is a very good deal if you live in or near any of the 57 cities that are served by Jet Blue and you have time to travel between September 8th and October 8th. I mean 600 - you know you can pay between 120 and 220 on Jet Blue today to fly from the West Coast to the East Coast. So if you do that twice you are almost - you have made your money back.  And I imagine this is mainly geared towards business travelers because really how many families are going to take more than one big trip a month?  Well that is true - unless you are unemployed and have a little bit of spending money. For the business traveler there is one catch  You must book each flight three days ahead. So that could put the crimp a bit in some business traveler's plans.  Okay. The rules say that you can book any open seat but cruising around on their Web site it does not seem like there are a lot of open seats.  Well as anybody who flies these days knows airlines have cut back on capacity. And you know you have to go to the Smithsonian to see an empty middle seat these days.   So yes. That would be a consideration. You should if you really have definite dates you want to be places before I spend 599 on this pass I would go online now and see if there is some seats available and then buy the pass today. You have to by the way buy this pass by August 21st or the deal is not good.  Rudy do you think that other airlines will follow Jet Blue's example and do the same thing?  It will be difficult for major airlines like United Delta American U.S. Airways to follow suit because unlike Jet Blue - which is a so-called point-to-point airline like Southwest where most of their passengers fly from A to B - the big boys are hub systems. People fly into Minneapolis St. Paul on Delta or Northwest and then they fly out to another place. It would be very expensive for one of big airlines with so many cities and such a widespread route network to offer a similar kind of all-you-can-fly-in-one-month kind of pass.  Let us talk about the state of the airline industry for a minute. The industry's not doing so well. Last year it lost money because of fuel prices. They were so high. This year people are not flying. So are we going to see some airlines going out of business?  I do not know. We may see somebody get acquired again. It is very difficult for me to feel sorry for the airlines much as I would like to keep them all flying because first you know there was 140 you know a barrel price for oil. Okay that is pretty darn bad. But now it is half that. They have cut back - many of them have gone through bankruptcy and shed a lot of expensive contracts particularly with their employees. Northwestern and Delta have merged. I mean there have been very significant changes in the last 12 months in the airline industry and yet they are still having difficulty getting into the black. Something's got to give at some point but I do not know how many more changes there can be without a major airline going out of business.  Rudy thank you.  Thank you Madeleine.  That is Rudy Maxa. He is host of the series Rudy Maxa's World which you can see on public television stations. 