 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  From member station WPLN in Nashville Blake Farmer has this story about the Southwestern Company.  Pedro Vega loves his job. Or at least he tries to convince himself he does.  I love my job. I love my job. I love my job. I love my job. I love my job.  Today it is bologna and white bread. Still chewing Vega pulls in a driveway. He hops out of the car and sprints to the front door with his bag of book samples. Then he says a little prayer.  Day by day day by day day by day day by day and everywhere by the grace of God Lord I am getting better and better getting better and better.  Now moms like Kathy Barrett get a pitch about investing in their child's education. And then comes the price.  You know I completely agree with the whole investment part. But if you are asking me can I hand you 460 bucks today? No.   The solution to every problem is behind the next door.  The Southwestern sales force trains in Nashville for one week at the start of the summer. Before scattering around the U.S. they learn self- motivation techniques. They also role play negotiating with customers who say they do not have the money.  I will not cash the check until next month. If that works better for you Mrs. Jones.  Anna Lee from Vancouver Canada is just one in this year's 2500 salespeople. Many were recruited from their college campuses after hearing who else spent their summers this way - Texas Governor Rick Perry Ken Starr who investigated President Bill Clinton and Christian author Max Lucado. Dan Moore did his time. He is now the CEO who gives the final send off which is a warning.  Just before you knock a truck will come out of the driveway and there is a bunch of people your age guys and girls and they have got towels and they have got their bathing suits on and they are laughing and listening to music and they are going to go off to the lake and have a really good time.  Do not go Moore says. Any activity unrelated to sales is strongly discouraged even calling home during the work week. That is what Sundays are for.  A person makes money according to the results they get.  Moore says students essentially run their own business which means they bear all of the risk.  We are a wholesaler. So the money they make is the difference between what they sell it for and what they are charged for it.  Three in ten do not make it past the first few weeks and they often leave with hard feelings. Some share stories at SouthwesternCompanytruth.com calling the company everything from a cult to a scam. Students can lose money in the venture. And of course some just cannot take the heat and the dogs.   With a yapper at his heels Pedro Vega says it does not both him. The potential for a big payout does make the hazards more manageable. Vega took home 22000 as a rookie and now makes more with salespeople working under him. Beyond money he says the job has made him an emotional giant.  I am not like most people. Most people are miserable and they are sad. They are depressed. They do not care. So I am going to be one of the coolest people Mrs. Jones is going to meet probably the entire summer but I am definitely going to be the coolest person she meets today.  For NPR News I am Blake Farmer in Nashville. 