 Tens of millions of people were getting extra unemployment benefits from the federal government. Then two months ago Congress let those benefits lapse. And without that 600 a week many people now do not have enough money to live on. What is more as NPR's Chris Arnold reports their situation could make the recession worse for everyone.  When the pandemic hit Jesus Gonzalez was about a year into starting a Cuban food business in Lexington Ky.  I was running my own catering and like food pop-up business so like a food truck but without a truck.  He would set up tables full of Cuban food at local breweries so people could eat while quaffing pints. But then all that shut down and he says things are not back to normal enough yet for the breweries to bring him back. He is a single dad with a 13-year-old daughter and he says that extra federal unemployment money really helped.  That was everything. That made it so that I could focus on my daughter. That 600 a week made it so that I could like keep my head above water. Like my car broke down and that made it possible to fix it and I was paying my rent.  But that extra money stopped coming at the end of July. Gonzalez managed to save some of it but now that is run out. He is only getting 150 a week in state benefits and he could not afford to pay his rent this month. Gonzalez has been asking friends for money on Facebook. He says many actually have been helping but he is not sure how long he can do that. And he says his family does not like that much.  Since I started reaching out on Facebook some of them have even told me that I am begging for money from people and like been mean to me about it you know?  So far Gonzalez's landlord has been more understanding and is being flexible about him catching up on the rent. And like Gonzalez more Americans are now having trouble paying their rent. The chair of the Federal Reserve Jerome Powell this week said that without more stimulus more and more Americans may start running out of money and options and that...   That will start to show up in economic activity. It will also show up in things like evictions and foreclosures and you know things that will scar and damage the economy. So that is a downside risk.  Joseph Vavra is an economics professor at the University of Chicago who is been studying this pandemic-sparked recession. He says economists do not have a crystal ball. It is hard to know exactly how much stimulus the economy needs but...  There is huge risk that if you do not get something together and provide some additional stimulus that the economy could fall off a cliff.  Meanwhile if food banks are any indication a lot of people need more help. The system of food pantries for the state of Florida says they are serving upwards of 1 million more people than normal and they have not seen any drop-off in demand. Florida's state unemployment benefits are among the lowest in the country. Paco Velez is the president of Feeding South Florida.  I talked to the families and now that they are only receiving the Florida unemployment benefit it is really not enough to make ends meet. It is not enough to keep a roof over their heads or put food on the table for their families. There is just a sense of desperation and fear in a lot of these families.  From where he sits Jesus Gonzalez in Kentucky just does not understand why Congress has not approved more help yet.  I was not surprised that the government was not there for us when we needed it. But what the difference was is that it is so big and it affects so many people that it is to a point where when people cannot spend money it is affecting the economy. And so I was really surprised that they did not act because of that.  But basically Republicans want to spend less money on pandemic-related stimulus Democrats want to spend more and they remain deadlocked. The White House implemented a stopgap measure to give people 300 a week in federal unemployment money but about 20 states have not managed to distribute any of that. And at best people received just six weeks of that extra money. So along with tens of millions of other Americans on unemployment Gonzalez is hoping that Congress finds a way to compromise and approves more help soon. Chris Arnold NPR News.  