 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Members of Congress are out in their districts talking with constituents this week and NPR's Andrea Seabrook has also left the Capitol. Her assignment is to listen. And last night she was listening in Winston-Salem North Carolina at a local spot called Sweet Potatoes.  There is something about the atmosphere at Sweet Potatoes that is like a juke joint. It is not fancy but it is packed. The light is low candles flicker and it is all brought together by the jazz.  We opened Sweet Potatoes about eight and a half years ago by the seat of our pants and used a lot of credit cards and loans from the city.  Chef Stephanie Tyson is in a purple smock her long dreadlocks wrapped up on her head. Her partner Vivian Joiner has an elegant shaved head and dangling earrings.  We thought we would have a few guests and Stephanie would be in the back cooking and I would be out front with maybe one other person and we would wait tables and bartend.  Three chefs are a blur of movement a dance a tango says Tyson.  Right now he is doing the trout with cornbread stuffing and crabmeat in greens wrapped in bacon. We got catfish going on over here. We got fried chicken. We got spaghetti right over here.  Yet even for this successful restaurant times are hard says Joiner. She feels like she is always working against the system jumping through hoops just to stay in business. Large corporations do not seem to have this problem she says. Joiner asks who took the heat with the bad bank decisions that threw the U.S. economy into the swamp?  We got penalized. We got penalized because people could not come in our door and buy things. Then we got penalized because we had to pay more for the loan that they gave us. That is not right.  And then there is all the talk in Washington says Joiner about politicians helping small businesses. What they mean by small businesses Joiner says is operations making five or ten million dollars a year not Sweet Potatoes.  For the little person that generates the neighborhood job the city job the basic job that most people survive off of there are no tax cuts. We have not seen it. We have not felt it.  Tyler and Joiner believe Washington is set up right now to serve Wall Street corporations and big campaign donors. And they are disappointed.  When politicians become public servants again and take care of the people they are supposed to serve then we will have a better country.  Back out in the dining room waiters whisk by with plates of fried green tomatoes okra and of course sweet potato pie. Many of their employees says Tyler are people who could not find a job anywhere else. They needed a second chance.  They learned to wait tables they learned to bartend they learned to cook so even if they do not stay here they can leave here with something. We have had a lot of people that got out of prison could not find a job come here started here and left and gone on to do great things.  Tyler says how they do business is just as important to them as turning a profit though that has its risks says Joiner. She is taken on people who have made mistakes in the past.  And when they come in they make a commitment that they are going to do the right thing. And once in a while we will get burnt by that but for the most part we have the challenge and the privilege of taking someone who is kind of lost their way for one reason or another and helping them get their sea legs and strong footing.  Andrea Seabrook NPR News Winston-Salem North Carolina. 