 In Tennessee timber is big business. The state exports around 1 billion worth of tree products every year. Finding enough loggers to keep the industry going though is a challenge these days. And we are going to hear the story now of one logging family. They have been in the forest for four generations. But they do not know if there will be a fifth. Here's reporter Bobby Allyn of member station WPLN.  Meet Michael Redfern - dressed in blue denim overalls and a red and white trucker hat a wad of tobacco tucked in his lower lip.  Well I am not bragging or complaining. But around Robertson County if you mention the word 'logging' the Redfern name comes up a lot because we have been in it a long time.  Michael runs this three-man operation on the northern border with Kentucky along with his sons Jonathan and Justin. Jonathan saws. His younger brother Justin drags the tree out of the woods with a skidder. Their dad drives the logs to a mill. On the edge of an open field the Redferns fell a 100-foot cherry tree. It could fetch up to 400 at the mill though the landowner gets half of that. Jonathan Redfern says nobody's getting rich like this.  People think we are sitting on a gold mine over here but all we are doing is making a living. And we are fine with that. I enjoy it. You know we are middle-class at best. And we just make a living here. But it will wear you out.  It is also perilous. Logging accounted for 64 deaths last year. That is more than any other industry in the U.S.   A lot of times if you get in a tree and it is bad in the middle you are not holding anywhere. So when you start cutting at some point it is going to do what it wants to do.  You have learned how to scram - how to get out of the way.  Oh absolutely. I have got a pretty good three-step quick-jump there.  Logging is not just dangerous it is economically volatile. Adam Taylor studies wood products at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville.  The wood industry is unstable. You know it is a commodity industry. So it goes up and down. And you have to be able to weather those ups and downs.  And then there is the physical toll.  Because you know honestly my dad's 57 years old and takes a handful of pills every morning just to walk. And some day I am going to be the same way if I cut timber 30 years. And you know it just as not for me.  For all those reasons Jonathan is looking for another job and not in logging. He is likely not the only one. Federal labor figures show that the logging workforce is aging and many are not expected to be replaced. So mills are sponsoring youth outreach events. Forestry groups are organizing logging classes. And technical colleges are adding logging to their curriculum. Even Congress has jumped in. Rep. Raul Labrador who has just thrown his hat in the ring to be majority leader has introduced a bill. It would allow loggers' kids to use heavy equipment even if they are under the mandatory minimum age of 18.  And I think if we continue to make it more difficult for young people to get into this field and we continue to make it more difficult for the logging community to actually do their work I think we are going to see these jobs actually lost.  The bill was pushed by the American Loggers Council. Spokesman Daniel Dructor says his group has lobbied Congress on the issue for years. But even legislation may not help.  Parents just are not encouraging their kids to go into the profession anymore.  They are looking for them to do something that they could - might make a better living at.  Back in the forest Jonathan Redfern says he will not be encouraging any young people to take up logging.  Absolutely not. I say stay as far away from it as you can get.  But Justin plans to stick with the tree business so long as he can find someone to replace his brother.  You can find a truck driver. That is not hard. The hard thing's going to be finding someone to run that saw.  Redfern says not just anyone can take down a towering hardwood. This is a trade that until now most people were born into. But it is one that takes a toll. And for that reason their dad Michael Redfern says he cannot blame his sons for wanting to take another path. For NPR News I am Bobby Allyn in Nashville.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 