 Seventeen years ago Americans could buy a car that got a whopping 45 miles to the gallon on the highway. It was not the Toyota Prius which arrived five years later. The car was GM's Geo Metro and it had a three-cylinder engine. It was not a success. But as we hear from Michigan Radio's Tracy Samilton another Detroit company thinks Americans are now ready to embrace a three-cylinder engine.  Wow. You know really to mention in the same breath the old-style three-cylinder engine in the Geo Metro and the one Ford has developed well it is just plain unfair. It is wrong. We are going to do it anyway. T.J.  My name's T.J. Baldermann. I work on cars. I am a certified technician. I am a car guy and I drive a Geo Metro.  Baldermann has a great sense of humor - thank goodness. The car has maybe three times the horsepower of a riding lawnmower.  astonishing fuel economy.  I could drive pretty much whatever I want to drive. But you know when you get something that gets 45 50 miles to the gallon...  Well you drive them till they rust which does not take too long in Michigan.  And it is probably my seventh or eight Geo Metro not including ones I bought just for parts.  The Geo Metro still has a tiny loving fan base people like Baldermann. But the car never sold well and it was discontinued in 2000.  But we are in a new era now. I mean I think everybody realizes that fuel prices are going to be permanently high.  That is Ford Motor Company's Richard Truett. We are test-driving a European-made Focus on Michigan roads to see if the three-cylinder engine in it is up to merging onto the highway and passing other cars. It is. It can even leave a Hummer in the dust.  You are passing a Hummer with five less cylinders with an engine that is a quarter of the size.  Now the engine may be small but that is a point of pride for Ford.  It weighs less than about 225 pounds.  Greg Johnson is a Powertrain Engineering manager at Ford. He says this engine is more powerful than the four-cylinder in the current Fiesta thanks to direct fuel injection and turbocharging. When the engine gets here next year it could give the car it is in well over 45 miles per gallon no hybrid technology involved.  It weighs less than about 225 pounds.  You are waiting for the yes but right? Well here it is. Ford is expected to charge about a grand more for a car with this tiny engine than for one with a four-cylinder engine. Fewer cylinders higher price.  So the big experiment is will Americans pay more money for a smaller motor if they are getting better fuel economy out of it.  That is Aaron Bragman of IHS Automotive. Bragman says the strategy is working with Ford's F-150. The standard engine is a V-8 but almost half the truck's buyers are paying extra for the V-6 with direct injection and turbocharging. Ford will likely market the car as offering hybrid-like fuel economy without the hybrid price. Bragman figures not everyone with a Prius is going to trade it in.  There is a certain magic to the word hybrid for some people. There are some people that just want to have the hybrid. They want to have a hybrid badge. They want to be seen as having purchased a hybrid.  Still Bragman thinks most drivers care less about what is under the hood than they do fuel economy. While Ford is betting on its little engine GM is staying out of that game for now even though GM does have a modern three-cylinder engine that it sells in cars in Europe. Instead  diesel. The company will offer a Chevy Cruze that runs on diesel fuel next year. For NPR News I am Tracy Samilton in Ann Arbor. 