 Here are the results from a big nationwide auto race. Last month the Nissan Leaf pulled ahead of the Chevy Volt. In the first half of this year Nissan sold 4134 Leafs in the U.S. Chevy sold 2745 Volts. Just as a basis for comparison during the same six months Toyotas sold 147469 Camrys. In fairness the competition among the Volt the Leaf and the Tesla Roadster is supposed to be a race among tortoises. The finish line is somewhere in the future when plug-in electrics might wean us off our national petroleum habit. But we thought we would check back to see if those modest sales figures are seen as encouraging. And joining us is Jerry Hirsch an automotive industry reporter for the Los Angeles Times. Do automakers look at those numbers and say yes it is coming along? Or this is a very slow market? Mr.  They say it is coming along. They can actually sell about as many as they can produce. What is probably holding the market back at this point is that Nissan and Chevrolet are ramping up production of those vehicles. So it is going to take some time to get to the point where they can make more than the market can absorb.  The Chevy Volt is a more expensive car than the Nissan Leaf. Are people springing for 40000? Of course they get a tax rebate in there but are they spending that much and why? Mr.  Well there is a huge passion among some people in the United States for electric vehicles. And the automakers could probably sell 50000 70000 vehicles at these prices just because these individuals believe that electric vehicles are the future they have environmental views that makes them think that this is the best way of going from point A to point B. The big question is is what happens when incentives fall off? What happens when there is more entrants into the market as there will be later this year and next year? Then we are really going to see how big is the market for electrical vehicles in the United States.  And I gather by the way one other spur to the market is that an electric car or for that matter a hybrid is a ticket to the high occupancy vehicle lane on the highways so it can get you where you are going faster. Mr.  In California right now it is actually just an electric vehicle or a zero or a low emissions vehicle like a natural gas vehicle. Interestingly the Volt does not qualify to get either the special rebate for electric vehicles in California or a California carpool lane permit. They are doing some re-engineering of that vehicle. In probably mid-2012 model year it will qualify for those benefits.  What is the outlook say for next year in terms of new competition in the electric vehicle market? Mr.  Well one of the vehicles that I am really watching is the Toyota RAV4 electric. What is interesting about this is is this is a car that they have developed jointly with Tesla. And it has some qualities and characteristics that may make it attractive to buyers. One it is a small SUV so you are going to be able to hold more stuff in it. Two it is expected to have a little bigger range. The Volt for practical terms you can get 40 maybe 45 miles. The Leaf the best I have ever done with a single charge on the Leaf is about 78 miles. But the RAV4 has the potential to have a longer range because Tesla uses a little different battery system than these other manufacturers. So if they could bring this in at about the same price point and we do not know that yet it may grab sales from some of the existing vehicles just because it is a bigger vehicle with a larger range and I think consumers are going to like that.  Jerry Hirsch of the Los Angeles Times thanks for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you. 