 Winning a big lottery prize can be a dream come true. In Illinois it is more like a dream deferred. That is because lawmakers and the state's governor cannot agree on a budget. Lottery officials say anyone who wins more than 25000 cannot be paid until that budget is in place. NPR's Cheryl Corley sent this report.  At a corner convenience store on Chicago's North Side people are coming in to purchase a few groceries and some are buying those scratch-off lottery cards where you can find out right away if you are a winner.  Hey.  You got something?  Yeah.  Nice. Would you like...  It is busy over at the lottery terminal too.  Seventeen 23...  Jennifer Cook  plays often wins often - her highest amount - a couple of thousand dollars - and she knows what she would do if she ever hit it big.  If I won millions it would be my kids first and then me .  Cook says she is heard the news about the lottery delaying payments for big money winners because of the stalemate between the governor and the State Legislature over the Illinois budget.  I mean come on. You make millions off the lottery and you cannot cut a check? That is unacceptable.  Illinois does have the money to pay but big winners are out of luck. Call it a clash of wills between the state's neophyte Republican governor and a Democratically controlled legislature. After months of wrangling there is still no budget for a fiscal year that began July 1. Most of the vital services in Illinois continue to run in part because of court orders. Comptroller Leslie Munger says without a budget she cannot authorize payments to big lottery winners.  Those are not court-ordered payments. They are all going to have to wait in line until we get our budget.  But lottery winners are not pleased. In a federal lawsuit they say since July 1 more than two dozen people have won big and are waiting for nearly 300 million. Rhonda Rasche won 50000 and had planned to take a best friend who lost her mother on a vacation.  There was nothing on the ticket that said well if the state does not have a budget we cannot pay you. If I were running a raffle myself and I was selling tickets and there was a winner and afterwards I told them oh sorry I cannot pay you it is not in my budget right now I would probably be in jail. Or I would be sued or both.  Lottery officials say they cannot comment about litigation but Comptroller Munger has a message for the lottery winners going to court.  Rather than filing a court order perhaps they should call their legislature and ask them to work on getting a budget in place.  We want to stop the fraud.  Attorney Tom Zimmerman says that Illinois law requires the lottery to pay prizes first instead of using money to pay for operating the lottery.  And so if the state is not willing to pay out the prize money then they should not be selling tickets that have a potential value in excess of 25000 knowing full well that when somebody comes to collect they are not going to pay.  The Illinois Legislature is not scheduled to return until later this month. But state representative Jack Franks says he is asked the governor to call a special session. And he will introduce a bill that will allow the comptroller to pay out big lottery awards.  I do not think this can wait 'ecause this is a very very important asset of the state which - we generate almost a billion dollars in revenue a year for the state. And it could dry up overnight if people lose confidence.  Back at that corner grocery store Amber Stone  says she typically buys a lottery ticket about three times a month. She knows about the payment delay for big winnings so she is not willing to play now.  No absolutely not and I am not going to until this is like - and I have not since I found that out. So...  But others say they will still play in hopes of hitting it big and getting paid even as the struggle over the Illinois budget continues. Cheryl Corley NPR News Chicago. 