 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block. In a matter of weeks Harrisburg Pennsylvania will likely run out of money. It has the most debt per capita of any city in the country. That is 1.5 billion for a city for 50000 people.  Today we bring you the bizarre tale of how things went so wrong - a story about a do-gooder who skipped town possible criminal behavior and an incinerator. Here's Planet Money's Zoe Chace.  Let us begin with the do-gooder David Unkovic. We profiled him on this program a few months ago. He was appointed by the state of Pennsylvania to fix the Harrisburg debt problem. And he seemed like the perfect guy for the job.  glasses and bow tie confident but not arrogant. Back then - March of 2012 -  So you think you can get this city out of debt?   See? Calm unassuming. But then just a week after I talked to him just a few months after coming to Harrisburg he seemed to snap. Outside the courthouse he gave this impromptu press conference.   It is basically a house of cards and the cards are coming down. And they are coming down now and they are all coming down at the same time.  A few days later he scrawled this handwritten resignation letter and dropped it off downtown. He disappeared from public life. The man brought in to vanquish the debt he was vanquished himself. So what happened?  There is probably not an hour that goes by since I resigned that I have not been thinking about Harrisburg - one way or the other.  It took months to finally make contact with Unkovic again. You can find him these days bird-watching outside Philly thinking about the albatross of debt that he would been battling with - the Harrisburg incinerator. The incinerator was first built in 1969. And it represented a dream - the dream that Harrisburg would be the trash capital of the state. It would collect fees from miles around to burn the trash of Pennsylvania. But by the time Unkovic got there the incinerator had accumulated more than 300 million worth of debt. And it had never - in four decades - really worked properly. When Unkovic first arrived in town he thought it was just bad management. Now he thinks it is something more sinister. Did you think the financing of the incinerator was criminal?  I do not know. Um - it bothers me as someone who is done financing for so many years to see something like that because it is like the worst stuff you can look at.  But other people back in Harrisburg they do not hesitate.  Illegal conduct occurred. Um...  So you think a crime was committed.  Yeah. I think false statements were submitted - under penalty of law - to the state government in association with the financing.  This is Bill Cluck. He serves on the board that runs Harrisburg's sewer system and the incinerator. He is been a longtime critic of Harrisburg's borrowing habits especially when it came to the incinerator. Now Harrisburg had the same mayor for almost 30 years - 1980 to 2009 - Stephen Reed. And every couple years Mayor Reed would go to city council and ask permission to borrow more money to fix up the incinerator. In 2007 one of the guys he was asking was a newly elected councilman Dan Miller. You have a folder called incinerator huh?  Well when that vote came up I did research.  Miller is the city controller now. He is also an accountant. Back in 2007  Let me just look into this a bit to get some context for this loan there have been so many. He prints out a spreadsheet.  So I went back to the original bond deals in the - 1969 and went forward. And you know it started out as - well you can see 12.5 million.  That is how much was borrowed?  Yes. There were nine refinancings prior to 2007 and the debt went from 12.5 million to 221 million. So it is going the wrong way.  The city owed 200 million-plus on the incinerator by 2007 and the mayor wanted to borrow 30 million more. People famously say about Mayor Reed that he never met a bond he did not like. He used all the money borrowed on the incinerator to do all kinds of stuff. Like he bought these strange artifacts from all over the country to build a Wild West museum. The city borrowed money to buy a baseball team and build a baseball stadium. The team was recently sold at a loss.  The fundamental problem was they were issuing more debt than they really were allowed to under state law.  David Unkovic remember used to be in charge of the city now wandering in the wilderness. He points out that under Pennsylvania state law you are not allowed to just borrow as much as you want. There is a debt limit to how much cities can borrow. There is however a way around this law. If you can assert the debt is what you call self-liquidating - that once the incinerator is up and running and making money it will pay for itself. So to get this extra 30 million they needed to say the incinerator would pay off all by itself the 220 million they would already borrowed. So in 2007 the city filed this document - the 8110   certificate. Bill Cluck says think of it as a promise.  Swearing under penalty of law that the incinerator project was self-sufficient that the revenue from the incinerator would be sufficient to pay old and new debt. And they knew it was not true when it was submitted. And it is never been corrected to this day.  And that says Cluck and many others was a crime. Everyone knew the incinerator was not self-liquidating. In fact there were 17 different revenue projections showing it could never earn back all the money that had been borrowed on it. So how was it that nobody raised questions about the wisdom of this loan? None of the law firms the financial advisers who worked on it. Well we asked. They refused to respond on the record. Here's Bill Cluck.  So what you have is you have the financial adviser makes 142000 on this 30 million - notes. That is a lot of money. The county had a law firm the city had a law firm. It is...  I mean how many law firms are on this list?  Financial advisers like to call this the Noah's Ark of public financing - meaning there is two of everything.  The 30 million borrowed in 2007 almost none of it went to the actual incinerator upgrade. Virtually all of it went to pay back old debt and fees to these many firms that set up the deal in the first place. The very same firms ended up on practically every deal Cluck says. To make matters worse the city ultimately was on the hook. If the incinerator could not make the money back it would fall to the taxpayers of Harrisburg. And this makes Bill Cluck crazy.  Where is the advocate for the city to say hey you are getting screwed by the terms of these deals? It never happened.  Of course there is one person that is supposed to be an advocate for the city of Harrisburg - the mayor right? If this was such a bad deal for the city why would he sign off on it? David Unkovic he has a theory.  In other ways when I look at it it is like he was being taken advantage of you know? It is like he was a debt addict and that he - once he got going just needed more and more debt and was sold more and more debt.  We tried hard to reach the former mayor for comment. We could not.  In the 2000s there was a lot of easy money out there for cities. Wall Street came up with tons of intriguing financial products that would generate short-term cash. There always seemed to be a way to refinance a loan to borrow new money to pay back the old - that is until two years ago a very different borrowing climate. Local officials tried to refinance the 2007 debt and could not. The tap's turned off. With all these debts the city is finding it hard to cover basic services. They have delayed payments to light bulb vendors paper sellers. Restaurants have hired their own security. A local strip club paid to keep the streetlights on. The city is projected to run out of money entirely in October. A judge has recently ordered a 1 percent income tax hike on the people still left in Harrisburg but city council promises to fight it. The search for revenue for that city continues. Zoe Chace NPR News. 