 Things were pretty ugly on Wall Street today. The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled falling 800 points losing 3 of its value. The sell-off followed fresh signs that major economies around the world are beginning to falter. I am joined now by NPR senior business editor Uri Berliner who is going to make sense of all of this for us. Right Uri?  Of course.   All right so just walk us through what happened today.  So the sell-off was deep and very broad. All the major stock market indexes fell sharply - the Dow the SP 500 and the Nasdaq. Trade once again seemed to be a big factor. Just yesterday markets rallied and there was an upbeat mood on Wall Street. That was after the Trump administration announced it was going to delay tariffs on a wide range of Chinese imports. And it was seen as a breather from the trade war. But today suddenly there was a complete reversal of the mood. It got pretty dark.  So why did things turn around so abruptly?  So you know as you noted there is increasing evidence of economic weakness around the world. Just today we learned Germany's economy shrank in the latest quarter. That is Europe's most important economy. Germany relies heavily on trade and exports for its prosperity. Trade tensions are affecting Germany's important car industry. And over in China there is new evidence that its economy too is slowing. Growth in the U.S. is also starting to weaken. In the second quarter the economy grew just 2.1. That is down from earlier in the year. So you have the big three - U.S. China and Europe - all slowing down at the same time. That is not a happy combination for the stock market.  And then on top of all this I understand there was an ominous signal coming from the bond market as well.  That is right.  OK.  The interest rate on 10-year - on the 10-year Treasury note briefly fell below the yield on the two-year rate. That is unusual and it is the first time that is happened since 2007. This is called an inverted yield curve. And if it persists it is often seen as a bad sign for the economy. An extended inversion between these two interest rates has preceded the past seven recessions. Now most economists do not believe the U.S. is headed for a recession soon. But...  Good.  This -  good good yeah. But this inverted yield curve ramped up the anxiety on Wall Street today. I spoke to Joe Brusuelas. He is the chief economist at the consulting firm RSM. And he says a lot rides on the U.S. and China quickly dialing back these disputes over trade.  Essentially if the trade war's not rolled back in the near term I think we are going to have a very difficult 2020.  OK that sounds really unsettling. I guess the question I have after all of this is what do ordinary people like you and me have to worry about going forward?  Well so for now the U.S. economy is doing pretty well. Unemployment rate remains really low. Wage growth is decent - very little inflation. But if you are in the markets if you are an investor for the long term a one-day drop in the market like this should not really scare you should not freak you out. But if you are just about to retire and you are looking at your 401 these days understandably can be really stomach-churning.  OK. Well that is NPR's senior business editor Uri Berliner. Thank you Uri.  You are welcome Ailsa.  