 In the ridesharing industry Uber is not the only game in town. Companies such as Lyft and others are also out there and they are also battling over identity - who they are and what they stand for. NPR's Aarti Shahani has that story from San Francisco.  Huber has raised 1.5 billion dollars from private investors and it has used some of its money to try to lure drivers away from the number two ride sharing start-up which is called Lyft with a y. Lyft has raised 333 million - hardly chump change - and has paid to lure drivers back. I wanted to know from the worker perspective if there are important differences between the two. So I took a bunch of Lyft rides and asked a few dozen of my drivers for their take.  The clientele from Uber they want water and phone chargers and gum and snacks and...  Lyft passengers expect to sit in the front seat and have a conversation and share. Share.  Instead when you work for Lyft it is basically your friend with a car. It is a different approach. I am not your chauffeur.  You are not my chauffeur?  No I am not. I am your friend with a car.  That is Eric Manning Theresa Guerrero and Alonzo Hidalgo. While Uber is the luxury brand Lyft is the hipster chic alternative. Passengers sit in the front seat and dive into conversations that feel like speed dating or bar-counter confessional. Some say that is a key distinction in a city that is so fragmented between the tech-haves and have-nots that people forget to fist bump. But others are not so convinced.  When you think about the difference between a taxi a sedan and Uber and Lyft they are all kind of doing the same thing.  Benjamin Edelman is a professor at the Harvard Business School.  The most striking change is that Uber and Lyft will do it for a lower price. I am not one to criticize a lower price. I love a great deal but...  He says for all their qualms with the legacy taxi industry Uber and Lyft are in essence taxicabs that know how to use a smart phone for dispatch. Ridesharing is supposed to be different. It started in the U.S. during World War II as a way to conserve resources. It evolved over the decades into a green movement to get cars off the streets. This new generation of start-ups could have used the awesome power of smart phones to help people going in the same direction find each other in real time. Instead when you hop in an Uber or Lyft Edelman says...  The driver is still a driver driving in an unnecessary direction to get paid.  And that makes sense when you think about the pressures on the companies. Silicon Valley investors want a return. And it is easier to make an existing market more efficient than it is to experiment with sharing cars the way we might share a bus.  I do not fault them for choosing the road that is more obvious and more straightforward. It is the natural play. Although it will not live up to the full technology's potential.  There is one experiment that could be a game changer. The start-up Sidecar put out a new service in May for people who need a ride in the same direction. Sidecar CEO Sunil Paul says his company is making this paid carpooling a core business. And so far Sidecar has gotten 13000 requests for shared rides.  That 13000 came just during the test period.  Paul estimates the U.S. taxi market is a 10 billion a year industry and sharing rides could be 10 times that because it responds to the every day blue-collar commuter.  With Sidecar shared rides we were able to drop the price and make it into daily service. And it dramatically increases the size of the market.  Uber and Lyft recently announced they are trying out shared rides too. Uber says it is in test mode so too soon to tell if it will be a core service. And Lyft did not respond to NPR's request for details. Aarti Shahani NPR News San Francisco. 