 Growth in the energy industry means growth in construction. Tens of billions of dollars of development is in the works along the Gulf Coast the Midwest and the Great Plains. But construction workers are few and far between. Right now there are about 20 percent fewer skilled workers in the industry than there were in 2008. Trade apprenticeships are helping to ease the shortage. But as Miles Bryan of Wyoming Public radio reports it may be too little too late.  Jeremy Smith is the business manager for a school district in Northern Wyoming. It is a beautiful day and he is excited to show me the new Tongue River Elementary School - or at least the plot of land where the school should be.  What you are going to see when we get up here a little bit closer is you are going to just see pasture.  The school was supposed to be under construction by now but last month state officials said they did not have the money.  I think we did everything right in this case. We did not redesign a whole new school. We went and found one that was built twice already in the state.  The district plans to keep its costs down by borrowing the design for its new school from one that had been built last year in a nearby town. That school...  Was built about 211 a square foot. When we opened bids on this same school it was 280.  In other words the new Tongue River would cost about a third more than the same school designed last year just 30 miles away. It is a problem of supply and demand. This year there is almost as much construction work in energy boom states like Wyoming as there was in 2008. But back then there were about 6 million Americans working in commercial construction. Now there is only about four and half million.  Usually there is people waiting and willing to come to work. I have been with the business since '99 and it is the worst I have seen.  Ron Kaiser is the vice president of Mike's Electric. One of the contractors that bid high on the new school. He is so busy I had to catch up with him at a job site on the other side of town. He says he is had to raise benefits to attract enough workers.  What is really strange you go in to an interview and they are actually interviewing you instead of you interviewing them.  If you are a very highly skilled welder you can pretty much write your own ticket.  Mike Glavin is a senior manager with the Associated Builders and Contractors. He says that after construction took a nosedive six years ago a lot of skilled workers left the business and they have not come back. And many of the workers that did stay were older and now they are starting to eye retirement.  That is another concern that a lot of contractors are looking at five to 10 years from now where the folks that they have are going to be leaving the industry and they do not necessarily see a  replacement for those folks.  One possible replacement is Michael Swanson. He is an apprentice electrician currently working a summer job rewiring the University of Wyoming's engineering building. Swanson actually studied engineering at college for a year but he says it was because he felt like he had to.  They almost made it seem like you either go to college or you amount to nothing coming from teachers from parents from other kids. It is just pretty much either you go to school or you end up working at McDonald's.  Swanson says being an electrician is really satisfying both intellectually and financially.  I can take time off when I need. I do not have to work overtime without being paid like I would a salary job like an engineer.  And Swanson says as an apprentice he is making 26 an hour.  I mean I am already - I am saving up for a house I plan on buying soon because of this job.  But there needs to be a lot more young people like Swanson in the near future to meet demand. In Wyoming and all around the U.S. Swanson says that when he started his apprenticeship program it could hold 60 students but only 20 enrolled and only 12 graduated. The Associated Builders and Contractors estimates the construction industry is facing a shortage of almost 2 million skilled workers by the end of the decade. For NPR News I am Miles Bryan in Laramy. 