 We turn now to the Senate majority leader Harry Reid a Democrat of Nevada. Mr. Reid thank you very much for making time for us.  It is really my pleasure. I love NPR.  Well listen - I am look - I am not on Capitol Hill. Obviously I am here in the studio but I am looking at pictures of the senators in the chamber today. Everyone seems to be smiling now that a bill has been passed. But if you had to give me a one-sentence assessment of that bill that passed today what would it be? Are you happy?  It would be a compromise. We - no one got what they wanted. And I always find that even going back to the days that I practiced law if people walk out of the room and parties are all dissatisfied that is a pretty good settlement and that is what we had here. No one was happy with it. But it was the right thing for the American people.  When you look at this process there were two occasions where your leadership seemed to be sidelined to some degree the arrival of that Gang of Six plan at some point in the process and then the final negotiations which appeared to be led in large part by Minority Leader Mitch McConnell who is claiming a victory right now this afternoon. Are you angry about that or is that just politics? It is just part of the process.  No no I am not angry. Mitch has always been trying to make the glass appear half full for him and half empty for me. We are very fortunate that Medicare Medicaid Social Security was not attached in any way affects none of our beneficiaries. There were no benefit cuts. I wish we had been able to get some revenue because it is important that people who are making all these huge sums of money pay their fair share the American people agree with that. But I do not think it is important to talk about whether Democrats won or Republicans won. I think the American people won. And we know that we have to do more and I look forward to doing that.  Let us look ahead then. We are hearing very different interpretations on whether revenue increases will be part of the solution when the super committee starts to do its work. You said earlier this week that the new committee will have to agree on tax hikes. Republicans do not agree with it. Paul Ryan in - over in the House insists that Republicans who will be seated on this super committee will not support tax increases. So when you look ahead what do you see and why are there such different interpretations?  If there is continual talk by the Republicans from the House and the Senate that there will be no revenue then there would be no bill. They have to understand today right now the day we passed the bill that we will have no legislation that will come out of that joint committee unless revenues are part of the mix. It is a fact of life. And if they do not like that and they can look forward to the huge cuts that will take place in sequestration dealing with defense and some other programs would be cut including mandatory programs foreign programs and things of that nature.  They have said all along that there will be no revenues and that they are not willing to move on that. What is the incentive for them to move now?  Well I am not totally familiar with what you are saying because in my private conversations with the speaker and the minority leader over here they assume and the legislation allows revenue to be a part of the mix.  Before I let you go I want to shift away from the debt ceiling for just a moment. You have been very outspoken about the ongoing showdown over funding for the Federal Aviation Administration. Where does that stand right now? You have a direct interest in this. A small airport in your home state is directly affected by this dispute and you are calling on the Senate now to take this up as the House has done.  The House has tried to make this an issue over essential air service. It is not a battle over essential air service. It is a battle over Delta Airlines who refuses to allow votes under the new rules that have been passed by the NLRB it is all a nonunion organization Delta Airlines they are the ones that are holding this up. As a result of what Delta Airlines has done 80000 people today are out of work. It has nothing to do with essential air service. It has everything to do with their anti-union activities.  Well should we assume that FAA will open sometime in August? Would you allow this to continue? Is it possible that the FAA will be shut down through September?  The FAA cannot go forward because of what the House has done. They are out of session now. And what they have sent over here will not pass.  So it will be closed through September? We cannot...  It will be closed until - maybe not September maybe more than that. They have refused for more than a year to appoint conferees because they are unwilling to go forward on the issue because of the anti-union sentiment of Delta Airlines.  Senator Reid thank you very much for your time.  Nice to hear your voice. Thank you very much.  That is Senator Harry Reid of Nevada Senate majority leader. 