 The shootings on live TV of two young journalists last month highlighted the perils of dealing with potentially dangerous employees. Prior to that Roanake Va. attack a former employee and alleged shooter Vester Flanagan had reportedly shown violent tendencies at work. But as NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports it can difficult for employers to know when and how to step in.  Steve Hollander is still haunted by an event that happened five years ago last month.   Nine-one-one.  I need the cops here at Hartford Distributors right away - shooting.  What is going on? Who got shot?  Somebody got shot. I got shot.  Hollander is the executive vice president at Hartford Distributors which lost eight employees that early August day at the hands of former employee Omar Thornton.   Did you say he used to work there?  Yeah till I just fired him.  Today?  Today - just now before he started shooting. He is chasing people out in the parking lot.  Hollander was wounded but one of his colleagues yelled at the shooter and took a lethal bullet instead. How often do you think about it?  I probably think about it 30 times a day.  But he does not remember ever worrying if the shooter was capable of such violence.  He was quiet-spoken you know did not seem violent or disturbed or - not that anybody could tell.  The company changed everything about its security system and how it fires people yet Hollander says he does not think it would have made a difference.  It is horrible because people ask me all the time now that you know what you know what could you have done? And the answer is nothing not much.  Workplace shootings garner lots of attention but according to the Labor Department over the last decade workplace fatalities have been on the decline. Homicides at work in recent years have also declined and robberies are the motives in most workplace killings. But experts say official statistics underestimate violence in the workplace especially when it comes to non-lethal incidents. Margaret Spence is CEO of Douglas Claims  Risk Consultants a human resources consultancy.  The aggressor gets terminated and the injured person gets treated under worker's comp and so it does not necessarily get counted as violence in the workplace.  Also she says companies often want to keep the incidents hush-hush.  People terminate the person. They wash their hands. They figure that is it that is the end of them they are out the door when in fact that is the beginning of the safety process.  So what can employers do if they see signs of disturbing behavior in an employee? Elizabeth Bille is associate general counsel for the Society for Human Resource Management. She says in recent years more employers are posting workplace violence policies. She says they should enforce them uniformly without giving first-time offenders a pass. At the same time Bille says if an employee has a mental health problem employers are limited by federal law in their ability to discuss or share that information.  I think one of the greatest challenges about identifying potential workplace violence is trying to balance fairness to the employee to not overreact and keeping their particular situations confidential with the very real concerns of co-workers who may start fearing for their safety. That is really the crux of the challenge here.  Jordan Barab is deputy assistant secretary of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. His agency provides safety guidelines for industries in health care and retailing where patients and customers are most likely to perpetrate workplace violence. But he says there is no prevention handbook when it comes to mass shootings.  In most of those cases you do not have kind of the same recognized risk factors. You do not have an ability in many cases for the employer to more or less predict that this is going to happen.  Steve Hollander the Hartford shooting survivor agrees.  This is the most unlikely place I could ever imagine something like that happening.  With all the changes the company has since made Hollander still feels like there is no such thing as zero risk.  The sad fact is is with all of the security measures you take in place we could have fobs and bulletproof glass and fences and security guards but someone intent on mayhem is going to commit mayhem. And there is - all you can do is slow them down and help people get out of the way.  Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 