 Now a story with sole.    I am throwing on my Louboutins. I am throwing on my Louboutins.    These expensive these is red bottoms these is bloody shoes.  Louboutins - the designer shoe with the red soles.  They are all over celebrity magazines and pop culture. Carrie Bradshaw had them on when Miranda went into labor in Sex And The City.    And thus with a destroyed pair of Christian Louboutins began Miranda's delivery.  There is even a reference to them in the new Mean Girls musical on Broadway.    I will grind you to sand beneath my Louboutin heel.  And this week that is what designer Christian Louboutin did in court. He won a legal case protecting those trademark red soles.  The European Court of Justice ruled that a Dutch company had infringed on the trademark by selling its own red-soled shoes.  And the reason why this case had to go all the way to the Court of Justice of the European Union is that there was a question - are those red soles a shape or are they a color?  Because a functional shape like the sole of a shoe cannot be trademarked under EU law. Susan Scafidi is a professor at Fordham University and the founder of the Fashion Law Institute. She is been studying this case.  It means that no other company can use red soles legitimately because the red soles are not just a cool decorative element. They are a sign or a signifier of the Louboutin company.  In other words if you see a shoe with a red sole chances are you will think of Louboutin.  You might not remember the name of the company but you remember right it is that guy with the red soles.  The ruling could have broader implications too.  It is relevant to any company that builds trademark identification into its product like the Burberry plaid.  Scafidi says Louboutin is associated with a lot of things with celebrity and status and power and confidence. And she speaks from experience.  When I wear Louboutin I know that I am making a statement and that this is definitely a do not-mess-with-me I-mean-business kind of a day.  Christian Louboutin certainly means business. This was not the first time he sued and won over his red soles. After this latest ruling his company in a statement said it warmly welcomes this judgment.    Watch these red bottoms and the back of my jeans. Watch me go bye babe. Do not know what you got until it is gone. Tail lights is all you will see. Watch that Benz exit that driveway. 