 You know that TV game show Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? - the contestants on the quiz show have the chance to walk away with a lot of money. Well it goes down a little differently in Venezuela. It is a country with runaway inflation. And as Reporter John Otis found the winnings have lost their value.  Nervous contestants gather at a Caracas TV studio to tape an episode of Wants to Be a Millionaire?. Some borrow fancy clothes from the studio wardrobe. Other get last-minute touchups to their hair and makeup. Then the show begins.   .  Host Eladio Larez asks multiple-choice questions about geography history and Venezuelan culture for escalating cash prizes. Contestants must correct answer 15 questions to win the jackpot. But this turns out to be a poor man's version of the game. The problem is Venezuela's currency. The bolivar has collapsed amid a severe economic crisis. Now the grand prize of 2 million bolivars amounts to just 2000 U.S. dollars. Most of the prizes are much smaller. Getting past the first question earns contestants 500 bolivars the equivalent of only 50 U.S. cents. They get another 80 cents for nailing question 2. It goes on like this. Contestant Angel Mora who works for a trucking company does well until flubbing the ninth question. His total take amounts to 12 U.S. dollars - maybe enough to buy a simple lunch for a family of four.  .  Backstage Mora says his real earnings will be even less because 34 percent of that 12 goes to taxes. Larez the dapper silver-haired host would like to offer life-changing sums of money. But due to Venezuela's economic meltdown businesses are shutting down. And that is squeezing TV stations.  .  Every day there are fewer TV ads because advertisers face critical problems Larez says. The result is cash prizes so devalued that the name of the show ought to be changed says contestant Adi Slivvka who is here with her husband Jesus Guillen.  You win like 2000. That is not being a millionaire.  The program's name must be another.  Like who wants to be a thousandaire?  Yes yes something like that because Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? - it is not true.  Still hundreds of people call the studio every week clamoring to participate.  .  Show producer Reyna Mogollon says the thrill of being on TV and playing Millionaire is often prize enough but not for contestant Aiskel Seijas a 58-year-old security guard.  .  Seijas says she needs a new pacemaker. Her plan was to pay for the thousand dollar operation with a big check from the show.   For a while her scheme works. She is finally ousted on the 10th question when she names Atlanta rather than Memphis as the city where Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated. But even though she made a deep run on the program the pacemaker will have to wait because her total take is just 19. For NPR News I am John Otis in Caracas Venezuela. 