 President Trump is threatening to add tariffs to almost everything the U.S. buys from China. He says the new tariffs will take effect a month from now.   We have another meeting in early September. I said that is fine. But in the meantime - until such time as there is a deal we will be taxing them.  The tariffs would raise prices on consumer items which have been largely shielded from Trump's protectionist measures up until now. And that is adding to an uncertain business climate which is already taking a toll on manufacturing as NPR's Scott Horsley reports.  Manufacturing in the U.S. is still growing - but just barely. New numbers out today show production and hiring in factories slowed last month. Factory activity actually contracted in Wisconsin and Illinois.  It is not been real wonderful. It was very brisk this first quarter of the year. But I think generally we are seeing somewhat of a slowdown.  B.J. Parrott runs Milwaukee Metal Products a family-owned company that is been in business for 111 years.  Started in 1908 by my grandfather we are a fabricated metal company. We make primarily things for other manufacturing type customers.  Parrott's been watching the U.S.-China trade war closely. Earlier this year when it looked as if the two countries might make a deal she felt more optimistic. But now she is not so sure.  As the trade deals have been falling apart things have gotten a little bit less certain. And when there is less certainty it is harder to predict what is going on.  That uncertainty was one of the factors the Federal Reserve cited this week in its decision to cut interest rates. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell says while the tariffs imposed by the Trump administration are not a huge cost on the economy by themselves they do take a toll on business confidence.   Businesses will tell you that it is a factor. Particularly manufacturing businesses that have supply chains that cross international borders will all tell you that it is been a challenge. Many of them have made adjustments and they have gotten to a place where it is OK. But it is been a challenge.  Parrott for example saw a big increase last year in aluminum prices as a result of the president's tariffs. She says those costs have remained high even as the government has lifted taxes on some exporting countries like Canada.  It stopped going up but it has not come down. So we are still paying significantly higher prices for our raw material than we were two years ago.  Parrott tries to pass those higher costs on to her customers. But as a result she sometimes loses business to foreign competitors who do not have to pay the tariffs. The trade war is also affecting Parrott's customers. One of her company's signature products is a machine that crushes 55-gallon drums - so they take up less space in a landfill for example. Parrott says some customers are reluctant to make a big investment like that in today's uncertain environment.  There is a lot of companies especially if they have existing equipment that are continuing to use their existing equipment rather than replacing or upgrading it because they just do not know what is going to happen.  President Trump's former economic adviser Gary Cohn told the BBC you are now seeing a split in the U.S. economy - between the large services sector which is largely unscathed by the president's trade war and the manufacturing industry which is paying a price.   In the capital investment part of the U.S. economy it is having a dramatic impact.  That'ill be something to watch for tomorrow when the Labor Department issues its monthly jobs report. The U.S. economy continues to add jobs at a healthy pace but not as many as this time last year. And while manufacturing is a relatively small slice of the U.S. economy factories account for fully a quarter of the overall jobs slowdown. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 