 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. President Obama called on Congress tonight to stop the political circus and pass his plan dubbed the American Jobs Act.  There should be nothing controversial about this piece of legislation. Everything in here is the kind of proposal that is been supported by both Democrats and Republicans including many who sit here tonight. And everything in this bill will be paid for - everything.  President Obama addressing a joint session of Congress this evening his speech wrapped up about 25 minutes ago. The White House says the president's jobs plan will cost 447 billion. Included in that proposal spending to improve roads bridges and schools payroll tax cuts and tax credits to businesses that hire long-term unemployed workers. For more on tonight's speech I am joined by NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson. And Mara first your sense of the president's speech.  Well I think it was a speech that was delivered in a feisty fighting way. He laid out his jobs plan it is a specific plan he is going to have an actual bill going up to Congress. It is about half the cost of the original stimulus so it will pack a certain kind of punch to the economy. It has some proposals in it as he said that were in the past bipartisan. Remains to be seen if the Republicans are willing to pass anything that the president proposes. But I do think it succeeded in one of its aims which is satisfying his base that he has a jobs plan and that he is willing to fight for it.  Yeah the president dared Congress to oppose a tax cut that was targeted at the middle class. Let us take a listen to what he said. Pres.  I know that some of you have sworn oaths to never raise any taxes on anyone for as long as you live. Now is not the time to carve out an exception and raise middle-class taxes which is why you should pass this bill right away.   This is what one of the White House's kind of trump cards here. They believe it is going to be very hard for Republicans to oppose a tax cut that affects middle-class people. This is the payroll tax cut otherwise known as the Social Security tax - everyone who works gets this taken out of their paycheck. The tax cut that the president is talking about extending and expanding would put about 1500 into every working family's checkbook. He also wants to expand it to affect the employer's side of the ledger so that they would also get a payroll tax break because they pay half of the tax too. This morning Eric Cantor at a breakfast was kind of dismissive of this idea. It is not an income tax so Republicans are not very focused on it. But I think it will be hard for them to oppose. And I do think this is one of the most powerful political arguments that the Democrats have.  And actually I think it is a majority of Americans who spend more on their Social Security tax than they do in income tax.  Yes it does affect everybody that is right.  This was a feisty speech President Obama read it at a rapid clip. And he indicated that this speech is for him just a beginning. Pres.  Regardless of the arguments we have had in the past regardless of the arguments we will have in the future this plan is the right thing to do right now. You should pass it. And I intend to take that message to every corner of this country.  Pres.  And I ask - I ask every American who agrees to lift your voice. Tell the people who are gathered here tonight that you want action now.  Mara?  Well we will see if people respond to him. He is done this before. During the debt ceiling debate he asked people to call Congress and they whether they did or not they did not sway Congress to the president's point of view. But I do think what this says is the president understands that this speech this one speech is not the end of this fight that he does have to repeat this message over and over again. That is something that the White House has been faulted for for not having follow through and kind of message discipline. But now he has something to campaign on. This is in effect the economic platform for his reelection campaign. He is saying that if the Republican Congress stops him - stops these programs from going into - from being enacted this is what he would do if he had a second term.  NPR's Mara Liasson thank you so much.  Thank you. 