 In the last several years of gradual economic recovery automobile sales have been a bright spot. And I am using the word automobile because trucks and SUVs sell more than cars right now. For seven years the auto industry has seen strong sales. Last year was a record but the latest numbers now from August show a decline. NPR's Sonari Glinton reports.  I get to explain the current state of the automotive economy in about two minutes and 20 seconds. Are you ready? Set go. The first question was for Jessica Caldwell senior analyst with edmunds.com. After seven years of growth do slower car sales mean the good old days are gone for the car business?  I do not think the good old days are gone quite yet. I mean 2015 was a record year for new car sales and the fact that we are almost at parity with that is pretty good. We are just not seeing those massive increases that we have gotten accustomed to since the recession has been over.  Caldwell says American car companies have learned a real lesson. They are selling cars people want and they are making more money off of them.  They can quickly pivot to any market fluctuation that they may see which is really key 'ecause we are not just talking about the U.S. but we are talking about you know - the whole world is driving now which also is a little bit different than we have seen since the past decade.  Next up...  My name is Akshay Anand and I am an analyst with Kelley Blue Book.  Anand says even the most popular vehicles - SUV and trucks - saw some weakness in August.  I do not think things are suddenly going to crash but at the same time it does call for automakers to start being a little more disciplined - right? - because long gone are the days of double-digit growth across the board. We are just not going to see that anymore.  Meanwhile Eric Lyman with truecar.com says automotive sales have reached a peak but...  I think it is more about the industry demand. So we see the macroeconomic conditions are still very robust. We are near full employment. Interest rates are still low. Credit is available. So it looks like there is just a lower demand for cars.  Frankly the pain of the recession is just too near and we all still remember it too acutely.  Stephanie Brinley is with IHS Automotive.  The industry is cyclical. You know if we have seven full years of growth that is unusual and that is atypical. The question really is can the industry be healthy when sales do contract a bit in 2017 or 2018.  OK last analyst with the last word - Juli Niemann with Smith Moore  Company in St. Louis.  But automotive manufacturing is no longer the big driver of the economy as it used to be. It is simply another consumer discretionary item.  Niemann says - does anyone still remember that phrase so goes GM so goes the nation? Yeah not so much.  So the automotive industry certainly contributes tremendously to economic growth but it also is not capable of sinking us. It follows the economy. It does not leave the economy.  Not anymore at least.  Not anymore.  All right. Thank you so much.  You betcha .   Sonari Glinton NPR News. 