 If you fill out a timesheet at work you probably keep track of paid time off - sick time or vacation. But what about the time you spend volunteering say at an animal shelter or a nursing home? More and more companies are paying workers to volunteer on company time. They say it is good for business as Annie Baxter reports from Minnesota Public Radio.  You probably will not find too many bankers wearing the old stereotypical green visors these days. But at U.S. Bank some employees sport hairnets at least when they are serving breakfast.  You want sausage?  Good morning. How are you?  Eggs?  A cereal?  Every Friday morning at a soup kitchen in Minneapolis a group of U.S. Bank employees stands elbow to elbow doling out French toast sausage and other breakfast goodies. Most of the people getting free breakfast are homeless men who lug their belongings in plastic bags.  Good morning.  Hi.  Thanks for feeding us less fortunates.  At her normal job Lisa Eriksson manages vendor relationships for U.S. Bank. But today she is the French toast lady. Eriksson says if U.S. Bank did not give her this opportunity she would never volunteer.  I am a mom - full-time mom - and work full time. And so having this added into my day has been a good thing. When we start seeing the faces of the people that we are serving everyone is very happy and grateful. And it is a very human side of it. It is pretty emotional.  U.S. Bank employees can draw up to 16 hours of pay per year for doing stuff like serving breakfast to the homeless or reading to kids. This kind of thing is happening at lots of other companies nationwide. Every year the Society for Human Resource Management surveys employers about their benefits. And this year about 20 percent said they give their workers a bank of paid time off specifically for volunteering. And that number is increasing.  Companies love to have their employees believe that they are engaged in meaningful and important work.  Jeffrey Pfeffer teaches organizational behavior at Stanford University. He says while it may seem odd that companies would let workers volunteer during office hours consider that the legal profession has done it for years. It is called pro bono work and it gives lawyers the chance to pursue cases with social impact.  Studies of the legal profession show oftentimes that the pro bono work is the work that people enjoy the most and therefore I think helps law firms retain lawyers.  Pfeffer says ideally people's daily work would be fulfilling. But if that is not the case volunteer programs can help make workers feel more engaged and keep them from quitting which is really costly. That is a big deal at a time when many employees are really unhappy with their jobs. A recent Gallup report concluded that 70 percent of full-timers in the American workforce feel disengaged. Now you might think the simplest way to placate those workers would just be to pay them more. But HR consultant Jason Averbook of the firm Appirio says fun often outweighs pay.  If I like what I do - I am excited about getting up in the morning I like the people I work with - I am going to stay even if my merit increase is not what I would expect it to be.  U.S. Bank says employee satisfaction and enthusiasm have never been higher though it is unclear how much of that can be attributed to the bank's paid volunteer program.  Hash browns?  Absolutely. Coming right up.  Back at the soup kitchen Lisa Eriksson says the volunteer program does make her feel more connected to the bank.  I mean it is really a nice thing just to know that the employer you work for is so invested into the community. It feels very good.  And for the bank it costs a lot less to let Eriksson help out the homeless for a day or two per year than it would to replace her if she quit. For NPR News I am Annie Baxter in St. Paul.   This is NPR News. 