 As Harvest Public Media's Kathleen Masterson reports all of this has some investors treating corn like the new gold.  On a recent sun-beaten afternoon I am traveling with two corn buyers from Heartland Co-op in Des Moines to Vernon Flinn's farm just outside of town. They are visiting to check the crop's progress. For a more accurate estimate you need to check the corn away from the edge of the field. So we wrestle our way through the towering eight-foot corn stalks shielding our faces to keep from being cut by the sharp leaves.   Flinn twists off an ear of corn to examine how the heat has damaged it.  That one there is kind of a nose back probably due to dry weather or - this here's probably 16 rows around and it looks like probably four or five kernel rows right there and that row that is aborted or will not fill.  But demand from the ethanol industry livestock feed and export market continues to out-strip yield projections says Iowa State University economist Chad Hart and that sent grain prices soaring.  When you look last summer we had corn prices in some cases down around 3.50 a bushel. Now we are up in the 6 to 7 range so we have seen nearly a doubling of prices if you will over that past 15 months.  And in the last few months another player has taken a bite out of the US corn market.  China's been a very early buyer of the corn crop we are growing now and so they have already if you will put in some advance purchases and that is been something that has got the market a little worked up right now.  Now high grain prices are usually good news for farmers. They helped Vernon Flinn buy a new tractor but today's even higher prices mean even higher stakes and Flinn says selling in this volatile market comes with risks.  I mean you are kind of scared to sell it for fear you are going to miss the rally and you are scared if you do not sell it for fear we are going to say oh heck we should have sold it all last time.  Driving his truck over to the next cornfield  enormous swings in the market.  It was a lot more fun when corn when 3 and it would move. Maybe the limit was 10 cents and if it moved 10 cents in a day you know that was huge.  If it moved a nickel in a day you were looking for a meteorite.  And now they are saying corn is average. This year is just right around 22 or 23 cents a day.  From high to low.  In a day it will move. Well unheard of.  For NPR News I am Kathleen Masterson. 