 President Trump has been pledging that his policies will ramp up economic growth. His goal has been to double the growth rate of recent years to about 4 percent sustained annual growth. Now it happened and it was announced today and he is taking credit.   I am thrilled to announce that in the second quarter of this year the United States economy grew at the amazing rate of 4.1 percent.  We are joined now by NPR's Chris Arnold. He is been following all of this. Hey there Chris.  Hey Audie.  The president was happy. How big a deal is this for everyone else for the economy?  Well 4 percent growth is a potentially very big deal. And we should start by saying look the economy is growing at a very healthy pace. It is growing faster than it has in the past few years. Part of this has to do with the tax cut that people have a little more money in their wallets. They are spending that. Business investments played a role too. And you know if that 4 percent rate could be sustained - and this 2-something percent growth rate up to 4 percent does not sound like much but I mean that would just be huge for the standard of living for most Americans - higher wages - very big deal. But we should also note that even the president himself who is congratulating himself on all of - on this one good quarterly number seemed to back away a bit from his earlier claims of long periods of 4 percent growth. And most economists still think that that is highly unlikely. We talked to Ian Shepherdson. He is chief economist with Pantheon Macroeconomics.  Well 4.1 percent is not sustainable. It is as simple as that - no chance. The idea that we could run at 4 having been trending more like 2 14 2 12 is just nonsensical.  Now Chris if that is so what is driving this big 4 percent number and why does Shepherdson think that it will not continue?  Well the reason it will not continue has also to do with what is driving it now. And so OK the tax cut - that is giving a boost now. But you know the tax cut gives a boost early. People got a big boost a pay raise if you will. But that is not - they are not going to get another big tax cut next year and the year after that and the year after that. So the impact of that will fade. And another reason has a lot to do with something else that the president brought up today the trade deficits and exports. Let us hear what he had to say about that.   Perhaps one of the biggest wins in the report - and it is indeed a big one - is that the trade deficit very dear to my heart because we have been ripped off by the world has dropped by more than 50 billion.  Now it is true. That is an increase in exports. That sounds good. It boosted the economy. But the president left a lot unsaid there.  So explain what is happening with that.  OK so obviously we are in a trade war. And that in this perverse way boosted growth in just this one quarter because China was getting ready for these soybean tariffs that were coming into play. And so ahead of those tariffs China bought massive amounts of soybeans from the U.S. I mean so many that it actually changed our overall economic output numbers. But now that the tariffs are in place that is going to reverse. There will not be all these soybean purchases. Ian Shepherdson who we just heard from says half of that change in the trade deficit was due to this sort of quirk of soybean buying. And now that the tariffs have kicked in all this is going to be a drag on growth going forward.  Given all that what are you hearing from economists about growth going forward?  One we talked to is John Silvia. He is the chief economist of Wells Fargo. Here's what he had to say.  Well I think if we can get the trade issues resolved without a lot of hoopla and problems - but you know again that is a big assumption. But if we can get the trade assumptions straightened out oh you get - 2 12 to 3 percent growth is probably a pretty good number.  Pretty good number not what the president had been promising to deliver. It is worth noting too the third quarter GDP the next round of numbers comes out just about a week before the midterm elections. So expect some very big news and attention around all of this plus whatever's happening with the trade fight. And that is again about three months down the road. There'ill be a lot of news about this.  That is NPR's Chris Arnold. Chris thanks so much for explaining it.  You are welcome. Thanks Audie. 