 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand in California.  And I am Robert Siegel in Washington. The housing crisis helped propel this country into the worst recession in decades and now we are seeing some tentative signs that the real estate market may be starting to recover. New numbers out today from a closely watched index show prices on the rise again at least in some parts of the country. And that is on top of other recent data that also show more homes being sold. We asked our reporter Chris Arnold to put those numbers in context.  Boston Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Dallas Minneapolis and San Francisco - what do they have in common? They are cities where home prices rose recently. That is according to the SP Case-Shiller Home Price Index.  This is the first time in almost three years that we have seen price increases. So when we see a break in the downward trend that is definitely encouraging news.  That is Yale professor Robert Shiller. He helped to design the home price index and for a long time he was known as being a pessimist about the housing market. It turned out he was absolutely right. But now Shiller is striking a different tone. Prof.  Well I think the worst is probably behind us - the worst pace of decline. We were going down at two percent a month for a number of months in a row. Nationally that was really something. Now home prices relative to rents or construction costs are back at normal levels.  Shiller stresses that he does not think we are about to see another housing boom. During this downturn we have seen record drops in prices. And when it comes to new homes it is been more than 50 years since we were building and selling so few of them. But over the course of this spring sales have been picking up. So look at that. We got a Century 21 sign here with a nice sold tag on the bottom eh?  Oh yay. Ms.  That is always a pleasure to see.   Anita Shishmanian is a realtor who just sold a condo in the town of Belmont just outside Boston. This time last year she would have an open house and it was like she was at a funeral for somebody with no friends or relatives -just quiet and kind of depressing. But over the course of this spring she is watched that change. Ms.  I had one not so long ago - a single family home - and had an open house and was swamped with buyers real swamped. At the end of the day I had something like five offers come in. I certainly do sense a turn.  Shishmanian says she had a bunch of open houses like that. And she says she is been selling more homes again and that is finally starting to put a dent in the enormous glut of homes that have been sitting on the market. Ms.  Inventories are dropping. So when that happens it is a pretty significant indicator that you know we are going to do a little bit of an upturn.  Condos in one of the local towns was - there were about 140 of them on the market then. This year there are about 89 condos on the market. That is good. We like to see that.   I mean as the supply drops Ms.  Yeah.  you know the price can save a lot. Ms.  Right   Ms.  Exactly.  It is basic supply and demand. For a couple of years there were just way more houses than buyers. And finally the inventory is thinning out of a bit. Also Shishmanian says an 8000 tax credit for first time homebuyers is enticing more people. So have we finally hit bottom for the housing market? Mr.  Well I think it very much depends on what city you are in.  William Wheaton is a housing economist at MIT. Mr.  There are really two types of markets right now. There are markets where prices have taken a big plunge 30-40 percent. So we would certainly say California and Arizona and Florida.  Wheaton says in areas like that half of all sales are foreclosure sales at fire sale prices. And a lot of people are able to get very good deals on houses. Mr.  If you are in a market like California where prices have fallen 50 percent and transactions have picked up and you ask your friendly professor is this the bottom? I would say yeah pretty much so. I would - I would you know buy house for you know 50 60 percent of what it was a few years ago I would buy it.  Wheaton says there are many other markets though where prices have not fallen by that much. And he thinks some could still drift lower. Also of course  foreclosures. They have played a very big role in driving down prices and keeping the market depressed. Chris Arnold NPR News Boston. 