 During most of this pandemic a lot of unemployed Americans got some extra unemployment benefits from the federal government - a flat 600 every week.  That funding expired at the end of July. Congress has not renewed it. So millions of people are scraping by with a lot less. In some places the state unemployment benefit is just 250 a week.  Emily Guill worked at a hotel in Oregon before the pandemic. When we talked to her in July she worried she might lose her housing. This week we called to check in.  Well actually there have been some big changes. After the extra 600 ran out and my savings was gone and I was staring down the barrel of rent due I decided to break my lease and move out of state back in with my parents.  Guill worried about racking up debt.  I had a great career. I had friends. I had a life there. And now I just gave away everything I owned so that I could move back in with my parents. I am still looking for a job and getting nothing in response. I am not really sure what the future holds.  In Arizona Alicia Gonzalez told us in July that she was struggling even with that 600. Her boyfriend had to ration his medicine.  I thought things could not get worse. It is just - it is gotten bad within that little bit of time.  In August there was a moment when things were looking up. Alicia got a job at Walmart managing how many customers come in and enforcing mask rules.  That whole day like I was thinking like OK I got this job. Everything's going to be peachy. Everything's going to be - you know we are going to be OK. But then I thought like you know some people are crazy. That is really like up close and personal. Like people can be like you know like - no I did not feel safe enough.  Alicia decided she could not put her family at risk like that and turned the job down. She is going to keep looking.  In August President Trump signed an order to divert money from FEMA to boost unemployment benefits. That is 300 a week instead of 600.  It is temporary just through September and it is taking a while to get the money in people's hands.  Kim Robinson worked for a staffing agency before she got laid off. She lives in Louisiana where she searched relentlessly for a new job. She says 300 barely makes a dent.  It is hot you know so of course the energy bill is going up. Just your light bill alone could be 200 or 300.  Robinson is still hopeful Congress will act.  Hopefully they will hear our cries. With everything going on in America it is - they could at least help the American people because we are the economy you know?  Talks on the next coronavirus relief bill remain at a standstill.  