 The financial world is absorbing yet another shock. A major British bank has admitted to trying to manipulate a key global interest rate. The bank Barclays has already paid a 453 million fine and seen its chairman resign and many think this is just the beginning. Today British Prime Minister David Cameron announced a wide-ranging inquiry into his country's banking sector. We are joined now by Adam Davidson of our Planet Money team. And Adam first tell us what Barclays is believed to have done and what they have admitted doing?  What they have pretty much admitted to doing is sending lies to the British Bankers' Association which is the organization that sets sort of the benchmark interest rate for a huge portion of the trades of the loans and interest rate swaps and derivatives that are traded around the world. This is called 's the core interest rate for hundreds of trillions of dollars of transactions around the world. And this rate is set in England by a handpicked set of banks calling up every morning at 11 a.m. and saying here's what we are borrowing money at here's the rate we are paying. And then they average that number and that is the interest rate that people all over the world use to figure out how much should we charge for loans or pay for loans and to find out that Barclays may have been lying and manipulating that rate for their own profit calls into question huge swaths of the financial system. It is really big.  Lying by saying that the rates that they were being charged were higher than they in fact were?  Some cases higher some cases lower it depends on what kind of trades they were doing. We have all of this now email evidence of Barclays' traders talking with each other talking with their customers about manipulating this rate. And it is just shocking to read just the casual offhanded way they talk about lying to the British Bankers' Association so that they could make thousands of dollars in profit. But the impact could be billions of dollars around the world. If you change this core fundamental rate it is conceivable that nearly every loan in the world is a bit more expensive than it should be.  But Adam I read up about the LIBORs. It is London interbank offered rate and the way it is arrived at and what I read is that for each of 10 currencies there is a panel of banks numbering either eight or 12 or 16 or 20 banks in any case it is divisible by four. And if it is say a 16-bank panel you take the four highest and discard them. You take the four lowest you discard them. And then you make an average of the middle 50 percent. It seems like a method designed to make it extremely difficult for any single bank to influence the outcome of that averaging.  Yes. And if Barclays is the only one that is sought to manipulate this rate it is possible it had very little to no effect on the overall global financial industry. But what we know is well over a dozen other banks are being investigated by U.S. and U.K. authorities. And if it turns out that this number has been the product of a coordinated or even an uncoordinated series of self-serving lies by over a dozen banks then it really calls into question the entire way that our global financial architecture works.  Can Barclays or if other banks are to be investigated can another bank say there is some judgment call involved here it is more than just adding up a column of figures or is it actually so cut and dry that you can say that is a lie?  The way it works is you are supposed to use judgment. It is not supposed to be an average of what you pay that day. It is supposed to be your discretion your view. I think what is really damning for Barclays is all this email traffic that just shows traders openly agreeing to adjust the number to please clients or to improve their own commission. And this strikes me as huge and really important for all of us to pay attention to because what it means is that the banks really do not seem to be able to self-police quite as much as they were trusted to do. It is a big big moment in the history of banking and banking regulation.  Thank you Adam.  Thank you.  That is Adam Davidson of our Planet Money team speaking to us from New York. 