 Sometimes when you are facing a crisis it helps to hear how someone else dealt with a similar situation say a really severe drought. That is why scientists from California have been getting on planes to Australia. NPR's Dan Charles explains.  California and Australia have a lot in common. They are both warm sunny places relatively prosperous. Australia is drier than California though even in normal times. But from 1995 to 2009 it suffered through the so-called Millennium Drought longer and deeper than anything California has seen. And yet says David Feldman from the University of California Irvine Australia came through it...  With no discernible decline in the quality of life. I think there is a lesson there.  Feldman and several colleagues have taken several trips to Australia in recent years trying to figure out what that lesson might be. Lots of Californians in fact have gone on this pilgrimage.  Australia is seen as a model that has prevailed has created a kind of a resiliency.  Feldman says the thing that really struck him in Australia was the level of public awareness about water.  On the billboards there were actually postings about the level of water remaining in the city's reservoirs.  Australians now treasure their water in a way that most Californians still do not Feldman says. In Melbourne the average person has been using just half as much water as the average person in LA and you will not see nearly as many of those green grassy lawns. But the biggest use of water by far in both Australia and California is for irrigation on farms. Agriculture is a huge industry in both places. And a lot of water experts say the single most important thing that Australia did was to create a new way of managing all that irrigation water. The old system in Australia was a lot like how it still works in California. If you owned a particular piece of land you had a right to a particular amount of water either from wells or from rivers.  It was really just seen as something that would come to your property. It was joined to the land.  Tom Rooney is the founder of an Australian water trading company called Waterfind. He says even before the drought hit Australia had done a giant reset of water rights. The government put a cap on the total amount of water available for farmers and then farmers got shares of that total amount. A farmer owns a share of the Australian water supply the same way you own shares of a company.  Just like you have a property title or a deed for your property we have got the same title or deed now for water in Australia.  And farmers can buy and sell those shares. So when the drought hit water became scarce. The price of each share went up. Farms where water was most valuable because those farms were growing the most valuable crops bought more shares. Other farmers found that selling their water was more profitable than growing the crop. The end result - more efficient use of the country's water and less economic pain. Richard Howitt an economist at the University of California Davis has been pushing for something similar in California.  This idea was very heretical a few years ago. And I can remember being disinvited from meetings for saying it.  Now he says thanks to the Australian example it is gaining ground. It is getting more common for farmers to trade water in California although it is still cumbersome and secretive. And Tom Rooney whose company helped set up the Australian water market now is setting up a branch of his water management company in Sacramento. Dan Charles NPR News. 