 One of the biggest questions of the internet age is how to turn a free service into something people will pay for. Today NPR's Planet Money team offers a cautionary tale. Chana Joffe-Walt has the story of how one small mistake in getting away from free caused trouble that is been impossible to fix.  A while back Russ Roberts an economist at George Mason University mentioned to me that he would heard veterans do not like the Red Cross and he found that curious.  I think most of us think of the Red Cross as a pretty mom and apple pie organization and I wondered what could possibly created hostility about the Red Cross. And this person said well the doughnuts. And I said the doughnuts? How could that be?  The story was that during World War II the Red Cross set up comfort stations for soldiers overseas. You could go there if you were a soldier and get coffee and doughnuts for free until 1942. Nineteen forty-two the Red Cross started charging for the doughnuts. Soldiers have held a grudge ever since. Russ Roberts said I swear you could go to any VFW hall today mention the Red Cross. They will bring up the doughnuts.  Huh Roosevelt?  Red Cross.  Which of course I did and which turned out to be absolutely true. Here's Howard Dunn and Tom Cain in Brooklyn both guys who served in the 1940s and first thing they had to say about the Red Cross...  Well they always gave out their doughnuts and coffee but I feel they should not charge the service people.  Charge the service people for what I asked. The doughnuts he said. Next stool over at the bar Major William B. Harris. WILLIAM B.  We all felt the same. It was a shame. It was a disgrace. I still remember very vividly and I am 93 years old.  Harris actually me like everyone else I talked to at the VFW hall that he was never personally charged for the doughnuts which made me wonder if this really happened. I called the Red Cross and said have you guys heard of this? Here's the archivist Susan Watson.  Oh funny you should ask  that. Before I even came to work for the Red Cross I heard about it. It keeps coming up that they were charged for coffee and doughnuts.  And Watson told me it is true. The Red Cross did charge for doughnuts but only during a brief period and only because the U.S. government asked them to. The U.S. soldiers went over to Europe to fight in the war Watson told me. The Americans arrived well-equipped. They had these nice comfort stations with free doughnuts and the British had their own stations but they had to pay for their snacks. It was a tense situation so tense that the U.S. secretary of war wrote the Red Cross a letter asking the organization to help ease this tension by charging for donuts.  We actually have documentation of that. We have the letter that he sent out.  The letter I checked is posted on the Red Cross website where it also says the Red Cross was quote adamantly opposed to charging for doughnuts and protested vehemently but lost the fight when it received this letter. The website continues the organization has been living with the ramifications ever since.  If you see gray and you are surrounded with white the gray will seem darker to you.  Uri Simonsohn is a business professor at the University of Pennsylvania and he says what is true for colors is true for prices. Gray seems darker next to white. A couple cents for a doughnut seems outrageous next to free but Simonsohn says people adjust to price changes. It is 70 years later and the veterans have not adjusted which makes him think that what happened here was something different something called a categorical change.  Just imagine for Thanksgiving you go to your parents' for dinner and after a nice dinner they say that is going to be 10 per person. You will be upset.  Not because 10 is too much to ask but because they changed the nature of the relationship. That Simonsohn says is what the Red Cross did with the servicemen in 1942. It went from being more like your mom to being like the corner store and this was terribly disorienting to servicemen because until that moment it never would have even occurred to them that the Red Cross doughnuts could have a price.  I would not tell my wife tonight you know I am changing this diaper for free tonight. I would not say that. Just saying free would imply that non-free was a possibility.  So for all the internet companies out there looking to charge for your service know that changing categories is really difficult. Just ask the Red Cross an organization that now brings free doughnuts to any event that involves veterans and pleads...  Here they are free. You know let us get past this.  I told the guys at the VFW hall that the Red Cross always brings free doughnuts now and here's what they had to say about that.  Stale doughnuts probably too.  Once you leave the free category it is really hard to go back. I am Chana Joffe-Walt coming to you for free from NPR News. 