 And now for All Tech Considered. Today in All Tech the changing world of e-commerce. Mobile technology makes it easier than ever to buy stuff. It just takes the tap of an app. So social media companies are now experimenting with retail encouraging people to buy on impulse as we will hear shortly. And some online sellers are now opening physical stores. But as NPR's Elise Hu reports you have to move fast if you want to visit one. They last for a limited time.  We are on Kenmare and Elizabeth. We are going to the corner of Bowery and Kenmare.  On this bustling corner in New York's SoHo neighborhood you will find what was once the Bowery Subway Station.  And actually right here we have the staircase going down to what was the subway.  Today Joe LaPadula rents out this corner spot to a retail company selling pants at 40 percent off. Other days this space serves as a test kitchen and bar. Or it hosts showrooms for press events. The one thing this place does not do is anything permanent.  Pop-ups are this idea of selling something for a temporary period of time has been around since human trade has been around.  So what happens when human trade is over the Internet? Boom times for more temporary physical spaces. An industry is springing up around pop-ups. LaPadula works for OpenHouse a company that owns storefronts in the always fashion-forward SoHo and rents them out for retail promotional events exhibits whatever clients need.  As long as they can change it back they can do whatever they want.  Leases can last as short as a single day or shorter.  I think actually Trojan Condoms was the shortest. So it was about 20 minutes. It was the shortest one.  Los Angeles-based industry consultant Syama Meagher has been watching pop-up retailing develop for the last half-decade.  With food trucks becoming more and more open and available and kind of the migration of bringing that I actually think  that pop-up shops kind of followed suit.  As consumers do more and more on our mobile devices the short-term leases promised by pop-ups mean brands can be more mobile too moving around to where their customers cluster.  Larger online brands are bridging together these empty spaces and starting to find ways to get in front of their customers.  The old retail world meant long-established brands existed first in brick-and-mortar stores. Then they expanded online. Now LaPadula says the model is flipped.  And the business model is innovative in a way. And that is because you can now start a company on the Internet and then there is this intermediary step between a brick-and-mortar where you can pop up and have this tactile real experience.  That clicks-to-bricks model as the marketing folks call it is exactly what happened with the eyewear brand Warby Parker. Dave Gilboa is one of Warby Parker's co-founders.  When we launched we had no plans to open physical stores and so we are kind of learning as we go along.  They learned first by using their apartment as a showroom. They also experimented with a traveling bus full of frames. And they used pop-up stores as labs.  It was just kind of a fun space for us to really experiment. So if you need help narrowing it down let me know.  OK thanks.  What time's your appointment?  While you can easily buy Warby Parker frames without ever stepping foot into a store - and many people do - the glasses brand found many of its customers still crave a physical experience. So what were once pop-ups have become something permanent.  Right now we are in our Greene Street store in SoHo. This is the first store that we opened.  Floor to ceiling bookshelves line the wall of this sprawling store displaying alternating columns of books and the complete Warby Parker glasses line. Since opening this location the company has signed two more long-term leases for New York stores. Co-founder Gilboa.  There is still something tangible that you cannot replace when you are walking into a store engaging all five senses.  The shopping options now before us engage not just all our senses but all our spaces - real life and virtual. Syama Meagher.  You are going to have a chance to experience brands unlike you have before being that they are going to be in your hands in your face and in your mind and on your phone all at once all the time.  A lot for customers to consider. For the brands experimenting with spaces that do not last can lead to a lasting business. Elise Hu NPR News. 