 The military is also trying to make big changes in what fuel it uses. The Air Force and Navy have been testing their aircraft everything from fighters to unmanned spy planes on fuel made from vegetable oil or even animal fat. NPR's Elizabeth Shogren took a ride in the cockpit of an Air Force jet flying on bio-fuel.    on runway 1-6  via Alpha...  Major Josh Frey has been piloting C130s for a dozen years over a rock in Afghanistan. On all his missions the fuel came from one source petroleum.  ...checklist.  You are cleared for take-off.  Okay.  But on this flight half of the fuel comes from the seed of a plant called camelina. Frey released data about how his engines are performing to Master Sergeant Jason Hale.   Are you ready Sergeant Hale?  Yes sir. Let us go.  Number one 42-60?  Hale's onboard to verify that the biofuel works.  Good to go? All right.   As we fly over west Texas Frey takes a few minutes to talk.  I never would have known the difference to be honest. It flies exactly the same. I never would have known the difference.  That is how all the Air Force test flights of bio-jet fuel have gone. Jeffrey Braun heads up the Air Force Alternative Fuels Program.  We wanted it to be boring and it was boring.  So far the Air Force has approved F-15 and F-16 fighters and C-17 transport planes to use 50 percent biofuel. The Navy plans to approve all its planes and surface ships to run on green energy by the end of the fall. Braun says when President Bush called on the country to kick its addiction to oil several years ago the military first focused on turning coal into liquid fuel.  When we first started nobody had any clue that the biofuels were so close behind. We thought it was going to be another 10 years before we start looking at biofuels but it turned out it was about two years.  High-tech chemical processing makes the bio-jet fuel nearly indistinguishable from petroleum jet fuel. It does not matter whether refiners start with beef fat leftover cooking oil or a plant like camelina. Camelina is promising because it can be grown on fallow wheat fields and does not displace food crops. Braun says there are lots of reasons going to biofuel makes sense for the Pentagon.  Economically it could be a real cost saver. Strategically it would guarantee supplies for our aircraft. And then environmentally I mean that just goes without saying.  Studies show fuel made from camelina can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 80 percent. The Air Force hopes to get half the fuel it uses for domestic flights from alternative sources by 2016. But the small batches of biofuel made so far cost about 10 times more than traditional fuel. Braun says that is a hurdle for Pentagon officials.  They are committed as long as they can get these fuels at cost-competitive pricing. So that means that industry is going to have to step up their production and start creating much larger quantities of fuel.  Well that is a classic chicken and the egg problem.  Tom Todaro is the CEO of Altair one of the companies that is turning camelina into jet fuel.  To build a refinery at scale is hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars. If you do not have known customers you will not ever build that facility.  Todaro says larger plants will produce cheaper fuel.  We have demonstrated this works. We are going to demonstrate very very quickly that it is surprisingly affordable.  The military is not the only potential big customer. Airlines want biofuel too. But Sharon Pinkerton from the Air Transport Association says the airlines are not in financial shape to back a new industry.  We cannot get there by ourselves.  The federal government is stepping in. It is giving incentives to farmers to start growing camelina. And the departments of Navy energy and agriculture are planning to invest half a billion dollars in biofuel refineries.  To flip the line from Field of Dreams if the Navy comes they will build it.  Navy Secretary Ray Mabus says he is often asked why he is such a big fan of biofuels.  The answer is pretty straightforward. We buy too much fossil fuels from potentially or actually volatile places on earth.  Mabus says this leaves the U.S. military vulnerable. That is why he is committed to getting half of the Navy's fuel from renewable sources by 2020. Elizabeth Shogren NPR News. 