 Since Britain voted to leave the European Union investors have been moving cash to safe havens like U.S. Treasury bonds. The demand for bonds has pushed down interest rates and that should be good news for state and local governments that need cheap money to fix roads bridges and other infrastructure. But as Charles Lane of member station WSHU reports few of them are taking advantage of the opportunity.  At its widest part New York's Hudson River slows down to a glassy drift beneath the cliffs of the Palisades. Here about 25 miles north of Midtown Manhattan a dozen barge cranes are busy rebuilding the 3-mile-long Tappan Zee Bridge.  It is sort of like modern-day dinosaurs. They look small but when you get up close or by the bridge and you look at them they are actually quite massive.  Sandra Blejer a retired medical manager walks out here most mornings and marvels at the 4 billion project that has been taking shape on giant pillar at a time.  All up and down the Hudson River there is places where things are being prepared and then boated down and it is just an incredible feat to watch being built.  Financing the project was no small task either. To start paying for construction a state agency had to issue bonds worth 1.6 billion. That was three years ago when interest rates were a third higher. Matt Fabian researches bonds for Municipal Markets Analytics. He says that today's historically low rates make this the best time ever to borrow for a bridge.  You know the ultimate toll that will have to be charged to people who take the bridge could be a bit lower.  It is not just bridges. High-speed rail airports roads all sorts of public infrastructure can be financed on the cheap today.  So corporations have been incredibly opportunistic issuing mountains of bonds of the - you know in 2016 so far - state and local governments - not so much.  And there is several reasons for this. First while governments can borrow money to build bridges they cannot borrow money to operate them. Investors are not going to loan city money for an airport they cannot afford to hire baggage handlers for. Robert Palter is an infrastructure expert at McKinsey and Company. He says another major risk with big projects happens at the drawing board before you even get to the bond market.  And it is time-consuming and it is very expensive because you have to incur legal fees engineering fees designer fees permitting fees.  And then there is the politics of it all. Republicans in Congress have resisted increasing federal spending to match state funding for infrastructure because they do not want to issue additional bonds at a time when they national debt is around 19 trillion. Leading economists overwhelmingly disagree with that position. According to a poll by the University of Chicago School of Business most economists say that it makes sense to invest in infrastructure now. But lawmakers answer to voters and Palter says voters have not made road and bridge repair a top priority.  Things like health care education debt taxes tend to rise above solving infrastructure problems.  But there is still time. With global growth slowing amid continued uncertainty over the Brexit low interest rates are expected to last a long while. For NPR News I am Charles Lane. 