 We have got one more take on Women and Money. Our next guest has spent a lot of time thinking about how women can secure their financial futures. You know Venus Williams. So far she is won 21 Grand Slam titles including both singles and doubles. And she is got five Olympic gold medals in her trophy case and just won a silver in Rio. Also with us is Sallie Krawcheck For decades she is been on every list of the most influential women on Wall Street. She is the former chief financial officer of Citigroup and was later CEO of Merrill Lynch's Global Wealth Management Division. Now she is launched her own company aimed at helping women invest on their terms. It is called Ellevest. It is being backed financially by some big names like Venus Williams. Venus Williams Sallie Krawcheck welcome to you both.  Thank you for having us.  Thank you.  Sallie Krawcheck I am going to start with you - and let me make the standard disclaimer that we are not endorsing any financial product or instrument - but the first thing I wanted to ask you is to tell us about this company and what does it do that other firms like it do not do?  This is a digital investing platform. It is targeted to women and not in the are not we all women together and now let us talk about being women together but in the women have different characteristics and needs than men do. For example women tend to live longer than men do. Women tend to have unfortunately their salaries peaked sooner than men's do. Both of these things are extraordinarily important in putting together financial and investing plans for women.  As I mentioned earlier you were on Wall Street for years and a lot of people would have pointed to your career as evidence that there was no gender problem you know on Wall Street...  .  ...And I wonder high-profile people experience all the time - they say well you are here so why cannot everybody else do this?  Well first of all I would say name some other woman. Facts are that the financial advisers on Wall Street today or anywhere depending on which firm what point in time - 85 to 88 percent male and that is part of why investing for women they tell us feels unapproachable because they do not see people who look like them. As a result men tend to leave their financial adviser at a single-digit-percent rate in any given year. And women leave their husband and their joint financial adviser in the year after their spouse's death at a rate of greater than 70 percent - seven-zero.  Why do you think it is Venus that you know - it is not just women who sometimes seem to be getting financial advice that is not tailored to their best interests. I mean we are constantly hearing stories about athletes like yourself who somehow wind up broke. I mean why is that?  It is difficult. Sometimes you know once you pay your taxes and once you pay your expenses once you have lived this life things add up quickly. And it is easy to become a statistic. And that is something I have always tried to avoid and I have always said hey - not that it will not be me that hey it could be me. How can I counteract anything of that sort of nature? Part of this too is you know me getting involved with helping other athletes to avoid such pitfalls.  Let me ask both of you. And Sallie I will start with you on this. What has informed your view of these issues? Because you know you were in a lot of those rooms that a lot of other women have never made it to - right? - some very nice - I have never been to your office but presumably you had a corner office at some point - and yet you have come away with those experiences with a very different perspective about what is needed. I am wondering what informs your views of that.  All of the research I have done that it just does not work as well for women today as it does for men. And so I am really putting my life towards helping women to invest and there is a circular reference here because if women can invest and give themselves the opportunity to earn higher returns they can start those businesses. They can go to work with a little more confidence to ask for that promotion to ask for the new assignment etc. I do not think there is any of us by the way who think that if there were more women at the top of the Wall Street firms that the financial crisis would have been worse. Right? We all sort of intuitively know that things would have been better so all these things to me combine to economic growth and greater economic stability.  Venus what about you? What informs your view of this and how you handle your own money?  You know growing up my - you know I came from Compton Calif. and you know it was a place where a lot of people did come out when a lot of people stayed. So I have been able to see the top and the bottom of life and I think that balances you if you allow it to and if you remember where you came from. And my parents always told us you know you have to get your education. You are not supposed to become a statistic. These things can happen to you. My dad literally took us to skid row in the '80s and would show us people who had hit the bottom and they let us see everything so that was huge for us. And it is always left an impression on me and it makes you think. It makes you think and it makes you get involved in your life.  Well that is Venus Williams. She is one of the best tennis players of all time recently brought home the silver from Rio just to add to her trophy case which has too many trophies in it for me to mention again. And she joined us from New York along with Sallie Krawcheck. She is the CEO of Ellevest. Venus Williams is one of the investors in Ellevest. They both joined us from New York. Thank you both so much for speaking with us.  Thank you.  Thank you for having us.  Speak to you next time. 