 Here in the U.S. child care is in fact one of the biggest challenges facing families. Whether or not a parent works at some point they will have to turn to someone else to help watch that child. Is it in a day care center or home care? Will a family have to hire a nanny? Share a babysitter or turn to grandparents? And how will they pay for all of this? Now before you assume this story has no relation to your life if you do not have children look around. This is what preoccupies fellow drivers in traffic rushing to get home. It is what complicates the schedule for coworkers. It has an impact on America's productivity.   So we gathered a group of parents to join us in Studio 4A to talk about the challenges of child care. We sat in a circle on comfy couches. All the parents are from the D.C. area where the cost of living is quite high. And before we start our conversation some quick introductions.  My name is Sharon Johnson.  Sharon Johnson takes care of her three-year-old grandson while his parents work.  My name is Angela Tilghman. I am a single mom.  Who works long hours. After ups and downs with several daycare providers a lifelong friend now cares for her special needs son.  My name is Corie Driscoll. I am a stay-at-home mom of two small girls.  She is also a lawyer by training who describes herself as an accidental stay-at-home mom.  My name is Kelly Hruska and I have a soon-to-be eight-year-old daughter Emily.  Kelly Hruska's husband is on active duty in the Navy.  My name is Tanae Foglia. I have four-and-a-half-month-old twins.  While she and her husband work in downtown D.C. an au pair cares for the babies.  My name is Adam Graham.  Adam Graham is the lone father in our group. A former stay-at-home dad he now works as a high school teacher. He and his wife have two daughters 14 and nine. And then there is Stacy Ferguson. She works as a lawyer for the federal government. And she is had every kind of child care imaginable for her three kids.  And now we are in transition so entering another crazy chapter. But our wonderful fabulous angel of a nanny for four years got married and moved to Philly. And so while we are...  And you are so happy for her.  And you are really happy for her.  Right exactly.   We were like Yay. Aw. You know she is gone. And so she just left last month. So we are literally my husband and I are trying to figure out how to manage all three schedules. Everyone is at a different stage. And then we have to commute to D.C. from Maryland every day. So it is a little bit of a nightmare. Not to mention I have no help with laundry and I am just completely overwhelmed.   So you know we are making it work. But it is definitely been a journey.  For today everybody's child care is in order. But I wondered how our group handled the inevitable complications - a sick day an unplanned business trip. Are there backups to the backups? How does that all work?  This is Stacy. We really do not have a backup. The backup is us me and my husband. All of our grandparents are in Florida. So they are a ways away. And we do not have family here so it is just us. So if the child care falls through then either I leave work or my husband leaves work.  Have any of you ever had - been in a pinch where you have had to bring a child to work with you? Or...  Two weeks ago.  Yeah.   Yup.  Yup yup.  Are you sure?  Absolutely.  And what about a situation where maybe someone is sick but they are on the cusp their nose is runny is it running clear or not do I have to...   Do I have to take a sick day? Do I send them to school and hope that I do not get that call at 10 a.m. saying come get your child?  Just last week I sent my friend a text saying I am the worst mother in the world because I just dropped Lauren off at camp and she was sick. But I had to go to work. I felt really crappy that day that it was something that I had to do.  When you go to work you do not want to let people know really how much of a juggling act it is. So when you are at work you are trying to make sure that people think that you are skating along that everything is good.   And so you do not really talk about how difficult it is and how scary it is and how terrifying it is in some cases because you really do not want to show that side of yourself. Is that part of the reason at least that this is not a public discussion?  Yeah. You raised a great point. I think it most definitely is. And I am hoping that things are changing now as the workforce becomes more balanced and more dads are more active at home and more moms are going back in the workforce. I hope that is going to become part of the larger discussion.  Corie here. One of the reasons I left a private firm in 2007 was because I felt that I would be completely unsupported when I had a family.  I cannot work here and have a family. I have to go. And when I parted on good terms with this firm which was made up of mostly men whose spouses were at home or partners were at home with their children and there was one woman partner who had no children. And I would be probably the first woman associate in line to have a child and kind of test this firm out which I did not want the role of doing. A male partner came to me to say his goodbyes and must have on some level  You cannot do both.  Wow.  You cannot do both. And right there he just confirmed every feeling and fear I had of staying in that particular practice.  Is there ever any discomfort that your children get closer to someone else or get very close to someone else and you realize that - wait all that love is supposed to be generated toward me?  This is Stacy and I was totally OK with it.   Because I love Carol too and it is funny because now she is gone and my son - the other day he fell and scraped his knee and he called her name. And I was like ohh. But you know at the same time I am OK with it because I know that that just means that she would have held him and cuddled him where I was like oh you are fine. Get up.  Angela?  Well I spend maybe about 10 to 12 hours a day away from my child where he is with somebody else. 30 during the school year and I get home at around seven oclock. More than anything I feel more grateful that there is somebody else there who cares about him that much. That is a greater sense of comfort I think than you know a source of jealousy. Because when you are not there you want somebody else that your child feels is comparable to you. If he is doing well then that is all you can ask for.  That is single mom Angela Tilghman. Tomorrow the dollars and cents of child care. Often it adds up to frustration.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 