 AMC Theatres began a movie watching subscription service this week called Stubs A-List. You pay 19.95 a month and you can see up to three movies a week at any AMC theater. Now this is a move to compete with a service called MoviePass. Our friends at the NPR podcast The Indicator recently dug into its business model.   In a world where a movie ticket costs 15 and a small soda costs 9 and popcorn costs 15 somehow your spontaneous after-work trip to the movies has cost you 70.   A hero with a really weird business model will rise to save people from this outrageous price.  Stacey Vanek Smith one of the hosts of The Indicator has been talking with NPR pop culture correspondent Linda Holmes about these competing movie theater subscription services.  Hi Stacey.  Hi Linda.  So the way that MoviePass works is it works at a lot of different theater chains right?  Yeah. About 90 percent of the theaters in the country they say. And what you do is you buy your movie ticket through MoviePass. MoviePass the service will pay full price for the tickets but then they will give them to you for free. You will pay a 10 a month subscription to MoviePass and you can see a movie every day all month.  And the AMC thing has both fewer movies - three a week as opposed to one a day all month - and it costs more. I question whether people really are going to see so many movies that three a week versus you know one a day is going to be a big difference in the value proposition.  I think that is what AMC is counting on that and the fact that its business model just seems a little bit more sustainable. AMC thinks it can break even on this plan by the end of next year especially because it does not have to buy the tickets from another theater. It is just giving its own tickets away so it takes much less of a hit on that. And people have been shown to buy more concessions when they are paying less for tickets so it will benefit on that side.  Yeah.  And I think you are right. I mean I think the number of people who are going to want to see more than three movies a week is limited. Although as you point out I mean it is twice as expensive and you can only see movies at AMC theaters.  So some of this may depend on whether your local theater that you love to go to is an AMC theater or some other chain. And it may depend on whether you like to go to big movies that tend to play in multiplexes which is what a lot of AMC theaters are or whether you really like to see like smaller independent movies.  I think that is true. I think the big question with MoviePass is and honestly has been since last year when they cut their price down from about 40 a month what it used to be when it had 20000 members to 10 a month which it is now - they have 3 million members. That is a really hard business model to sustain. I talked with the CEO Mitch Lowe. He told me that they are losing 21 million a month.  That is a lot of money.  That is a lot of money.  Well - and they do not have the ability - right? - to make it up in popcorn which AMC does.  Exactly. I mean they have a business plan which is really interesting. They have so many members and they have all this really great data on them right? I mean they know where you are going to be. They know what time you are going to get out. They have been partnering with car services and child care services and restaurants. So you know they know you are going to get out of a movie at 9 p.m. and maybe want a snack and they can offer you a coupon for the place across the street. I mean that is undeniably great data. Also movie studios have been paying them to advertise their movies. But still they are losing so much money that their parent company lost you know 98 percent of its stock value because investors are just not sure how this business model is sustainable. Its stock is now trading for like 25 cents. It is - you know people have big questions.  Just drop the price of popcorn. That is all I ask.  Oh - right ?  Right? Five dollars for the paper cup and straw. This is all I ask.  Linda Holmes host of Pop Culture Happy Hour with Stacey Vanek Smith of The Indicator talking there about movie theater subscription services. 