 Here's a business that' tattoo removal. We read about a tattoo removal clinic called Dr. Tattoff - yes that is really the name - in today's L.A. Times. The story said there are three Dr. Tattoff locations around L.A. and it is looking to expand maybe go public. Dr. Will Kirby is a dermatologist and co-founder of Dr. Tattoff. He is also somewhat of a reality TV star. He was on the show Big Brother. He joins us now. Hi. Dr.  Hey how are you?  So tell us a little bit about your business and why it is booming right now? Dr.  Absolutely. First of all let me congratulate you on your annunciation. I love it. Dr. Tattoff you are so appropriate.  Dr.  It is you know obviously the name is what we do. We remove tattoos. Tattoo removal is a huge industry. It is a booming industry. And people are really sparking to what we do.  Well it is kind of surprising because it is expensive to remove a tattoo right? It costs more than a thousand dollars. Dr.  Well no not necessarily. Everything's relative. So it really does depends on the size of the of the tattoo. We will treat a single dot and that is really really affordable obviously. Or we will treat an entire back. And obviously becomes more expensive.  So why is it do you think that your business is booming? Dr.  Oh a couple of different reasons. I think a lot of people want to say that the economy is bad people are looking for jobs. And you do not want to have a tattoo and have that be a barrier for entry into the workforce. But I do not know how true that necessarily is. I think as people age they want to remove their tattoos. They want to remove some of the memories they have from the past. And I think also just my reputation as a physician who specializes in this is growing as well. So I think a lot of different factors come into play.  And what is the strangest tattoo that you have had to remove? Dr.  Well I can tell you some of the most bizarre but I am afraid you guys will throw me out on the street.  Dr.  We treat tattoos in very private areas of the body on the genitalia. We see it occasionally. I will see tattoos on the inside of the lip. And I will even see tattoos on the eyelids so that when you close your eyes it looks it looks as if your eyes are still open.  Really? Dr.  Absolutely.  the strangest most deranged tattoo that you can think of we have seen it.   All right. And who comes in to your offices? Because I would imagine be lot of maybe ex-gang members Dr.  That is what you would - I mean that the incorrect perception is that it is ex-gang members and bikers and that is simply not the case. Our average patient is between the ages of 18 and 34 female and makes more than 50000 a year. So we keep really really specific records. We try to target our information to our consumer. And like I said if you go to the lobby of my office it is mostly female.  Hmm. And what tattoos are they removing? What are the tattoos that have gone out fashion? Dr.  Well there is a lot of different trends. We see - you know Pamela Anderson did a movie probably about 12 years ago called Barb Wire.  Mm-hmm. Dr.  And she got a barbed wire tattoo around her arm. And we see a lot of women who come in with a barbed wire tattoo. We see a lot of Disney characters see a lot of Mickey Mouse see a lot of different cartoons characters. Just -there are certain trends within the tattoo community that have fallen out of favor. So  What about that lower back tattoo that was big a while ago? Dr.  Yeah that has the - that has an unflattering name - called the tramp stamp.  Dr.  I did not make it up so do not hold me to that. But that is falling out of favor and I think you know as women age they are starting to not really be pleased with that.  Not so great. But people are still getting tattoos right Dr.  Absolutely.  I do not think that is fallen off. Dr.  Apparently there are 20000 tattoo shops in the United States. So that is a pretty impressive number if you think how many people are putting on tattoos on a daily basis. And I challenge you to walk outside today go to a beach watch you know a sporting event. Every single person I know has a tattoo in one way shape or form.  Do you? Dr.  I do not but if I did I would get one in black because that is the easiest color to remove.  Okay. Dr. Will Kirby he is a dermatologist and co-founder of Dr. Tattoff - I said that right. Dr.  That is beautiful. I love it.  Dr. Tattoff it is tattoo removal company. Thanks. Dr.  Oh thank you. 