 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block in Washington.  And I am Madeleine Brand in California. First this hour if you feel like you are working more these days some new economic numbers back you up. Businesses have been squeezing more labor out of fewer workers. That is one conclusion from the government's latest productivity report. The government found that productivity rose at the fastest pace since 2003 - up more than 6 percent between April and June. NPR's Frank Langfitt has our story.  Today's productivity figures are a good-news-bad-news story.  This spring businesses became much more efficient. They cut workers hours by more than seven percent according to the government but output fell by less than two percent.  As businesses become leaner and more profitable they will be poised to begin hiring when consumers start buying again. Andrew Stettner is deputy Director of the National Employment Law Project which looks out for the rights of low-wage workers. Mr.  As we think about how the economy is going to recover and share wealth more effectively we have to have strong productivity growth and so it is heartening to see that these numbers are there.  Now the bad news. Mr. STETTNER You know it does indicate that workers are being you know squeezed.  Workers like Pernell Holland. Holland is 48 years old and drives a truck for a package delivery service. I met him this afternoon as he was picking up printer cartridges in Washington D.C.. Holland says his company is pushing him a lot harder these days.  Mr.  They cut back our drivers and they give us extra work.  Holland says in recent months the distribution center where he works laid off six drivers and management increased his daily load by 25 percent. Mr.  And when I get home I am exhausted. I mean I just enough time to eat and then go to sleep and do it over the next day. I just cannot till five.  Holland has worked as a driver for 14 years. He says he is complained to management about his load and been given some overtime. But he says workers with less seniority keep their mouths shut. Mr.   their job. They may be the next one in line to be cut back.  John Silvia says his businesses have cut workers. The survivors in all sectors have had to pick up the slack. Silvia is chief economist with Wells Fargo Securities. Mr.  You may lose somebody who is let us say the receptionist on a floor. You may lose somebody in technology support and all of a sudden you find out that you know you have to answer the phone a little bit more andor you have to you know solve your own software problems.  Silvia says he sees it in his own office. Following a merger with his old firm Wachovia the same size staff now handles twice as many customers. Mr.  Most of my staff is here by seven in the morning and they don'30 in the evening. You know there is no you know group lunch - let us go out for pizza for two hours kind of thing.  Sylvia says the rise in productivity is a good sign for corporate profits but it is probably not enough to spark a hiring spree at most businesses. Mr.  Okay the company is in good shape but we still need demand. We still need final sales for that company to grow. And that I think is one of the biggest challenges we see out there when you are looking at the demand from the consumer. It just does not seem to be all that much.  Consumer spending makes up about 70 percent of the nation's gross domestic product. John Silvia says it is hard to see how the economy really improves and hiring picks up without people really starting to spend again. Frank Langfitt NPR News Washington. 