 More than 14 million Americans are out of work. Unemployment has ticked up to 9.2 percent and as we mentioned there is not much optimism that tomorrow's numbers will be brighter. We are going to hear two economist's views now on the jobs outlook and what might be done to stimulate hiring. Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities here in Washington. He is former chief economic advisor to Vice President Joe Biden. Jared Bernstein welcome to the program.  Thanks very much.  And we are joined by Russell Roberts a research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford. He is also professor of economics at George Mason University. Russell Roberts welcome to you.  Good to be with you.  Jared Bernstein let us start with you. What do you think the single most effective thing is that could be done now by the government to bring about job growth?  First of all do no harm. It would be a big self-inflicted wound to engage in aggressive spending cuts in the short term while the economy's still trying to get off the mat. And secondly measures that help people get back to work the public factor needs to step into the fray. A couple of ideas would be a tax credit on the employer side to give employers a break in their hiring costs that would probably generate more hires. And then there is some good infrastructure ideas percolating around. One which I like FAST - fix America's schools today - would help get a lot of construction folks back to work repairing retrofitting greening up basically getting our nation's public school stock back into shape.  Russell Roberts as a free marketer would you say there is a government role in stimulating job growth? And if there is what should it be?  It is nice to know I agree with Jared about something which is the first do no harm part the Hippocratic oath. The problem is we are not very good at knowing what harm we do. And although it is nice to be proactive and think that is a good role for government we have been proactive over the last really three or four years and it has not been very successful. There is not a lot of evidence that it is been part of the solution. I think it is - there is evidence that they are part of the problem. So I would suggest a couple things. One is that I would stopped the frenetic fiddling with various parts of the economy in the name of trying to do something which I think has been counterproductive. We need to get the housing sector healthy and we need to let people get back to taking risks again. Fundamental question is what is government's role in creating that environment where people are eager to take risks as investors as employers and as consumers? And I think borrowing the trillions of extra dollars we have done over the last three or four years has made those risks bigger not smaller that make people anxious. And I think that is why I am an advocate of two things - spending less and ideally spending more wisely or taxing more wisely.  What about the payroll tax reduction that has been in place for workers this year? Do you think - Jared Bernstein you first. Do you think this helps with jobs? Should it be extended?  I think it absolutely helps with the jobs. I mean remember we have an economy that is 70 percent consumption consumer spending. So if people have more money in their pockets at a time like this they are going to go out and spend it and that is going to help create more economic activity more jobs. It is called a multiplier effect. And if you let it come out either the payroll tax holiday or unemployment insurance benefits - which are so important with the unemployment rate this high - if you let them come out of the 2012 economy as they are scheduled to do you really risk creating an air pocket. Again there is a situation where you are sure to make things worse.  Russell Roberts what do you think about that that payroll tax reduction for workers?  Well I do not believe in the multiplier effect that Jared's talking about. I do not see any evidence for it. The tax rebates of the stimulus package were mostly overwhelmingly saved had no real impact. Now the payroll tax cut has a little bit more of an impact potentially. But I think the bigger problem is is that the payroll tax confuses people as to where their money goes and what it is spent on. I think most people think that the payroll tax goes to their account to pay for their Social Security benefits. It does not. So I think we have a very opaque non-transparent lousy tax code. So I would like to get rid of both the employer and employee part and raise the income tax a little bit so that at least either revenue neutral or smaller if we can have some spending cuts to go alongside it. And I think that more transparent tax code would be a much healthier political and economic situation.  So can I respond to that?  Sure.  Look during the Recovery Act I actually worked for the Obama administration. And we would provide a grant to a state for example. And one of the things I got to do was to go around and see this stuff in action. And what we saw was that school teachers policemen and women firefighters sanitation workers kept their jobs. I mean we had public officials who told us that the pink slip was ready to go but because of fiscal relief they were able to keep those folks on the job. We saw tons of construction workers fixing roads fixing bridges who would not have been there. This is not that complicated a story. When the private sector is on the mat as it is now and it is just not generating the kinds of activity you want it to do certainly complexities in the tax code need to be fixed. That is really important like Russ says for long run growth. But in the short-term if you stimulate more economic growth if you have people out there doing stuff they would not be doing anyway you are going to get more employment. We saw it clearly in the Recovery Act. We could see it again now if we had the political will to go there.  Russell Roberts Jared Bernstein there is pointing to very specific jobs created by government spending.  Yeah. And the great 19th century economist Frederic Bastiat said that the essence of economics is the ability to see the unseen. So when you see the jobs that you create with government spending you do not see the jobs that are lost because of the government spending. The fact is total employment is flat since February 2009 so there is no direct evidence that total employment has been helped by government spending. There is very little indirect evidence.  Well actually that is an interesting point. That is a very interesting point. In fact if you split employment up between the private sector and the public sector what you actually see is that the private sector is very slowly - way too slowly - adding jobs about a couple of million jobs since January of last year. Where you see the big losses are in the public sector with the loss of teachers firefighters cops et cetera as the very spending that I was just advocating comes out of the system and pulls back. So again it is really a pretty simple story at least in the short run.  Okay. We will have to leave it there. Thanks to you both Jared Bernstein and Russell Roberts.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities here in Washington. Russell Roberts is research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford. 