 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. The sale of The Washington Post to Amazon founder Jeff Bezos struck NPR media correspondent David Folkenflik as a bit surprising. Given the tough times in the newspaper business David sought to figure out why smart people with no apparent ties to journalism would want to buy these things anyway.  Donald Graham is the chairman of The Washington Post Company the son and grandson of its leaders for the past 80 years. And along with his niece the publisher Katharine Weymouth Graham had to admit the family simply did not have the answers to questions about the paper's future.  Katharine and I started to look at the numbers realized that this year 2013 would be the seventh straight year of significant declining revenues.  Graham spoke in a video posted on The Post's website.  We knew we could keep The Post alive. We knew it could survive. But our aspirations for The Post have always been higher by that. So we went to see if we could find a buyer.  Or one might think a sucker. Jeff Bezos just paid 250 million for an unprofitable newspaper that does not look likely to reverse its fortunes anytime soon. Why would a smart business leader do that? I turned for answers to Brian Tierney the public relations executive who led a consortium to take over The Philadelphia Inquirer and Daily News. He became publisher and said he was moved as he saw the effects of his reporters' work exposing local corruption injustice and crime.   Thank you God for putting me here at this point in my career. Because I mean I loved being part of helping Verizon sell you know phone service and I am proud of the work we did for the Pennsylvania Lottery. But this you felt like this is the people's work.  Those beleaguered Philadelphia papers have since changed hands twice. But whatever the economics owning a major newspaper buys you a seat at the national table. Mort Zuckerman once solely a successful real estate investor became a familiar face on national TV public affairs shows only after he became the owner of the New York Daily News and other publications.  Well look there is always been egos that have bought newspapers. If you go back to the 1930s you had people like Dorothy Schiff that came from a big banking family that bought the New York Post. So there is always been an ego play.  Cathy Merrill Williams is publisher of Washingtonian magazine. She has ink in her veins. When she was 5 she first started the presses at the Annapolis Capital newspaper owned by her family. After the death of her father in 2006 the Merrills sold their newspapers to a small media company.  The big difference now is there is a play of people with money who want to see if they can reinvent an industry. It is more fun it is more exciting it is more challenging and they are looking at it as an opportunity to remake the future of journalism and media.  The media analyst and consultant Ken Doctor says Bezos who will own The Post personally is unlikely to use his new property to goose the profits of Amazon.  The payoff is clearly not financial. He does not need more money. The payoff is doing something that other people have not done. He sees technology as a great positive disrupter in human life. And he believes that is what he is done with Amazon. He believes that it could be done for news.  Doctor who recently consulted for The Post on instituting a digital pay wall says newspapers would do well to embrace Amazon's specialty of serving and satisfying customers quickly and effectively. But Doctor says that other than offering assurances of editorial integrity Bezos has not signaled how he expects to lead The Post.  We are going back to the future. Question is are we getting the right billionaires? And we do not know that answer yet.  Bezos has asked Katharine Weymouth to continue on as publisher. She is said to be sad at the loss of The Post but relieved to be heading into an era when she can invest in the paper rather than continue cutting costs year after year. David Folkenflik NPR News. 