 In Wisconsin some agricultural officials are playing the role of matchmaker. They are bringing together the state's cheesemakers with prospective international buyers for a unique speed-dating event. One hope is that it could ease the tariff pain affecting Wisconsin cheese producers. Maayan Silver of member station WUWM in Milwaukee reports.  As morning sunlight peaks in Gene Graf is among cheesemakers setting up shop around tables in this beer hall of a Milwaukee microbrewery. He is laid out three plates of cheese samples on a white tablecloth.  We have our newest trending profiles - our coffee Gouda our Gouda-mango-habanero and our Gouda-honey-Sriracha along with our apple-infused smoked natural cheeses.  Graf is waiting for buyers to arrive. They have come here from countries he does not usually sell to like Guatemala Colombia and the United Arab Emirates. The sellers and potential buyers will be scoping each other out and rotating table to table to see whether they will be good partners for exporting cheese. This was a collaboration between the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture and the state's dairy groups.   We make the best cheese in the world and a lot of people do not know about it so that is why we have brought them here so we can really showcase it.  That is Jen Walsh of Dairy Farmers of Wisconsin who is working with the Agriculture Department on the event. Wisconsin cheesemakers account for more than a quarter of the country's cheese production more than 3 billion pounds per year. More than one-third of Wisconsin's income from cheese exports last year came from Mexico. And while only a small percentage of Wisconsin cheese is exported to China China is a growing market. But both countries have recently added big tariffs on U.S. dairy products up to 25 percent. Gene Graf expects that to put a dent in sales.  And then it just depends on how bad they want that product there. If the product sells good well tariffs will affect the consumer. The end user's going to end up paying more.  Claude Mauro is a distributor from Chile and he is looking for cheeses with unique flavors that Chileans will turn to for an aperitif. He knows what he does not want - copycats of European styles like pecorino or brie.  But really a cheese from America a gringo cheese will say the people of South America. Something really they say OK I am in American style and this is an American-style cheese.  He chats freely with the cheesemakers about their processes and what it takes to get licensed to export to his country. When the speed dating ends Mauro says it worked.  I tested five of them and one two are very exceptional.  So they might get on your shelves.  Yup.  In addition to the speed dating the prospective buyers from five countries toured six cheese plants around the state and visited the iconic Wisconsin State Fair. Jack Heinemann of the Agriculture Department says that this event was just the beginning.  I like the cheese. I have a good comfort with the supplier and then they will follow up make the deal and ship products.  With tariffs from Mexico and China taking a bite out of profits Wisconsin cheesemakers are eager for a love connection between their product and consumers in countries not involved in a trade war. For NPR News I am Maayan Silver in Milwaukee.  