 From NPR News this ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. Six months ago Illinois raised its corporate income tax rate. And already lawmakers there are re-examining that decision. Some corporate giants have threatened to move out of the state. And as NPR's Davis Schaper reports some companies are asking how far Illinois will go to try to keep them.   I am standing on a bridge over the Chicago River right downtown Chicago. And up and down this river you can see some of the biggest corporate headquarters in the country. Mr.  Well from where we are standing we are looking at Boeing. We are looking at CME. We are looking at Willis Tower. We are looking at Miller-Coors...  Doug Whitley is president and CEO of the Illinois Chamber of Commerce. And he says many of his marquis members are not happy with Illinois' business climate these days. Mr.  Big name household name companies that are long-standing Illinois businesses have begun to rattle the cage and say you know this is not the best environment.  Big equipment maker Caterpillar was among the first corporate giants to complain in January when Illinois raised the corporate income tax rate from 4.8 percent to seven percent at the same it raised the personal income taxes too. The latest to complain is one of those iconic companies along the Chicago River the CME Group parent of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Chicago Board of Trade. CME Group Chairman Terry Duffy told CNBC why he is considering moving the company's headquarters out of Illinois. Mr.  All of our transactions are taxed in Illinois whether they are coming from Mumbai or some other part of the world they are being taxed here in Illinois. That is absolutely unjust.  And retail giant Sears is also making noise about leaving. The tax breaks and incentives that kept Sears in Illinois almost 25 years ago are set to expire. Illinois' Democratic Governor Pat Quinn says he will do whatever it takes to keep Sears and CME here possibly meaning more incentives similar to those that recently kept Motorola Mobility and Navistar in the state. Some suggest the big name companies are just posturing to get bigger tax breaks. And even the Illinois Chamber's Doug Whitley says while such tax incentives do have their place... Mr.  There are 372000 companies operating in Illinois. We cannot afford to give hundred million dollar deals to all those companies - it is inefficient and impractical. What we really need to do is talk about creating a level playing field environment that makes Illinois a magnet.  Whitley says he is encouraged that Illinois' legislative leaders are now creating a joint committee to review Illinois' business tax structure. State Senate President John Cullerton a Democrat says he would love to be able to roll back the corporate tax rate but...  We still need the 800 million that the corporate income tax is bringing in. We need that because we need to have a balanced budget.  So Cullerton says that means all of Illinois' loopholes exemptions and tax breaks and credits will come under review too. St. Sen.  If we can that money in is some other way in a fairer way where it is more evenly distributed among the corporations we are all in favor of that. From what I understand from the Department of Revenue about two-thirds of the corporations in Illinois do not pay any tax.  Economists say businesses look at much more than taxes when deciding where to locate including markets transportation infrastructure the quality of life and available workforce. And on those scores Cullerton and other Illinois officials say the state is hard to beat. And Chicago's mayor Rahm Emanuel is stepping up efforts to make the city more business friendly shaking up the board of World Business Chicago the city's non-profit economic development arm that tries to attract and keep businesses in Chicago. Outplacement consultant John Challenger of the Chicago-based firm Challenger Gray and Christmas says all of these steps are needed because in this economy the competition to lure corporations is real. Mr. JOHN nger Gray and Christmas Inc. The competition is getting stiffer because everybody's fighting for jobs every city wants to have a vital economy. And so they are out competing trying to woo companies.  Challenger says the big three that have threatened to leave Illinois -Caterpillar Sears and CME Group - combined employ 30000 people in Illinois. Losing any one of them he says could have a substantial impact on the state's economy. David Schaper NPR News. 