 These days many European countries are struggling to dig themselves out of debt and many have turned to one place for cash - the European Central Bank. That is because it has the unique ability to print unlimited amounts of euros and it could in theory lend that money to the governments in need. There is just one problem Europe's biggest economy hates that idea. Zoe Chace and Caitlin Kenney with NPR's Planet Money team explain.  To understand why Germany is so freaked out about a central bank lending money to governments in trouble you need to go back nearly 100 years when the German central bank did just that.  After the First World War Germany was in a hole of debt. No other country would lend it money. So Germany's central bank stepped in. It printed a bunch of money and lent it to the government.  But it printed too much money - way too much. Historian Carl Ludwig-Holtfrerich says the money started losing value by the second.  There is this famous example that somebody sits in a pub and orders a beer. And immediately when the waiter carries the beer to his table he orders the second one. And the waiter says well you have not finished. Yes but if I do not order now prices will be double before I finish my first beer.   You may have heard of this - the hyperinflation of the Weimar Republic arguably the most destructive case of inflation in history. People carted money around in wheelbarrows to do their shopping. At one point it cost one million marks to mail a letter. The bills were so worthless they were used as wallpaper in German bathrooms.  This catastrophic economic policy many Germans believe it led to what happened next something much worse - Adolf Hitler. Here's journalist Klaus Frankenberger.  If you have gone through hyperinflation of the 1920s or after the war and you saw what social distress dislocation it brought and eventually you know prepared the way for the Nazi to takeover  You do not mess around with inflation. Never. You do not do this.  So fast forward 70 years from Germany's inflation nightmare to 1992. European countries are setting up the euro. This brand new currency needs a brand new central bank.  Germany was the biggest economy in Europe so it had a lot of influence. The central bank's building it is physically located in Germany in Frankfurt. The central bank's mission also very German.  Keep inflation in check. That is it.  It is so important to them they even want children to understand it. They have this cartoon on their website which depicts inflation as this scary monster.   Wait a second. I know you. You are inflation.  Ooh well done. Because you are so clever I am going to give everyone here a cash price.  No do not.  Wow this is great.  No it is not. If there is too much money around for the same number of products it pushes up prices and money loses its value.  This in the German mindset is all the central bank is supposed to worry about - inflation. It is not supposed to be bailing out governments. It is not supposed create money in order to buy the bonds of deadbeat countries.  But ever since Greece first put up its hand and said we need help someone needs to loan us money that is exactly what the European Central Bank been doing for more than a year now.  The European Central Bank says that buying bonds does not mean it is putting more money into circulation. But Germans hate it. Germans like Helmut Schlesinger. He was there when the European Central Bank was created in 1992 and does not like to see a central bank with mission creep a central bank doing the thing that Germans fear most.  We must have the monetary process under control. And not saying well say let us buy 600 billion of government bonds by the central banks in half a year. And then we hope that everything is fine. As we can see it is not so much fine.  Greece Portugal the rest of the troubled countries they are still in trouble.  And Schlesinger not the only former central banker who is worried about this. There is a new ex-central banker who just resigned from the European Central Bank last week Jurgen Stark the top-ranking German. Officially the central bank says he resigned for personal reasons but it is no secret he too hated the bond-buying program.  After his resignation markets freaked out. It sent the message that there is still not consensus in Europe over how to fight the debt crisis. Germany is the biggest economy in Europe. The European Central Bank has to have them on the team.  So there is a battle going on in the heart of Europe at the central bank in Frankfurt over how to balance the memory of a German national trauma with the needs of its struggling neighbors. Caitlin Kenney.  Zoe Chace NPR News. 