 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. American Airlines' fight with its pilot's union is getting ugly and passengers are paying the price. American is in bankruptcy and as this labor dispute has heated up some pilots have been finding a lot of little things wrong with their airplanes. As a result American's on-time performance has plummeted and cancellations are way up. Last night the company sent a letter to the Allied Pilots Association threatening legal action which has made the pilots even angrier. From Dallas NPR's Wade Goodwyn reports.  Pat Henneberry is an airline's dream customer. She flies all week every week and buying an 800 ticket so that she can have full flexibility is standard operating procedure. She is an American Airlines platinum customer but she is fed up with the endless delays and cancellations.  On Monday I did not get on the plane. Basically they said they were going to be late. And then an hour later they said they are canceling. It is a direct flight to Chicago. It is easy to get equipment - they said it was maintenance. It was definitely a big huge red flag that they are canceling because they do not have any pilots to fly any planes.   Henneberry says that not making her meetings is not an option.  If I do not get where I am going - I own my own business - I do not get paid.  American has been forced to cancel hundreds of flights and its on time performance has collapsed to a little more than 50 percent. American says its pilots are to blame. Bruce Hicks is the company spokesman.  We are talking about write-ups for things like broken coffee pots inoperative passenger reading lights and torn seat pockets that are causing delays. They are calling maintenance out to have those things checked and causing delays. And those are up more than 34 percent.  In 2003 with American on the verge of bankruptcy the pilots mechanics ground crew and flight attendants gave back nearly 2 billion in concessions. Later it emerged that American's top managers quietly awarded themselves millions in bonuses and tens of millions more when they retired. And the pilots have never really gotten over that betrayal. American spokesman Bruce Hicks.  Well the history is the history. And the fact that all of our labor groups and our management and non-union groups in 2003 made significant concessions to keep American out of bankruptcy. And we worked very hard to stay out of bankruptcy. But in fact we lost over 10 billion over those 10 years - 10 billion.  Last night it looked like there was progress. The pilots met and voted to go back to the bargaining table. After all they have been without a contract since 2003. But after the vote a letter arrived from American management threatening to take the union to court if the pilots did not stop delaying flights. Tom Hoban flies a 777 for American and is an officer in the union.  Within 24 hours of being invited back to the bargaining table by this management team they fired off a letter that essentially threatens legal action against the pilots. In that regard it is like a baseball bat with an olive branch wrapped around it and they just hit us upside the head here. It just does not make any sense.  Now the pilots are furious. They see executive duplicity once again. And as of this afternoon they are not going back to the bargaining table. They are meeting with their lawyers about management's letter instead.  This corporation has taken this airline from first to worst. And there simply is no faith in the current leadership of this management team which is why we are pressing hard for a merger with U.S. Airways and a change in leadership.  And what is American Airlines customer Pat Henneberry going to do?  I will not happily go back at this point. I have lived through a few of these with American Airlines.   And to be quite honest I am having an incredible experience on Delta.  Delta Airlines cleverly matched the platinum status Henneberry has with American. So while American management fights to the death with its pilots' union its best customers are wandering off. Wade Goodwyn NPR News Dallas. 