 Not too many people rented tuxedos last year. Proms and weddings were mostly cancelled. For shops that rent tuxes it was crushing. Now business is picking up again. New Hampshire Public Radio's Todd Bookman files this audio postcard.  Pam Guedoura has been dressing people up for three decades.  Do you know how to put cufflinks on?  Nope.  Come on down here. So you will have...  Guedoura along with her husband Fred own Tuxedos with Style in Dover N.H. They stock a huge array of tuxes and colored vests. How do you get into a business like this?  You marry a tailor.   Tuxedos with Style.  Last year was nonexistent in this industry. This spring it is been touch-and-go. Lots of high schools waited 'til the last minute to decide on hosting proms.  Pretty much a month ago they all said no you know that COVID was just not going to make it possible. But little by little as the governor opened things up you know they tried to make something for the kids because they lost last year completely.  I went black-on-black with a royal blue vest and tie. I am pretty excited for it. It looks really good.  Andrew Diamant age 18 is getting ready for his senior prom at Spaulding High School. They are going all-out.  My whole group actually - there is probably like 11 of us. We are getting a whole limo. We are doing the whole shebang. We are getting all gussied up and everything.  Nick Maher walks in carrying a motorcycle helmet.  Oh yeah. I am just looking forward to the after-party.  He is a groomsman getting fitted for an August wedding - slim blue suit.  Was not this wedding originally going to be last year I think?  It was yes.  Believe me we have had some people that had three different dates...  Yeah.  ...You know? And finally they have said we are going to have this wedding no matter what you know? You can only do that to a bride so many times.  When is the last time you had to wear a suit?  Right before COVID started I had a wedding. It was down in Florida. So that was the last time. Feels good to be back in it.  Are you going to trim the beard or not?  Oh yeah. Not all the way but we will clean it up.  Guedoura parts his beard and checks the fit on Maher's shirt. She remains wary of the coronavirus.  Our business is - you know I have - I am measuring the people. I am very close to them. So is it OK in the neck for you? Or...  But except for renting suits for funerals this line of work is generally fun. Lots of kids like Troy Nelson are dressing up for the first time.  So any ideas what you are looking for?  I was thinking black pants white coat white shirt probably.  OK. Kind of like that?  Nelson - pink tie to match his date's dress - goes to York High School just across the border in Maine.  Our school actually would not do a prom for us. So our like parents set it up and we got it all good to go. And so we are excited about it.  All right. So I am going to have you stand right up on the stool for me.  Are they going to do like DJ the whole thing?  I think DJ yeah. I am not sure about a dinner but we will see. I am sure my girlfriend knows a lot more about it to be honest .  Cufflinks cummerbunds patent leather shoes - Pam Guedoura at Tuxedos with Style is ready again to help you look good. For NPR News I am Todd Bookman.  