 This past week's financial news was filled with mixed messages. Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan both reported huge quarterly profits. And yet CIT one of the nation's largest commercial lenders is on the verge of collapse. The Feds says unemployment will top 10 percent manufacturing and exports are stagnant but consumer spending is up so is the stock market. So what is going on? Well apparently the recession is over. Or at least that is what the folks at the Economic Cycle Research Institute say and they have been pretty dead-on so far. Lakshman Achuthan is managing director at ECRI and he joins us. Welcome. Mr.  Thank you.  So you guys are saying the recession is over. How do you come to that conclusion? Mr.  The reason we are so convinced and we are quite convinced that the recession is drawing to a close is because of leading indicators. You mentioned a number of different pieces of information that have come out and some of them might be positive and some of them might be negative. What we do is group these into which ones lead the business cycle and which ones coincide with activity right now today.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  And then even those that lag. And this sequence of leading coincident and lagging indicators our group has been looking at for three generations now we see a very robust sequence of events that always occurs at the onset of recession and the end of recession where the leading indicators move first then the coincident then the lagging measures of the economy which include for example the unemployment rate.  So what are some of the leading indicators right now? Mr.  Well they include drivers of the economy which are housing activity productivity money growth and things that are going on in credit.  And you are seeing an improvement in all of these? Mr.  Yeah the key is that it is - there is no one piece that we are hanging our hat on. It is a pervasive upturn in these leading indicators. And that is the hallmark of something that is going to persist for a few quarters a year at least. And it is going to be pronounced. It is not going to be a tiny blip that you cannot identify as a recovery. It is going to be something that you cannot deny.  So pervasive persistent and pronounced rises... Mr.  That is the three Ps as we call them.  in the different kinds of indicators. Mr.  Leading indicators right.  So what are we looking at tangibly now? I mean you are pretty confident that the recovery will begin very very soon. Mr.  Yeah it is imminent this summer. And you know the exact date is pretty much unknowable or just a guess.  But how do you know? I mean what are you looking at? Mr.  Well...  What numbers are you looking at exactly? Mr.  When you do not approach these indicators with a predetermined view when you are objective and you add them up into a leading index then you end up with what I would like to call is a one-armed economist. You know President Truman was famously quoted as saying you know I am sick of all this on the one hand. On the other hand bring me a one-armed economist.   Right. Mr.  And that is what we have with these leading indexes and they are shooting up.  But what is not clear is I mean things like exports... Mr.  Yeah.  ...manufacturing... Mr.  Yeah.  ...I mean they do not seem to be going anywhere. So how is it that we are emerging from this recession? Mr.  Well that is one entirely true. The first thing that is happening is everything is getting less bad. So...  It is all bad essentially. Mr.  It is still bad. They are still growing negative so I think the recession as far as I know at this second is still on. But it is less negative than it was a few months ago. When the pace of the recession begins to ease as it has already that is a fact not a forecast over the past 75 years the recession has ended within four months.  Have these indicators ever been wrong? Mr.  Not on this score no. And this is what is so amazing. I have been doing this since 1990. I was taught by Jeffrey Moore who is the father of leading indicators. In the time that these indicators have been in existence they have not made a mistake on a recession or a recovery call. I am sure we are going to make a mistake at some time I hope it is not now.  But I mean the thing is also there is no Holy Grail. We have an array of leading indexes. We have over a dozen for the U.S. They are all moving up.  Well some good news at least even if we cannot yet feel it. Mr.  Right.  Lakshman Achuthan is the managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute. He joined us from New York. Mr. Achuthan thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you. 