 This month the Trump administration announced that a small private company TeleTracking Technologies would begin collecting vital stats about the coronavirus like the number of cases and hospitalizations. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention the CDC had been responsible for tracking such things for years so this move was controversial. Now an NPR investigation has identified some unusual decisions around the contract process and personal connections in the New York real estate world. NPR's Tim Mak and Dina Temple-Raston report.  Those COVID numbers we all see on TV or hear about online or on the radio come from numbers collected by the CDC among others - or at least they did. Hospitals were only given days to start sending them to TeleTracking a Pittsburgh company that officials at the Department of Health and Human Services said would streamline data gathering and help the White House Coronavirus Task Force allocate PPE and therapeutics. But experts like Indiana University epidemiologist Brian Dixon were irked on the timing of the decision.  Well it is weird in the sense that we are in the middle of a pandemic and we are switching information systems. I mean probably the worst time ever to switch an information system is when you are busy trying to do contact tracing and monitor the situation and do response.  There is something else strange about this 10.2 million contract. Initially public records showed it was a sole source essentially a no-bid deal. But when asked about it the Department of Health and Human Services said there had been a coding error and that the contract was actually competitively bid.  I do know from our responses that it was awarded via a BAA and in a competitive way through that contracting process.  That is HHS Chief Information Officer Jose Arrieta. In fact the process of awarding the TeleTracking contract was filled with irregularities. For example those BAAs or broad agency announcements are usually used for research or prototypes not something like a government database. And NPR reached out to more than 20 TeleTracking competitors in the fields of hospital workflow management and infection control data. We were unable to find a single one who had bid on this contract. Chief ethics counsel at Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington Virginia Canter saw other problems.  I think for this type of contract it is unusual. Here you are talking about you know plussing  it up from what previously existed and to now require 6000 hospitals to enter into this data and you are turning it over it looks like you are using proprietary software.  And here's something else unusual. A TeleTracking spokesperson said that HHS had reached out directly to the company by phone. It is unclear when the phone call happened. But the spokesperson said HHS contacted them because they knew the company from its hurricane and disaster preparedness work. So TeleTracking's CEO is a man named Michael Zamagias. His background is in real estate. And that is another oddity about all of this. Zamagias has connections to the New York real estate world the same world in which the Trump Organization operates. In particular Cooper Horowitz one of the largest privately held real estate financing firms in the country. Zamagias knew the founder Howard Cooper and mentor to his son Neal Cooper. Neal Cooper has been in meetings with Trump he told NPR. And Cooper Horowitz did a lot of business with the Trump Organization billions of dollars' worth including investments in projects like the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago. Now there is no evidence that these real estate connections are why Zamagias and TeleTracking received the HHS COVID contract. And a Zamagias spokesperson said he had not been in touch with anyone at Cooper Horowitz for years. But the question of whether that played a role is something that congressional investigators are now eager to answer.  In the grand scheme of things 10.2 million is not a huge amount of money. But the contract is just for five months. Now that TeleTracking has started gathering the nation's COVID data it is unclear whether it stands to win follow-on contracts that could mean millions more. So this is what we know. Zamagias has links to the New York real estate world. HHS had an apparent coding error that originally listed this contract as a no-bid contract. And now it is listed as competitive an unusual use of the contracting process to pay out millions of dollars to TeleTracking including the agency's decision to reach out to the company by phone. These circumstances are leading congressional investigators to demand answers. And now a House committee set up to oversee the coronavirus crisis is investigating the circumstances of the contract and the company TeleTracking itself. For NPR News I am Tim Mak.  And I am Dina Temple-Raston. 