 With economic alarm bells ringing President Obama has decided to gamble on new government spending to encourage hiring. The president met with his economic team this morning to plot strategy before he set off on a late-summer vacation with his family. When he returns the president has promised to outline new proposals to kick start job growth. NPR's Scott Horsley reports on how he plans to make the case.  During his Midwestern bus tour this week Mr. Obama said he gets the message. With millions of Americans still out of work efforts to boost job growth can no longer wait.  And over the course of the next few weeks I am going to be putting out more proposals to put people to work right now and some of them - yes. Some of them cost money.  This focus on jobs comes after months in which Washington has been preoccupied with spending less money to control the deficit. This week Mr. Obama began to make the case more forcefully that the two goals do not have to be mutually exclusive.  When folks tell you that we have got a choice between jobs now or dealing with our debt crisis they are wrong. They are wrong. We cannot afford to just do one or the other. We have got to do both.  Former White House economic advisor Jared Bernstein says the key to making this argument is timing. He says the government can encourage job growth with more spending now and offset the cost with bigger savings later.  If you actually attack your jobs program get some people back to work get the economy spinning off some more revenues you actually help your deficit problem. So getting that sequencing right means jobs now and focus more on deficit reduction in the outer years.  Bernstein who is now with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities was in the administration when the government crafted its 787 billion stimulus program two and a half years ago. Many economists say that stimulus helped to cushion the economy's fall during the recession but with unemployment still above nine percent the stimulus is widely perceived as a failure and President Obama has been wary about trying anything like it again.  The president and his political advisors know that anything that reeks of Keynesian stimulus is unpopular with the public so if you can just stand back and let the economy take care of itself of course you would rather do so. But reality is such that they just cannot do that.  Do not expect the White House to use that word to describe the president's proposal and it is likely to be a lot smaller than the last big stimulus. Details are scarce but Mr. Obama hints one piece might be help for public works projects.  We need roads and bridges and schools all across the country that could be rebuilt and all those folks who got laid off from construction because the economy went south or the housing bubble burst they are dying for work.  Mr. Obama appears ready to wage that battle. If he does not succeed in passing a jobs plan he will at least have another issue to campaign on next year.   get it done. And if they do not get it done then we will be running against a Congress that is not doing anything for the American people and the choice will be very stark and will be very clear.  Scott Horsley NPR News the White House.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.  