 Right now there is a record number of job openings in the U.S. around 6 million. That is just over one job opening for every officially unemployed person in the country. Matching that person with the right job is tough though. As NPR's John Ydstie reports employers could do more to improve those odds.  Andrew Chamberlain chief economist for the online job site Glassdoor says U.S. employers often complain that workers do not have the skills needed for the jobs available. He says that is true for some upper-level health care and technology jobs.  But for the most part it does not look to be like there is a skills gap. That is not the main reason why there are many job openings.  Chamberlain says that with unemployment so low and the U.S. labor force growing slowly there is no doubt it is harder for companies to find workers. But he says if that were the main problem you would see wages rising more rapidly in the economy. That is not been the case in many industries. Part of the problem says Chamberlain lies in company hiring policies. Peter Cappelli a professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School agrees. He says one problem is that companies are posting openings that require qualifications that are not really necessary for the job.  They are just asking for the moon and not expecting to pay very much for it. And as a result they could not find those people. Now that did not mean there was nobody to do the job. It just meant that there was nobody at the price they were willing to pay.  Jason Lorenz says he is seen that in his work at Human Technology Incorporated  a corporate recruiter that provides workers for firms in the Carolinas many of them auto parts manufacturers. Lorenz says the companies come to him with a long checklist of qualifications. And he says...  OK we understand you would love to have that perfect employee but give me a couple things that a successful candidate would look like for this specific job on this shift.  For instance he asks do they really need to be able to operate a computer? Or do they only need to be able to lift 35 pounds? Lorenz says another thing that employers need to understand is that wages need to rise.  I am telling manufacturers now if you are below 12 an hour I do not know that I am going to be the person to be able to help you with those jobs.  That is because in the past year job openings have nearly doubled in western North Carolina where he works. And the supply of additional workers is shrinking fast. Wharton's Peter Cappelli says part of the problem is employers have not adjusted to new conditions. For years they have had their choice of workers desperate for a job. Now the labor market has tightened says Cappelli but many employers have not responded.  Wages have not gone up despite all the talk about a tight labor market. And I think most important for the economy we still do not see lots of employers being willing to take people in right out of school and train them for jobs.  Jason Lorenz says that is also the case with many companies he deals with. Companies anxious to meet quarterly earnings targets do not want to spend money training workers. That is left the ball in his court. So he finds workers and gets them enrolled in community college programs.  And then we are able to move those folks from say an entry level position at the 10 to 12 range and then promote them within those companies at the 16 to 17 an hour range.  Glassdoor's Andrew Chamberlain says it is important for companies to adjust their behaviors for their own good.  Every open position in the economy is money left on the table. It is a lost paycheck to a worker. It is also lost productivity to the company.  And it is lost growth for the U.S. economy. John Ydstie NPR News Washington.  