 With Uber in upheaval investors are hoping the company will pull it together and continue to make them money. Now we are going to hear about one Uber investor who also decided to try and turn this crisis into a teachable moment. NPR's Aarti Shahani has her story.  Let us rewind back to mid-March. Freada Kapor Klein has decided to write an open letter to Uber which she published with her husband after a young woman shared an explosive account of sexual harassment at Uber headquarters. Kapor Klein felt it was her duty to say what many knew - this is not a one-off. And it turns out her peers did not like that.  I could imagine that they would not love the Uber letter. But then that they would decide that the next step they ought to go is go after our high-growth hot startups and try to get them away from us.  Kapor Klein is a venture capitalist a VC. That means she makes money by betting on technology startups. She is learned that other VCs are trying to poach a startup she is backing. And to do it they are trash talking basically saying she throws people under the bus.  I mean it is one thing to go pitch them. It is another to say get away from Kapor. See? They are going to do this to you.  This may be counterintuitive but in Silicon Valley the land that created tweeting there is a code of silence among the rich. People are here to make money not to agitate. Kapor Klein violated. But she will not back down. She tells me I should call a shortlist of very powerful VCs and demand their response on the record.  Go to Sequoia. Go to Benchmark. Go to Kleiner. Go to Accel. Go to Andreessen. Go to Khosla.  Back to that in a bit. We are in the Kapor Center a four-story building in central Oakland what is become the edge of Silicon Valley as tech expands. Kapor Klein goes in search of her husband who is also her business partner. The second they meet she launches into her idea for my reporting.  And I thought it would be great if she went and called up VCs and asked them what they thought about our Uber letter. What do you think?  Mitch Kapor looks at his wife cross-eyed. He is a bit of a legend by the way. In the 1980s he founded Lotus the database maker. Some compare him to Steve Jobs and Bill Gates. Right now he happens to be meeting with the president of an influential bank who is right there awkwardly staring at the floor. So she nudges that man - his name is Greg Becker - for his reaction.  People compete with any way they can right?  That is just...  Yep.  ...Unfortunately that is human nature.  Kapor Klein is not just poking to poke. She is playing a long game. Her life's work is to change the culture of Silicon Valley a place she feels has gone backward in time. There are far fewer women in computer science today than in the 1980s. Blacks and Latinos are missing too. She faults investors who hold on to a myth of meritocracy and have hokey sayings like...  We do not care if you are orange or blue. The only color we care about is green.  But if all Kapor Klein did was critique she would be irrelevant here. This place values people who build things. And that is what she is doing. Her building feels like an alternate universe one where tech somehow looks like the rest of America. On one floor there is the impact investment team.  Can you say valuation?  Can you say IPO?  Ulili Onovakpuri is teaching her baby niece industry speak and debating Kapor Klein on whether a startup that uses smartphones to watch patients take their medicine is worth the money. Onovakpuri was a teenager from a working-class family when she met the investor who gave her a scholarship to Berkeley. Now the 32-year-old advises the health care portfolio.  Brrmmm-brrmmm . Brrmmm-brrmmm.  Around the corner social scientists are running data on why people leave tech. They are looking for holes in the leaky pipeline so to speak. Downstairs Gabriel Chaparro who is running a science and tech program for students of color at Stanford shares a lesson he is drilling into the young minds.  You are going to step into places where there is a line of people and none of them look like you. But you have to take your space. You cannot just look at that line and say I do not fit in there. Make your fit.  It is a very Silicon Valley way of being. It is how the Uber chief Travis Kalanick broke the yellow cab industry in city after city. I did approach leading investors as Kapor Klein suggested to get their take on Uber her letter and what is the real problem. One was willing to go on the record.  To kind of blindside a company with a post like that means now the company not only has to solve the problem they have to react to that position publicly.  Jason Calacanis says Kapor Klein created a negative atmosphere a media circus. And Calacanis says it takes a hard-charging CEO to build the Uber empire. Soft questions around culture and inclusive culture that comes later.  After you have won or you know won a decent amount of market share or won the early fights I think you have to shift gears a bit. And I think that is what Uber's going through.  Kapor Klein disagrees and Uber's monumental breakdown is arguably proof she was right. But when I sit down with her in April as the drama continues to unfold I notice she is hesitant. Uber reached out to her for help after the letter. Now she is being tightlipped. I ask her why.  Well just because my goal now is to help Uber and any other company that really genuinely wants to change.  Kapor Klein wants the world to understand yes she spoke out when others would not but no Uber is not the only problem child in Silicon Valley. They just happened to get caught. This week she and her husband issued a statement to that effect saying the company deserves some room to work on itself. Aarti Shahani NPR News Oakland.  