 There is a longstanding tradition that presidents do not comment on Federal Reserve policy. Now President Trump has broken with tradition before. And today on CNBC he said he is not happy with the Fed's decision to raise interest rates. He suggested it would hurt the economy. NPR's Jim Zarroli is here with details. Hey Jim.  Hi Mary Louise.  So by way of backdrop the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates seven times over the past three years. What is the president have to say about it?  Well he - in the interview he first had some nice things to say about the Fed chairman Jerome Powell. He said I put a good man in there. Then - but then he went on to complain that all of these interest rate hikes that the Fed has approved were hurting his efforts to keep the economy strong.   I am not thrilled because you know we go up. And every time you go up they want to raise rates again. And I do not really - I am not happy about it.  He talked about the fact that these rate hikes are causing the value of the dollar to rise which is true. He said that makes American products more expensive overseas makes it harder to close the trade deficit. Now it has to be said that there has been a lot of debate in recent years about whether the Fed should be raising rates as much as it has. A lot of people actually agree with Trump's main point especially people on the left. They say there is no reason to be raising rates as much as they have because inflation pressures are very low and wages are stagnant.  And why is it so controversial for the president to weigh in and express his views on this?  Because the Fed is supposed to be independent. It has to be protected from political pressure if it is going to do its job which is you know to help the economy find this middle ground between growth and inflation. And if presidents want they can really exert a lot of pressure on the Fed. So there is been this tradition at least in the past few decades of presidents not commenting on the Fed. And Trump actually spoke about that in the interview.   Somebody would say oh maybe you should not say that as a president. I could not care less what they say because my views have not changed. I do not like - all of this work that we are putting into the economy and then I see rates going up.  Now Trump also stressed he does not intend to interfere with Fed policy. But the fact that he made the remarks at all is very unusual. Trump said he is just saying the same things he said when he was a private citizen. But of course he is not a private citizen.  He certainly is not no.  What he says carries weight.  Yeah. Well has it carried weight on the markets? Has there been any reaction in the financial markets today?  Well right after the interview was released there was a drop in stock prices. They have been going up for days but they fell. It was not a huge drop. One of the things that happened in - you know in the intervening moments was that the White House put out a statement you know reiterating what Trump said in the interview which is that he respects the independence of the Fed. And that is important. You know I think the financial markets are just getting used to the fact that this is a president who does things differently. And they are - they have learned to live with some uncertainty.  All righty thank you Jim.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Jim Zarroli. 