 MoviePass is no more. The movie ticket subscription service is shutting down. But despite its failure as a business NPR's Vincent Acovino reports it may have succeeded in disrupting the movie theater business model.  It was the summer of 2017 when movie fan and culture writer Margaret H. Willison saw buzz on Twitter about a new subscription service being offered by a company called MoviePass. For just 10 a month the service allowed users to see unlimited movies one per day for the entire month.  That means if I see even one movie a month here in Boston where I live I have earned 5.  Willison signed up. Her friends did too.  We like put together a list of us and our other friends who had MoviePass. And there would just be a weekly email every week. And it would be like what night are you guys free?  Willison and her friends liked the kind of movie-watching freedom the service offered one that let them take risks on movies they might have otherwise passed on.  It was not just like oh I could go see Skyscraper with Dwayne The Rock Johnson - although I did see Skyscraper with Dwayne The Rock Johnson - it was like oh I could go and see a Hitchcock movie I have never seen before. I could go and see a foreign film I have known was important.  The 10 MoviePass plan was started by CEO Mitch Lowe a former Netflix executive who would joined as the MoviePass CEO in 2016. By December 2017 just months after the new 10 unlimited plan was launched MoviePass announced that it had grown 6500 and had a million subscribers. But since its inception critics had warned that the 10 price point was not sustainable. Mitch Lowe told NPR's The Indicator in June of 2018 that the service was losing 21 million a month. That August the service removed its unlimited plan allowing subscribers to see just three movies a month. And while the unlimited plan did eventually return users complained about inconsistent showings and throttled service until its eventual shutdown last Saturday. Comscore senior analyst Paul Dergarabedian claims that despite its failed funding model the service forced major change in the moviegoing industry.  Movie theaters are now looking at what consumers responded to in MoviePass and trying to create their own version of that that actually is a business model that can be sustained.  Theater chains like Regal Cinemas and AMC have started their own subscription services and Dergarabedian says that is not just a good thing for moviegoers.  Whatever brings more people into the movie theater that is good for the industry and that is what the movie theaters want to keep going.  Independent filmmaker Sean Baker who directed 2017's award-winning film The Florida Project was a subscriber. And he sees the appeal from many angles.  People started to recognize that they missed the theater experience. They missed going to a theater seeing a film in the optimal conditions - on the big screen with proper sound - and also without the distractions of everyday life that we have now.  Baker says the service helped audiences experience movies how they are best seen - in theaters. Vincent Acovino NPR News.  