 Two years ago hackers hit the credit bureau Equifax and exposed the data of nearly 150 million people. That is more than half the adult population of the United States. Now some of the people affected by that breach stand to be compensated. Equifax will pay up to 700 million in fines and monetary relief to consumers. We are joined by NPR's Chris Arnold who has been following today's settlement with state and federal regulators. Hi Chris.  Hey Ari.  So is most of this money actually going to go to people who were affected in some way by the breach?  Well most of it will. It looks like upwards of 400 million will go to those people. We spoke to California's attorney general Xavier Becerra who was involved in the settlement along with other state and federal regulators. And here's what he said.  We are trying to make sure that anyone who was impacted by this data security breach has a chance to recover their costs. If you lost your privacy if identity thieves have taken advantage of your private information you deserve to be compensated by Equifax.  Now people can conceivably get up to as much as 20000. They got to document the time and what all this cost them. For many people it will probably be a lot less. Also if you spent money and time just signing up for preventive stuff like credit monitoring or whatever else you had to do the goal is that you will be compensated for that too. And they will pay - I think it is 25 an hour for up to 20 hours that you had to deal with that.  I am sure many people are asking how do I get the money?   What do they have to do?  I am sure since there were that many people involved in the breach yes. There is a website as there often is - equifaxbreachsettlement.com. I am going to say that again because it is radio - equifaxbreachsettlement.com. Assuming the court approves the settlement people can go there. And they will tell you what to do. But you have to do this within the next six months to get compensation.  Within six months of court approval of the settlement.  Right.  It is always hard to get a sense of the magnitude of these penalties with huge huge companies. Is 700 million viewed as a meaningful deterrent for a company as big as Equifax?  Well it depends on who you talk to. But with consumer advocates - not so much. We talked to Ed Mierzwinski with the nonprofit consumer advocacy group U.S. PIRG. He says look. I mean it is great that people are getting some money back. That is fantastic. But as far as a real effective deterrent...  I do not think it is a lot of money. I think it is more of hey go away money rather than a real penalty or a punishment. And I think that is a calculated bet by Equifax. They went in there and negotiated a parking ticket rather than a punishment.  And at least some of the people affected by the breach feel the same way. We spoke with Jessamyn West from Randolph Vt. Her information was stolen she says. And here's her reaction that people will be getting some money back.  I mean it is garbage right? Like money is not going to solve this problem. Like what we need is an overhaul of the way bank corporations are allowed to handle our personal information.  It is interesting Chris that like Equifax was not the hackers here right? Equifax got hacked and yet everybody wants to punish Equifax. There were hearings in Congress when news broke. Lawmakers were outraged. Explain why there was so much anger at the company that in all likelihood sees itself as the victim.  Sure. You know first 150 million people - but what Equifax has in its sort of vaults of information is your credit score which allows you to get a mortgage or a loan. They got your credit card numbers your Social Security number. You know and this exposed that they were not doing a good job keeping that safe.  And has any policy changed to prevent this from happening in the future?  Well very quickly there has not been a major overhaul for regulating credit bureaus that may be coming though. There is some bipartisan support. We should also say Equifax in a statement called today's settlement quote a positive step for U.S. consumers.  NPR's Chris Arnold thanks a lot.  Thanks Ari.  