 Well Mr. Gross joins us once again from Newport Beach California. Thanks for joining us once again.  You are welcome. Thanks for having me Robert.  And first does what is happening - or not happening - in Washington now about the debt make U.S. government-related securities any less attractive to PIMCO?  Well certainly if the rating agencies whether it is Standard Poor's or Moody's or Fitch - there are three of them - downgrade U.S. treasuries then the market itself will take notice. And many institutions whether they be insurance companies money market funds or perhaps even the Chinese who hold substantial amounts may in some cases be forced to sell them and in other cases think twice about holding them. So there would be a significant impact in our view in terms of higher yields and lower prices.  But what you told me back in March was that the only problem you had with treasuries was their yields. You felt they were too low. If they went up as the result of a default and suddenly the U.S. had to pay more would you then find U.S. treasuries ironically more attractive after the U.S. became a deadbeat?  Well I think so. I mean investments are a function of price they are a function of risk and return. And to the extent that the return was improved by higher yields PIMCO would be attracted I think by a 50 basis point or a half a percent higher yield on a 10-year Treasury now about 3 percent. If they went up to 3 and a half percent then a double-A type of nation such as the United States in our opinion would be an attractive investment at those yields.  So at this point as you say as long as the U.S. is getting away with a rating that you think we really do not deserve treasuries are not attractive. But if the U.S. actually manages to blow through the debt ceiling that is a different story. The treasuries might be more attractive at 3 percent.  These are countries - what we call having cleaner dirty shirts. You know many sovereign nations around the world basically have debt problems but there are some with fewer problems than others. And countries such as Canada and Australia Germany as well you know offer more attractive yields in a cleaner dirty shirt.  Mr. Gross how do you explain to people the apparent indifference so far of the markets to the fairly obvious political disarray in Washington over the debt?  Well I would agree with you in terms of the equity markets - stable since last Friday when the alarm was sounded by President Obama. The bond markets as well relatively stable in terms of their yields. But I would point out that the dollar itself which is a fundamental reflection of the credit worthiness of the United States is at its lowest trade-weighted floor for the past 15 years. And commodities such as gold and oil and other hard commodities which are a reflection of a weaker dollar are doing just that they are going up in price.  But you are saying that the investor who looks at his or her holdings and says well I seem to have about the same number of dollars or a little bit more in my portfolio of stocks and the same number in my bonds - might be accurate. But if each of those dollars is worth less today than it was a few months ago it is taken a hit.  Well that is certainly the case. That is one of the problems in the United States. We are not a currency savvy nation like nations in euro land are because their history of course is one in which they were forced to cross borders to make transactions and there were a multitude of currencies. And I think Americans need to take a course in terms of the valuation of the dollar and how it affects their purchasing power as you pointed out.  Bill Gross thank you very much for talking with us once again.  Thank you Robert. Nice to be here.  Bill Gross the founder of g bond investor spoke to us from Newport Beach California. 