 Governors are blaming Congress. Congressional leaders especially Democrats are blaming the White House. Well whoever is to blame there is no dispute. A bipartisan deal on economic relief for Americans enduring the coronavirus pandemic - it is nowhere in sight. Negotiations fell apart this past weekend so what might it take to get lawmakers back to the table? And why - with millions of Americans desperate for help why has this proven so hard? Questions I am going to put in a moment to one of the senior lawmakers on Capitol Hill House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer. First I want our congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell to join us and set the stage. Hey Kelsey.  Hi there.  So let us open the curtains on this I think fair to call it tragedy of a plan where it stands. Is the effort for COVID relief totally dead? What would it take to kickstart these talks again?  Well things are totally stalled as far as we know. We have seen a lot of public sparring between Democrats and Republicans on TV and in interviews but we have not seen a lot of negotiating. The issues still are the same. There are differences over how much should be spent in total how much should be spent on unemployment benefits - in particular those 600 a week in additional payments that expired at the end of July. And there are considerable disagreements about that money for state and local governments. And with the president stepping in over the weekend with executive orders on the unemployment insurance and a number of other things it has taken some of the wind out of the sails of the conversation though both sides say they would like to get a deal.  All right. That is Kelsey Snell and I want you to stay with us as we listen to this next conversation and bring in as I mentioned one of the key players in where everything is headed. Democrat Steny Hoyer of Maryland - he is the House majority leader. He is with us now. Congressman welcome.  Thank you Mary Louise. Good to be with you.  So you just heard Kelsey describe the efforts here as totally stalled. Do you agree? Are you still trying to get to a deal or have you all given up?  I do not agree to this extent. Totally stalled would imply that neither side wants to get together and make a deal. Both sides in my opinion believe that we need to act. I know that we do. I know that we want to get to a place where we can reach agreement on so many of these items - states testing direct payments to families and people medical elections money - we have an election coming up - education - we want to get the schools open et cetera et cetera.  A whole lot of sticking points yeah.  Yeah.  Let me focus you on one key one that Kelsey Snell raised there - the 600 per week...  Right.  ...For people out of work because of the pandemic. The benefit is now expired. This affects so many Americans. I want to play just the voice of one of them. This is a woman named Sandy Villatoro. She is the mom of two. She was laid off from her job as a hotel housekeeper in Phoenix. She lost that 600 a month. She came on the show last week and she told us she is now worried she is going to lose her home.   I have stayed up nights hoping that some miracle will come that I do not have to resort to that. I hate asking for help. I hate asking for hands-out . But it is something I need at the current moment and my kids need it.  Congressman would you respond to that? How do you explain to Sandy and the millions like her who really needed that money why Congress failed to reach a deal here?  Well let me say what I would not say. When the president was asked a similar question not specifically but he said it is what it is. It is what it should not be. Three months ago Mary Louise we passed legislation which would have made sure that that woman did not lose her support. That should not have happened.  Understood. But you all have been trying for weeks now.  Yeah.  And I am talking about Democrats and Republicans on the Hill. It is up to you to pass this money and you did not manage to get it done.  You are right. We do not control the United States Senate. McConnell's response was let the states go bankrupt. Secretary Mnuchin and Speaker Pelosi on four different occasions reached a deal. We should have been able to do that this time. There is one difference. Mr. Meadows is in the room.  Talking about Mark Meadows White House chief of staff. Go on.  Mark Meadows who is the president's chief of staff and used to serve in the House of Representatives. I do not know why we have not been able to reach the agreement. I do know we are willing to compromise. That is the nature of this business.  If I can just hold you there - forgive me for jumping in but you said you are willing to compromise. Republicans say they were willing to compromise. In fact they pushed for 400 instead of the 600. Is not 400 better than 0?  They look at that aspect of it. A third of this bill is for state and local governments and territories and tribal governments who are hemorrhaging revenues who are on the frontlines of both keeping the economy going and on the frontlines of fighting the coronavirus. Without the states' viable you are going to lose teachers. You are going to lose health care workers. You are going to lose sanitation workers - people who are absolutely essential. So the 400- 600 - I think that could be discussed in a positive way. But again I want to make the point not because I think you know it gets us off the hook - we need to get an agreement. But the House passed legislation which would have given that woman relief and the Senate did not do anything with it.  I suppose the overarching question is this Congressman. I hear you criticizing the White House. I hear you criticizing that the Senate is not getting stuff done. But you know to Americans out there who are suffering they are saying look we do not care. Washington sort it out. Congress just help. And we need it. We need it now. What do you say to them?  What I say is the way the process works - and the American people know this - is the House does its job. The Senate does its job. You go into conference and you work it out. The problem is the Senate has not passed anything.  Yeah. I mean you are describing a very familiar logjam. Should we have hope that it will break?  Let me tell you it is very frustrating for us Mary Louise because we did our job. And we are prepared to understand. And I think again the reason I point out the four deals that we made - they were not exactly what we wanted but we did it. Now we have reached a logjam. What is the difference? Mr. Meadows is in the mix. And I think the president of course you know is ultimately responsible and the president ought to direct Mr. Meadows to go back to the table reach a deal in between. Obviously I have to take care of unemployment but you need to take care of nutritional. You need to take care of testing and evaluation. You need to take care of health and you need to take care of direct payments. So I do not think we are being unreasonable in saying you have got to have some investment in these objectives.  Congressman many thanks for your time. We appreciate it.  You bet. Thanks a lot.  That is House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer of Maryland. And listening along with us we still have NPR's Kelsey Snell. Kelsey let me bring you back in. I was struck among other things by the sense of frustration. I mean it was palpable in his voice. That appears to be one thing one rare thing that is bipartisan in all of this.  Yeah absolutely. I think the frustration is clear from Democrats from Republicans. It is also clear that lawmakers are frustrated - who are not in the room - because they are watching these negotiations happen largely just between two negotiators from the White House and that is Steven Mnuchin the Treasury secretary and Mark Meadows the White House chief of staff and then just two Democrats - that is Chuck Schumer the Senate minority leader and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. That is four people in the room negotiating a package this large and there is a sense of frustration and kind of helplessness among a lot of people in Washington who think that a package is necessary and it needs to get done sooner rather than later.  NPR's Kelsey Snell thanks so much for that context and for your reporting.  Thanks for having me.  