 Donald Trump has spent a lot of time recently fielding questions about one of his more controversial business ventures. Trump University promised to teach ordinary people how to be successful in real estate. Well now it is the subject of several lawsuits accusing it of fraud. Among its former students is a retiree from Long Island who paid 35000 to participate. He is now one of Trump University's most vocal critics and for that he has been publicly attacked by Trump himself as NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  Bob Guillo's involvement with Trump University began seven years ago. His grown son had paid 1500 for a three-day course that promised to teach people how to make money in real estate. It took place at a hotel in Manhattan and Guillo went along to listen.  The first thing that they said was guys Mr. Trump is a multibillionaire and he does not need your money. He is doing this to be benevolent and to allow people like you to become successful like he is.  Guillo says the speakers were really inspiring. They played the theme song from The Apprentice. And he says right away they began pressuring those attending to sign up for more classes. If you said you wanted to take some time to think about it they turned up the heat.  They try to embarrass you saying why do you have to talk to your wife or why do you have to talk to your husband? Cannot you make decisions by yourself? We are offering you an opportunity of a lifetime here.  So Guillo ended up taking 35000 out of his IRA to join the Trump University's Gold Elite program. It was a year-long program of seminars and mentoring sessions designed to teach people about real estate. Guillo says the information provided was pretty worthless. A lot of it was just pointing people to websites such as trulia.com or irs.gov.  I knew about those websites before I walked into Trump University. So the more and more I got involved in Trump University the more and more I found out that I had truly been scammed.  Trump University officials dispute that. They say the program provided an extensive amount of information about the real estate industry. In fact they say many people complained it was too detailed. Guillo ended up going to Trump University officials and demanding his money back. When he did not get it he filed a complaint with the New York Attorney General's Office and he appeared in a TV commercial funded by a group tied to Florida Senator Marco Rubio. Trump maintains that the vast majority of people who attended the program were happy with it. He even singled out Guillo in a speech.   So you have this guy Bob Guillo He appeared in TV attack ads even though he rated the programs a five meaning excellent - the top mark - across the board.  Guillo says it is true. When the program was nearly over he filled out a card giving Trump University high marks. So did a lot of other customers. He says that is because the instructors stood over them and implored them to do so.  They would say OK you know if you do not rate me a five I am not going to come back here and I have got a wife and kids. And most of the people that were there said you know it does not cost me anything.  Trump University officials strenuously deny that attendees were pressured to give high ratings. They insist that instructors were not allowed near people when they were filling the cards out. As the presidential campaign has dragged on Guillo has spoken out more and more.  At first it was embarrassing. Then I became very very angry that the man that scammed me out of all that money had the audacity to run for president. And I am still angry.  And Guillo says he is more than willing to testify against Trump University when the class-action suit against it goes to trial in California in November. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 