 The sharing economy as it is come to be known has grown dramatically over the past few years. I am talking about peer-to-peer transactions like Airbnb which lets people rent out an extra room or the various ridesharing services like Lyft or Sidecar. It seems pretty win-win right? One person gets an extra cash for a car seat or a bedroom that is going empty. The other gets a cheaper car ride to the airport or a place to stay for the weekend. In a piece for the online magazine Ozy Pooja Bhatia writes about one undesired byproduct this trend has created - oversharing. Hi Pooja.  Hi Arun.  So you write that the sharing economy demolishes barriers that you just as soon keep up. Explain this oversharing that is bugging you.  Well sometimes you just want a ride to the airport right? Sometimes you want to rest without having to make nice with the host. But there is another aspect too. I do not like services that kind of muddle commercial transactions with friendships.  Now I know you have had a few run-ins with these over-sharers in your time. Can you tell us about your first Airbnb host? This is a man you have nicknamed Sad Divorcee.  Well he had recently moved out of his family home. So over the course of about a week or 10 days I got the impression that part of the reason he was actually renting out extra rooms on Airbnb was so that he would have someone to talk to. And that is a - it is a sad situation right? You know you want to offer compassion but you also do not necessarily want to be someone's therapist when you are paying 90 a night to stay in his place.  Have you had any good interactions or are they all kind of intrusive - invading your privacy somehow?  . I really do sound like a curmudgeon do not I?  Well I do not think most people would want to you know come home to their hotel room and have a you know concierge that complains about their ex-wife. So maybe not.  Yeah. No I have had some nice experiences. One of them was with a woman I nicknamed Hippie Abuela. She also rented out a few rooms in her apartment. And she was great. But I decided that what made her really great was that she did not force me to talk to her. The conversations that we had unfolded really kind of gradually.  Now this is not necessarily a problem for the sharing economy. I have had more than a couple of taxi drivers in New York that have over-shared in pretty disturbing ways.  Yes. But the repercussions are different right? So if you use for instance Sidecar you can rate your drivers afterward. And you know similarly if you take a taxi ride and the driver is inappropriate you can call the TLC - you can report him. But it turns out after sharing this sort of simulacrum of friendship with someone who is providing you a service no matter how brief it is really hard to give someone a bad review. It just feels like you are being mean.  So you know I was going to say one of the advantages might be that you could give the person a bad rating for invading your privacy. But you do not feel good about doing that either?  I actually do not. And I do not think I am the only one. I think that there is a reason on Airbnb for instance that they have separate review slots. So you write one review that shows up on the host profile but then you can submit other comments to Airbnb that the host will not see. So it kind of suggests that other people might be having this issue.  Pooja Bhatia is an editor and writer for the online magazine Ozy. Pooja thanks for joining us today.  Thanks so much for having me Arun. 