 The United States is importing historic amounts of stuff from overseas causing the U.S. trade deficit to hit record highs. Greg Rosalsky from our Planet Money podcast reports the shipping industry is having trouble handling all of it.  Humongous ships filled with cargo are creating a massive traffic jam on the water. In the San Francisco Bay it is gotten so bad that the U.S. Coast Guard has basically been telling ships guys do not go past the Golden Gate Bridge and enter the bay. I mean please. We do not have room for you. Robert Blomerth oversees vessel traffic for the Coast Guard in San Francisco. He says the ships have been waiting for days sometimes over a week just to come in and drop off their cargo. Last week there were 16 massive ships waiting offshore.  It is completely abnormal. We have never had a situation since I have been here where ships have had to wait offshore. We have never had this.  Up in the Seattle-Tacoma area there are so many container ships coming in that the Coast Guard has been asking them to anchor 30 miles north near Whidbey Island. Residents there have been complaining about the noise they make at night. Tom Bellerud who manages the ports with the Northwest Seaport Alliance says they are doing the best they can to end the traffic jam.  There has been such a surge in cargo volumes that the terminals are having a difficult time processing all the cargo fast enough.  We are importing so much right now because with the pandemic Americans stopped spending as much on services. And they started spending more on tangible stuff stuff that largely comes from East Asia through West Coast ports. Meanwhile the pandemic has slowed down the ability for workers to handle all the shipping containers that hold this stuff. Containers have been piling up at dockyards and trains and trucks have been struggling to get them out fast enough to make room for incoming containers. Now the first ship carrying these types of containers literally big metal boxes hit the seas in 1956. And Lars Jensen who analyzes the industry with Vespucci Maritime says the container shipping industry has not seen turmoil on this scale ever before.  It is at least in a state of chaos that I do not think it has been in ever since it was invented in 1956.  With all these metal boxes and ships stuck at sea waiting to dock and get unloaded there are not enough empty boxes in ships to pick up more goods. And in March a massive container ship got stuck in the Suez Canal and caused more boxes and ships to get tied up. Then last month there was a COVID-19 outbreak at a major port in South China.  What is going on in South China right now is an even larger disturbance than the Suez Canal.  All this is causing rising shipping costs and growing delays. It is making it more difficult for stores to restock their shelves manufacturers and builders to get the parts they need and farmers to export their products. Analysts say it is one big reason the price of stuff is going up. And by the way it is not even peak shipping season yet. Greg Rosalsky NPR News.  