 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONDSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. This week the Federal Reserve acknowledged that the U.S. economy is losing strength. Economic recovery has been disappointing and record-low interest rates have not proven to be as helpful as some predicted. As it happens they also mean different things whether you are a borrower or a saver. Thirty-year-fixed home mortgage rates of 3 and half percent are one thing earning less than a percent on your savings account is another. To get a sense of how rock-bottom rates are affecting the country we decided to reach out to a cross-section of people. In a moment we will hear from a county official a small- business owner and a personal finance expert. But first a homeowner. Julie Sawitky and her husband are federal employees who have been prudent about their money. They max out their 401 contributions. In addition...  We try to save up to 10 percent of our paycheck into a savings account. However sometimes it does not seem like it is worth it because we earn so little interest.  What interest rates are you getting right now and what was it like trying to shop around to find a good interest rate?  Point eight percent is what we are earning now and we can only get that rate online.  What are your hopes for the future in terms of savings? I know that - do you have children or sort of...  We have four children one is in college now. And we have student loans that are going to be coming soon because we do not have enough to cover everything. So we are saving for that. We have 529 Plans for all of them. And the future? We are just hoping that our property values come up because that is our biggest asset - is our house and we are underwater at the moment. And we would like to refinance to be able to save money - more money. But that is impossible because banks will not work with us.  So even though there are good interest rates out there you cannot take advantage of it in the case of say refinancing.  Not really because when you are underwater banks do not want to work with you. We have excellent credit we have no other debt. And they just will not take the chance of refinancing us at what we need to refinance at.  What is this like for you looking at your savings account - which has such a tiny interest rate - and then not being able to refinance again? I mean how does it make you feel?  Very frustrated. You know they tell you to save money to save for your retirement and the future or what have you. And doing that seems kind of a waste because we cannot even keep up with inflation. So it is a little frustrating. We feel very stuck.  That is Julie Sawitky of Frederick Maryland. Well we wanted to put Julie's financial story in perspective so we called Matthew Amster-Burton. He is a personal finance columnist for Mint.com. Welcome Matthew.  Thanks for having me.  So put this in context. How bad is it for savers like Julie at the moment?  It is pretty bad. And .8 really is about the best you are going to do for an online savings account. I have seen as high as 1 percent which by historical standards - it is really terrible. She does have some other options that she can think about. One of those is I Bonds which are U.S. savings bonds so they are equally safe. They are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. The great thing about I Bonds is that they guarantee never to pay less than the rate of inflation. So right now they are paying 2.2 percent. And they are not quite the same as a savings account. But you can buy I Bonds for as little as 25 at a time and you only have to hang on to them for a year before you can cash them in. So they are good for medium- to long-term savings.  And that is from the Treasury Department. What are the other alternatives out there?  So one other alternative is a high-interest checking account which are sometimes called reward checking accounts or Kasasa accounts - is a brand name used by community banks and credit unions that offer these. And this is a checking account that pays a relatively high rate of interest - up to about 2 percent at the moment - but you have to play by their rules. And what that means is use your debit card a lot. So as long as you are willing to use your debit card say a dozen times a month and sign up for direct deposit and e-statements you can get a much higher rate of interest on your first 10000 20000 or so.  Matthew essentially the low interest rates have been billed as something that could help consumers. But in the end do you think that it has helped or hurt? I mean can people truly take advantage?  Well not everybody can access low rates as a borrower. The good news is that anyone who is a saver can access the best rates that are available to anyone as a saver. Unfortunately those are not very high. I think you have to put this in some international and historical perspective - which is that as bad as things are it could be a lot worse. We could be in a Japan-like deflationary scenario which we are not. We could be in an even worse scenario where we had hyperinflation or where we put money in the bank and could not even count on getting the money we put in the bank back. But we have a functioning deposit insurance system. We do not have runaway inflation. As much as we can when we are talking about rates of interest less than 1 percent we should try and count our blessings.  That is personal finance columnist Matthew Amster-Burton. And among those counting their blessings - state county and municipal governments. From Florida to Oregon from Texas to Missouri governments have taken advantage of this moment to refinance their debt. Douglas County Kansas had issued bonds in recent years to build a jail and a law-enforcement facility among other projects. This spring as interest rates fell they moved - quickly. Mike Gaughan is the chairman of the Board of County Commissioners.  The reason we jumped on board this year was quite frankly we have been watching the interest rates. And we have been watching the potential for savings over the last couple of years. And this spring we just saw a really great opportunity for the county to refinance all of our bond issues. And we ended up saving almost a million dollars.  A million bucks?  Well over the seven years or so that we anticipate realizing the savings that is over 100000 a year. Our budget debate every year seems to come down to about 100000. So when we look at things like the increase of costs in our health care and providing it to our employees or the increasing cost of running a county government 100000 - or 130000 is a pretty substantial savings and opportunity for us to hold down our mill levy here or hold down our property taxes.  Now with interest rates so low then are you thinking of doing any other infrastructure projects?  Well we have some very concrete - um pardon the pun - we have some very real projects that we are looking at over the next couple of years. We have the Emergency Radio Project to basically redo all of our emergency radio systems. We also have a public works building that we are in the process of - our Public Works Department is split between two less-than-ideal locations. And because of the opportunity to finance at these rates plus the opportunity to take advantage of some of the savings we have in construction and in actual building costs we are looking very seriously at those.  That is Commissioner Mike Gaughan in Lawrence Kansas. Well about the same time Douglas County was looking seriously at their numbers so was Rania Jaziri. She is the owner of Jordin's Paradise a fitness and dance studio here in Washington D.C.  We offer a wide variety of classes from traditional - yoga kickboxing Zumba - to nontraditional like pole dancing - and belly dancing as well.  After a successful first two years Jaziri decided to open a second location. She sought a low-interest loan something she kept hearing about.  I tried to apply for a couple of loans in - back in November December. I had a really really really hard time and it was very upsetting. And I have gotten a lot of no's from a couple of bigger banks where they have said that they have low interest rates for small businesses. However they had some rules and regulations where you have to have three years in business you have to have 250000 revenue - which is not a small business in my eyes.  So in the end what kind of loan and what kind of interest rate did you end up with?  Well we got 10000 only even though we wanted a little bit more. So it was 10000 for 5 percent.  So 5 percent was that the best you could get? Were there lower ones that you did not get?  There were lower ones that I was not able to get because of those rules and regulations that they had. And I know it is hard sometimes to find out if that business is legit and if they really can pay you back. But at the same time when you have a small business that is doing well for itself then you should support it because we need more jobs we need more businesses doing well. If I would get 50000 today I could open up another studio I could create 10 other jobs. It is that simple.  Is there the demand for it you feel?  Yes absolutely. We have demand all over the place. People have called me and said why do not you open up one in Alexandria or Arlington? And I just have to say I do not have the start-up money for it right now - because you need the studio you need the build-out you need the advertisement you need the marketing. So at least 50- to 60000 to start up. Once the studio is up we can fill it with people. But the beginning that is the hardest part.  That is small-business owner Rania Jaziri. For what it is worth the Federal Reserve has indicated it will keep interest rates low for the foreseeable future. And this week it promised to take further action in the fall if things do not get better. 