 Last week President Trump announced he was raising tariffs on more Chinese imports. At the time he put out a tweet saying we do not need China and frankly would be better off without them. But a growing number of American companies need China very much. They now make a sizable part of their profits there. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  When American politicians talk about China's economy they usually talk about lost factory jobs. A huge number of U.S. companies have fled to China over the years in search of low-wage labor. But Shaun Rein of the China Market Research Group in Shanghai says that is only part of the story. As China's middle class has grown he says...  China has become the largest market to sell into for many of America's largest companies like Starbucks like Nike.  One in 4 of the airplanes made by Boeing last year went to China. KFC sells more chicken in China than in the U.S. And General Motors and its partners sold nearly 4 million vehicles in China last year.   .  Cadillac.  Increasingly companies that hope to grow cannot afford to overlook the Chinese market. China now buys more than a third of the engines sold by the Indiana-based company Cummins says company spokesman Jon Mills.  We have a number of manufacturing facilities there. And approximately 90- to 95 of the products that we make in China are sold in the China market.  American companies still face plenty of barriers in China. Industries such as banking remain closed to outsiders. Intellectual property theft is a problem and many American companies are still forced into joint ventures with Chinese partners. But China's middle class is now bigger than the entire U.S. population. And there are plenty of opportunities there says Anna Ashton of the US-China Business Council.  The vast majority of our companies have consistently reported and continue to report every year that their China operations were profitable - and not just profitable but more profitable than their operations overall.  And companies see a very bright future in China. Here's Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson in an interview on Bloomberg TV last month.   We are going to be able to accelerate and build new stores for a long long time in China.  But the trade war threatens to upend the plans companies have made. Shaun Rein of the China Market Research Group says the Chinese government has shown it is willing to punish companies when it is unhappy. Last year he says Marriott ticked off the government when it listed Taiwan as a separate country on its website.  So as a punishment China actually blocked the marriott.cn website for one week in China so nobody was able to book any hotel rooms.  The government can get back at American companies by say slowing down the permitting process for new stores or encouraging consumers to boycott U.S. brands. Rein says the Chinese government has not done this in part because it sees American companies as allies. Many U.S. business leaders have criticized Trump's trade policies. But Patrick Chovanec of Silvercrest Asset Management says U.S. companies remain in a difficult position.  U.S. companies in China - doing business in China to serve the Chinese market have been basically orphaned by this trade war.  For the Trump administration he says the trade war is about bringing American jobs back home. But if tensions get bad enough he says China will not hesitate to retaliate against American companies. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 