 From NPR News this is ALL m Melissa Block in Washington.  I am Madeleine Brand in California. Foreclosures keep rising even as the government tries to prevent them. That is according to new data this week from RealtyTrac. As the crisis expands it is dragging down more middleclass Americans. Many of them are homeowners who have been paying their mortgages on time for years. NPR's Chris Arnold has the story.  Ronald Crochetiere is scraping the grill at his corner diner and sandwich shop in Springfield Massachusetts. Mr.  Thanks Brenda. I will see you tomorrow morning.  All righty.  So you scrub down your own grill here every day huh? Mr.  Yeah you know I am one of those little guys on the corner. You know I have been here for just over 17 years.  But with the recession business has been much slower. Mr.  All fall and all winter and early spring I just you know it was going down down down usually when it should have been busy busy busy. I mean it is not as though I am not able to turn a small profit. The problem is is that it is kind of a small profit compared to you know what I have seen in the past.  Crochetiere says he is taking home about 1000 a month less. On top of that his wife hurt her back and has had to cut back on her hours. She is a nurse. And for the first time in 21 years of marriage the couple is having trouble paying their bills and suddenly cannot afford their mortgage. A lot of other long-time responsible homeowners are in the same boat. Is that sort of a changing nature of the foreclosure crisis? Ms.  That really is a change that we have seen.  We called up Michelle Jones a vice president of Consumer Credit Counseling Service which works with homeowners around the country. Ms.  We are talking with more clients who have never had serious financial difficulty before in their life. They have always held a job. They have always paid their bills on time.   divorce costly medical expenses. Of course many had gotten into high-interest subprime loans that they really never could afford in the first place. Ms.  And just plain old-fashioned overspending or a lack of education about budgeting. Those were often just as frequently the culprit and not anymore.  Jones says in June of this year the agency tracked the people that were facing foreclosure and calling to ask for help. Ms.  Seventy-two percent said that they were in the situation due to a reduction in income or a loss of employment. And that is huge.  Back in Springfield Ron Crochetiere's two kids are splashing around in a big inflatable kiddy pool in the backyard. Six-year-old Christina and five-year-old Mason definitely are not shy about showing off their pool skills. Ms.  I jumped right in the middle of the pool. It was really hard and I do not even hurt myself.   Sandi Crochetiere Ron's wife loves the house. It is not a mansion. It is a raised ranch worth about 200000 though they owe about 250 on it. Since they are upside down like that - owing more than it is worth - some people say they should just walk away from the house. But they have been here 12 years and the couple says they want to pay what they owe and they just do not want to leave. Ms.  I mean we have worked hard for everything that we have and I grew up on welfare. I was the youngest of 10 children. We built this house. I mean this is what we have always planned on.  Their biggest problem right now is a large home equity loan. The Crochetieres used to be able to afford it but the interest rate is at 11 percent. Ron's been trying to get a mortgage modification to get that interest rate lowered. A lot of economists say for a lender doing that to avoid a costly foreclosure is a good business decision. The Obama administration is pushing a program to encourage lenders to do that more. Mr.  Well for that person the president's mod plan is perfect. It will work for him because he wants to stay in that home.  Mark Zandi is the chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. He thinks that preventing foreclosures is crucial and he worries that the president's plan does not go far enough. He would like people to get more incentive to stay in their homes by getting the size of their loan reduced. The president's plan lowers people's payments but it often still leaves them owing a lot more than their house is even worth. Mr.  There are a lot more folks who think that that just does not make any sense and they are just not going to do it.  The Crochetieres' lender a company called Green Tree says it is considering a loan modification for the couple though a recent report from the Treasury Department shows that Green Tree has so far only modified only four percent of its problem loans through the president's plan. Chris Arnold NPR News Boston. 