 So why are there possibly more than 20 Republicans who are so cool to the speaker's plan that its success on the floor of the House is in doubt? Well this afternoon we spoke with one of them. He is Tim Huelskamp who represents the 1st District of Kansas. He is a freshman and he is a Tea Party conservative. Welcome to the program congressman.  Thank you.  First what is wrong with the speaker's proposal?  Well it is a start but I do not believe it goes far enough to solve our long-term problems. And we have a pivotal point in American history where we can solve what is an ongoing economic and financial and a spending problem that is gone on for not just a few years but decades. And after 14.3 trillion in debt I think it is time to put a stop to the spending and find a way to start balancing our budget.  What can the speaker do to convince you - if anything - that you should vote for his plan to raise the debt ceiling?  It is not about what the speaker wants. It is not about necessarily what I want. There is two other principles involved here. It is what the constituents in my district want and they did not want to raise the debt ceiling unless there were significant structural reforms and spending cuts to help us balance our budget and it does not include that. Secondly the principle involved is the folks that loan us money. And the international creditors and our national creditors the credit rating agencies say in my opinion that this is not nearly enough to prevent a downgrade in our credit rating which is - would be a very serious event in which many folks are worried about in Washington myself included.  But you speak of what the speaker has put together as a start. It is pretty late in the game to be talking about starts. The downgrade would come next week if you do not raise the debt ceiling.  Well I do not believe the downgrade comes next week. We have asked the Treasury Department for their evidence that August 2nd is the deadline and certainly it is probably a week later. But whatever it is fundamentally we just cannot continue to borrow and spend at the same rate we have been doing for many years in this country and that is the fundamental problem. And any plan that will help solve that problem both short term and long term I would be supportive of.  I will just ask you a hypothetical question. If the White House does not budge from something that is a lot more like Senator Reid's plan and there in fact is no raise of the debt ceiling do you think you could tell your constituents it is a good thing - we have defaulted but it is better than what they had on the table otherwise?  The speculation of what might occur is you know something that - we are still trying to figure out the impact of that. But again when the president of the United States threatens to withhold Social Security checks on August 2nd...  But he is saying there will not be any money if they do not have any borrowing authority - is what he is saying.  Now fundamentally if we cannot make those cuts it does not change the situation. And so we need to do things more quickly rather than further down the road. And that is what most creditors are saying to our country.  So Congressman Huelskamp I know you have to go. But before you do when you sum all this up on the Boehner plan do we put you down as a certain no a likely no undecided leaning yes yes - where are you?  Well I am a certain no and...  You are a certain no?  I am a certain no to this plan and we will see what happens in the near future with that. But we need a long-term solution including a balanced budget amendment to make it work long term for the American people.  Well thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you.  That is Representative Tim Huelskamp who represents the 1st District of Kansas. He is a Republican and he is a certain no vote he says on Speaker Boehner's plan to raise the debt ceiling. 