 No country is playing a more critical role in dealing with Greece than Germany. Germany has the most powerful economy in Europe. It is home to the European Central Bank - the ECB - and it is the key political dealmaker. German public opinion has been stacked against Greece from the beginning of this crisis and many Germans feel that the Greeks deserve the consequences of their actions. To hear more about the German view I am joined now by Roman Pletter. He is deputy head of the business and economics section of the newspaper Die Zeit and he joins us from Hamburg. Welcome to the program.  Welcome. Hello.  As we hear news about the very real fears and crises on the streets of Greece how would you describe the mood in Germany?  Well actually it is a mixture of frustration and indifference. I think frustration with the Greek government because many Germans feel like the Greece government were just playing them for several weeks when there was just enough time to get a deal done. But the other side is that in Germany itself economically speaking actually it is like living on an island at the moment. So unemployment is low. Growth is doing well. And I think we do not feel all the economic problems some other countries in the euro zone might face at the moment.  When you say you feel like you are living on an island you feel like you are living on a very pleasant island is what you are saying.  That is right. And so I think there is no huge outrage about Greece. That is not the case. Another side is that of course there are some politicians who think we have to rescue them because they fear that if the euro collapses the whole euro zone and even Europe is an idea might be destroyed afterwards.  Well does maintaining the euro zone and maintaining the euro as a currency - does that trump whatever sense of fairness Germans might have thinking that it is only fair that Greece honor its obligations?  Well I think that is at the heart of the economic thinking of for example Chancellor Angela Merkel. She once said she wants to run the economy like a Swabian housewife which refers to doing economic policy in a way like running your household. That means do not spend more money than you have and that is what her conservative constituency expects from her. And given the fact that Germany had Social Security reforms 10 years ago when former Chancellor Gerhard Schroder - he had to resign afterwards because people did not support these reforms. Now we are benefiting from these reforms. And many Germans think we had this hard time and we expect the Greece people doing this themselves.  But what - how did Germans react to the argument that yes Germany said we should run this like a sound German household. On the other hand by including Greece in the euro zone you more or less said to an improvident member of the family go run up a bill. You can now borrow money is if you were a German at very low rates.  I see your point and I think that is an argument often made by other countries criticizing Germany. The answer you would get from many German politicians is that when Greece joined the euro they actually betrayed the other countries in the euro zone with delivering wrong numbers about their growth rates about their economic situation. And they basically lied their way into the euro zone. And that is something many people are still kind of struggling with. And that makes it so hard for many Germans to say well actually we will bail out Greece anyway but that is a problem. In my personal opinion that is a problem because it is very backwards-looking. It does not help us in the future. Now we have to deal with the situation. They are in the euro zone and we have to deal with it.  Roman Pletter of the newspaper Die Zeit in Hamburg. Thanks for talking with us today.  Thank you very much. 