 Sea urchins are a culinary delicacy in many parts of the world including Japan and here in the U.S. The market for this foie gras of the sea is growing so rapidly that it is led to overharvesting. So a scientist in Birmingham Alabama is trying something new. He is growing sea urchins in a laboratory. And to take things a step further he is developed a new food for the urchins to eat to make them tastier. It is made of fats carbs protein and other secret ingredients. Alabama Public Radio's Maggie Martin reports.  Deep in a basement at the University of Alabama at Birmingham Dr. Stephen Watts opens a door into a large wet room that smells well fishy. DR.  Look into each one of these small cages. And if you look you will see an urchin in each cage.  Hundreds of spiny sea urchins sit in large blue tanks. Each urchin has a small cage that is about three inches high with different colored tags attached. The tags detail the different diets that Watts and his team feed these urchins. As I look into one of the cages I see an urchin using its feet which look like tiny tubes to eat something that resembles spaghetti.  They are slow eaters. And they will start at one end and eat it much like a rabbit might eat a carrot from one end all the way to the other.  Watts started his sea urchin farm nearly two decades ago as a sustainable solution to a big problem. Sea urchins have been so overharvested that in some areas their numbers will never recover. For instance about 50 million tons of sea urchins were harvested off the coast of Maine during its heyday in the mid-'90s. Watts says today 90 percent of the original urchin population there is gone forever. A few floors above the sea urchin farm Watts pulls out metal trays with plastic bags filled with those spaghetti-like strands the urchin was eating earlier. Watts says urchins like many animals are what they eat. And that is exactly what he is counting on. He is created a feed that'ill make his sea urchins taste better so he can take them out of his lab and into restaurants across the country starting here.  Fire two groupers.  The Hot and Hot Fish Club just a few miles away in downtown Birmingham. With the help of owner Chris Hastings a James Beard Award-winning chef Watts is making some headway. Hastings has been the unofficial taste tester for about two years and is impressed so far.  It was not only sweet not only delicious but it had that great umami you know those flavor characteristics and just - I was pleasantly surprised.  With a stamp of approval from Hastings Watts feels confident enough that his sea urchins will be successful in an open market. But some say the feed he is created for his urchins could be an obstacle. DR.  OK I guess we are about ready to get started.  Dr. Glenn Richey teaches International Business and Marketing at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa. He is also on the state's Seafood Marketing Commission. Richey says the sea urchin feed Watts is banking on could hurt him in the marketplace.  There is a big concern about products that have been altered or changed and the movement has allowed for the organic product to grow quite rapidly.  Richey says the product not being free range or wild may be an issue. But Watts is also facing an issue of money. Although his research is federally funded that same money cannot be used to commercialize his product. Watts still needs to find investors willing to help take his sea creatures out of the lab and onto a restaurant menu. For NPR News I am Maggie Martin.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 