 The European Union is fighting back against tariffs on aluminum and steel announced by the Trump administration. Here's Cecilia Malmstrom the EU's commissioner for trade speaking today in Brussels.   This is further weakening the transatlantic relations and it also increases the risk of severe turbulences in the markets globally. Protectionism can never be a solution and this will hurt jobs here in the European Union but also in the U.S.  The EU released a list of American goods that they will slap their own tariffs on things like Harley-Davidson motorcycles and Kentucky bourbon. Also this morning the EU opened a case against the United States at the WTO the World Trade Organization. So what happens now? We asked Chad Bown senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics to walk us through how things might unfold.  So what happens here is the European Union files a case in Geneva at the World Trade Organization. And there have been you know more than 500 or so of these cases filed over the years a couple of hundred of which have involved the United States dozens and dozens between the United States and the EU. We like to fight each other. And it is basically - here the European Union is claiming that the Americans have implemented trade restrictions - in this case the steel and aluminum tariffs - that violate the rules of the international system.  This is something that German Chancellor Angela Merkel has said explicitly. She says these U.S. tariffs break WTO rules. So that is my next question. Is she right? Do they?  Well we do not know. What we do know is the excuse that the Trump administration is using to impose these tariffs is really unprecedented. President Trump is imposing them under the allegation that steel and aluminum threaten American national security. The United States really has not done this at any great scale before and trading partners really have not done the same thing because it is broadly seen as a major excuse.  And you are saying - when you say it is unprecedented the WTO has never had to decide before whether national security might pose a legal justification for imposing tariffs.  Exactly. And it is partly by design. You know you do not want to have this case actually have to come to Geneva and get litigated by these you know nameless faceless jurists out there. If the United States wins the arguments if they win the legal decision that is bad because it basically says to the entire world all you have to do is to just throw out this card and say hey you know this is in my national security interest to protect this industry to impose these tariffs. And that basically means that any country at any moment in time can just evade the rules-based trading system and just slap on tariffs.  How long will this take for this dispute settlement to play out? I mean how long might we be looking at before we figure out whether the judges were persuaded or not?  These cases actually take quite a long time so it is really probably two three four years before we would get anywhere near resolution to this issue.  So as someone who watches what is going on in Geneva and is watching the WTO quite closely I guess my takeaway question is how much power do they have to prevent a trade war from breaking out? The EU and other countries are already going other routes beyond the WTO process.  The WTO actually has very little power in and of itself. You know any of these disputes are reliant on countries bringing them forward. The WTO just kind of establishes the framework and the setting for countries to be able to resolve their grievances in a non-conflictual manner. But the WTO really cannot step in and say you know you have gone too far you need to cool it down. That is not really their role in all of this unfortunately.  You are saying if the U.S. is determined to go ahead with these tariffs they are going to go ahead.  If the U.S. is determined to go ahead with tariffs they are going to go ahead. If the Europeans are determined to go ahead with the retaliation they are going to go ahead. And there is really not much that the WTO can do to stop it unfortunately.  Chad Bown thanks very much.  Thanks for having me.  He is a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. 