 Next year some banks in the U.S. are planning to issue a new kind of credit card. They will have computer chips in them and some will no longer require signatures. That got our Planet Money team wondering - why do we still sign for so many things anyway? Here's David Kestenbaum.  Take a look at your signature the next time you charge something. Maybe you spell out every letter. Maybe you just put a squiggly line. I have drawn a smiley face sometimes. This act of pen to paper? Turns out it is a very very old ritual. Rabbi can you hear us?  Hello? Yes yes. Hi. Good morning.  This is Rabbi Pinchas Allouche. He is a Talmud scholar. A Talmud is a collection of very old rabbinical writings on Jewish law over a thousand years old. It turns out the Talmud mentions signatures. The Jews did not invent the signature but they had lots of rules for them. Back then there were standards. It could not just be any old squiggle.  Here it is. All right. . Which means that scribble is prohibited.  . What is the word for scribble?  Mahak . And then Prosul  means prohibited.  A signature was required for all manner of economic transactions. You want to buy a goat? You have got to sign a document. And just like with credit cards today sometimes you had to sign even for smaller purchases.  There is a rule in the Talmud which is an interesting rule - the law that applies to one cent is the same law that applies to a thousand gold coins. In other words we consider every purchase as a big one.  Do ever think about the Talmud when you are signing your name buying a cup of coffee?  Sometimes it occurs to me yeah. Just yesterday on a Toys R Us receipt I thought of the Talmud. Yeah.  You can understand why signatures made sense back then. A signature is the simplest form of ID something that is supposed to prove you are you. There were not a lot of other options. But it is been over a thousand years now. Why do we still have them? The answer seems to be that signatures basically worked - for trade for all kinds of stuff. And like a lot of things that work the signature became part of law. It became tradition. So when the personal check came along it came with a line at the bottom to sign on. This though is when the ancient tradition of people writing their name out ran into problems. Was someone really going to verify all those signatures? The banks tried. They had rooms of people devoted to looking at signatures on personal checks and comparing them to ones on file.  It was an amazing thing to see.  This is Ronald Mann a law professor at Columbia University.  Look at the signature look at the one on the check - and people did it very quickly obviously because they would look at more than a hundred signatures an hour.  There was this other problem - a bigger problem really. It could be hard to spot a forgery. Copying a signature is not that difficult. When a signature dispute makes it into a court of law things can get very CSI. Mann says he has seen cases where it is come down to looking at the impression the pen left on the page to try to tell if the signature's genuine.  The places in the signature which the pen wrote more and less rapidly and the places where it pressed harder and less hard - because the paper would be slightly more bent. But that is obviously not a useful way to run regular commercial transactions.  Today as far as we can tell no one regularly looks at what you sign on the bottom of a check. And credit cards - what happens to all those millions of signatures we write at the checkout? Carolyn Balfany at MasterCard told me each signature does get recorded.  It is electronically stored and it can be retrieved.  How often do those signatures actually get accessed because someone wants to look at one of them?  It is a fraction of a percent of time. Right? It is not a regular occurrence.  She says one reason signatures are stored is just so that when a customer calls and says I do not remember buying anything on that day - the bank can show the person the signature - and often they will go oh yeah I did buy that.  Should I feel bad if I just write a little squiggle there instead of signing my name?  . Yeah - I mean clearly it is not ideal. But I have heard of people doing it for sure.  I am not breaking any rules by doing that?  No.  There are lots of better ways to spot fraud than checking a signature she says. The credit card companies and banks have lots of data. They can pick out transactions that look suspicious. As you have probably noticed lots of stores do not require signatures for small purchases anymore. The new credit cards coming out have replaced the signature with something less romantic but a lot more practical. Something that also says yes this is me? A PIN - a secret number that you punch in. David Kestenbaum NPR News.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 