 Let us turn now to the White House where NPR's Scott Horsley is located. Scott what is the White House saying about all this at the moment?  Well the White House is not going to like the plan being floated by Speaker Boehner because that plan would require a second vote to raise the debt ceiling early next year. President Obama has said all along that he wants enough headroom on the government's credit card to carry the country into early 2013. He repeated that last Friday after the Boehner blowup and said that is his one bottom line. The GOP is obviously trying to push that line make it appear that the president is the one who cannot say yes. They argue that the president's timing is because he is worried about his own re-election bid. What the administration says no this is about uncertainty over the debt ceiling and what it is doing to the economy which is poisoning the economy and slowing economic growth. They say it is been hard enough to raise the debt ceiling this year in this climate. They do not want to go through this all over again six or eight months from now when the looming presidential election has ratcheted up the partisanship even higher.  Scott we are down to the wire. The markets - the financial markets so far had been very forgiving. Is that likely to change this week?  Well you are right Guy. You know up until now the markets have pretty much yawned at this whole drama because the - Wall Street is essentially assuming that despite all the political bickering sooner or later Congress will raise the debt ceiling in time to avert a government default. Now there is some concern that after the fireworks on Friday when the big talks between the president and Speaker Boehner abruptly ended that that might weaken Wall Street's confidence. But as he made the round of the Sunday talk shows this morning the Treasury secretary Timothy Geithner was trying to provide reassurance saying one way or another Congress will raise the debt ceiling. The full faith and credit of the government will be preserved. The bigger question though is whether Congress just does that whether they just deal with this urgent but manufactured crisis around the debt ceiling or do they tackle the bigger picture the longer-term deficits. If they do not come up with a credible plan to really tackle those long-term deficits just raising the debt ceiling might not be enough. We could still wind up seeing the U.S. government's credit rating downgraded. And the administration has been warning with some good reason that that would be the effect - in effect that would be a tax on all Americans because interest rates would go up mortgages would cost more credit cards would cost more that sort of thing.  Scott what about the politics of this? How is it playing politically for the president?  Well polls suggest so far President Obama is faring better than Congress which is not saying very much. Most Americans do support the kind of balanced approach to deficit reduction that he is been pushing with some increase in tax revenues along with cuts in government spending. He is also tried to position himself as he is the one who is willing to compromise. Again that is why the Boehner plan is trying to sort of switch that around and make it look as if the president is the one who is saying no to an opportunity to extend the debt ceiling on a short-term basis. And look if the White House and Congress does not fix this debt ceiling somehow Americans are going to be justifiably disgusted with everyone here in Washington.  That is NPR's Scott Horsley at the White House. Scott thanks.  My pleasure Guy. 