 White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said today that the Trump administration is determined to make China play by the rules of international trade.   You know how you get from here to there? You kick some butt. You kick some butt.  That is not the kind of dry technocratic language one usually associates with trade talks. But it is another example of how President Trump has turned to international commerce into a highly unusual spectator sport. NPR's Scott Horsley reports.  The next big matchup in the U.S.-China trade tussle is expected to be a face-off between President Trump and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping. No formal meeting has been scheduled yet but there is been plenty of buildup for the expected showdown at the G-20 summit in Osaka Japan a week from Saturday. You could almost imagine a TV promotion.    Saturday Saturday Saturday - be ready for an epic pounding.  It is another high-stakes showcase this Talka in Osaka for a president who is managed to turn trade talks into must-see television - less WTO more WWE - complete with heroes villains plot twists and plenty of trash talk.    Fight fans are you ready?  Earlier this week Trump declared that China quote ate the United States alive economically before he took office. The president's retaliated with steep tariffs on Chinese imports. And he is threatened to go further if China will not throw in the towel.   China wants to make a deal very badly. It is me right now that is holding up the deal.  Like last week's tariff battle with Mexico the showdown with China has kept the president on the front page sent shockwaves through the stock market and turned dusty rules of international commerce into a hot topic around the dinner table.  There'ill be no shortage of conversations in the early summer barbecues for people looking at their portfolios.  Dartmouth economist Matthew Slaughter who served in the George W. Bush White House says Trump has managed to put trade front and center in the national conversation. And because the president himself is such a polarizing figure he is managed to scramble the usual partisan cheering sections. Some Republicans are now defending tariffs and other protectionist measures while some Democrats are pushing in the opposite direction.  There is some Democrats who are now saying boy we need to be careful on levying these new trade barriers and we need to worry about trade wars. The president and his policies are starting to muddy those waters again.  A Quinnipiac poll last month found more than half of all Americans disapprove of the president's handling of trade while just 39 approve. That poll was taken about a week after talks between the U.S. and China broke down and Trump boosted tariffs on some 250 billion worth of Chinese imports.   Right now China is paying us billions and billions of dollars. They never gave us 10 cents.  Never mind that most economists say those tariffs are largely paid by American businesses and consumers or that China has raised tariffs of its own on U.S. exports. White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow talked about the standoff today at a pro-trade think tank here in Washington. Kudlow calls himself a free trader but says he is come around to the president's view that tariffs can be a useful economic weapon.   It is a negotiating tool but it is not a bluff. As you have seen he will actually execute or implement tariffs.  A member of the audience asked Kudlow what happens if Trump's tariffs do not deliver a knockout punch? What if instead the two sides settle into a costly rope-a-dope trade war? Kudlow did not have a ready answer for that. A senior fellow at the think tank observed that for much of the last century the U.S. has gone largely unchallenged in the global ring. In China it is finally facing another economic heavyweight. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 