 From NPR News this ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. By one estimate half of all stock trades now involve a computer which decides on its own to buy or sell. Computerized trading has helped markets function more efficiently but it is also led to some spectacular messes. Just this month one firm suddenly lost 440 million dollars because of a computer glitch. NPR's David Kestenbaum of Planet Money visited one of the fathers of computerized trading to explore how he got to this point.  Thomas Petterfy grew up in Hungary after World War II. His first experience with trading happened when he was around 12. A friend went across the border to Austria and brought back something truly precious.  Juicy Fruit gum. These are beautiful yellow Juicy Fruit gum sticks.  Petterfy cut each stick into five small pieces and sold the pieces to his friends at school for a profit.  Eventually the principal found out about this and called me down into his office and he said well where is your Communist conscience? And I did not know what he was talking about.  Was that your first time buying low and selling high?  That is correct.  Petterfy eventually makes his way to the United States where he meets his first computer - a big boxy calculator of a thing - and he falls in love stays up all night programming it. And eventually gets a job at a company that is trying to use computers and math to make money on Wall Street. In particular there are these complicated things called options or derivatives. They give you the right to buy say a certain stock at a certain price on a specific date. It is hard to calculate what one should cost but Petterfy with a computer he finds a kind of secret formula.  It took me about nine months to figure this out. But once I figured it out it was a fantastic feeling.  Because it meant there was a way to price them.  That is right.  And a way to make money. But this is 1977 and Petterfy has a problem. Trading is not done on computers. You have to go stand in a pit on a trading floor and wave your hands around and shout. Petterfy cannot bring his computer onto the floor so he prints out mathematical tables on paper and puts the pages in a big binder. He brings this big binder down onto the trading floor.  People looked at me - what the heck is that? And so I said well you know these are my numbers that will help me trade hopefully. They made funny faces and you know many of them did not understand my accent and it was - I did not feel very welcome there.  Every time Petterfy tries to use computers to trade it is like the world just is not ready for it yet. He hires some engineers who help him build these early tablet computers which work - though one burst into flames on the trading floor. It is not until 1987 that Petterfy finally is able to take people out of the loop entirely. It happens at rld's first electronic stock exchange. Meaning there is no trading floor. You buy and sell by typing orders into a computer - a NASDAQ terminal. Petterfy of course does not want to have to type in orders. So he and his engineers hack into the terminal. They wire it up to their computer which starts trading up a storm so many trades that a high up official with NASDAQ comes by to see what is going on. And the guy sees just this one terminal attached to a computer.  He looks and looks and looks and he says well so tell me again how you are doing this? So I explained to him what is happening here. And then he says I do not think you can do this but I really do not think but let me go back to my office and let you know.  The man calls back and says I am sorry. The NASDAQ rule book says you cannot go cutting wires. All orders have to be entered through the keyboard. You have one week to fix it.  So this was a problem.  Petterfy and his engineers come up with a solution. Trades have to be entered on the keyboard? Fine. They build a machine to do that.  So it was basically they were rubber fingers that were typing.  You built a robot to type in the trades.  We built a robot that types.  What did that thing sound like when it was running?  Like a machine gun. Brrrrr. Because it was typing so fast.  Finally in the 1990s exchanges started to let people just plug their computers directly into the markets. Today Petterfy is one of the big players. The company he started Interactive Brokers does electronic trades on a mind-boggling scale. Forbes estimates his net worth is now over 5 billion dollars. Petterfy says automation has done some very good things for the world. It is made buying and selling stocks much much cheaper for everyone. But Petterfy thinks this race for speed it is doing more harm than good now. It is an arms race like the U.S. had with the Soviets.  We are competing at milliseconds. And whether you can shave off three milliseconds in the execution of an order has absolutely no social value.  Petterfy is in favor of more regulation. Rules that will build in some safeguards and slow things down. The challenge of course people will try to find ways around those rules. There is always somebody willing to build a robot that types. David Kestenbaum NPR News.  