 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand. Today new details on plans to regulate banks. The Obama administration sent Capitol Hill a proposal that would create in effect a couple of powerful overseers. The Federal Reserve would be a kind of super regulator monitoring systemic risk in addition to its other duties. Today the House Financial Services Committee focused on another part of the plan and that is creating a new consumer financial protection agency. NPR's Yuki Noguchi explains.  This proposed new agency would regulate financial products like the Consumer Product Safety Commission oversees the safety of toys and car seats. Mortgage brokers consumer credit companies and pay day loan operations would come under federal oversight for the first time. And Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner told members of the House committee such a body is necessary because the existing system failed at protecting consumers from predatory lending.  It failed because our system allowed a range of institutions to escape effective supervision. It failed because our system was fragmented fragmenting responsibility for consumer protection over numerous regulators creating opportunities for evasion. And it failed because all of the federal financial services regulators have higher priorities than consumer protection.  Geithner said the new agency would both write and enforce its own policies to make sure the responsibility stays under one roof. But any time you talk about shifting power in Washington battle lines get drawn. And at the hearing today the chiefs of other regulatory agencies defended their turf. Mr.  We do have significant concerns with some elements of the proposed CFBA.  John Dugan is comptroller of the currency. He objected to giving a single agency such broad power without input from other banking regulators like his own agency. Sheila Bair chairs the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. She agreed stronger consumer protections are necessary but told House members she shared some of Dugan's concerns. Ms.  As both the bank regulator and deposit insurer I am very concerned about taking examination and enforcement responsibility away from bank regulators. It would disrupt consumer protection oversight of banks and would fail to adequately address the current lack of non-bank supervision.  Chairman of the Financial Services Committee Barney Frank anticipated the push back. Mr.  The fact is that what we are talking about are agencies that are going to lose powers. And they object to losing their powers.  But he said the old way does not work. Regulators including the Fed failed to use their consumer protection powers as many consumers were sold bad loans. Mr.  Yes it is true that they are pristine powers. They have sat largely undrawn upon for a while but I think it is time to put them into hands of someone who would use them.  Not everyone agrees a bigger more powerful regulator is the answer. New Jersey Republican Scott Garrett said a new agency writing its own rules has a potential to create a lot of confusion.  It is going to limit consumer choice limit credit availability. It is going to increase cost. And the most important thing most ironic thing it potentially decreases safety and soundness for a banking system.  Geithner said political infighting is to be expected but urged Congress to pass the overhaul this year. Sec.  Given the amount of authority we are forcing to take away from people who have it today there is a lot of resistance and opposition. And if we wait or we try to do it piecemeal it is going to be much harder I think for this committee to find consensus on something sufficiently strong.  Geithner is expected to testify before the same committee in September. Yuki Noguchi NPR News. 