 For some people achieving middle-class status is all about owning a car or moving to the suburbs. Throughout American history being middle-class has also been closely tied to food. It is the American dream on a bun for our series The New Middle.  I think middle class is - you can pay your bills comfortably. You are steady.  I mean my sleeves only roll up so far.  Well I always see it as someone who actually owns their own home.  Yeah being able to afford a place to live and pay your bills and enjoy life.  I think we will kind of destroy ourselves without that middle class man.  I recently went to Detroit Mich. which was the burning core of America's middle class nearly a century ago. And all along the streets you see big neon signs advertising a symbol of that middle-class legacy.   The Detroit area probably has about five hundred Coney Island restaurants.  Detroit Coneys the food that fueled this city's middle-class boom. Joe Grimm is the author of the book Coney Detroit.  I figured people in Detroit would like a book about their food.  Most basic definition - a Detroit Coney is a kind of a chili dog.  No.  .  It is just a Coney dog. A Coney dog is a steamed bun with a natural-casing hotdog beef and pork. On top of that hot dog - which should be grilled not boiled not deep-fried - goes the sauce the most important part.   Joe took me to meet one of the keepers of that sauce.  My name's Rich Harlan from Red Hots Coney Island.  And this place has been making Detroit Coneys since 1921? R.  That is correct.  How have you been making Detroit Coneys here? R.  Forty-eight years.  So you like grew up eating these I would imagine. R.  I have got a picture on the wall with a mop in my hand when I first started and I have got a picture of myself not with a mop. I am the head mopper now.  R.  My great-aunt and uncle came from Greece and they started the Coney Island here. And we are a block away from the first assembly plant which was made by Ford Motor Company. That is how they got started.  Paint a scene of what this place would have looked like in the first decade of its existence in the 1920s or '30s. R.  Thousands and thousands of people. It was amazing. Nobody lollygagged back then. You got 20 minutes or so for lunch. You could see them swarming here to get two hot dogs. And they would run to the bar which is across the street get a shot and a beer and then run back to the plant and read their paper and eat their two hot dogs because they were not to be late or you got fired back then.  Back in its heyday this little Coney was open 24 hours a day did not even have a lock on the door.  That is Carol Harlan Rich's wife and co-owner of Red Hots. C.  When they could hear that whistle blow at the Ford plant they would put two Coneys in a bag and set them on the steam table. And the guys would run in throw their money in a box - it was all honor system - and just grab the bag of Coneys and run back because they were not going to be late for work.  Would people to eat two Coneys a day five days a week? R.  Oh yeah. It was fast it was easy and it was good.  They are good for you. C.  There you go.  R.  Absolutely. Them guys lived to be hundreds of years old.   I asked Joe Grimm so how did a Coney go from being the lunch of choice for the autoworkers to the food that defines Detroit?  In the '20s as Richard describes this place was going crazy. When the 5-a-day was announced by Henry Ford the people who were signing up for those jobs were signing up at this plant a block away from here.  That saying - Henry Ford agreed to pay his workers 5 a day.  Made headlines around the world it was such a big wage. People came here from around the world to get that money. The occupancy rate went over 100 percent. You might show up at a place to rent a room and they would say well we do not have any openings - except we do have an opening in this room during the midnight shift because that guy's working now. So you could rent a room for just one shift.  So people would rent rooms for an eight-hour sleeping period and then the room would go to someone else.  Right. They called that hotboxing because the sheets never cooled off. So you had all these men living here. They did not have a place to be when they were not at work. So they were around the city they were looking for hot lunches fast lunches. And so we had about a lunch-counter-style restaurants.  Explain the connection to Coney Island N.Y. Why - you know Detroit is so far from New York.  Our guess is the Greeks came here saw what Americans were eating and said I have got to hire myself because I cannot get a job. You know I am speaking Greek. I have a name people either want to shorten or mispronounce. I am going to have to go in business for myself. So I think they said we are going to make the hotdogs we saw people eating when we got here and we are going to add this sauce to them. If you go to Greece you cannot find a Coney Island. But you will find something called a red sauce. And I think this sauce is descended from that Greek red sauce.   Well think we have got to try them right? I mean... R.  ...Absolutely.  What is the lingo? R.  Two one one. You would want two with everything on one plate. That is two on one.  The language of the Detroit Coney. R.  Sit down. You are going to have best dog you have ever had.   Cannot wait. All right first bite. Oh yeah it is the best Coney I have ever eaten.  R.  Beautiful.  A bite of the middle class in Detroit Mich. Every week between now that the election we will be exploring The New Middle. And we want to know what being in the middle class means to you. Send us a tweet with the hashtag TheNewMiddle. 