 Congressman Chris Van Hollen is from Maryland. He is also the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee and he is also in the unconvinced category. He joins us now to explain more. Congressman welcome to the program.  Good to be with you Michele.  Now why is this latest version of the bill unacceptable? Rep.  Well first there is no latest version. I mean the White House has been very clear that they have not reached a deal with the Republicans. And I take them at their word. We have made very clear from the beginning as has the president that any comprehensive deal any grand plan has to take a balanced approach which means you need a significant component of revenue.  Well let me ask you about balance. The president said both parties have to take on their sacred cows and by that he was talking about members of his own party as well. For you where do you draw the line? For you where is that balance between tax reform and entitlement reform? Rep.  Well when it comes to entitlement reform we have made it very clear that we want to modernize the Medicare system. We need to change the Medicare system so that the incentives are for quality of care and not quantity of care. We also think you can make changes like asking the pharmaceutical industry to go back to giving the rebates they were providing in 2005. So there are ways you can strengthen the Medicare program without harming benefits for beneficiaries and that is what we said.  But the president is - reportedly this deal - I am sorry to interrupt you sir. But reportedly the deal that is being discussed between the president and Speaker Boehner involves 137 billion in cuts to Medicare. Would that be acceptable to you? Rep.  Well it all depends on how you achieve cuts. For example if you are going to do it by asking pharmaceutical companies to go back to the rebates that they were paying back in 2005 that generates over 100 billion. That savings can be put back into Medicare. That can be done without harming beneficiaries at all.  Raising the eligibility age to 67 is that something that still should be on the table? Rep.  Now that is a real problem for me and for others. That is the kind of thing that provides great heartburn. Again we have to see what the whole package looks like but that is something that many of my colleagues would resist.  And on the question of tax reform yesterday you said that you wanted more than just a nod or a promise of tax reform. You said - I am going to quote you here - if you are doing any grand bargain that has to include a revenue component that would have to be guaranteed and locked in. So Congressman how would that work? What kind of trigger mechanism are you looking for? Rep.  Well absolutely if you are going to have a plan that is balanced that involves cuts you also have to make sure that the revenues are guaranteed. That they do not come in through a tax reform process they need to come in through some other guarantee.  And what would that be? Would that be a trigger or actually something more like a sword of Damocles over the lawmaker's head - for instance a threat that any failure to act might cause taxes to go up for those earning more than 250000 something that ? Rep.  Well that is right. I mean you could structure it in any number of ways but that is a good example of one way you could structure it. If you do not achieve the revenue savings you want through the tax reform process you are guaranteed that you will achieve them through some other method and that has to be spelled out in advance and guaranteed that if you fail to get your revenue savings through the normal course you will get it as a result of the trigger mechanism.  Do you agree with the Democrats who say that the president is selling his own party short? Rep.  No. I think there is a lot of rumors flying out there right now as to what positions the White House is taking. I think a lot of them have been inaccurate. Hammering out a compromise is going to require a give-and-take. The key is to make sure that it is not just you know Democrats who are giving giving giving and that there is a balance at the end of the day. I am absolutely confident that that is the president's intention and he has said again that he will not accept something that does not have balance.  So what do we see happen first the end of the hot spell or an agreement reached?  Rep.  Well I hoping we will definitely see the end of the hot spell but I am hoping that that will also come with an agreement. Right now we are sweating for both reasons.  Congressman Van Hollen thanks so much for making time for us. Good to talk to you. Rep.  Likewise. Good to be with you.  That was Congressman Chris Van Hollen of Maryland. He is the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee. 