 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeline Brand in California.  And I am Melissa Block in Washington. Today's employment report delivered a surprise. Everyone expected the jobless rate to rise for July but it actually fell to 9.4 percent. Still the economy did continue to lose jobs for the 19th month in a row. As NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports the key question now is when employers will start hiring again.  Losing fewer jobs is a victory in the same sense that a sick patient sitting up in bed might be progress. It is not the same as full recovery. Tig Gilliam is chief executive of a staffing agency called Adecco. Mr.  This is a very good jobs report given where we are in the cycle but we are still losing 250000 jobs a month. The other thing we need to remember in the U.S. economy is we need to add about a 100000 jobs a month just to stay steady.  Gilliam says the Labor Department report does not radically change his outlook. For one thing many workers have been sitting out the recession and are not counted among the unemployed. So when they resume looking for jobs the unemployment rate could actually worsen. Secondly he says many workers have been furloughed or have had to go part time which means many businesses might not have to start hiring for some time even after demand improves. And that is why in so many respects it is hard to plan for the future. One microcosmic example of this might be the shipping industry. It is long been considered a bellwether for the economy. Mr.  We think we have one of the best seats in the house in terms of observing the economy and seeing what is happening and what will happen.  FedEx spokesman Jess Bunn says the company has had to lay off a 1000 people institute a hiring freeze and reduce employees' work hours earlier this year. FedEx executives have since declared the worst of the recession over but Bunn says that does not mean they know when they might start hiring again. Mr.  It is very hard to say because there is still a great deal of volatility in the global economy. That makes our crystal ball kind of cloudy.  Bunn says the first thing the company is likely to do is reinstate lost work hours. It is a similar story with UPS. The brown truck delivery folks pared back their work force by 15000 people in the last year. UPS spokesman Norman Black. Mr.  Just in the second quarter alone we were delivering 700000 fewer packages every day.  UPS can reassign idle drivers to sort packages when volumes falls which gives the company some flexibility. So far Black says UPS does not foresee when it will hire again. With fewer boxes to ship there is also less demand for the boxes themselves and that is trickled down to Ron Cowell's level. Cowell owns a seven-person operation called T-Roc Equipment in Kansas City. T-Roc makes the machines that manufacture custom-size boxes a niche that has also been hurt by the recession. Mr.  It has sort of stagnated my business. We are staying on a steady even keel right now but we were growing every year.  His machines cost between 50000 and 100000 but Cowell says few customers can get the credit to finance a purchase. So T-Roc has turned to refurbishing older machines just to keep everyone busy. He is also cut his own salary so he will not have to lay off any employees. Mr.  I am planning on hiring as soon as I get the orders. But if the orders do not come I cannot hire. It may happen next week. It may never happen or it may happen in six months. It just depends on as you are looking at the overall economy where is it going. And despite today's optimistic jobs report no one's confident enough to bet the payroll. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 