 Now a story about someone who comes from one of America's richest families. He is putting his money toward basic issues of global health and nutrition. Millions of Americans struggle to get enough nutritious food. And in Africa millions of farmers cannot feed their own families. Howard Buffett the son of billionaire investor Warren Buffett is passionate about fixing these problems. NPR's Pam Fessler has this profile.  Get Howard Buffett into the cab of a big ol' farm tractor and he is like a kid a 58-year-old gray-haired one but a kid nonetheless - especially when it comes to the tractor's elaborate GPS system which he describes as very cool.  What I am going to do is I am going to hit this button right here.   You will hear a little beep. Now I am not driving it anymore. I am driving hands free.  The tractor has been automatically set to plant 16 perfect rows of seeds.  So it makes everything more efficient. And it is going to give you a better crop in the end.  And that is what Howard Buffett hopes to get out of this 1400-acre research farm in southern Arizona - better crops more efficient land use for poor subsistence farmers and large corporate ones. When Buffett was a kid he loved to play in the dirt and he grew up to be a farmer. So when his father gave him money to run his own charitable foundation - 2 billion so far - it was not hard for him to figure out what he wanted to do.  You have got a global food problem. You have got a food problem in the United States you have got a food problem in Africa. You have got it all over the world - in Asia. And so the truth is the U.S. is going to have to produce more on not very many more acres honestly. And so we are going to have to do a better job. Johann!  How are you doing sir?  What do you think you are back in South Africa?  Yeah.  Is it hot yet?   And that is why Buffett runs this research farm and two others in Illinois and South Africa. Driving around the hot Arizona desert he stops to greet one of his managers. What makes Buffett so unusual for a rich philanthropist is he is down-to-earth totally hands on.  I told Doug we need to set up - I think he was going to talk to you about setting up the sensors outside the pivot and inside the pivot so we could see how much difference there was. That would be kind of interesting.  Yeah sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah and then you also ...  They' soil content planting techniques irrigation. They are trying to learn how to make drought-prone land more productive and then figure out how to get that information to struggling farmers in Africa and elsewhere. Buffett takes me over to two fenced-in brown oxen named Ike and Earl. They are also part of the fight against hunger.  I keep saying that these are the only oxen in Arizona and I have yet anybody prove me wrong. These guys are dragging around different implements under different conditions.  To see how they can be used more efficiently by poor farmers. Buffett has received many awards for his global work including from the U.N. But recently he is turned more attention to domestic hunger. He says it did not make sense to ignore what was going on in his own backyard. So his foundation has set up a program where farmers can donate an acre of their crop proceeds to local food banks. And last year he grew 60000 pounds of pinto beans for his local food bank in Tucson.  He had never grown a pinto bean in his life  Bill Carnegie runs the Community Food Bank of Southern Arizona. He says one day Buffett dropped by and asked how he could help.  He probably saved us somewhere around 100000 on this one contribution. So we are just very happy.  He is also happy that Buffett has such a holistic approach to hunger. It is not just about getting a bunch of food and giving it to those who need it but figuring out how to make them more self-reliant in the long run. Carnegie says the economy might be recovering for some but the lines outside his doors continue to grow. Howard Buffett says it does not have to be like that.  Eliminating hunger in America is doable because we have the resources to do it.  He recalls a school he visited in Decatur Ill. where 92 percent of the students get free or reduced-priced meals even though they live near the world's largest corn plant which processes hundreds of thousands of bushels daily.  And the trains go out of town past kids that do not get to eat every day.  And he says he will never forget a couple he met at a food bank in Fresno Calif. - an unemployed accountant and her husband an out-of work aerospace mechanic.  And they said well - you know - the worst part is when we go out we wait for it to get dark and we go out and dig through dumpsters to see what we can find. And I am thinking you know this is America - you know the American Dream. Well this is not the American Dream.  Certainly not the one he grew up with in his wealthy family. Buffett knows he is been given a huge gift which is why he says he is trying to do something that will have a lasting impact on those who are not so lucky. Pam Fessler NPR News. 