 I am Maryanne Zeleznik in Ohio's 1st district located in the city of Cincinnati. I visited Fountain Square today in the heart of the downtown central business district. The district traditionally votes Republican but backed President Obama in 2008. People here have strong opinions about the deal on the debt ceiling and whether it is ultimately good for the country. Susan Anthony is 58 and she does not support President Obama. But she applauded the work of House Speaker John Boehner who is from nearby Westchester.  I think he did a pretty good job of helping coalesce a final decision. I am thrilled that he is from this area and has played such an important leadership role.  Maderias Haford agrees and says Boehner is trying but Republicans have gone too far.  Some things we can do away with. We need to cut down as far as people. We do overspend a lot. We do live beyond our means but some of the things we really need.  Haford says Social Security parks and libraries are important. And he hopes they will not suffer because of the deal. As for president Obama Haford says...  Get a little bit of backbone cause I did vote for him. And I am just hoping he forces something.  Marcia Ernst a Democrat from Mount Vernon just outside of Columbus says she gets 318 a month from Social Security - money she says she hopes will not go away because she paid into the program for years. She says as Boehner negotiated the debt ceiling deal he was in a tough spot.  I think he was caught between a rock and a hard place. And I think that Tea Party is driving his party right into the ground. I think they are ruining America. I am very upset with them. I think they are very single-minded and they are single-minded to a fault.  Dan Olahan is a Democrat but has a different view of the Tea Party. He says it is been important because somebody had to stop the spending.  The spending is out of hand. It is crazy - I mean it is absolutely so. But then it is the way how do you cut it?  He also says he likes President Obama.  I think he is playing it right and he is going to be another term president.  With so many differences of opinion in Ohio a bellwether state both parties may have a lot of work to do here before 2012. For NPR News I am Maryanne Zeleznik in Cincinnati.  And now to Naperville Illinois and NPR's David Schaper. 