 The size of the U.S. economy will be getting a bump tomorrow. That is when the latest gross domestic product statistics come out. The number will be larger not because our exports have improved or because of new jobs it is because of an accounting change. David Kestenbaum with our Planet Money Team explains.  An economy is a tricky thing to measure. You got millions of people buying hamburgers and coffee and cars and socks then there is all the stuff you cannot touch like haircuts. There' police officers firefighters thousands of numbers that we as a country try very hard to add up.   Just in  and the latest GDP report the U.S...  Let us start with the GDP data we are looking at.  The economy is picking up speed.  The Gross Domestic Product the sum total of all goods and services we produce. Well almost all. It turns out we have been missing a few things like music. To help explain I called up Dan Sichel. He is an economist at Wellesley.  I am actually a Lady Gaga fan.  Lady gaga fan.  Yeah. So there you go.  What is the Lady Gaga song you like? I ask just because we are going to have to play one now.  Big fan of Telephone.    Stop calling stop calling I do not want to think anymore. I left my head and my heart on the dance floor.  Now certainly some parts of Lady Gaga empire get counted as GDP.  If Lady Gaga did a concert and sold concert tickets the concert tickets would count as GDP.  Songs she sold online CDs all that gets counted. But something was missing. We were not including the value of the time she spent working on new songs working in the studio. That is an investment he says and it should be counted as GDP.  It is really quite analogous to a factory investing in a new machine.  Imagine Lady Gaga sitting in front of her laptop staring at the sky thinking up new songs. That is economically valuable. It turns out it is not just music we have been doing wrong movies too for a long time now.   Star Wars ticket sales from 1977 yes that was in GDP but not the cost to make the actual movie. The scripts the wookie costume the Death Star none of that was counted. But that arguably was an investment that went on to pay off handsomely. We also have not been counting money that companies invest in research and development. That is another thing that is being fixed. Why did we get this wrong for so long? One reason is just that the accounting rules for GDP were written in a much simpler time. It used to be when a company made something that thing physically existed. You could drop it on your foot and it would hurt. But increasingly our economy produces intangible goods things that are worth something but you cannot touch like computer software. Steve Landefeld is the director of the Bureau of Economic Analysis which produces the official GDP numbers.  I mean a lot of this is about intangibles and intellectual property becoming a much more important component of GDP our trade our competiveness. And it is essential we get a better handle on it.  If you add up all the changes Landefeld says he thinks they will boost annual GDP by hundreds of billions of dollars. Significant.  Roughly 3 percent.  That is like a big adjustment.  Mm-hmm yeah.  Our economy just magically grew 3 percent.  Well I think it was always that big but we had not been measuring all that.  Historical GDP numbers will also be adjusted so on the charts tomorrow it will not look like a big jump. Landefeld says for most people the important thing to pay attention to is change in GDP. Did it go up or did it go down? The actual number it is always just going to just be this mind-bogglingly big thing. Right now U.S. GDP is around 15 trillion. David Kestenbaum NPR News.   This is NPR News. 