 William Black was litigation director of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board the board that oversaw the savings and loans and he became executive director of the Institute For Fraud Prevention and he is now associate professor of economics and law at the University of Missouri Kansas City. And first Professor Black in terms of the volume of cases are you struck by how few people or firms have been pursued in the courts this time?  Yes. The contrast is obscene. There were over a thousand felony convictions in cases designated as major in the savings and loans crisis. There are 10 convictions in this crisis and this crisis is roughly 40 times as bad as the savings and loan crisis.  In a nutshell why? Why so few cases this time?  The most direct reason is the regulatory agencies became controlled by anti-regulators and they ceased making criminal referrals. In the savings and loan debacle our agency made well over 10000 criminal referrals. In this crisis the office of thrift supervision that was supposed to regulate Washington Mutual IndyMac Countrywide made zero criminal referrals.  Do they have as many lawyers investigators are there as many FBI agents available who could make those cases if they wanted to?  No. As a result of the 911 attacks 500 white collar FBI specialists were transferred out of doing white collar cases to doing national security quite understandable. But what is not understandable is the administration refused to allow the FBI to replace those folks.  Your field is prosecuting white collar crime. That is what your work has been about. You know finding a terror cell that might be hiding somewhere in the U.S. is I can only imagine extremely labor-intensive work. I assume that investigating mortgage securities fraud is also very labor-intensive work.  If you investigate where you should. If you only have 120 agents and you divide them up which is what actually happened all you can investigate is trivial cases. To give you an idea of scope to investigate Enron took 100 FBI agents which is to say yes there are public reports that there is an investigation of Standard  Poor's but there is not really because we know what their numbers are and we know that they do not have remotely enough people to conduct even one serious investigation. And we know that the FBI agents are actually being deployed investigating relatively small cases.  You have cited two big differences between say the SL days and the mortgage-backed security days of recent years. One is the - just the number of staff who are there and the other is the anti-regulators who are running the regulatory bodies. Which was it more the lack of resources to pursue people or the lack of will to pursue people?  Or you could have looked at just what they are finally supposedly looking at now and that is Standard  Poor's. There were only three rating agencies. Even with a very limited staff if they had targeted the three rating agencies for intense investigations they could have prevented this entire crisis.  Professor Black thanks a lot for talking with us.  Thank you.  William Black is associate professor of economics and law at the University of Missouri Kansas City. 