 Volvo the maker of sturdy boxy safe if sometimes boring cars is going electric. The Swedish car company says all of its vehicles will have electric technology by 2019. NPR's Sonari Glinton has more.  There are essentially three big stories in the car business right now - electric cars China and self-driving. And this one story has all three. Here's Volvo's CEO Hakan Samuelsson to kick off the electric part of this story.  We are making a strategic change in the future of our development. All cars released to the market after 2019 will be electrified.  Well it is a big deal on the one hand. But on the other hand it sort of depends on what they mean by all-electric.  Brian Moody is with Autotrader. Now Volvo says it is not exactly going to be Tesla overnight. Essentially the company will move to have all its cars be fully electric plug-in hybrids or hybrids. The company is easing away from the internal combustion engine. And Moody says increasingly we probably will not notice.  It will begin even more so the idea of mainstreaming electric cars to the point where we are just thinking of the car and how it works regardless of how it is powered.  OK now the China part. Joel Levin is with Plug In America. It is a group that advocates for electric car drivers. Volvo has a Chinese owner Geely. And Levin says China right now is full steam ahead when it comes to electric cars.  My expectation is that a lot of these cars that Volvo is going to be producing are intended for the Chinese market not for the U.S. market. So partly Volvo is making a deeper commitment to the Chinese market with electric cars.  All right let us count here - electric China. Oh Brian Moody with Autotrader says if the cars are electric it is easier for them to drive themselves.  The self-driving car leader needs to have a certain amount of electrification in the car. The more crude a car is the more analog for lack of a better word that a car is the harder it is going to be to produce these systems that will make it drive by itself.  The analysts say Volvo will not move to electric cars immediately. It will be gradual. They will slide in there. Sonari Glinton NPR News.    You got to feel it.   It is electric. 