 The trade fight between the U.S. and China entered a new phase today. This morning the Trump administration unveiled tariffs on 50 billion worth of Chinese products. Then Beijing responded announcing tariffs of an equal scale against the U.S. This is making a lot of people nervous - investors manufacturers farmers. They are all watching very closely. Also watching closely NPR's Chris Arnold. He joins us now. Hey there Chris.  Hey Audie.  Tell us more about this move in Washington. What exactly is the Trump administration doing?  Well what we have now is the final list of products that are going to be targeted with these tariffs. And we have a date. This was kind of hanging in the air. But now we know that most of these new tariffs will go into effect July 6. And the tariffs are very targeted and they are focused on China's emerging technology industries. There is more than a thousand specific items we are digging through but this includes engine parts that go into aircraft and cars. There is industrial robots turbines stuff for nuclear reactors all sorts of other machinery. So this is high tech not like cheap T-shirts and TVs that you might buy at a retail store.  How will the rest of us notice then any direct impact of these tariffs?  Well we probably will not shopping for T-shirts and stuff any time soon. But American manufacturers - this has come up before any time we are talking about tariffs - that if companies have to pay more to get this industrial equipment that is going to filter through and ripple through the economy. And at the end of the day consumers will feel higher prices just maybe not immediately is sort of how it works.  Help us understand this part of the policy that the White House is targeting China's emerging technology industries. What does that mean?  Right. And so this is really interesting. This goes at the heart of China's ambition right now. And China does not want to be America's cheap labor workshop anymore. And to that end it has this plan to become a high-tech leader of the world by 2025. And that seems reasonable right? I mean you know any country wants to have a better economy and better industries and stuff. But the problem is that there is widespread agreement that China is cheating and getting an unfair advantage. And these same industries are very important to the United States. There is been espionage. There is been companies forced to give over trade secrets. There is all kinds of stuff. So the president talked about some of this on Fox News.   We have the great brainpower in Silicon Valley. And China and others steal those secrets. And we are going to protect those secrets. Those are crown jewels for this country.  And most economists actually agree that this is the most defensible beef if you will that the administration has with China in this whole trade fight that there is this race to own the future and future technologies going on. And China has not been playing fair for years.  Meanwhile we have been reporting that China is firing back with its own tariffs. Who in the U.S. - who is going to be hurt by this?  Well there are scores of agricultural products on China's list - and again we are going through - is pork beef chicken but in particular soybeans that this is really going to affect farmers. Half of U.S. soybean exports go to one country. And you might guess it is China. I spoke to a soybean farmer Davie Stephens who is in western Kentucky today in a tractor. We reached him on his cellphone. He plants exclusively soybeans and corn.  It is true that it is a huge threat to my farm business and every farmer's business. This year you know there is record soybeans that have been planted. You will have a huge amount of supply that has nowhere to go.  And Stephens is in Kentucky as you said a state that President Trump won in 2016. If China's retaliation hurts farmers and manufacturers do you think there could be a political backlash here?  Well we will have to see. I mean you know Trump voters on the one hand might like to see the president's out there swinging his fist and taking on China. But if too many farmers and small businesses and manufacturers are getting hurt that is going to create more and more pressure. The soybean farmer group by the way has a hashtag - Rethink The Tariffs - social media campaign underway.  That is NPR's Chris Arnold. Chris thank you.  Thanks Audie. 