 As we just heard many large corporations actually have plenty of cash. According to the Federal Reserve the nation's 500 biggest companies not counting the financial sector are sitting on 1.8 trillion. That is more than ever before and it is about twice what it was in 2002. So what does it mean? And various columnists commentators and bloggers have read various meanings into that number. Steven Pearlstein is a business columnist for The Washington Post. I asked him what he makes of the argument heard often these days from big business that 1.8 trillion is a measure of their uncertainty about taxes or regulations to come from Washington. Mr.  I do not make much of it. There is no doubt that in the last year and a half things have changed for business. After really more than a decade of essentially writing their own regulatory rules and after a decade of declining corporate taxes as a share of GDP things are going in the other direction. So they are naturally a grouchy bunch right now. But that does not mean that just because they are grouchy about something and it is a burden on them that they - or an uncertainty that is the reason they are not spending the money. It is more of a rationalization. Look the big problem is there is not a lot of demand for services and goods and there is a lot of unemployment. And that is what is the wet blanket on the economy and that is what is causing them not to hire new people and invest.  If in fact this is part lobbying part trying to generate the argument in Washington that business needs a better environment to encourage them to spend is it something that is going to last a few months until the end of the elections say? Is there a political calendar driving what becomes of that 1.8 trillion? Mr.  I do not think so. I do not think they are that Machiavellian and manipulative. What may be driving it is the annual budget reviews at most companies. And so in the fall they will decide to do stuff that they might have decided not to do last fall when the economy really looked a lot weaker than it does. So some of these is the natural budget cycle. And some of it to be quite frank Robert is an appalling lack of imagination and guts on the part of these same CEOs who are complaining and pointing the finger at every else. You know these guys are very good at cutting. They are very good at blaming others. They are a little less good at coming up with creative new products and services and they have got a little flabby in that regard in the last few years where the focus has been on surviving and cutting as it should had been. But they are not the gutsiest group of people in the world. And by the way they get into this group think which you - you know the fact that they all say it it is sort of like a notion that starts in the country club locker room and everyone is nodding and then the one passes it on to the other. And now you know this similarity of the comments betrays this sort of group think that is almost self-fulfilling at this point. Look do you hear Steve Jobs complaining out at Apple about this? No he is busy trying to figure out how to fix the antenna and produce more of those iPads which he you know he cannot get enough of.  Well what do you make of the state of this idea which as you have described it has taken on a life of its own in your view going from the country club a locker room through well through the Chamber of Commerce meeting in Washington I suppose? Is it something which now affects national discussion of the economy and economic policy? Mr.  It does and it is distorting it because this essentially - this fiction - has been repeated so many times that people actually believe it. You know obviously there are things that are increasing regulation and that might potentially increase taxes. And no one is arguing that that is good necessarily in the short term for particular businesses or industries. But that is different from saying that is the cause of they are not doing things. It' Oh do not blame us. Blame those bad guys in Washington. When in fact most of the economic problems we have today have been brought on by poor allocation of capital by the private sector acting by itself. They did it themselves and they are trying to divert the blame and the attention to those guys in Washington.  Well Steven Pearlstein thank you very much for talking with us today. Mr.  Thank you.  That is Steven Pearlstein business columnist for The Washington Post. 