 For a better understanding of exactly what unemployment benefits have lapsed and what might be restored we turn to Maurice Emsellem. He is the co-policy director for the National Employment Law Project. And we asked him to explain the different categories of benefits. Mr.  Right now there are state unemployment benefits available which is 26 weeks of benefits and then there are the federal extensions. The maximum you can collect by way of a federal extension is 73 weeks. That adds up to 99 weeks. The federal extensions are broken down into four tiers depending on the state's unemployment rate. So all states qualify for 34 weeks. If you have over 6 percent unemployment you get another 13. If you have over eight and a half percent unemployment you get another six weeks. So the folks who are running out of benefits right now are two big groups. First there are the folks who are running out of their state unemployment benefits and there is no federal extension for them. That is a big group of people. Then there is the second group of those who are running out of a particular tier. Say you are on the first tier and you get the first 20 weeks you cannot move up to tier two to the next 14 weeks because there is no extensions.  How many workers are we talking about who are at risk of now losing their benefits? Mr.  Well as of the end of last week 1.7 million workers had already prematurely lost out on their federal extended benefits. By the end of next week that number will go up to 2.1 million workers. By the next week after that which is around the time when Congress will reconvene and take up the legislation we are talking about 2.5 million workers long-term unemployed who are without their unemployment benefits.  What about COBRA benefits? Mr.  So I am glad you mentioned that Michele because we are talking about the extensions right now but it is very important to understand that Congress has already - in the midst of you know very high levels of unemployment almost 10 percent unemployment - has already taken back several of the benefits that were made available by the Recovery Act in February 2009. That includes the subsidy for COBRA benefits. Congress provided 65 percent subsidy for folks who qualified for COBRA that helped almost 2 million workers since February.  And we should say that this helps workers hold on to their health insurance. That is what we are talking about with COBRA benefits. Mr.  Helps workers - exactly. If your employer was providing health benefits then you can continue the coverage and the federal government was paying 65 percent of that. So you know for the average worker that meant that they had to still come up with about 400 a month to cover the ere's a big difference between 400 and 1200 1500 when you are employed. So that is been taken away. None of the proposals in Congress right now would include that. There is a great amendment that Senators Casey and Brown have proposed to continue the COBRA coverage. So that is really important. And then there was also a boost in the benefits an extra 25 a week in state and federal benefits that were made available by the Recovery Act. Helps you buy a couple more bags of groceries every month. And now there is talk about eliminating those benefits as well. I have been doing this work for almost 20 years now. I have been through a couple major recessions and never in my experience have we been talking about cutting back benefits when we have these huge levels of unemployment.  Now some members of Congress particularly conservative Republican members of Congress say that the reason they are objecting to this is in part that the states need to step up and do more of their part. Do they have a point? Mr.  I mean not when it comes to unemployment benefits certainly. This is not just about individual states and how they are doing. This is about the national recovery. There is talk of a double dip recession. We should be doing everything possible to stimulate the economy send a message that this is an economy that is moving in the right direction. And we are not doing that when we pull the plug on these benefits.  Mr. Emsellem thank you very much. Mr.  Thanks.  That is Maurice Emsellem. He is the co-policy director for the National Employment Law Project. 