 In California the state Legislature is poised to vote on a proposed law that would give new benefits to hundreds of thousands of contract workers. It would do so by reclassifying them as employees. There is a lot at stake for companies and for a growing number of contract workers as NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports.  For most of the last 4 12 years Leonardo Diaz says he is made a decent living working 40 to 50 hours a week driving for Uber and Lyft.  I love interacting with people.  But Diaz has soured. He says both companies cut his share of payments. The Los Angeles father of four estimates his take-home amounts to only 9 an hour after paying maintenance and insurance. To cut costs Diaz traded in his gas-powered Hyundai Elantra for a Kia hybrid.  I was getting less money so I got to get efficient on gas.  More to the point Diaz says he is tired of working as a contractor. He misses the employee health and paid leave benefits he used to receive when he worked as a valet.  We do not get any holidays pay you know? When we are trying to get a vacation nobody pays us vacations. If we get sick nobody is going to pay for our doctors.  If it passes the proposal would narrow the definition of independent contractor. That means many more people would be considered employees a shift that triggers a host of other changes. Companies would have to pay for Social Security for example and workers' compensation and unemployment insurance. Large employers would also have to pay for health insurance. Contractors make up a fast-growing part of the workforce and any company in the state using them - think Amazon or FedEx - could be affected. It could also upend the business models of companies like Instacart or TaskRabbit that have made gig work readily available in recent years. And the impact of the new law would reverberate beyond California. Monique Ngo-Bonnici is a lawyer who represents businesses.  Everyone is looking to California right now and they are all following it with bated breath because they recognize that likely whatever happens in California is going to sweep across the country.  Last year the state Supreme Court extended wage protections to more workers. This proposal would expand on that landmark ruling. Ngo-Bonnici warns the measure would force companies to put workers on shifts taking away flexibility.  You have got to give them advance notice of their schedule. In certain municipalities I mean that has to be done weeks before.  Adrian Durbin a spokesman for Lyft says it would hurt drivers.  We would need far fewer drivers than we currently have because they would be scheduled. We would know exactly how many drivers would be working.  Lyft and other companies lobbied for alternatives that would give workers some additional benefits without making them full-fledged employees. Those prospects dimmed after California Governor Gavin Newsom this week publicly endorsed the measure. But the companies have not given up the fight. Uber Lyft and DoorDash pledged to spend 30 million each on a ballot initiative that would give them exemptions. Lorena Gonzalez the San Diego lawmaker who sponsored the bill does not think gig companies should be exempt.  What they would like is to say basically if you are hired through an app that there is something different by that and maybe some of the laws should apply but a lot of the laws should not. And I think that is ridiculous. It is dangerous to say if you are hired through an app you are somehow different because pretty soon we will all be hired through an app.  She says for too long some companies skirted their financial and legal responsibilities by misclassifying their workers as independent contractors. Those who have not been doing that she says support her proposal.  I think a company that is doing the right thing is like finally I am not going to be undercut by a company that cheats their workers.  California driver Leonardo Diaz says he is pinning a lot of hopes on the proposal's passage. He hopes it will lead to unionization better pay and working conditions. If it passes the law will take effect in January next year. Yuki Noguchi NPR News. 