 Right now somewhere in the world someone is buying and selling virtual currency. And it sounds like this...   This is from the website called ListenToBitCoin.com. It tracks and marks Bitcoin transactions in real time with a ring.   As a virtual currency Bitcoin is traded peer-to-peer. There is no issuing country no overseer like a federal reserve no middle man like a bank. So how to regulate it? Senate lawmakers are asking that question this week so are banking regulators in New York. To better understand what they are up against we turn now to Jerry Brito. He is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University and director of the Technology Policy Program. Welcome to the studio.  Thanks for having me.  So first to start what rules do apply to Bitcoin right? It is not quite cash. It is not quite a commodity. Like what is it?  Well I think that is what we are trying to figure out right now. Whenever there is a new disruptive technology like Bitcoin regulators look at it and they try to fit it into one of their preexisting buckets. And Bitcoin really does not fit neatly into any of these buckets as you say. You know it has some qualities that make it seem like a commodity but it is not a commodity the way that corn or pork bellies are and it is a currency but it is not issued by a national government. So when you look up the definitions of these things Bitcoin does not really fit into any of these. So right now ones we are absolutely sure that apply to Bitcoin are sort of the money transmission rules and the money laundering rules. But aside from that we are still trying to figure that out. And I think that is why government's getting involved.  So at this point what if any regulations actually do apply to Bitcoin here in the U.S.?  So I think you have to think about it at the federal level and the state level. At the federal level they are concerned about anti-money laundering laws and terrorist financing. And so the Treasury Department earlier this summer issued guidance that applies to Bitcoin exchanges and other businesses. At the state level they are more concerned about consumer protection and making sure that consumers do not lose their money or that their companies do not run away with the money. And so you have to be licensed as a money transmitter if you are a certain kind of Bitcoin business. But the issue still is it is very unclear which kinds of businesses have to register with which kinds of regulators.  Do you feel that Bitcoin should not be regulated?  So it is an interesting question. People often ask me you know should Bitcoin be regulated can Bitcoin be regulated. And the interesting thing about that is what are you saying when you say Bitcoin? Bitcoin is a network like email like the Web. So can you regulate email? No you cannot really regulate email. It is a protocol on the Internet and it is peer-to-peer but you can regulate Gmail right which is a specific company Google who is providing the service. So you have companies that are providing certain services that qualify for regulation and that will be regulated. But the network itself the currency itself it is really outside of the reach of government.  How significant is New York's move to launch an investigation to issue these subpoenas?  So it is interesting people hear the word subpoena and they think something bad right? But all the word subpoena means is that it is a request for information right? And you are compelled to you know produce you know you are asked questions and you have to answer them. And I think that is very good. When you look at the federal guidance that was issued by the Treasury Department they issued them without consulting anybody in the Bitcoin community that I am aware of. And this has lead to this uncertainty with that guidance. If they had sort of proposed the guidance and asked for comments before issuing the final guidance I think we would have you know avoided the problems that we have now with that guidance. So when I see New York issuing these subpoenas being very transparent about the fact that they are going to be looking at this and asking for input you know I think that is very good.  Jerry Brito he is senior research fellow at the Marcatus Center at George Mason University and director of the technology policy program. Thank you so much for coming in.  Thank you for having me. 