 So we have heard from a state treasurer we have heard from some members of Congress. Now to politically active citizens in the state of Washington. Polls suggest that most Americans want Congress to resolve the impasse but NPR's Martin Kaste talked with two women who seem as dug in as people in the other Washington.  A couple of years ago a lot of the credit for starting the Tea Party movement went to a blogger known as Liberty Belle. Political junkies may recall her real name...  Hello my name is Keli Carender. I am a grassroots organizer extraordinaire.  Carender was a part-time improv comedian but she is put that on hold as her political activism has lead to a job with the national Tea Party Patriots Organization. She lives in Bremerton across Puget Sound from Seattle. And over lunch at a local pancake place she says she is frustrated with Republican Speaker Boehner and President Obama but mainly President Obama.  When you are just playing around saying oh we are going to default oh we are not going to pay people their Social Security checks - and what kind of a leader says I am sorry I cannot guarantee that your Social Security check is going to come out on August 3rd? I just think that' Across the Sound in Seattle Tracy Lake cannot believe that anyone would be willing to risk the U.S. credit rating.  It is probably the most valued asset we have in a global economy is the faith in credit of our ability to pay something back. And the fact that we have already purchased goods and services and now we are deciding whether or not we are going to pay for them is just plain wrong.  Lake is a real estate developer and she is worried that a downgrade would raise interest rates and make it harder to get the loans she needs to run her business. Like Carender she is politically active but she is part of Responsible Wealth an organization of well-to-do types that want to pay higher taxes.  The only right and moral thing is to tax the wealthy wealthier part of our population.  Be completely honest. If you had to pay a higher tax rate would not that suppress you are productivity as a company or your ability to employ people?  Yes it would.  I am where I am because of opportunities afforded me because of our economic structure because of our culture because of the freedom and access to education. Wealthy Americans owe this due bill back to our country for the opportunity to earn great sums of money.  The way the Tea Party's Keli Carender sees it raising taxes - any taxes - is simply nonnegotiable.  To me if we raise the debt ceiling at all that is the compromise on our end.  And whatever the outcome of this particular crisis she says she expects more to come.  It is going to be a standoff after standoff after standoff.  Is that good for the country to have all of these crises?  I think right now it is better to have a lot of these things out before the election.  Martin Kaste NPR News Seattle. 