 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  But as NPR's Jim Zarroli reports many companies are being especially cautious with their cash.  The U.S. economy may be slowing to a crawl but a lot of individual companies are richer than ever. Rick Lane is a senior vice president at Moody's.  Companies are generating and maintaining more cash than they have aggregate uses for.  Moody's recently put out a report about the 1600-plus U.S.-based companies it rates. It said they had 1.2 trillion in cash at the end of 2010 which was 11.2 percent more than they had the year before. Companies that have a lot of cash can use some of it to invest in higher. That is what Caterpillar is doing says spokesman Jim Dugan.  In 2011 our plan for CAPEX is 3 billion which would be an all-time record for us about 1.5 billion in the United States. And the focus cash for Caterpillar is growth.  But a lot of other companies right now are sitting on their cash using it sparingly if at all. Apple Cisco and Microsoft had each amassed 40 billion or more in cash by the end of last year. Rick Lane of Moody's notes that many companies were unable to get credit during the last financial crisis and they are trying to be more prudent about how they spend money now.  So I think one of the reasons that is contributing to many companies holding onto cash would be the very vivid memories of the severity of the downturn that commenced in mid-2008.  And companies can borrow money very cheaply right now so instead of paying off their debts they can sit on cash as long as possible. But there' The U.S. economy simply is not growing enough. The labor market is weak says Charles Biderman of the investment research firm TrimTabs.  So without growing income where is the money to buy more stuff? Absent a change in demand the fact that companies have all this cash well good for them.   It is not going to help us.  And with the economy limping along companies are more reluctant to invest and hire in the United States.  The bottom line is a large number of very successful U.S. companies are on a wait-and-see mode with the U.S. economy in particular.  And this means companies are also not hiring at least in the United States. Moody's Rick Lane says a lot of American companies make more and more of their profits in fast-growing countries like China Brazil and India.  What we are finding is that a higher percentage in dollar amount of cash among many parts of the corporate universe is being generated and maintained overseas.  And U.S. companies that earn profits abroad have to pay taxes when they bring it home so they tend to like to keep money overseas as long as possible. Business leaders in the United States regularly complain that this discourages domestic investment. But even if tax laws were changed the boom in foreign markets means companies have an incentive to keep money abroad. And when they get ready to spend the cash they are holding onto that is where a lot of it will go. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 