 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  Stocks tumbled again today. We cannot be sure exactly why. Investors may still be upset over last week's jobs report an even bigger concern may be Europe. Governments there are having a hard time managing their debt burden. And Europe's problems could soon spell additional trouble for the U.S. as we hear from NPR's Tom Gjelten.  Uri Dadush is head of the global economics program at the Carnegie Endowment.  Markets realize that there is a major financial crisis brewing in Europe that could explode at any time. I mean by that in the course of the next week or the next month or the next three months.  Bruce Kasman the chief global economist at JP Morgan says investors are generally losing confidence in the willingness of policymakers to make tough choices and nowhere more so than in Europe.  There is real concern that some small countries and even a big country's inability to deal with its fiscal problems could create a financial stress point and that could spill out much more broadly across the globe.  Investors are losing faith that the stronger governments using the euro currency like Germany will support the weaker eurozone countries. One way to do that would be to turn their monetary union into a fiscal union where tax and spending policies are centrally coordinated. Uri Dadush says the future of the euro currency is now at stake. Markets are forcing European governments to make a tough choice.  Do you undertake much more far-reaching measures towards a fiscal union or do you allow those countries to collapse the euro to collapse and trigger then a global financial crisis?  There could be a chain reaction. If the most heavily indebted European countries default on their debts the European banks that lent them money would be in trouble. So would any U.S. bank that insured those debts or that lent money to those European banks. There would be a spiraling default scenario reminiscent of 2008 maybe even worse says Uri Dadush.  Clearly we are talking about an event of similar perhaps larger magnitude than the one that we were hit with back in 2008.  Tom Gjelten NPR News Washington. 