 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. We are going to take a break now from talking about the troubled U.S. economy or the shaky European economy and turn to the pariah economy of North Korea. It is not in good shape. North Korea's people are starving. Its factories are rusting. And few countries in the world want to trade with it. And yet leader Kim Jong-Il has come up with some sneaky ways to bring money into the country. NPR's Robert Smith and Zoe Chace of Planet Money have this story.  North Korea used to be an industrial powerhouse.  But after years of repression and economic sanctions North Korea has become more like the character Lloyd Dobler from the '80s movie Say Anything.    I do not want to sell anything buy anything or process anything as a career. I do not want to sell anything bought or processed or buy anything sold or processed or process anything sold bought or processed or repair anything sold bought or processed. You know as a career I do not want to do that.  But this degree of helplessness was not the original plan. The original plan for the country's economy had a name. It was called juche.  Juche means self-reliance. Any North Korean knows the concept of juche inside and out.  When we sat down with a North Korean defector Ma Young Ae she explained it through a translator.   It is independence self-reliance. All North Korean problems will be solved by North Korean people.  And if the concept of self-reliance requires drug dealing and smuggling of counterfeit goods then so be it.  We will hear in just a minute all the illegal ways the defector helped to make money for the North Korean government but first we should say the country does have a few legal ways to make money.  Yeah. It sells what few assets it has to its neighbors. So China takes coal and magnesium out of North Korea's mountains. It also harvests fish from North Korean waters. And that puts millions of dollars into the hands of Kim Jong-Il.  Not only does North Korea rent out its land.  The government sends its people to Russia to chop down trees and down to special South Korean factories near the border that need cheap labor.  And it works out great for Kim Jong-Il. Those foreign companies pay North Korea in U.S. dollars and then the North Korean government pockets that money and gives the near-worthless local currency to the workers. Oh and North Korea does have one other legal expertise. There are monuments. If you have seen the pictures you will recognize the 60-foot tall statues of the great leader. Curtis Melvin who runs the blog North Korea Economy Watch says there is a whole division of the North Korean government that will build those statues for dictators around the world.  The North Koreans have a long history of doing this and you can go as far back as the 1970s to find the monuments that the North Koreans have built in Africa and that is sort of continued to this day.  So all these legal exports added up to roughly 2 billion in 2009. Getting trade statistics on North Korea is more of an art than a science. The country does not publish them.  That is because North Korea brings in a lot of money through blatantly illegal activity. To learn more about it we are going to reintroduce you to our defector who used to work as a North Korean spy. We visited Ma Young Ae at her apartment in Northern Virginia. She runs a North Korean restaurant. But back in Pyongyang she was one of the country's elite working as part of Kim Jong Il's police force.  She had never heard of public radio so our translator Sung Hee Na tried to explain it to her.   Spring and fall fundraising. . We need your support.   Mrs. Ma's job back in North Korea was to track down drug smugglers which is pretty normal job for a law enforcement officer right? But here's the difference.  the North Korean government.   The small individuals that we were trying to catch were doing this in a very small scale but the government was doing it in large scale in a very institutional level.  It was opium. The North Koreans hid their poppy fields from most of the population. Mrs. Ma only saw them because she was an insider.   There was a huge area that used to be the potato fields were converted into the fields for growing opium plants. And I visited there in the springtime. They just looked beautiful.  And this is where some of those empty factories actually became productive. At night Mrs. Ma says the government would start up the production lines and process the opium. They would put the product in these plastic cubes about the size of a dictionary.  Then the drugs would be smuggled out of the country through China. This was in the mid-'80s when opium was the big drug. These days the drug of choice for export out of North Korea is ice methamphetamine.  Ma never smuggled the drugs herself. But in a crazy way she did end up smuggling other products. When she traveled in China tracking down those nongovernment-approved drug dealers...  The government did not give Mrs. Ma a corporate credit card when she travels.   Over time I was given a pack of cash in dollars. And I was trained. I was told I was explained that these are fake dollars.  One of North Korea's illegal exports is counterfeit U.S.  100 bills. They call them super-notes. But even this shows you what a strange position North Korea is in. Nobody is going to take a brand-new-looking 100 bill from a North Korean. So the North Koreans would sell the super-notes to the Chinese dealers who knew they were fake. The Chinese would give the North Koreans 60 real U.S. dollars for every fake 100 bill.  And when Mrs. Ma was on these smuggling trips she noticed you know the Chinese have a much better standard of living than we do across the river. When she got the chance she defected.  It would be nice if we could give you an estimate of how much money illegal exports bring into the country because besides the illegal drugs and the counterfeit currency North Korea is widely believed to deal a lot of weapons armaments - rifles missiles perhaps even nuclear technology - hundreds of millions of dollars worth. But the thing is nobody knows how much.  Just a couple of weeks ago in Libya the rebels found a bunch of North Korean rocket launchers in a box labeled bulldozer parts.  Which is a little bit funny since North Koreans definitely do not make bulldozer parts or much of anything else. And Curtis Melvin of North Korea Economy Watch says to try to put together a balance sheet for North Korea is missing the point of what Kim Jong-Il is trying to do.  The North Korean leadership knows that what they are doing is not necessarily what is going to make them the most money. They are primarily concerned with maintaining control. North Korea is one of those cases where you can almost say do the opposite of that and your country will achieve prosperity.  We do know Kim Jong-Il makes enough money to give the country's elite a pretty good life. Despite international sanctions he is always getting caught sneaking in iPods Mercedes cognac and big screen TVs.  The rest of North Korea gets barely enough to survive. I am Robert Smith. 