 There has been vocal pushback some Democrats against the debt ceiling compromise. The Congressional Progressive Caucus held a news conference this afternoon laying out strong objections. Earlier today before the House vote I spoke with the co-chair of that caucus Keith Ellison Democrat of Minnesota. He explained his opposition to the bill despite some serious lobbying today from Vice President Joe Biden.  Well you know I think that Vice President Biden is a great leader and I admire him but quite frankly he was given a bad situation to start with and they tried to do some things to mitigate the harm but ultimately this thing takes the country in the wrong direction. Basically we are taking money out of the economy at a time when the country needs there to be more economic activity.  When you start cutting programs cutting a trillion dollars out of the economy what you are literally doing is you are laying off people you are discontinuing spending that could well go towards putting people to work. And let me tell you I do not care if you work for the government or not a government check spends like any other check and the people who sell those folks groceries do not care whether their workers are from the government or from the private sector. So the bottom line is this is rejectionary  at a time when our country's trying to recover from a recession. And if you look back at 1937 when people just like the Tea Party Republicans forced Roosevelt to put the brakes on spending they caused a double-dip recession and I am afraid that is just going to happen now.  But Congressman Ellison even if you are unhappy with the compromise are you willing to let the country default on its debt with your no vote?  Well the bottom line is I voted for a clean debt ceiling already back in March. I mean I just do not feel that it is fair for Tea Party Republicans to force this crisis and force a terrible compromise And then if I do not accede to their demands then somehow it is my fault that the country defaults? No they created this crisis. We do not even have to be here. This is the first time in the history of the United States that a debt ceiling increase which is a routine thing has been linked to deficit cuts right - and budget cuts. This is the first time. And so it is really - I really have to reject this idea that somehow that this is the responsibility of me or people who are voting no.  Very briefly in the time we have left Congressman what is your appraisal of President Obama here? Did he cave to Republican pressure?  No. I think President Obama's a great president. I am a Obama supporter. But just like back last December it is the Republicans who demanded these very harsh very damaging cuts in order for him to do basic things. In this situation it is just raise the debt ceiling as it is been done you know dozens and dozens of times before. So I think that you know you got a tough hand to deal with you tried to mitigate the harm but the harm's coming nonetheless. And so no I remain a very strong supporter of the president. But I do not agree with this.  OK. Congressman Ellison thanks so much.  All right.  That is Congressman Keith Ellison Democrat of Minnesota and co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. He ended up a no vote today on the debt ceiling bill which passed the House 269 to 161 and now moves on to the Senate for a vote tomorrow. 