 Despite those new sanctions France plans to go ahead with the sale of two warships to Russia. International pressure has been mounting for the contract to be canceled. But in the port town where the ships are being built people say the contract with Moscow should be fulfilled. NPR's Eleanor Beardsley sent this report.  It seems like everyone in Saint-Nazaire is talking about the 400 Russian sailors who sailed into port last month. The sailors are here to train on one of the newly built warships the Vladivostok and then sail it home in a few months' time. In a tobacco shop on Saint-Nazaire's main square owner Christian Saunier says he is sold the Russians American cigarettes.   They are a lot better than the wild vodka drinkers we were expecting. They are discrete and it is amazing how they have even picked up some French after being here for only a few weeks.   In the port town of Saint-Nazaire where the Loire River empties into the Atlantic Ocean shipbuilding has been a way of life since the 19th century. Today the town is one of the world's top builders of massive cruise ships and ferries. To keep that place people say contracts must be honored even retired Russian teacher Francois Chabeau who says he avoids meeting Russians these days because they all love President Vladimir Putin who Chabeau calls dreadful.  I think we must deliver the ships because we have a contract with the Russians. If we do not deliver the ships there will not be new contracts for ships.  What about what is happening in Ukraine?  Yes on one side it is terrible what happens. But on the other side we have a contract.  .  Other townspeople like Christian Saunier say the ships are not the cause of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and canceling them will not resolve the crisis. Saunier says France is the world's third-largest arms seller. And if it cancels the ships it should also cancel all the missiles and planes it sells abroad. It is market day in Saint-Nazaire. Colorful fruits and vegetables overflow stands and fresh seafood stairs up from icy platters. An accordion player entertains the relaxed summertime crowd. The Russian ships are providing five years employment for about 2500 people in Saint-Nazaire.  .  Marc Menager has worked at the Saint-Nazaire shipyard for 37 years. He says while the ship workers are more proud of the ocean liners they build the warship contract came at a time when orders were down. Menager says the two warships will not be outfitted with weaponry or communication systems. Critics say they will be able to carry hundreds of troops and helicopters.  .  .  We finally run into a couple of sunburned Russian sailors. Out of uniform and wearing shorts they do not want to give their names or get into politics. We just carry out orders they say. The sailors say they have been welcomed in Saint-Nazaire and the Vladivostok is a beautiful ship.   Down by the water there is a ceremony going on. They are having a military ceremony in the harbor in Saint-Nazaire in the shipyard right beside the Vladivostok which is finished and ready to sail to Russia. Bernard Grua is one of the local people watching through the fence.  These people they represent Putin's regime. And sure it is not only frustrating but excuse me it is disgusting. This collaboration is a shame for France.  Grua says the next generation will have to live with the consequences. Eleanor Beardsley. NPR News Saint-Nazaire France. 