 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  NPR's Chana Joffe-Walt takes a look at one Sarasota house in that scheme a house that was bought and sold six times in four years and more than tripled in value.  The first person to own the home was probably the last man who truly loved that house on Cove Terrace Road.  Fred Bloom is my name.  Fred Bloom?  Fred Bloom. Is not that a great name for an allergist?  Dr. Fred Bloom the allergist met me outside the Cove Terrace house. It is nice - four bedrooms red-tile roof. It is painted that sort of Florida peachy color. It is got a pool and a boat dock.  It had a two-story family room. There is windows up above and you can sit there and watch lightning and you could watch the sky.  Dr. Bloom's kids grew up he and his wife separated and he reluctantly put the house up for sale.  And it did not sell and it did not sell and it did not sell. And I was not happy about that. I was not happy about lowering the price.  And then we had an offer from Craig Adams.  This is Candy Swick Dr. Bloom's real estate agent. Now getting an offer from Craig Adams was nothing to sneeze at. Adams was well known in Sarasota as a guy who could make any deal happen. Some even use the word genius.  Craig's offer was very good. It was right on the mark. And it was like this is good. Take it and run it is been enough time.  And I resisted as long as I could and then decided the phase is over. So I caved in.  Dr. Bloom sold the house for 600000 - much less than he wanted for it. And then two weeks later he is at the grocery store and he runs into his former Cove Terrace neighbors. Hey how you doing? How are the new people on the block?  And they told me that my house was sold again. And he mentioned the price was 725000. And I was really upset. And I said that 125000 more than I got for it. That was only a matter of couple of weeks.  So it was weeks?  It was just a matter of couple of weeks. I am not happy.  That is an understatement. Dr. Bloom was furious at his real estate agent and held on to that resentment for 10 years 10 years until what really happened at Cove Terrace came out.  My name is Matthew Doig. I am an investigative reporter at the Sarasota Herald-Tribune.  Doig and his colleagues have been piecing together what they say could be a 200 million mortgage scheme led by Craig Adams.  Adams put together the deal and apparently took it to his associate a guy named Steve Wexler and just basically said here's the deal sign on the dotted line. Do not worry about it. You are not even going to own this property that long. In two weeks we are going to sell it to our buddy Keyworth for 725000.  With each sale someone would take out a loan that would pay off the previous loan. And since it was bigger than the last one there would be extra cash to split among the players.  After Dr. Bloom is out of the picture that house is completely controlled by Craig Adams. And every time it is sold Adams is representing both the buyer and the seller.  Dr. BLOOM Occasionally I would drive by the house. And at various times the yard was really in disrepair.  When it was in disrepair did it look no one was living here?  Yes. It looked like it was vacant.  Guy Cecala is publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance and he said he is seen this sort of thing all over the country. As long as there is a housing bubble it works pretty well.  The idea is if you can keep selling a house for more than your borrowing you will always make out ahead. You know what...  Eventually it is a loan eventually you have to pay the bank back.  Correct. It was not a great exit strategy. You know in hindsight these were not geniuses figuring out these plans.  Now the banks or lenders clearly lose big time in this scenario. They kept handing out the loans because they too were caught up in the bubble. With home values rising so quickly who is to say that six owners in four years is really all that strange?  It is a fine line between what is a legitimate real estate investment and committing actual fraud.  Chana Joffe-Walt NPR News. 