 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. There are plenty of Fourth of July references being tossed around about the latest economic numbers. Some analysts call the new report early fireworks others caution hold the fireworks. But overall the news is positive. The Labor Department says employers added 288000 new jobs last month - more than expected. The unemployment rate fell to 6.1 percent. And that is the lowest unemployment rate since 2008. The stock market hit an all-time high. Here's NPR's Chris Arnold.  We have now had five straight months with gains of more than 200000 jobs. So that is solid job growth. And President Barack Obama celebrated that today as he visited a group of start-up companies in Washington D.C..   We just got the jobs report today showing that we have now seen the fastest job growth in the United States in the first half of the year since 1999.  And it was not just the president who liked this jobs report. Just about every economist weighing in said something along the lines of...   Well overall it is great. I am very happy to see the 288 number. I am very happy to see a pretty broad-based spread with job growth in most of the key sectors looking pretty solid.  That is Ian Shepherdson the chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. He says something else that is encouraging - for years small businesses have been the missing link to a real jobs recovery. And Shepherdson's now seeing signs that more small businesses are finally starting to hire.   This really has been the missing link. And it is been what I have been waiting for for the last five years before I could argue with a straight face that the economy as a whole was going to repair itself properly - because remember small companies employ about half the workforce. So we are in a position where finally they are starting to move. And this really potentially makes an enormous difference.  The report also revised upwards the numbers for the prior two months. David Kotok is chief economist at Cumberland Advisors.  There is a trend of gradually healing and improving employment in the United States. And it is now a trend sufficiently in place. So we can say this is not just a blip.  One area that is less encouraging though is wages. Real wages have been stagnant or worse for middle-class Americans for years. There was some slight wage growth last month but not much. And the president acknowledged that.   We still have not seen as much increase in income and wages as we would like to see. A lot of folks are still digging themselves out of challenges that arose out of the Great Recession.  Lisa Lynch is a former chief economist at the Labor Department and currently a professor at Brandeis.  It is hard to find anything that is not good news in this report.  But she says another less bright spot...  You know it is July. Everybody's thinking about the summertime Fourth of July festivities but also - teenage summer jobs. We still have 1 in 5 teens who is looking for a summer job cannot find it. So that is really high.  And there is still a lot of people who are underemployed or working part-time when they would like to be working full-time. Still Ian Shepherdson says after the slowdown during that long cold winter this report puts that slowdown behind us.   You cannot create 200000 plus jobs per month month after month after month if the economy is not strong. The odds have never been better since the crash that the economy is going to break out to the upside and stay there.  On that note enjoy the Fourth of July weekend. Chris Arnold NPR News. 