 We begin this hour with a check on the planet's temperature and on one of its most vital resources - water. We go first to the West where the drought is so severe you have farmers typically a united front sparring over water and who should get it in a dryer future. NPR's Kirk Siegler has that story.  Rudy Mussi is not the California farmer you have been hearing about. He is not fallowing all his fields or ripping up his orchards due to the lack of irrigation water - nope. For Mussi and most of his neighbors water is still flowing from the pumps and into the canals lining his field.  You know if you had to pick a place where you would say OK where should I stick my farm? You would come to the Delta.  That is the bucolic Sacramento Delta. As he steers his pickup through his ripening wine-grape vineyards and cherry orchards Mussi boasts that the Delta is where California farming was born.  We are a giant bathtub so we are drawing water from all sources. We draw it from...  The reason farming is still churning right along here is because this huge estuary the largest on the West Coast is fed by two of California's largest rivers. See back in the Gold Rush era the government built levees and dammed these wetlands so that farmers could grow food for the mining industry. It was only later that modern farming expanded deeper into California's Central Valley and the federal government began pumping water from here through canals to farms in more arid areas hundreds of miles to the south.  You know the problem started when it just started over exporting water from the Delta. You need fresh water in the Delta or you are going to kill it.  The fight started brewing long ago but they are reaching the brink now in the worst drought that is ever hit modern California. There is more pressure than ever to change a long-standing system that gives Delta farmers the first or senior right to use water that is available in lean years like this.  And I am a farmer. You know it is not farmer-beat-up-farmer. It is just that when you have got senior water rights you have a history of farming in the area of the 150 years that you have somebody with junior rights trying to take your water kind of concerns us.  And by take he means pending proposals to pump more water out of the Delta's south to what he calls the Johnny Come Latelies those who are junior water rights holders. Barbara Barrigan-Parilla heads a local environmental group that is joined forces with Delta farmers. She says pumping more water will only benefit agribusiness who she says grew too big too fast.  It makes sense to grow on your best land where there is water with your most sustainable climate than it does to ship a limited resource a hundred miles away onto poor desert soils.  The fact that farmers are pointing fingers at other farmers shows just how big of a disaster this drought has become and how political the issue of water is here in the country's most productive food-growing state. Drive south along the semi-clogged 99 Freeway deeper into California's Central Valley and the handmade roadside signs change from save the Delta to turn on the pumps and no water no jobs. The stark views of dusty fields lying fallow and some orchards ripped up has prompted questions about whether farming even has a future in this part of the valley.  I always like to state - when people say that this area should never have been farmed I always like to point out that the results speak for themselves.  In Fresno it is clear that Gayle Holman of the Westlands Water District is used to getting this question. Fresno County averages about 6 billion a year in ag sales.  This has been the No. 1 agricultural district - actually agricultural county - in the nation for productivity.  But for the second straight year this district's 700 farmers will not get any irrigation water in that federal canal system. Farmers here like Dan Errotaberre want Congress to ease environmental restrictions that require a certain amount of water to be kept in the Delta to protect endangered fish.  If I am being asked to be efficient and they are asking the urban folks to be efficient by limiting the water and all this stuff it should be asked that the environment use of water be efficient as well.  Errotaberre grows primarily almonds and carrots and garlic and he is one of those junior water rights holders. With no water in the federal canal he figures he will have to fallow about 1200 acres this summer. That is roughly the size of Rudy Mussi's entire operation up in the Delta by the way.  We are getting into kind of a circular firing squad over the remaining supply and I think that is the wrong question. The question is how do we fix the supply side? We have to make it run like it used to and get the water delivered like it used to.  So you have got farmers big and small fighting over what little water is left in this state. The only thing that everyone agrees on is that California's current water system is broken. It was built after all to support about half as many people and farms as exist today. Whether major changes to that happen could depend on how much longer this drought lasts. Kirk Siegler NPR Fresno. 