 Well our next item may not be the stuff of a Justice Department antitrust investigation but it is a case of nearly all airlines doing the same thing. I am talking about baggage fees. JetBlue until now a holdout will charge you to check a bag. That leaves Southwest as the only airline that does not. I spoke with Rick Seaney the CEO of farecompare.com and I asked him why JetBlue caved.  You would have to sort of attribute it to their investor community. I have been on the calls for JetBlue and for Southwest. The question gets asked every time. Why are not you charging for a bag fee? Last year 3.1 billion in domestic checked bag fees and neither Southwest nor JetBlue are participating in that. And I think finally they succumbed and said hey all the other airlines are doing it. We only have three legacy airlines left - American United and Delta. We are not going to get dinged for this anymore and I think that is why they decided to go ahead and do it. They actually announced it late last year and are just now implementing it now.  You said they are not going to get dinged for it. I read a quotation attributed to a JetBlue executive saying that when they survey customers all sorts of things matter like Wi-Fi for one. But they do not see the free baggage check standing out as a huge plus.  You know JetBlue is known as a beloved airline for - many times for business travelers. Business travelers do not tend to check a lot of bags. They like to get out of the airport quickly. They do not want to wait at carousels for example. So I think when they are polling their business customers it is not that big of a worry. Most of them have status. If you have some sort of airline status a lot of these bag fees are waived so it is really about the consumer who likes to comparison shop who does not have a lot of loyalty. And that is who is really getting charged these bags fees.  Fees for baggage look like a win-win for the airlines. You mentioned the billions of dollars that airlines make from baggage fees. But also if you want to avoid that fee you carry the same bag onto the plane. And by doing so you become a volunteer baggage handler and ease the burden on the airline.  Yeah no there is a couple of things that are really great for airline economics not necessarily for consumers. One of them is the fact that these bag fees are not taxed. So if they actually charge you the bag fee as part of your fare it would be taxed at 7 and a half percent so that is not taxed. Clearly every time - anytime I have seen it a Senator gets charged a bag fee we have new legislation to either get - purposed legislation to either get rid of bag fees or to tax them. So - so that is one of the things sort of the economics there. And there are so many ways to get around the bag fee - elite status. Branded credit cards will wave those fees if you have a certain branded credit card. So it is a bit of a hobby. Just like trying to find the best airfare getting rid of the bag fee is also something that is quite popular.  If adding baggage fees made sense to JetBlue how far away is Southwest from the same decision?  Yeah every time I talk about Southwest I picture Wile E. Coyote hanging off a limb because they are the last one that is sitting out there that has not charged a bag fee. Their investors are clamoring for it. It is really probably worth a billion dollars or so to Southwest Airlines or a little bit less as much traffic as they have. And I do believe that you have not seen their commercials lately touting you know no bag fees or bags fly free. They are preparing the public for this. I hope it takes a couple more years before they decide to do it.  Well thanks for discussing the inevitable bad news with us about baggage fees.  Great. Thank you.  That is Rick Seaney CEO of farecompare.com. 