 At the start of this crazy day on Wall Street we asked all of you on social media what do you want to know about what is happening today? We got a lot of great questions and joining us to answer some of them is Austan Goolsbee. He chaired the Council of Economic Advisers earlier in the Obama administration and he is now at the University of Chicago. Welcome to the program.  Hey. Thanks for having me back.  Let us start really simple. We got a question from Michelle Tevelow Grybowski who asks should I panic?  Michelle no. When is the right time to panic - never. You will regret the decisions you made in the panic when you come back and say oh man I wish I had not sold when everything was at the bottom or even worse. So if it were up to me I would tell you do not under any circumstances go try to cash out your retirement account at a penalty because you are afraid the stock market's going to go down. That is the kind of panic-induced thinking that you will very likely regret.  Well here's a perhaps counterintuitive question from Ann Feigl Johnston. She asks what should we be buying?  You got to like that there is people like Ann out in the world. That is what stabilizes the world and we think over the longer term can get it closer to fundamentals is that if stuff goes down a lot there are a bunch of people who are like wait a minute if things are down it is probably cheap I am going to go in here and start buying. And that can break the back of a panic. You know economists tend to not be stock pickers or asset...  . You are not going to tell her what to buy.  We just buy everything. I am not going to tell - you know they - we buy the market by - try to diversify as much as you can. I would be careful for Ann jumping too quickly back into buying up emerging-market stocks or any of the stuff that is really getting hit the hardest. In China many people thought they were in a bubble. The prices start going down quite significantly. The government just starts intervening and buying up stocks and telling people nothing to look at here we are not slowing down faster than we said before just pay no attention to what is happening. And as the government buys up the stocks you just cannot tell. The market's trying to tell them they do not think this stuff is worth what it was three months ago but they do not want to take that pricing. So until you know A what is the real situation and let us get some information content back in these prices - and the other thing to think about is in some of these situations the government has in the past said they would not have a problem - there would not be a bubble and now a lot of their credibility is kind of in jeopardy.  Austan we have a question here from Helen Bentz Ferguson who asks why should the average person even care about the stock market? I have no extra money to put in stocks. Neither do most of the people I know. We are just trying to pay our bills she says. So Austan why should somebody like Helen care?  Well you know maybe Helen should not care. And even maybe people who are in the stock market should care less than they probably care as they look at the TV and that line is just going down and down and they are like oh my goodness this is 2008 all over again. I think not getting too worked up about gyrations in the stock market - not only is it not a bad idea. It is probably a good idea not to get worked up about that. And if you have less ownership of the stock market like it sounds like Helen has that is even more reason not to really get worked up.  You said people might look at the television screen and see that line sinking and think this is 2008 all over again. Can you assure people that it is not 2008 all over again?  OK. I am not in the assurance business. Economists cannot even agree on predictions of things that already happened. So never make predictions of the future. But there are several things that at least make me feel better now than I felt in the fall of 2008. The first is the root of this crisis is not events happening in the United States. Number two there is in the U.S. way less borrowing involved in this. It is just an equity bubble. It is just things moving around with stock prices. And we have seen really over and over throughout the world if it is just an equity bubble popping it is bad for the people who own those shares that are going down. But the destroying of banks leading to credit crunch and the what the economists call systemic events largely do not happen just from equity bubbles. You have got to have a lot of borrowing for that to happen. Then I would say the other thing is that the economy has been going modestly well for a long steady period of time. We have not been in an environment of a whole lot of volatility on the real side so hopefully that is a little better than it was in 2008.  Austan Goolsbee is former chair of the Council of Economic Advisors. He is currently an economics professor at the University of Chicago School of Business. Austan thanks a lot.  Great talking to you again Ari.  And you can join this conversation about today's stock market tumbles by going to Facebook. You can search for me Audie Cornish.  Or me Ari Shapiro. 