 Throughout the U.S. the hills are alive with the clanging sound of rebar and also hammers and really loud drills. House prices have shot up and it is a fantastic time to be a homebuilder. But Darian Woods and Stacey Vanek Smith from The Indicator report on one big obstacle construction companies face.  When I asked Brandy McCombs how she got into the construction trades she answered with one word.  Accident. I needed a day job. I was trying to raise a family and I ended up working for a mechanical electrical and plumbing contractor in their service department.  This accident led to a career in construction.  Brandy started her Kansas City-based carpentry company IBC in 2008 and she has not ever looked back. But there is one major headache.  Workforce having the skilled trades to perform the work.  Of course if you told this story to a lot of economists they would have a very fast answer for you which is raise the wages.  Why not just pay more?  We do. So at hourly all-in wage we probably started out about 45 then. Now we are at 65.  So that 65 an hour - it does include benefits and it is about double the median wage in the U.S. But still it has not been enough to get the workers Brandy needs. And so she has started advertising another perk especially for those hard-to-fill senior roles - the use of a vehicle.  I assume it is a truck a pickup truck.  A truck - oh yeah. It is a F-150. Are you sure you do not want a job ?  This kind of thing this kind of very aggressive recruiting - this is happening all over the country. Rick Palacios Jr. says he is seen this in his research on the real estate industry.  There is insatiable demand. We cannot build it fast enough. And how that all manifests itself is higher wages.  But why has not that attracted enough new workers for the industry?  Of course one thing about construction work is that it is really hard and there are a lot of dangers involved. I mean you are out there in the sun every day - lots of safety risks.  And in the early 2000s the inflow of immigrants into construction both legal and undocumented was really high.  The industry does rely on immigrants historically right? And that is not a political statement. That is hard statistics. You know we have not had the friendliest of policies there over the last several years.  So Brandy our carpentry business owner - she is focusing right now on the things she can control. So she is offering higher wages and the use of a pickup truck but she is also going into high schools. And through this outreach Brandy says she has helped to shape some teenagers' lives and partly solve her own hiring problem. She uses the example of a young woman she met in Kansas City.  She had no idea. Her mom was a teacher at a local community college. Her dad was a UPS driver and did not know anything about construction.  Brandy gave this young woman an internship at her company. It went really well and she came back and actually interviewed Brandy which was part of this young woman's capstone project for her engineering degree.  And I was like oh full circle. And that right there is what it is all about. When someone says well why did you do it? Because that was worth every moment I spent with that girl.  Now all Brandy has to do is find dozens more people like that.  Darian Woods.  Stacey Vanek Smith NPR News. 