 For Americans who cannot work remotely the coronavirus creates constant dilemmas. Could they catch the disease? Could they spread it without knowing? And if they are honest about a potential exposure could they risk losing income? NPR's Camila Domonoske reports on how workers with no symptoms can face a lot of tough decisions.  When her Ford plant opened back up for production it was not that Marcie did not want to go to work - she could not.  'ecause I did not have child care you know when we - they called us back to work in late May. So I just used a week vacation until I figured things out.  Marcie did not want to use her last name because she is worried about retribution for speaking publicly about conditions at the plant. She and another mom agreed to trade off on child care for each other but that carries its own risks.  I have to consider this - like OK I am opening my bubble even more.  In fact one day she learned that expanded bubble might have exposed her to the virus. She was on her shift when she found out wondering if she should get tested.  So am I supposed to leave work and - like I should because technically I could be positive and not know it you know? But a lot of people just cannot do that cannot just get up and go you know? We depend on those 40 hours or whatever it is a week you know? .  A big part of the problem is that she is not sure whether she would be paid to quarantine. Marcie praises Ford's policies on masks and social distancing but the quarantine rules?  That is the big mystery.  Ford General Motors and Fiat Chrysler are paying some workers to stay home and get tested and the policies are not always clear or consistent. Ralph Morris Jr. is the president of UAW Local 163 in Michigan.  Some of them put them on unemployment. Some of them will get paid for three days. Others will be out for two weeks.  And he says it is not clear what determines who gets quarantined and who does not.  They will ask the question have you been in contact with anyone? And they say well yeah you know I was at a nursing home and they said there was a case there. And then - well no you got to go out.  Meanwhile someone who says they definitely had contact with a positive case might get cleared to work. One worker at a GM plant in Michigan who wanted to remain anonymous out of fear of retribution told NPR she was sent home after describing a possible exposure that happened outside work and she waited nearly a week for her negative test result - without pay. Those unpaid quarantines can create an incentive for workers not to disclose all their risks if they know they might lose pay if they are honest. A GM spokesman says one factor the company considers when deciding whether to pay quarantined workers is if their exposure happened at work. Meagan Garland is a labor and employment attorney at Duane Morris. She advises employers. She says exposure at work is a special case because it could be a worker's compensation issue. In some other situations she would advise against paying an employee to stay home.  They want to be very careful to not do something for one employee that they cannot then do for the entire workforce if it came to it.  A lot of businesses are struggling right now and cannot afford to pay for all the employees who could eventually need to quarantine. She also says they do not want to create an incentive for people to exaggerate their risks so they can get paid to stay home. Still she says if companies can afford to pay for all quarantines...  Absolutely. This is the time to show them how much you care and that you are willing to put your money where your mouth is.  Like so many things about the virus there is a huge divide here. For people who can work from home quarantining while waiting for a test result is almost a non-issue. But if going to work means showing up at a plant quarantines can create this anxious calculation - balancing the risk of spreading the disease against the risk of losing a paycheck. Camila Domonoske NPR News.  