 Patty Murray of Wisconsin Public Radio talked with two of the unemployed in Green Bay.  It is a toss up in this football town. Listen to a jobs speech from the president or tune in for the first official game of the football season? Luckily for fans President Barack Obama wants to catch the action too so he is going first before the match up.  My name is Michelle Farnsworth. For about 15 years I worked for a local insurance company.  Sitting in a downtown Green Bay coffee shop Farnsworth says she wants to hear what the president has to say.  Quite honestly as long as it does not interfere with my football but yes...   ...this is Green Bay after all.   Farnsworth compares the president and members of Congress to little boys fighting over plastic army men in a sandbox. She says it is time for the politicians to get over themselves.  You know and I guess I would just like to hear from our president I do not know everything. None of us can know everything. So I would like to sit down across a table with a cup of coffee with some people who have created jobs and sustained those jobs and find out how they did it. Because you know what? I need some new ideas. 'ecause what we have been doing so far the last couple years apparently is not getting us the results that we would hoped for.  At 7.8 percent Wisconsin's unemployment rate is below the national average of 9.1 but that is cold comfort to Farnsworth. If by chance Mr. Obama walked into the coffee shop she would urge him to get off the bench and onto the field.  I need him to be looking at okay what are we going to do to make some jobs. And we need to do it now not tread water not - well you know I am going to get a task force together and we will talk about it in January.  Donna Meves is treading the same water as Farnsworth. After 15 years she just lost her job at a technical college. Ironically she helped students get certified for those so-called shovel ready jobs the stimulus was supposed to create. Recently the president has called on Congress for money for infrastructure work. Meves understands that but says she does not have a shovel.  I need to hear that he is not only concerned about the trades people you know that he is concerned about professionals too. And I am a little bit older. You know I am not the plus-50 yet but I am almost there. Trying to start over is very difficult sometimes and how is he going to make that easier for us?  Meves would like Mr. Obama know that middle class people like her are losing the hope he campaigned on.  I would like to tell him my story and how I thought I was a person who gave 110 percent every single day I went to work thinking that doing that I would always have a job.  For NPR News I am Patty Murray in Green Bay. 