 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And here to sort out the two congressional proposals for us are NPR congressional correspondents Andrea Seabrook who covers the House and David Welna who watches the Senate. Hi to both of you.  Hi Robert.  Hi Robert.  And first Andrea and David - and let us begin with Andrea - the lightning round. You have one sentence to summarize each measure. Andrea start with Speaker Boehner's plan.  OK. It is a two-step plan starting with a small increase in the debt ceiling along with about 1.2 trillion in spending cuts then a requirement that both chambers at least consider and vote on a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution and then a so-called super committee of lawmakers to fast- track more cuts to the House and Senate floors. And if those pass lawmakers would allow the debt ceiling to raise again sometime next year.  OK. That is the plan of the Republican speaker of the House. David how about the Democratic Senate majority leader's plan?  Well Robert it' namely that spending cuts in it exceed the amount by which the debt ceiling is being raised and that the plan not rely on any new revenues from taxes.  Now I want you to explain the timing of these two proposals. And first Andrea how does the Boehner proposal work supposedly?  It would be two steps both of which would happen before the election.  one sort of now to get us through the end of the year the balanced-budget amendment would have to be considered by the Senate and the House between October at the end of the year. And then sometime in the spring likely or maybe the winter those other cuts would be considered and the debt ceiling could raise another 1.6 trillion. So in other words it just makes lawmakers vote for this thing twice.  And David Welna the timing for Harry Reid's plan?  But House Republicans say this is all meant to shield President Obama from having another vote on the debt ceiling take place while he is campaigning for re-election.  And Andrea let us begin with Speaker Boehner's plan. How does he arrive at all this through cutting spending?  We do not know all the details yet but it is a broad cut across many - especially social programs including Medicare Medicaid Social Security. We do know that if spending were to be - exceeded the caps that Republicans would like to lay out then it would trigger a broad across-the-board cut across all programs. So that is sort of the details we have at this moment.  And how does Harry Reid come up with - is it 2.7 trillion in cuts?  And House Republicans included those same trillion dollars more savings in the budget that they passed this spring but they are now calling that big cut a gimmick.  Now again all this would be the subject of a speech by President Obama later this evening and there'ill be a response from the speaker of the House. What do you both expect to see this week - Andrea?  The House Republicans have a sort of self-imposed rule that they cannot take up any legislation until it has been posted online for at least three days. So we are expecting their version of the bill to be posted sometime tonight and so the earliest that it could be taken up would be Thursday. Until then we are likely to see other bills on the floor - and a lot of talking.  But you mean even if a default were at stake they would stand by the rule that it has to be posted on the Web for three days?  It has been made very clear to me that they will not waive that rule.  David Welna what do you expect to see?  Majority Leader Reid is bringing up his own plan today in the Senate. And even if he finds at least seven Republicans to support it - which he would need to get past filibusters that might block it - it would take the rest of this week to finish it and send it over to the House - where it may well be dead on arrival.  NPR's David Welna who covers the Senate Andrea Seabrook who covers the House thanks to both of you.  Thanks Robert.  You are welcome. 