 There is a certain level of anticipation each month before the Labor Department issues the U.S. jobs report. Today the world was definitely watching. Maybe it could help answer a big question - is the Federal Reserve about to raise interest rates? The U.S. gained 173000 jobs in August - fewer than expected. But the unemployment rate fell to 5.1 percent - a mixed report. So as NPR's Chris Arnold explains that big question - it is still looming out there.  The U.S. economy is at a historic crossroads. Never before has the Federal Reserve set interest rates this low and certainly not for this long. It did that to boost the badly damaged economy. And now we have seen the longest stretch of job growth ever - 13 million jobs over 66 straight months. So that sounds great but wages are still stagnant and several million people of working age still do not have jobs. So the question now is is the economy strong enough to walk on its own two feet?  The Federal Reserve would like to get to a place where it feels more normal. To have rates this low for so long does not feel normal.  That is Lisa Lynch interim president of Brandeis University and a former Labor Department economist. She knows that keeping rates too low for too long can cause problems - bubbles in the housing market or the stock market. Still for her part Lynch thinks that the Fed should wait a little longer before scaling back the life support. So she says when the Fed meets later in September...  If I was sitting in that room it would be a tough call but I would err on the side of delaying until later in the year to ensure that there is nothing that the Federal Reserve does that scuppers the current recovery.  There are some economic storm clouds too. Worry about a slowdown in China has been sending stocks sharply lower around the world. The Dow is down about 12 percent from its peak. Randall Kroszner is a former governor of the Federal Reserve Board. We reached him today in the lobby of the Central Bank of Ireland.  One of the key debates at the Fed meeting coming up is going to be the impact of China. Is this something that is really just within China and will not have dramatic spillover effects or is this something that is going to set and train much bigger issues where they are going to have to make a decision and unlimited data in less than a couple of weeks.  For his part Kroszner thinks the U.S. economy is looking strong enough and unemployment low enough that the Fed will start to remove the life support and raise interest rates at its next meeting. Chris Arnold NPR News. 