 Three hundred seven billion dollars that is how much Americans gave to charity last year. This year's number is expected to be smaller and 2010 is not looking so great for non-profits either. From Seattle NPR's Wendy Kaufman reports.  The downtown YWCA is a safe haven for women and their children. They can make meals sit at a comfy kitchen table and talk about regular stuff like Halloween costumes.   Scary is not the word the YWCA's chief executive uses to describe her budget crunch. But Sue Sherbrooke comes close to it. Ms.  Concerned about how we are going to end the year. We have 633000 to raise. And there are women and families in our two counties who are really depending on us to do it and we are worried.  And the YWCA is not alone. Overall charitable giving fell roughly six percent last year after adjusting for inflation. That is the steepest drop in decades. And this year giving will likely be down again. So far there have been just two marquee gifts of 100 million or more. Last year there were 20. Donations by the rest of us are also down. Some people who used to give at the office no longer have jobs. Others like Carol Pankey saw their retirement funds take a hit and they scaled back. Ms.  I have regularly charities I support. I always try to add something new every year and last year I just did not.  In fact Pankey actually cut the number of charities she supported and gave her money only to those who had earned her loyalty and trust. That response has been fairly typical suggests Stacy Palmer editor of The Chronicle of Philanthropy. She says now more than ever organizations have to court their contributors and show them how the money will be spent. Ms.  One of the things charities are trying to do is make it more concrete. They might say if you spend 25 you can buy five minutes 10 minutes a half hour of a scientist's time instead of just saying it would be nice to cure cancer.  Or feed the hungry or provide job training. Donors also want to see tangible results from the groups they are supporting. Increasingly charitable organizations are using tools such as Facebook and Twitter to convey their messages and solicit funds. But most requests for money are still done the old-fashioned way. Asking for money has never been easy. And right now many charities are nervous about offending people by making a request. Ms.  There is a lot of fear out there. There has been for a year.  But LeAnne Moss executive director of the Women's Funding Alliance knows the only way she could meet the needs of women and girls was to ask for money sometimes boldly. Ms.  It is about being focused on that mission. And I have been in situations in the past where yes I have made too large of an ask and had to do a little repair. But in the end people have respected me and us more for doing that.  Looking ahead to an improving economy experts believe that individual donations will pick up first foundation dollars will follow. Overall says Stacy Palmer of The Chronicle of Philanthropy the outlook is not very pretty. Ms.  It is going to be very very hard for groups to be able to raise money. They will be in a squeeze. So I think it is going to be quite a long time until most non-profit groups can come out of this.  How long will it take? History suggests two or three years before charitable giving returns to pre-recession levels. Wendy Kaufman NPR News Seattle. 