 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. Since eBay emerged back in 1995 countless small businesses have used the website to sell or auction off their wares. But now there are new restrictions. As we hear from NPR's Mandalit del Barco tarot card readers spell casters and psychics will no longer be able to use eBay to peddle what are known as metaphysical services.  Debra Haney has been making a living on eBay as a medium and an herbalist. She sells pagan ritual oils such as her special voodoo flying ointment.  You apply it to the armpit area and you go and you meditate. And it is to do with astral traveling which is outer body experiences.  The 45-year-old Texan goes by the name Willow Witch.  I am a good witch though.   She says she and her customers are devastated and outraged by eBay's new policy to eliminate the metaphysical subcategory from its listings. So you are a diviner. You did not see this coming?  No.   I did not see this coming. I wish I had. It would not have took my breath away so much.  EBay would not give NPR an interview but an official pronouncement from the online auction and shopping website says transactions often result in issues that can be difficult to resolve. Ina Steiner of ECommerceBytes says that could mean love spells that do not work or unwanted prophesies.  They have to tell the buyer oh you did not win the lottery because you bought this spell? Well I am sorry. There is nothing we can do about it and the buyer will say but all over your website it says buyer protection.  Steiner says eBay will no longer allow things like spells because they are intangible.  They do not really know if you have gotten an intangible good. If it is an item that you send in the mail they can look at the records and see oh well the seller did ship out the item and it was delivered.  Lady Jessika Lynn a psychic in Florida will still be able to sell crystals gems pendulums candles and goddess cards since these are more tangible goods that the website can track but she will no longer be able to channel spirit messages from the beyond via eBay.  I must have known somehow because I went ahead before it happened and started my own website. I was ready to go.   And Lady Jessika has a vision of the future.  I think in about three years eBay is going to reopen this channel. They are weeding out the ones - is what I am seeing here - the ones that are not authentic who claim they are psychic and they are not.  But as for finding magic on eBay it is now you see it now you do not. Mandalit del Barco NPR News. 