 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. The debt ceiling deadline is now just a week away and party leaders in Washington spent the day counting votes. Each side has its own plan but it is not clear that either has the votes necessary for approval. Last night President Obama laid out some of the stakes of this impasse.  For the first time in history our country's triple-A credit rating would be downgraded leaving investors around the world to wonder whether the United States is still a good bet. Interest rates would skyrocket on credit cards on mortgages and on car loans.  But as NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports it is not clear that all of that would happen and some say the real effects are hard to predict.  First let us make a distinction. If the U.S. defaults on its debt it will mean big problems. Whether it will be catastrophic as the administration says depends on how markets react. And there is little doubt it would be very costly. But what if there is no default and it is just a downgrade? The government's borrowing costs would almost certainly go up but some experts say a downgrade is primarily a public relations issue.  Not meaningless because it is sort of a nice focus for the press but it just is not a big financial deal.  Ratings agencies may downgrade the U.S.'s credit even if Congress does raise the debt ceiling if it does not address long-term deficits at the same time. The economic impact of that kind of downgrade Gagnon says could easily be a non-event.  You know oftentimes the rating agencies are behind the curve. And this is certainly the case now where the rating agencies do not have any additional information that everyone else in the market has already.  Japan's sovereign debt rating was cut in 2002 and...  There just was not a big effect.  It turns out this opinion is shared by Standard Poor's itself. In a series of reports published last week the ratings agency assessed the likely impact of a downgrade not accompanied by default. It said in short not much. In fact some say given the financial situation in the U.S. it probably should have happened a long time ago.  I would have downgraded them 10 years ago.  Kent Smetters is a former Treasury official and now a professor at the Wharton School. Smetters says for many years he is believed that interest payments Social Security and Medicare were going to rise unsustainably - as they have. He says what is being revealed with the threat of a downgrade is that politicians on both sides have lost the ability to compromise.  It is a statement that basically says to the world it is not even obvious that we are serious about dealing with the longer-term problems.  Smetters says politicians like to suggest the country's credit rating has close ties to consumer credit but he is skeptical.  I think that is a way of trying to get the voter base into action but it is not going to have as dramatic of an impact on mortgages and credit card rates.  That is not to say a rating cut will not look bad. Here again is the Peterson Institute's Joseph Gagnon.  I would not be at all surprised if someone at Treasury was talking to the rating agencies and saying well what do you need - what do we need to avoid a downgrade? Minimum of what? How much deficit reduction? I would be very surprised if they were not talking to them and trying to get that.  Because if you can avoid both economic and public relations fallout why would not you? Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 