 It is happy hour on a Friday and we have some sad news for tequila drinkers. This is a product that by definition can only be made in Mexico. So if President Trump imposes tariffs on goods from Mexico this Monday as promised tequila will take a hit. Jacob Gluck co-owns Goza Tequila based in Atlanta and he joins us now. Welcome.  Hi good to be here. Thanks for having me.  So the U.S. imported 1.4 billion worth of tequila last year. And most of these companies are owned by Americans and operated out of the U.S. like yours. Tell us about Goza your company. How much do you import every month for example?  So Goza Tequila - we came to market in the spring of 2015. We have been able to more than double business every year since then. And today we are importing about 10000 bottles a month.  And tequila can only be made in Mexico right? It is like champagne that can only be produced in the Champagne region of France.  That is exactly right Ari - and not just Mexico but specifically a region in Mexico that is mostly in the state of Jalisco.  So is there a term like sparkling wine that is used for things that we would otherwise call tequila that are not produced in that specific region of Mexico?  There really is not not that you would go to the store and buy. We have a couple guesses as to why that is. The first reason is that so much about tequila is about heritage and the tradition and the story. And a lot of that if not all of that is tied to Mexico. And the second reason is it is probably a lot more expensive to make it in America too.  So what was your immediate reaction when you heard this announcement from the White House that there was going to be a 5 and possibly higher tariff on everything that comes over the border including all the tequila that you import?  Well I would say surprise followed by concern to be honest with you. Five percent's a lot and especially as it increases to 10 15 and all the way upwards to 25 it could be pretty devastating.  Were you trying to get as many bottles over the border as possible before these take effect?  Honestly that was not really possible. There was such a short amount of time from the time that it was announced to Monday when the 5 is supposed to go into effect. We did not have time to do that. Now what we are doing is we are trying to make contingency plans all the way from 5 percent to 25. And one thing we realized is well we are not importing on Monday. We do not import every day. So we are hoping these talks in D.C. - they will come to a deal and that we can essentially delay importing until a deal is made but before it increases from 5 to 10. So it is an intricate little dance we are trying to do.  So you kind of have to gamble. Is there going to be a deal so you will not have to pay the 5 tariff? Or if you do not import right away and there is no deal are you going to have to pay 10 15 20 even 25?  Yeah that is exactly right. We are trying to play that game so to speak.  Wow.  It - yeah it - you know it is the uncertainty that makes it a particularly intense situation for us right now.  How long do you think it will be until margarita drinkers at a bar start to feel the price increase?  It is not going to be that long to be honest with you. I could say probably within a month. Producers like Goza - we have tough decisions to make. We are going to have to decide whether it is us the distributors the restaurant the liquor store or even the consumer that is going to have to bear the brunt of these tariffs.  I could be wrong about this but my impression is that high-end alcohol has a really steep profit margin. Like if I am paying 10 or more for a cocktail the cost of the tequila is actually very small. Is it possible that you can just absorb this price increase?  We can to a certain point. You know 5 and 25 is drastically different. Just to mention we already are paying a federal excise tax on everything we import which for us equates to about 25 of our cost of goods. In terms of a high profit margin we have a healthy margin. But again at a certain point we will have to make some tough decisions.  OK so if people want to enjoy some tequila this weekend before prices go up what is your recommendation of how they should drink it?  Well first of all they should drink Goza...  .  ...If you are in one of the states where we are available.  With a slice of lime or just as is?  I like a slice of lime but you do not need it. And by the way you better also get that lime before the price goes up.  Jacob Gluck cheers.  Thank you.  He is co-owner of Goza Tequila based in Atlanta Ga.  