 A wave of terrorism has hobbled the tourist industry in Kenya. That is one of the country's biggest sources of foreign revenue. NPR's Gregory Warner says Kenyans feel they are being punished - not just by terrorists but also by Western governments.  Baobab Resort on the south coast of Kenya's Mombasa Island has the homey feel of a hotel in the Catskills. Each evening in the on-site amphitheater you might find the staff singing and dancing their way through a medley of tunes borrowed from American musicals like The Lion King and Mamma Mia. Sylvester Mbandi the 45-year-old manager says his resort is all about fun and fellowship.   I sometimes also stand and do a bit of dance or my managers are able to do that.  But last month Mbandi had to gather some guests for a more somber task. The British government had just issued a warning against nonessential travel to Mombasa because of terror threats. Mbandi had the unenviable job of informing 150 British tourists that their travel company TUI had decided to cut short their vacations and fly them home the next day.  You could see their faces. Some of the honeymooners just started crying immediately and left the room. Others kept hoping it is a dream. By morning it will have changed. But it was reality. They had to go back to their country.  Two days later on May 16th 10 people were killed by twin blasts in Kenya's capital Nairobi. Nairobi was not on the travel ban list but Mombasa and Kenya's north coast were. And since the travel warnings came out last month from Britain and the United States and then Australia and France 25 hotels in Mombasa have closed. More than 5000 hotel workers have been laid off or suspended and these layoffs have rippled out to nearly every local industry. Kwale County minister of tourism Adam Sheikh says that Kenyans feel like they are being punished by Western governments after standing with them in the war on terror. He points out that the recent wave of terrorism here only started after Kenya sent troops into Somalia. They are fighting Islamist militants in a war funded largely by American dollars.   We find ourselves in this situation because we have stood with the international community to fight terrorism. Now these terrorists are fighting back. We need our friends to stand by us not to leave us and make the situation worse than it is already.  He says the British travel warnings in particular did more damage to the economy than the last six months of terrorist attacks.  To just slap a ban on us merely because there are a few grenades thrown around - we find this unfair.  In Mombasa I met a German travel agent from Dusseldorf named Lynn Hoffman. Germany is one country that has not put a travel warning on Kenya. But this February it put one on Egypt. And Hoffman felt it like a chokehold.   So we cannot say to a family - or we cannot make an offer to a family traveling to Egypt. When the German government says people are not safe there you cannot do it as a travel agent.  The American and British governments say their intention in Kenya is only to protect their citizens. It is not to punish the industry. And they have since clarified that their warnings were only for specific regions and not Kenya as a whole. But county minister Adam Sheikh says that if the warnings feel like a covert economic sanction it is one that he can see the reason for.   They believe that there is too much corruption. Making any effort to rein in these terrorists - useless. All these small arms are getting through our borders right under the noses of some of the security agencies.  If that is the real message then do you think the Kenyan government is listening?  I think we are listening but we are overwhelmed.  Overwhelmed by economic problems he says that in turn fuel more corruption and more terrorism. He argues that it is those economic problems that terror warnings are making worse. Gregory Warner. NPR News Nairobi.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 