 I am Michele Norris.  I am Melissa Block and this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.  Well  Tell banks they cannot charge but so much each time a customer uses a debit card and save consumers some cash on those so-called swipe fees. That is what Congress intended last year when it passed the Dodd-Frank Act. And that new rule is slated to start this weekend. But banks are finding a work around. They are imposing new fees to make up for what they will not make on each individual transaction. Several banks are exploring this and Bank of America is a prime example. It plans a new 5 a month fee for customers who use BofA debit cards to go shopping. Some customers are angry and confused.  I do not like it. they have already given us a - I think it is a 12 fee - if you do not maintain a certain balance.  Well I personally love Bank of America. I am willing to take 5 charges like that.   That sucks. I am not going to pay. I will quit. I will keep my money in a mattress.  That was Rick Beard. And before him Lee Harold and Angela Wells all talking in front of a Bank of America ATM near our offices in Washington D.C. Daniel Indiviglio wrote about this for the Atlantic magazine. He joins me here in the studio. Welcome.  Thanks for having me.  Remind us before we talk about these new fees exactly what the Dodd-Frank Bill did.  Right. So there was a provision in the Dodd-Frank Bill promoted by Senator Durbin and it basically set a cap on how much interchange which is what they call the fee that is collected on debit cards. So because of that cap banks are collecting a lot less revenue from these debit cards.  How do these new fees work that banks are using as we described as workaround to try to recoup the money they might lose?  Right. So the big news today as you mentioned is this Bank of America announcement that they are going to charge 5 a month to people who use a debit card. Now I think the big surprise here is not that banks are trying to find that money somewhere else but that they are being so direct about it. Until now we kind of just all thought that they were going to kind of end free checking find ways to charge people more for their checking account. But this seems to really be a direct way to get at those debit fee costs.  How do these fees work?  So the way it works is up to now it is been indirect. So some percentage of a transaction with a debit card the retailer that you buy something at will pay to the banks directly. Now since that amount is capped they are now going to charge consumers directly to make up that difference.  And only if you use your debit card?  That is right.  So let us say you are in a retail establishment or maybe even at a gas station and you have the choice of using debit or credit. If you choose credit do you avoid the fee?  At this time you do. There are interchange fees for credit as well but they are not affected by this particular provision.  And are there other ways that customers can try to avoid the fee?  Cash is you know the obvious one.   Cash is accepted everywhere right? So -  As long as you do not get hit with an ATM fee.  Right.  How are other banks handling this?  Some of the others are testing debit card fees as well. I read Wells Fargo and Chase are both looking at that as a possibility testing some models. It is going to vary bank by bank. But what tends to happen especially with big banks it is become kind of an oligopoly. You know there is a couple really big ones and they tend to move in sync. When one institutes a policy the others do too just because that is the way markets work.  Daniel it seems that banks were really pushing these debit cards. In some cases asking people to move away from credit cards and instead take up debit cards.  Yeah and that is an interesting point. And in this case it looks to me like they must expect a lot of people to stop using debit right? I mean if you have the opportunity - if you have a credit card if you have cash you do not necessarily need to use a debit card. And if you are going to charge people more for it a lot of consumers are going to drop off. So I guess they might have liked the deposits that came along with those checking accounts that people might keep more deposits if they are using debit. And perhaps they just realized the costs of you know these debit cards without being able to charge this interchange just are not worth the rewards for them.  Well Daniel thanks so much for coming in.  Sure thank you.  Daniel Indiviglio is an associate editor for the Atlantic. 