 Maybe you have been driving through town recently and seen a crowd of protesters or excited fans maybe even paparazzi - at least that is what it looks like. There is a chance that each of those enthusiastic individuals is being paid to be there. The writer Davy Rothbart knows this because he went undercover and got a job with Crowds on Demand one of several companies that supplies fake crowds. Then Davy Rothbart wrote about it for the California Sunday Magazine. I asked him to describe one of his gigs.  The Masonic Center in San Francisco was hosting a global gathering...  Of masons.  ...For masons from all over the world. And the Georgia chapter has recently passed a rule prohibiting gay members. So we were hired to pose as a news crew as these masons are streaming up to the event. I had a mic. We had camera crews and everything and I would sort of engage with them to talk about the issues you know. We would say like you know are you aware of this Georgia edict that is banning homosexuality among that chapter's members?  But there seems like there must be less deceptive ways of accomplishing that.  I mean I will say this it seemed to me to be a productive way. And what happened was as we started talking to people some of them were not aware of the issue so we were educating them about it. Some of them were aware but felt like there was not anything they could do but we talked to them about things that they could do. And some of them just needed to be challenged to actually take a stand. And what was the most interesting to me Ari was that all these people - me and others who had basically responded to a craigslist ad - adventurous videographers wanted - we had showed up to make 20 bucks an hour working as fake protesters. But our feelings about the issue were real and we actually became real protestors over the course of like an hour.  This may be a relatively young company but the practice of paying people to show up and be a part of a crowd is hardly new.  Right you know in France in the 1800s and England you know...  They were called the clacquers .  Right right. They would hire people to say encore encore you know or to laugh at certain moments in the play or to cry at certain moments. So we put a lot of meaning and value in a crowd. If there is two Japanese restaurants side-by-side and we are in some city we are not familiar with you see one that is packed and the other's empty. You might kind of lean toward going to the packed one you know? You are following the crowd.  Is there something a little gross though about when people start to undermine that power of the crowd by paying crowds to be there?  Yes  I think so. I mean I think it is savvy and I think it is smart. And I think it is effective but I also think it is a little gross. I mean it is - I think it is fair play. It is just like we are smart about when we watch reality TV. We know it is not real and interestingly this company Crowds on Demand they - unless you are a hate group or something like that you know they will supply crowds. It does not have to be in line with their way of thinking.  You write about one case that sounds morally questionable to say the least which is a college expulsion hearing.  Yeah. And a kid had been - possibly going to be expelled by a college and I am not sure the reasons. And he had a chance at his expulsion hearing to bring people to testify on behalf of his character you know talk about what a great guy he was and how long they have known him. Now Crowds on Demand supplied 20 people to testify on this guy's behalf. This would have been perjury you know in the court of law. But at a expulsion hearing people had testified on his behalf and the kid actually was not expelled from the college thanks in part I am sure to this crowd of 20 people saying what a great guy and how long they have known him. And so that is one that is pretty murky ethical territory.  And when you talked to the CEO about this case how did he defend it?  You know he just said that he had studied the facts of the case and he felt like this was one where he felt on board with working with this student to make sure he was not expelled.  When you went out on these assignments did they ever say if somebody asks whether you were hired or not do not tell them the truth?  Interestingly I do not think it crosses anybody's mind. You know it is just still kind of a secretive line of work and I think most people are not that clued into the possibility of hired crowd members. So the protest events we did you know - I never saw the flicker of doubt in anybody's mind that we were who we appear to be real protesters.  Davy Rothbart thanks for coming in.  Thanks so much.  Davy Rothbart is the creator and editor of Found Magazine and their forthcoming podcast is called Found. 