 Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  Let me begin by asking you if you do not mind how much have you been getting in unemployment benefits since you lost your job?  Weekly I have been getting 355.  So that is a little over 17000 a year. Is that right?  Right.  How difficult has that been for you to live on? What kinds of changes did you have to make in your lifestyle just to live on your unemployment benefits to begin with?  Well you know dinner out instead of being at a fairly nice restaurant now is Taco Bell if anything. Usually it is eating at home. Instead of being able to just buy whatever groceries we wanted to we need to clip coupons and buy the cheapest stuff on the shelf.  And now you are one of the two million people whose benefits have been cut off pending a congressional decision to extend unemployment. So what are you living on now?  My daughter does get assistance food stamps for her and her boys. So at least we can eat. But honestly my rent's overdue. All of my utilities are overdue. Everything is at that cutoff point whereas if I do not come up with something by the end of the month everything will be shut off.  Are you possibly going to lose your home as a result?  I got my three-day notice yesterday in the mail from my landlord saying pay up or get out. So I actually got some money from my in-laws and paid the rest of June's rent but I still owe for July. So I am just kind of holding on for dear life.  Wow. Are you supporting all of the family members who are living with you or...  Yeah I am basically supporting everybody. Nobody has a job in the house. I was hoping my son would be going to tech school this fall but I am not even sure we are going to be able to pull that off.  So he may have to go out and work you are saying?  Right. And at 17 I mean it is hard enough for mom and big sister to find a job. It is going to be really hard for him at 17 you know soon to be 18 to find a job with no job experience.  Well what is your experience in trying to find work? What is been happening?  It is been hard you know just trying to put in applications. If you actually walk in some place they tell you we are not accepting applications here you need to go online. So I am going online every day putting in applications for everything and anything I can possibly think I might qualify for.  Are you willing to take any job at this point to support your family? I mean...  I have had people say well dummy down your resume. The problem with dummying down my resume is it is kind of a catch-22 situation. Do I dummy it down so that I can qualify or not be overqualified or do I keep all the information in there so that I can get what I should be getting?  Do you think if you had some extra time with extended unemployment benefits that that would make a difference in your job search?  I miss my lifestyle that I had when I had a job. I do not want to be on unemployment. I do not want to get that check every week. I would rather get three times that amount of money in a paycheck every week and live the lifestyle that I am accustomed to. But I need the unemployment to keep the lights on and keep the roof over our head and keep my grandson in diapers and you know all of that kind of thing which I cannot do with nothing coming in.  Would you ever apply for public assistance? Would that be a really hard decision for you to make?  And I feel like I have come so far you know making the income I was making getting the degrees that I have got and now I feel like I am turning around. And to go back to public assistance is like taking three steps backwards.  Now I know you have said you have been applying for a lot of jobs. Do you have any prospects lined up at this point or anything coming up?  Yeah I actually have an interview Thursday I am pretty excited about and it is a position that really encompasses my whole resume. And I am very excited about the opportunity to interview with this company on Thursday.  Debra thanks so much for talking with us.  Oh my pleasure. Thank you very much for this opportunity.  Good luck with that job interview.  All righty. 