 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. Today Labor Day is often thought of as the real beginning of the campaign season. Not that the candidates have not been running but voters are now finished with vacations and presumably more tuned in to politics. In the midst of dire predictions for Democrats in November President Obama spent part of his Labor Day in Milwaukee. It is part of a week he will spend promoting new initiatives to boost the economy. At a Labor Day celebration the president called for spending an extra 50 billion on the nation's roads and railways in hopes of putting more Americans back to work.   The folks here in the trades know what I am talking about. Nearly one in five construction workers are unemployed - one in five. Nobody has been hit harder than construction workers. And a lot of those folks they had lost their jobs in manufacturing and went into construction now they have lost their jobs again. It does not do anybody any good when so many hardworking Americans have been idle for months even years at a time when there is so much of America that needs rebuilding.  NPR's Scott Horsley was with the president in Wisconsin. He joins us now. And Scott as we said Mr. Obama will be talking about the economy for much of this week. What did he have to say today?  Well Robert he hit on a usual theme of his which is that the troubles of the middle class in America did not just begin with this recession. They date back long before that. But this recession has made those problems more urgent. That is why he is now calling for a new round of government spending on the transportation network rebuilt roads railroads airports. And while aides say this would be a multiyear effort he does want to jumpstart it with 50 billion in the first year. Pres.  This will not only create jobs immediately it is also going to make our economy hum over the long haul. It is a plan that history tells us can and should attract bipartisan support. It is a plan that says even in the aftermath of the worst recession in our lifetimes America can still shape our own destiny.  And Robert the president will have more to say on the economy Wednesday when he delivers a speech in Cleveland. There he is expected to propose an expansion of the research and development tax credit.  Scott what was the significance of having the kickoff of this week in Milwaukee?  Well President Obama campaigned here as candidate Obama on Labor Day two years ago just before the financial crisis really began. It is also the case that Milwaukee's and Wisconsin's manufacturing sector have held up better than much of the industrial sector of the country. Unemployment here in Wisconsin is actually a little under eight percent compared to 9.6 percent nationwide. And Robert would it surprise you to know that politics may also be playing a role here? There is some very competitive races in Wisconsin. And Mr. Obama wants to help his fellow Democrats.  Organized labor was an important contributor to President Obama's own election two years ago. Are unions expected to play a big role in this year's midterm elections?  They would certainly like to. Organized labor has not gotten everything it wants out of this administration and this Democratic Congress. But they feel their chances are better with the Democrats than with the Republicans. And so AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka says they are going to be knocking on doors leafleting in 26 states this fall.  NPR's Scott Horsley in Milwaukee where the president spoke today. Thank you Scott.  Good to be with you Robert. 