 He is a Democrat and he joins us from the State House in Sante Fe. Mr. Lewis welcome to the program.  Well thank you for having us and good afternoon. I just came from a legislative committee. They are talking about some of the issues we are gonna talk about today.  How worried are people there about this?  Basically you know our concern is we are walking in untreaded waters. We are very concerned because we just do not know what will happen if they do not lift the debt ceiling.  Can you give us a sort of basic framework on what New Mexico gets from the federal government? Could you just tick through some of those things for us?  Yes. What we do is we get about 500 million a month. And one of the big problems that we have is that New Mexico when we look at hospital and health care some of that is about 78 percent. And we look at education and transportation that is probably another 20 percent so those - there is probably somewhere in the neighborhood of almost 6 billion really right at 5.4 billion a year that we get from the federal government.  And you have a large Air Force base there also. Would that affect it?  We also have Kirtland Air Force Base. We have the Sandia National Laboratories. We have the U.S. Forest Service. We have Bureau of Land Management. We have 22 different tribes here that receive quite a bit of money from the federal government and then we have the other big national laboratory here the Los Alamos National Lab.  How is this going to potentially impact the citizens of New Mexico? Beyond the big expenditures are there other things that might be a bit surprising services or other things that get federal funding through matching funds or block grants or...  So all of these areas could be impacted with what is going to happen with the federal government.  Are you angry about the position you find yourself in right now? And if you are who are you angry at?  Well I am angry from the perspective that actually I have been asked to run for the open Senate seat that we have here been asked to run for the open House seat that we have here. But I have decided that that is not something - I think we have a dysfunctional government right now. And I have just said that - no mas no mas. So...  I want to make sure I understand you. You are saying that this whole thing has been so distasteful that even though they are courting you to run for either a House or a Senate seat that you have no interest in that.  I have no interest as this point. My concern is I do not want to be a part of what is going on in Washington today.  James Lewis thank you very much for your time.  Thank you. And I want to thank all your listeners and thank you for the interview.  Thank you. All the best to you.  Okay bye-bye.  That is James B. Lewis. He is the state treasurer for New Mexico. 