 Earlier this year Chinese government hackers stole tens of thousands of emails by slipping into a Microsoft Exchange email server - a breach serious enough for the White House and the FBI to take notice. Dina Temple-Raston of NPR's investigations team reports the attack went far beyond stolen correspondence.  Steven Adair noticed back in January something suspicious in one of his client's servers. Someone appeared to be stealing emails.  Kind of like a you know my hair is almost raising on my arms. And I think you know this feeling of like oh crap this is not what should be going on.  Adair is the president of a cybersecurity firm called Volexity. And he could see that intruders had actually taken control of the server linked to the Microsoft Exchange program. And whoever it was was asking for access to specific emails and the local Exchange server was just giving it to them - no passwords needed.  The attackers basically figured out how to trick the Exchange server into making requests. The receiving server goes oh you are the Exchange server. You are a trusted entity. You are allowed to do this. I mean basically it does not check that this is a completely unauthentic  request.  Now at first blush swiping emails may seem like a small thing. But they actually contain really valuable information that can be combined with other data to provide a great deal of intelligence. And we will get to that in a minute. Initially when Steven Adair's team alerted Microsoft the company was not all that worried.  At the time it was perceived as a relatively routine report of a couple of vulnerabilities I think one of which had already been discovered.  Tom Burt is a vice president at Microsoft. And among other things he manages the digital crime unit there. And his team thought that what Adair and Volexity had uncovered was a simple espionage operation.  When we saw them using this vulnerability it was in just a couple of dozen entities worldwide and just a handful in the U.S. And we and the rest of the defender community see this activity happening all the time.  Microsoft has a threat intelligence center that tracks dozens of nation-state hackers so it did not take them long to determine that Chinese government hackers known as Hafnium were the ones poking around those Microsoft Exchange servers.  This is a group that is relatively newer on the scene. We have been tracking them for about a year and a half now.  Hafnium has an M.O. that gave them away. It tends to target government agencies medical facilities NGOs academics and law firms. The Microsoft team also noticed that the hack had a twist. In order to work it needed a weirdly specific piece of information - the exact email address of the person running the local Exchange server.  That would be different for every single company and organization around the world. And it is not public information. And so we actually - when we looked at this we thought well how is this happening?  As they were trying to figure that out they discovered something else. The hackers had found a coding error in the Microsoft Exchange software. And to fix it Microsoft would need to send customers a piece of code called a patch. And that happens all the time. So that might well have been the end of it were it not for one thing - the little tiny hack went viral. Suddenly the hackers were everywhere.  All the sudden we saw hundreds a day. And then that continued to escalate until I think we were seeing north of several thousand a day. And so it was a very significant and noisy escalation.  The attackers compromised tens of thousands of servers and there appeared to be no rhyme or reason to the targets.   The U.S. and key allies are blaming China for a massive cyberattack against Microsoft last March.  As many as 30000 entities inside the United States have been impacted by this security flaw in that Microsoft software.  This is an active threat. Everyone running these servers - government private sector academia - needs to act now to patch them.  That is Jen Psaki the White House press secretary.   We are concerned that there are a large number of victims and are working with our partners to understand the scope of this. So it is...  I think this was probably the first time a tool we built was specifically pointed to in a White House press release.  That is Chang Kawaguchi. He heads a team that writes those software patches. And he said that while patching allows people to protect their systems it also tells criminals around the world what to look for.  One of the things about going public is that you cannot just tell the good guys right? When we release a patch the bad guys start reverse engineering it immediately. And so we always know when we are releasing that that is the starting gun of a race.  It is not a race between the bad guys and Microsoft. It is a race between the bad guys and local IT departments who have to apply the patch. The White House was so concerned it convened a task force - in fact Tom Burt was on it - to figure out ways to explain to people how serious this all was. What the task force did not say publicly was that it was worried that the email theft was just the beginning.  The concern was whether ransomware criminals were going to use this vulnerability to attack broad swaths of the economy in the United States or anywhere else around the world.  That is why the FBI stepped in. A judge cleared the way for the bureau to scan the internet find what the Chinese had planted in the individual Exchange servers and then remove it without informing the victims first. It was a controversial move. Though Kiersten Todt the managing director of the Cyber Readiness Institute said they had little choice.  You were seeing schools being affected state and local governments underresourced entities that did not have the resources to respond.  The variety of targets she believes was not an accident.  This is very much along the M.O. that they use which is to gather and aggregate data as much as possible and not discriminating where that data comes from.  Vacuuming up any and all information could end up coming in handy later as it did in the Exchange hack. Tom Burt thinks the Chinese probably got the specific email addresses they needed from an earlier operation.  And what we have heard directly is they have accumulated vast quantities of data about American and other enterprises and individuals. And they must have created a massive database that included the actual email of tens of thousands of individuals who are the Exchange server administrators.  But weaponizing information for cyberattacks may be just a short-term goal. Kiersten Todt thinks this is really about China trying to become the world leader in artificial intelligence or AI.  There is a long-term project underway and we do not know what they are building. But what we do know is that diversity of data quantity of data aggregation accumulation of data is going to be critical to its success.  To be successful AI needs information to learn from. The more information it has the better chance it has of discovering things. China has built-in advantages. It has a billion people it can collect information from. And reportedly it is been stealing from others to get even more. But there is more at stake here than just crime.  Artificial intelligence is going to be a model and a mechanism by which insurance rates will be calculated health care data will be calculated arguably how we take care of each other how the banks operate how we get credit.  Todt says we should ask whether we feel comfortable with China building AI for the rest of us.  And you can social engineer to the culture. What China is looking at as it builds out its AI is it can social engineer to its priorities to its mission to those traits and qualities that are important to that country versus those which may be different represented in other countries.  Countries for example like ours. China for its part denies any of this is going on. In fact it said that it has nothing to do with the attack on Microsoft Exchange. Dina Temple-Raston NPR News.  