 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris. The latest report from the Labor Department dropped unemployment down a notch - one-tenth of a percentage point. But the new numbers also showed that teen unemployment is still on the rise. It is now at 25 percent and here in the nation's capital that rate is much higher. At almost 50 percent this summer it is the highest in the country. NPR's Hansi Lo Wang spoke with unemployed teens in Washington D.C.  Sixteen-year-old Jacquan Clark would have liked a job this summer but he says the competition is brutal.  It is like crabs in a barrel. You know like we are trying to all get jobs but we are also pulling each other back because we want the jobs and our friends need it we need it.  He applied for jobs through Washington D.C.'s summer youth employment program which pays local teens to work in government agencies and local businesses. This summer the government-funded program placed 14000 D.C. teens in jobs but Clark did not make the cut. And that could affect his whole future.  I am going into my senior year so it is like how am I supposed to like help gather the extra money to go to college?  Michael Saltsman is a research fellow at the business-backed Employment Policies Institute and he says teens like Jacquan Clark have been facing a new norm for the summer job search ever since the recession began.  Someone that started as a freshman back in say 2007 has never known anything other than a job market where they look for work for weeks and have not been able to find something.  The teen unemployment rate has been above 20 percent in other years since 1981 but 1981 was the last time the rate remained elevated for a prolonged period of time.  According to last month's jobs report the national teen unemployment rate is about 25 percent. Saltsman says the last time teen unemployment ticked above 20 percent was in 1981 but the rate fell below that level just over two years later. This summer teens around the country have faced the third summer in a row of teen unemployment above 20 percent. And Saltsman says this trend is likely to continue.  It is tempting to look at the teen unemployment rate and sort of shrug and assume that it is bad but the only consequence is is that maybe the parents are giving them money to go out to the movies this summer instead of the kids earning the money themselves.  But working a summer job as a teen is not just about earning extra spending money. Saltsman says it is also about learning skills so you can become a good worker later in your adult life.  The risk is that if they miss out on that that they become part of this lost generation of teens who never had a chance to get a foothold to take that first step on the career ladder on to do something greater.  Studies showed the discouraged teenaged job seeker can grow up to become a discouraged adult worker who is more likely to be underpaid and even unemployed.  I feel like there are so many young adults and young people who do not want to try to get jobs because they have been turned down so many times.  Nineteen-year-old Laquesha Barnes lives in Washington D.C. She says she applied to supermarkets and clothing stores but did not land a summer job so she decided to volunteer instead. But Barnes says some of her friends are wasting away their summers.  I know like my friend is not working. And she sits at home and does nothing all day but watch TV and like CSI and stuff like that. And I wish there were more opportunities especially for young people.  Opportunities like this youth-produced musical Barnes and Jacquan Clark have been working on since June.    I am going to win. Do not count me out.  Laquesha Barnes is one of the cast members in the musical. And she says she may not be working this summer but she does not plan on being counted out in the future. Hansi Lo Wang NPR News Washington. 