 Today is Canada Day. And on this holiday Canadian tariffs on nearly 13 billion of U.S. goods took effect. The tariffs are mostly on aluminum and steel but more than 120 consumer products are included as well. The move is in response to the Trump administration levying tariffs on Canadian aluminum and steel last month citing national security concerns. NPR's Jackie Northam has this report.  The list of U.S. products being hit with retaliatory tariffs includes everything from musical instruments and motorboats to yogurt and bourbon items produced in states that are closely aligned with the Trump administration. But by far the largest tariffs will fall on U.S. steel and aluminum. Darren Green is the president of a large steelworkers' union in Hamilton Ontario. He says Canada has to stand up to what he calls Trump's bullying. But he says the whole situation is unnecessary and destructive.  We are producing more steel now than we have probably I would say in the last 20 30 years. And we should be celebrating that and the success of that. But we are not. We are going to tear each other down and we are going to destroy families. We are going to destroy an industry. It makes no sense.   Massive trucks rumble out of the Stelco steel plant in Hamilton all day and night heading towards the American border. The Canadian Steel Producers Association says the U.S. and Canada export roughly the same amount of steel to each other annually. It is part of a tightly integrated cross-border trade network worth about 2 billion every day. President Trump says Canada has unfair trade policies and has a huge trade surplus with the U.S. Nonsense says Gordon Ritchie Canada's ambassador for trade negotiations in the 1980s.  Official U.S. government statistics show that the U.S. is in a small surplus with Canada. It is largely balanced trade and it is fair trade and it is free trade - or it was until Mr. Trump started applying bizarre restrictions tariffs under the guise of national security which is of course ludicrous.  There are concerns that the two neighbors could get embroiled in a trade war. Roland Paris a professor of international affairs at the University of Ottawa and a former foreign policy adviser to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says no one wins in a trade war which could cost tens of thousands of jobs. Paris says it is a sobering moment in Canada-U.S. relations.  We make stuff together. We are the biggest bilateral trading relationship in the world. We are the closest two countries in the world. There is no reason why we should not continue to work closely together to grow our own and each other's economies.  Paris says Canada's economy is doing well and will sustain a hit from the trade spat with the U.S. but only up to a point. He says Canada's economy is much smaller than the U.S. and it relies heavily on trade with its southern neighbor. Jackie Northam NPR News Ottawa. 