 Mexico is making its mark in the tech sector. In the last decade Mexico's tech industry grew three times faster than the global average. Most of that growth is fueled by demand from the United States. To keep the expansion going experts say it will take financial and education reform in Mexico. Here's Monica Ortiz Uribe from member station KJZZ.   The star of the tech world in Mexico is this woman.    Blanca Trevino is the CEO of Softtek Mexico's biggest technology service company. Here she speaks on video for Mexico's Forbes magazine. Softtek spans four continents providing software support to clients that include Fortune 500 companies. It is a business sector that is rapidly growing in Mexico thanks in large part to its proximity to the United States.  I think it is safe to say that without the U.S. the Mexico market would not be doing very well.  Morgan Yeates is an analyst with the IT consulting firm Gartner. He says three-quarters of Mexico's tech services is for the United States. That is large global companies like Wal-Mart or Coca-Cola that need help managing massive computer databases. For years India and China have been the main providers but that is changing.  More and more partnerships are happening between the U.S. and Mexico.  U.S. companies tend to mesh better with Mexican providers. Time zones are more compatible and Mexico is better able to serve the growing Hispanic market within the U.S.   But it is not all about IT support and services. It is also about creating original software. This song was embedded into an app for an alternative newspaper using software developed by a Mexican startup called Publish 88. It is one of many tech startups popping up across Mexico. Enrique Lima is the co-founder.  Our first office 16 years ago was a table in an apartment of a friend.  Now their office is a rented house within a quiet residential neighborhood in Monterrey Mexico's northern industrial hub. Publish 88 licenses software to print publishers that want a multimedia presence. After only a year Publish 88 already has clients like the Mexico editions of National Geographic magazine and Cosmopolitan. Emilio Arriaga is the startup's chief financial officer.  Publish 88 is an incredible example of what you can do if you set yourself to your goals and you plan and you work hard.  But while big Mexican companies like Softtek are doing business with big corporations worldwide it is a lot tougher for small startups like Publish 88 to score foreign clients. There is no version of Silicon Valley in Mexico at least not yet. The country still thirsts for innovation. No one knows that better than Guillermo Safa a 40-year veteran of the industry here.    We are driving with our hand break on he says. Safa directs an IT business alliance in Monterrey. He says Mexico has important challenges to overcome.    Human capital is one challenge Safa says. Most engineering graduates in Mexico end up in the manufacturing sector. The other challenge he says is financing. Mexico's banks are not small-business friendly. That said a bill meant to reform the banking system is currently making its way through the Mexican Congress. Meanwhile Mexican universities like the Tec de Monterrey are nurturing the country's future entrepreneurs. At this interactive study center you will find bright colors foosball tables and trampolines all part of an atmosphere meant to stimulate ideas. It works for freshman Rodrigo Medina.  Well I am working on an app that helps you to find objects that you do not remember where you left them.  Like your car keys.  Exactly. Your car keys the wallet the cell phone.  Medina hopes to start his own business when he graduates. His success will be determined in part by how much support he gets from his own country. For NPR News I am Monica Ortiz Uribe.  That story from Fronteras a public radio collaboration in the Southwest that focuses on the border and changing demographics. 