 I am Mary Louise Kelly with a story now about a single tweet and the harm it has done to the powerful and very wealthy man who sent it. That man is Elon Musk the founder of Tesla and SpaceX. And when he sent this tweet over the weekend Tesla's stock took a hit. Musk has since apologized. The company's stock has since rebounded. But the episode offers lessons about what happens when a company is so closely connected with one person. Ashlee Vance is a reporter for Bloomberg Businessweek and author of a book about Elon Musk and he joins us now to talk about Musk. Ashlee Vance welcome.  Thanks for having me.  First set the stage by just telling us what this tweet was and what the context for it was. This came in the aftermath of the rescue of the Thai soccer team from that cave.  Yeah you know leading up to the rescue or during it Elon had been furiously tweeting away about a submarine that has engineers at SpaceX were building to possibly help rescue the boys. And as time went on and the rescue continued it was clear that that sub was not going to be needed. And one of the leads on the project Vern Unsworth a diver - he really laid into Elon.  Yeah we actually have a little bit of that tape of what he said. Let us hear it.   And stick his submarine where it hurts - just had absolutely no chance of working. He had no conception of what the cave passage was like - just a PR stunt.  All right so that is that diver Vernon Unsworth. And Elon Musk did not take kindly to these comments.  No he did not . Elon hopped on Twitter as he is wont to do these days and basically insinuated that the driver was a pedophile.  I mean as we mentioned he is since - Elon Musk has since apologized. Do we know anything other than that this rubbed him the wrong way? I mean was there any basis for this pedophile accusation?   Not that I have seen that anybody's reported or dug up yet at all. It just seemed to be that Elon really took umbrage with this guy calling the submarine a PR stunt. And Elon in his mind was out there trying to help these kids and I think that really just ticked him off.  Well you have spent time with Elon Musk as you interviewed him for the purposes of writing your book. To what extent does this episode strike you as being in line with his character in line with how he has behaved on Twitter in the recent past?  You know it is partly in line with his character. He is going through a really interesting moment over this past year. He is been tweeting almost nonstop and it is an effective tool for him.  He is got a huge audience we should say. I just checked. He is got like 22 million followers.  Exactly. And over the past year though we have seen Elon go from talking about interesting sci-fi things or his cars and his rockets to getting combative with just about everyone - the press guys like this in this case short-sellers of Tesla's stock. And I think it is reflective of a very difficult moment for him. Tesla is in a bit of a crisis where we do not know if they are going to actually make it as a company if they are ever going to turn a profit. And Elon's - seems to be overtaxing himself and this is coming out on Twitter. And it is a part of Elon that is always been there. I just do not think the public has ever quite seen this extreme version.  Well this prompts the question to what extent are Tesla's fortunes intertwined with their founder? I mean how much of - to what extent is Elon Musk's personality play out in terms of how you know the stock does and how the company fares going forward?  You cannot separate the two at all. If you look at Tesla's stock price it makes no sense for a public company that makes no money. It is - this is all tied up in this vision that Elon promotes and he is become something of a deity in tech circles and beyond. He has this Steve Jobs-like glow to him. And every time Tesla has a rough spot Elon hops on Twitter and tells about the great future that is coming and the stock price goes up again. And so this is a big deal that for the first time even some of Elon's true believers have sort of turned against him. And so you know it is a problem.  Thanks very much.  Thank you.  That is reporter Ashlee Vance. He is author of  Tesla SpaceX And The Quest For A Fantastic Future. 