 Marissa Mayer started work today at Yahoo. The fact that Yahoo's new CEO is a woman - and a young woman just 37 has generated attention but then came more unusual news. Marissa Mayer is pregnant. She is due to have her first baby in early October.  My maternity leave will be a few weeks long and I will work throughout it. That as you can imagine has amplified this moment as a significant one in the history of women leaders in Silicon Valley. Robin Wolaner knows a bit about these issues. She is founded tech companies and founded Parenting magazine and she is the author of a book called Naked in the Boardroom. And Robin reading the Wall Street Journal today writer Janet Paskin likened her feelings of this to what she imagined African-Americans felt for Barack Obama saying that this has raised the stakes for American businesswomen. I mean is that true? In what ways?  I am a little bit of an outlier on this. I was Time Warner's first pregnant operating CEO almost 20 years ago so I think it is great that they chose a woman despite her pregnancy but I really wish it was a great CEO position instead of one where the board was between a rock and a hard place.  You are referring to sort of Yahoo's struggles in general?  Yeah. It is known as the board that cannot shoot straight so I do not really look for them for affirmation of anything. I think it is great that Marissa Mayer took this job that she wants to do this. It is a no-risk position for her because if she fails no one will blame her but this is a crappy CEO job. Right? This is a slog. This is a turnaround. I want to see women get the great plumb CEO assignments as well.  This has launched directly into a kind of current discussion about women in the workplace and you had Princeton Professor Anne-Marie Slaughter writing about her life as a working mom in The Atlantic magazine recently.  I certainly read that.  And of course - right. And after the Mayer announcement Slaughter on Twitter wrote that Mayer is super-human rich and in charge not the norm. Slaughter very much made the argument against the idea of having it all.  Well I have always said you can have it all. It is just hard to do it at the same time. I think that Marissa Mayer is perfectly positioned to do that and I as a woman - and I think most of us as women - should really hesitate before questioning anybody's choices. I think Marissa Mayer wanted to be a CEO. She got offered a big CEO position and you know more power to her.  Now during a panel discussion earlier this year NPR's Laura Sydell asked Marissa Mayer about being a woman at Google and she said this.   People ask me what was it like to be a woman at Google? What is it like to be a woman at Google? I just do not frame it that way. It is not like I walk into the office in the morning and think you know what will my experience today as a woman be like?  And it sounds like Mayer's approach to this has been generally to kind of deemphasize the whole gender issue and I wonder if this is generational.  It might be generational but I think it is also kind of made up. I think when you talk to any candid woman and if you talk to her in a moment when she is not in front of an audience it is not the same being female as it is being male. Carly Fiorina famously said that the reason she got so many magazine covers as CEO of Hewlett Packard had nothing to do with her being female and every woman I know knew she was either lying or deluded. Marissa Mayer is not deluded. She knows that it is different being female but she does not want to focus on that. She wants to focus on what she can bring to Yahoo and I think that is right.  So in a way the pregnancy is the least of her problems it sounds like you are saying.  Absolutely. You know I fired one of my direct reports when I was two weeks into a six-week maternity leave and I asked him if he wanted to come to my house or do it over the phone. You can make all sorts of accommodations if you are focused on your job and you have a problem-free delivery so I think she can do anything.  Robin Wolaner thank you so much for talking with us.  You are welcome.  Robin Wolaner is a tech entrepreneur advisor to start-ups in Silicon Valley and founder of Parenting magazine.   This is NPR News. 