 Mr. Picard joins us now from Oxon Hill Maryland where he is attending a meeting of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  And in your most recent report to the bankruptcy court you wrote that you recovered about 1 and a half billion. Before Madoff's investment business collapsed it claimed accounts totaling about 65 billion - perhaps an inflated number. Have you been able to determine just how much money investors had with Madoff?  We have been using as a working number somewhere between 18 and 20 billion that had been deposited when the doors closed on December 11th 2008.  And how much of that money do you reasonably hope to recover?  I learned a long time ago that I do not speculate on those things. My aim is to collect as much as possible. I am hopeful that we can return upwards of 50 cents - or even more - on the dollar to people.  But why should someone who invested with Madoff in good faith made some money paid taxes on it and is now say living in retirement on those earnings why should that person's assets be clawed back?  And the bankruptcy code provides a mechanism for a bankruptcy trustee. It is called avoidance actions to get back some of those funds to redistribute them to the people who lost money. We are talking here about fictitious profits and somebody being paid with other people's money.  So if I had put 50000 in with Madoff 15 years ago and I looked at my eye-popping sums every time - when I got a statement from him what I would be compensated the amount I would be compensated to today would be the 50000.  If you had not taken out any other money that is correct.  How cooperative are you finding the winners whom you have been trying to reclaim money from?  Well we have sent out hundreds of letters and we have gotten very few if any responses.  The longer you do this and the more you learn about Madoff's investment business are you more impressed with how easy it was for one to believe in his successes as an investor? Or are you more incredulous that one could have not seen through the returns that...  I would say that I am more incredulous.  More incredulous. People should have known seeing what they were...  Well I think there were lots of - what us lawyers call red flags that people should have picked up on and that is why we think that many of these people especially ones that we have already sued are in a category of should have known.  We report on your doings often here and it is good to talk to you at last. But I just wonder when we speak of Irving Picard trustee is there entire - a department of Baker and Hostetler - do you have a huge staff that is working on this? How many people are actually working on it?  I have lawyers in some of the foreign countries. We brought litigation in some of the foreign countries. We have been able to free something like 200 million in Gibraltar and British Virgin Islands the Caymans and a couple of other places. This is not just a little case or a case that is solely situated in the southern district of New York.  Is this the balance of your career - being a Madoff trustee?  Um it very well could be.  Well we hope you will talk to us again about it at some point.  It would be my pleasure.  Irvin Picard the trustee in the Madoff bankruptcy. Thank you very much for talking with us.  My pleasure. 