 Forever 21 has become the latest store to remind us that nothing is really forever. The clothing chain has filed for bankruptcy. The company says it is not going away but it may close nearly 200 stores. NPR's Alina Selyukh reports.  In many ways the story of Forever 21 is that of the mall-going teen culture of the 1990s and 2000s. The teens grew up and their once-favorite brands went down the bankruptcy path - American Apparel Topshop Quicksilver - remember Wet Seal? - and now Forever 21. Today's 21-year-olds like Madeline Partow are not enamored with this kind of forever.  Low quality cheap clothing. Yeah that is pretty much it . But it is very like on-trend.  Back in the '90s when Forever 21 got big all that was actually quite groundbreaking. It was a time when access to fashion was exclusive says Christina Moon fashion studies professor at Parsons School of Design.  What you saw on the runway remained on the runway. You read it in the pages of Vogue magazine.  But Forever 21 propelled the era of fast fashion.  Suddenly you can actually get something for under 50 that you saw on the runway within just a couple weeks time.  For the couple that started the company this was the American Dream. Do Won and Jin Sook Chang were Korean immigrants who started with one store in Los Angeles. Together with their daughters the two are still executives at Forever 21. And what they did for shoppers is make fashion accessible. Precy Trinidad says she is been shopping at Forever 21 since 1999 where she likes to buy gifts for her relatives.  I get some shirts and some skirts for my nieces fashion earrings for my other nieces here and back home.  Back home is the Philippines. Trinidad says she loves the store. It is fashion she can afford as a live-in housekeeper. We caught her today checking out the store in downtown Washington one of more than 500 that Forever 21 has in the U.S. alone. The company grew very fast. It is also still one of the biggest tenants in American malls which are struggling. And the fashion world keeps changing. Younger shoppers want clothes that are more environmentally friendly recycled or thrifty. They want higher quality and better working conditions at factories. And if they want fast fashion they often go online to stores like ASOS or Fashion Nova. And so Forever 21 is trying to reset hoping the bankruptcy will lead to a start of a new forever. Alina Selyukh NPR News. 