 Another scandal at Wells Fargo has been uncovered. This time the bank signed up nearly half a million customers with auto loans for insurance that they did not need. They did not need it because they already had car insurance. Customers say they had no idea this was happening and that the bank expected them to pay for this extra policy. Wells Fargo acknowledges that tens of thousands of people wound up in default which affected credit scores. And thousands had their cars repossessed. NPR's Chris Arnold reports.  Back in February Michael Feifer was heading off to his job in Maryland at a company that builds guitars and he walked to the spot where he would parked his car the night before. But it was not there.  I called the police. I was livid. I thought somebody stole my car.  Somebody had improperly made off with Feifer's car but it was not car thieves. It was Wells Fargo Bank which the police told Feifer.  And that is when I found out it was repossessed.  Which he says did not seem to make any sense.  I was confused because my payments were automatically taken out. I have never missed a payment. My insurance is current.  So he called Wells Fargo which we should note is a sponsor of NPR and he says he was told that the bank had put another insurance policy on his car. And that got him marked as delinquent for not paying that insurance which he did not want or need or even know about.  They said well you owe 1500.  So Feifer got all his documents together and he made an appointment at his local Wells Fargo bank branch.  I showed up at that bank with my bank statement showing all the payments I made for my vehicle and my proof of insurance showing that I have never had a lapse in my insurance.  And so they were just scratching their heads basically like why did we repossess this car?  Exactly. The people at the bank were like well you should not owe anything because it is not your fault. They were just as confused as I was.  Feifer says the employees at the branch were trying to be helpful. They called up the Wells Fargo department for him that deals with car repossessions to try to find out what was going on. They put on the speaker phone. But that did not work out so well because all of them kept getting put on hold.  We were probably on hold for a total of two and a half hours while I was in there.  Wow.  I literally spent the whole day at the Wells Fargo branch that I was at. The employees at the Wells Fargo there were getting frustrated too. They were like this is ridiculous. You should not be on hold for this long.  What Feifer did not know was that Wells Fargo had already been doing an internal investigation into complaints from lots and lots of customers for this same problem. But that did not seem to help Feifer that day. He was eventually told to call back later in the week. When he did the woman on the phone said there was no record of his prior calls from the branch.  And she was rude to me. She was talking over me. I felt like she was not willing to hear what I had to say. The only thing she wanted to hear was I am going to pay this money right now.  Meanwhile Feifer was told that his car was going to be auctioned off two weeks from the day it was repossessed. So in the end after much haggling with the bank he paid about 600 to get his car back. Feifer figured this was just some freak thing but when he heard that this insurance debacle affected half a million customers...  I was blown away. I was not alone in it. And I felt like they are preying on everybody taking people's money. I felt like they are crooks.  Wells Fargo says that this was not a case of trying to improperly profit at customer's expense but rather just an embarrassing breakdown in processes and internal controls. In a statement the bank acknowledges that 490000 customers were signed up for insurance that they did not need. The bank is setting aside 80 million to reimburse customers. Class action lawsuits are being filed. The bank has no comment on those. But a spokesperson says Wells Fargo is very sorry for Michael Feifer's experience and that he will be included in the remediation effort. Chris Arnold NPR News. 