 Big companies like Nike Amazon and Sephora have been expressing support for anti-racist activism with new ads and statements on social media. But many would like them to do something more concrete to show their support for black consumers employees and black-owned businesses. A Brooklyn-based retailer named Aurora James came up with an idea. It is a social media initiative called the 15 pledge that challenges major retailers to pledge 15 of their shelf space to products made by black-owned companies. Sephora which is owned by the luxury goods company LVMH was the first major retailer to sign onto the pledge. And I am joined now by Artemis Patrick who is the head of merchandising at Sephora. Welcome.  Thank you so much for having me.  And Aurora James founder of Brother Vellies who came up with the idea. Aurora James welcome to you as well. Thanks for joining us.  Hi.  So let me start with you. I just want to read from your Instagram post. You wrote so many of your businesses are built on black spending power. So many of your stores are set up in black communities. So many of your sponsored posts are seen on black feeds. This is the least you can do for us. We represent 15 of the population and we need to represent 15 of your shelf space. Aurora can I just ask - how did this come to you? Was this like a eureka moment? Or how did you come to this? Or had you been thinking about this for a while?  No I had not been thinking about it. I had - what I was getting were a lot of emails and social media posts on my feed from these huge retailers that were like we stand with you. We are in solidarity. And while I was reading it and seeing it I was not necessarily feeling it. So what I asked myself is what would it actually take for these retailers to do for me to actually believe that they were standing with me as a black woman and also as a black founder? And that is when I thought about you know our population being almost 15 and saying like 15 of their purchasing power are going to black-owned businesses would feel like solidarity.  And you said look - do not get me wrong. I am going to go on and read your post. Do not get me wrong. I understand the complexities of this request. I am a businesswoman. I have sold millions of dollars of product over the years at a business I started with 3500 at a flea market. So I am telling you we can get this figured out. Why would it be complex though Aurora if you do not mind my asking?  I mean I think - the thing is when we actually started looking at the greater landscape of some of these huge retailers like they were actually carrying very few black-owned businesses. So in a lot of cases going from like 1 representation to 15 representation nationally is an insane amount of work right? But it is a necessary work. And that is the work I was asking for.  Artemis Patrick Sephora as I mentioned was the first major retailer to take the 15 pledge. Can you just tell us a little bit about what the conversation was like inside Sephora? And how did you decide this was something you wanted to do?  So when Aurora called for Sephora to help with this pledge we really recognized the opportunity to take meaningful action and to live out the commitments our company has actually made to support our black employees clients and communities. And we really just wanted to be a leader in this movement going forward. And Aurora helped light that spark. So you know if you talk about what was going on behind the scenes I had a wonderful honest discussion with Aurora about what this would mean. And we really spoke about the best way to go about it which is to ensure that we are not just rushing to meet a deadline but laying the groundwork for long-term success for these brands as well as meaningful change.  How many black-owned brands are at Sephora now?  Currently we have seven out of 290. So we definitely could be doing better.  Can I just ask though given how - can I just - forgive me can I just ask just how...  Yeah.  ...Significant African Americans or black people really all over the world are in fashion? I mean Rihanna's Fenty brand is a brand that I think a lot of people would know that is at Sephora which I understand has been wildly successful - Pat McGrath who is out of London. Given how prominent African American women are - or women of color let us say - in the beauty space it just seems strange that they have not been more prominent. Did this never come up before?  Certainly it has. And I think you know we did notice this. We agree with you. It is bizarre. So about five years ago we started an accelerate program and it was dedicated to building up a community of female founders and - specifically because you would be surprised as to how many are also male-founded - which is fine but again when you think about the industry seemed a little off. And so we did actually hit our goal of over 50 founders by 2020 that we helped with coaching and distribution financing things like that. And it turned out that actually 15 were black-owned founders. So we know it can happen. We just need to now really dig in and expand that infrastructure.  Artemis I am going to put you on the spot and ask have you gotten any backlash for this? The reason I ask is that you will remember when Nike posted an ad a year ago featuring Colin Kaepernick who initiated the take a knee you know protest during the NFL - you know there are people you know making a point of you know burning Nike shoes and you know posting these things on social media. Some of the sort of conservative groups sort of reacted with fury. Some have tried to come into shareholder meetings and denounce these moves. Have you gotten any pushback from people who say this is not your business?  You know there is always going to be commentary on social. But you know I have to be honest - the majority has been extremely positive. Because as I mentioned you know we are about self-expression. This is an industry that deserves to show the representation of the people actually buying the product.  Aurora can you explain to people why this matters beyond the particular entrepreneurs whose businesses would get this boost?  Well what we see time over time is that female founders and also people of color who are business owners put money back into their community when they make it. And so while this is direct money that is going to business owners it is also money that is going to immediately channel back into communities. And when you empower business owners and allow them to spend money in ways that make sense that is so much more sustainable to me than just a one-time donation.  Before we let you go Artemis I noted that other brands that have taken the 15 Pledge include Rent The Runway and WeWoreWhat. And the beauty care company Dove has been known for some time for their sort of inclusive ad campaign to see different skin tones. And it does seem that the fashion and beauty companies seem to be kind of taking the lead here. Why do you think that is?  For me it is especially important for our clients to be able to find brands made by people like them and to have access to products that meet their specific beauty needs. So you know while we of course believe that this same effort should be made by retailers across all categories it feels right that the beauty and fashion industries are among the first to step up and make such changes.  I just also want to say one thing to piggyback off of what Artemis said. Yes beauty and fashion industries are the first ones to step up. But I think it is also really important to note that these are industries that are predominantly led by women in seats of power. And when we had these conversations with Sephora it was nine women on a Zoom call. And it is largely women who are stepping up and realizing that all of these changes need to happen.  Artemis do you think that is true?  Right on.  Has that been your experience too?  Yeah absolutely.  Artemis Patrick is the executive vice president and chief merchandising officer at Sephora. Aurora James owns the accessories label Brother Vellies. She is the creator of the 15 Pledge calling on brands to dedicate 15 of shelf space to products created by black-owned companies. Thank you both so much for talking with us today.  Absolutely.  Thank you. 