 One of the best things about college is that it can expose you to different people different ways of thinking. Today we are going to visit a college class that does that in a big way. It takes place inside a prison. The NPR Ed team's Gabrielle Emanuel explains.  Inside outside - it is a straightforward formula. Half the students are from inside prison walls serving time behind bars and half are from outside the walls basically traditional college students. This year over a hundred universities and colleges will offer Inside-Out classes. But there is one cavernous auditorium dotted with industrial fans that is sort of like the hub. It is deep inside SCI Graterford prison about an hour from Philadelphia.  Look at the curtains. Them curtains do not look like they have been washed in a hundred years. But it is kind of a sacred space for Inside-Out.  Paul would know. It is been his classroom for years as a student and now as a teacher too.  Good morning everybody. Paul's an inmate serving a life sentence. Pennsylvania's Department of Corrections will not let us use his last name but they will let him train college professors on how to run their own Inside-Out classes. Today he is explaining this new type of student - the inside student - to a couple dozen professors.  A lot of us came from worlds where we were isolated almost like an underworld. Our thoughts our perceptions were in a cave of Plato.  If it is been a while since philosophy class Paul is referring to Plato's Allegory Of The Cave. The ancient Greek scholar told the story of people held in chains. They watch shadows on a cave wall. Those flickering images of the world are as close as they ever get to reality. Paul says it is here in the Inside-Out trainings and classes that he escapes from Plato's cave even if he is still inside a maximum-security prison.  The dank dingy castle .  Paul grew up in another version of Plato's cave - North Philadelphia. It was a tumultuous world of poverty and gangs. To Paul the rest of America was just a shadow of reality. My family moved probably - every three or six months we moved. And we lived in 7th Street 4th Street 17th Street.  For him college was not even an option. Instead he walked longingly past the gas station.  And I used to say you know oh I wish I could get a job like that with a uniform with my name on it. That - and that was in my eyes aspiration.  Things did not pan out. As a teenager Paul fatally stabbed a member of a rival gang. In 1977 he was convicted and sentenced to life without parole.  My mission in life now is to leave a better legacy than the one I had left when I came to prison.  Two decades ago Paul had an idea for what that legacy could be. Here's what happened. A group of students from Temple University were studying prison and one day Paul spoke to them. Before the 45 minutes had ended Paul began to notice something. His stereotypes of elite college students were beginning to fade and vice versa. He started to wonder about the power of dialogue.  It humanizes people on both sides of these walls.  Paul asked the Temple University professor Lori Pompa whether the conversation had to end. What if it could last a whole semester?  All I can say is that the conversation that day was one of the most powerful conversations I had had.  Pompa thought Paul was on to something.  What dialogue does is it helps to make the walls between us more permeable.  So she got to work and did what professors do - design a class.  And it just keeps growing and growing. It is really quite something.  Some of my greatest teachers were the men inside SCI Graterford. And Paul's one of them. So I carry that with me always.  A few years ago Cyndi Zuidema took an Inside-Out course as a freshman at Temple University. She will never forget her first day.  What are we going to talk about?  Plenty it turns out so much that she ditched her idea of doing a Ph.D.  After I took the class I said I am just so passionate about these issues. This is what I want to do.  Zuidema now works as a reentry coordinator for men and women who are released from prison. While Paul will never reenter society - he is serving a life sentence - he is working on his master's degree. And he says Inside-Out offers him a degree of freedom.  It gives you the freedom to care again the freedom to feel again.  The freedom to escape Plato's cave and be part of reality if only for an hour at a time. Gabrielle Emanuel NPR News. 