 We turn now as we often do on days of Wall Street volatility to veteran trader Ted Weisberg. He had a front-row seat for today's sell-off spending much of the day on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. He is president of Seaport Securities. And he joins me now from his office at the Exchange. Ted Weisberg welcome back to the program.  Well thanks for having me.  And given the announcement on Friday from Standard  Poor's and what you saw happen in the Asian markets overnight were you expecting a drop of this magnitude?  Well there was some chatter that perhaps this downgrade had been factored into the market because coming into Friday's close the market was down somewhere between 10 and 11 percent in just two very short weeks very long but very short...  Yeah long for the traders.  Exactly. But the reality of course turned out not to be the case and the Asian markets and European markets all reflected this downgrade. And clearly we actually I think percentagewise were down more than any of the markets today. And so no it was not priced in as we have unfortunately learned. And I suspect that perhaps there is a little more to come on the downside.  You do? I was gonna ask you about that but first I am curious about the mood on the floor today.  Well you know it is never fun when you have days like this. The customers are getting hurt. Everybody gets hurt. Yeah you might do a little more business because there is a tendency when you have this downdraft and - there is a tendency for the volume to spike because people are simply saying you can keep the cheese let me out of the trap and they just want to move to the sidelines and take their chips off the table. So the volume goes up as people sort of react to the events as they unfold.  And you think there is more to come the down - the sell-off is not over?  Well you know we - the markets have changed so dramatically and it is - it gets into - it gets a little technical. The SEC changed the way markets traded about four or five years ago and so we have a lot more volatility than we normally would see. Certainly markets always went up and down but the extreme volatility is sort of a relatively new phenomenon. And I just do not think it is run its course yet. I would say that technically clearly I think the markets have gone too far whether it be commodities or stocks. I think everything across the board is pretty much oversold. The overriding issue though is that as your guest shared with your listeners from the report from the White House you know nothing has really changed. We all listened very attentively to the president's speech today expecting some change and expecting some kind of constructive reaction to the SP downgrade. But we pretty much got the same speech that we have heard over and over again. And I think in fact when that speech was over the market tacked on another 200 points on the downside. So clearly investors were not impressed. I do not think traders were impressed. And until something changes it does not mean it is a zero-sum game but certainly even though stocks look cheap it does not mean they cannot get cheaper.  Ted where are your clients putting their money right now?  Well you know that is a great question. I think those people that are moving to the sidelines are simply leaving the money in money market funds or if they are concerned about that just moving the money into banks. On the other hand - and then - there is some positive things going on. On the other hand corporate America has never been in better shape. Balance sheets are flush with cash. SP earnings for the second quarter have come in on balance much better than expected. And at the end of the day I think and many of my customers think it will be corporate profits that will drive stock prices. So aside from those folks that are uncomfortable and want to move to the sidelines we also have a segment of our customer base that is actually working on a shopping list and I think - and as we will do tonight and I think we are going to take advantage of this current weakness because stocks have gotten really cheap and there are excellent companies that pay excellent dividends with excellent balance sheets that for those folks who have longer-term time horizons this sell-off actually could prove to be an interesting opportunity with a benefit of six months or 12 months down the road.  Yeah. A good time to buy. Okay. Ted Weisberg hang in there. Thanks so much for talking with us.  Bye-bye.  Ted Weisberg the president of Seaport Securities. 