 If you are tired of hearing bad news about our economy this next story is for you. We are going to try to make everything better - at least for an economy very much like ours that lives inside a computer. Here's David Kestenbaum with our Planet Money team.  The people in Mark Zandi's computer model like us they are not happy. Homes are being foreclosed on gas prices are up there is a debt crisis in Europe something like 13 million people cannot find jobs. Consumer confidence? Low.  We are pretty dark right now. People are very upset.  But fear not since this is a computer model of the economy. We sitting here at this computer in Zandi's offices at Moody's Analytics - we control this little world and we are going to try to fix it. Economists often use computer models to try to understand the real economy. And our goal is that four years from now - the end of the next presidency - we will have gotten the unemployment rate back to what was normal before the Great Recession back to 5 percent. Right now Zandi's model is assuming not much good happens in the next four years and the unemployment rate will only go down to 6.6 percent. So Zandi starts big. He fixes the U.S. government. Republicans and Democrats work together - agree on a long-term plan to deal with the country's debt a mix of tax increases and spending cuts. The computer chews on this unlikely event for a few seconds solving equations calculating some 1700 variables...  And now the unemployment rate is 6.1 percent. So we by the end of 2016 have shaved about a half-point off the unemployment rate.  It is still not great.  No. Still too high. Still uncomfortably high.  So what else can we do? How about peace in the Middle East? Zandi says. That could bring down the price of oil.  Let us lower the price of a barrel of oil by about 20. In terms of gasoline price it means that instead of paying 3-buck-75 for a gallon of regular unleaded we are going to be paying closer to 3.  This - sadly - only reduces unemployment by a tenth of 1 percent. Zandi's not surprised.  Gasoline prices are outsized in our thinking but you know when it comes down to brass tacks it is still - you know relatively small proportion here.  All right. So let us keep trying. What else can we fix?  Why do not we - why do not we fix Europe as best we can fix Europe.  All right. Zandi tells the computer that the euro is going to survive. European economy starts to grow. Nothing crazy - but better than now. In the model this means more U.S. exports to Europe and...  And now the unemployment rate is 5.9 percent. So we have now pushed the employment rate down another tenth of a percent.  That is all we get for Europe? That is all we get for fixing an entire continent?  Yeah yeah. Well we did not fix it completely right? We did not you know sort of - we did not say they are off and running. We are just saying they are not going to fall apart.  It is surprisingly hard to get back to a 5 percent unemployment rate. We keep trying. Boost housing values by 10 percent we make banks lend out more money. Can we try one more thing?  Yeah.  Can we just make everyone happier?  Yeah. Let us try that let us try that.  We boost consumer confidence and still...  Ah not very much.  We cannot get to 5 percent unemployment. I refuse to give up. We make people not just confident but super confident. We cut the price of a barrel of oil in half. We make the European economy recover spectacularly. Put in a huge number for economic growth in Asia and around the world. And this assumes maybe China somehow...  And Africa takes off right.  And Africa takes off?  Let us say Africa takes off.  Wow.   All right. Let 'er rip he says. This is so ridiculously optimistic he does not know if the computer can handle it. But it does.  5.2 percent. Still we cannot get the unemployment rate down to 5 percent.  What is happening is that the economy is reaching its new limits.  Its new limits. This is something I had not really appreciated before. When you go through a really big catastrophic recession it is not always possible to fix things. So many people lost their jobs and meanwhile every year more people graduate from high school graduate from college. They are looking for jobs also. And the economy cannot grow fast enough to absorb the backlog. Zandi says we will have an extra million or 2 million people looking for jobs and unable to find them.   Think about each and every year how much they would be producing. That is a lot of lost talent wealth - we are much worse off as a result.  You know that is sad because I came here today thinking we would be able to fix everything - at least in a model. And what you are telling me is you cannot.  Yeah I think we are in a different world. We dug ourselves a huge hole. And you know even after doing all these things we discussed we are not going to get completely out of that hole certainly not by the mid-part of this decade. It is going to take a generation to get completely out of it.  Zandi's is not the only computer model out there. But he says the consensus in all these little virtual worlds is that the effects of the Great Recession could be with us for quite awhile. David Kestenbaum NPR News.  