 Thanks for coming in.  Oh my pleasure.  Warren Buffett in his op-ed is explaining that he is part of a class making money with money and that accounts for his federal tax bill for 2010 ending up at about 17 percent of his taxable income. Explain how that works.  I mean if you go back decade after decade you find only a few windows where it was treated like ordinary income. By and large we give it a break and the theory being that if you give a break to that sort of income you will encourage the kind of growth-producing investment that everybody wants.  And the argument for keeping capital gains taxes lower is that capital gains are effectively a double tax that this is already taxed as corporate income?  Also if people choose not to realize their capital gains then for year after year after year they are making money in the stock market. Warren Buffett is getting richer by billions and billions and billions all the time but if he does not ever sell any of that stuff then he does not actually pay any taxes on that.  Well let us say that capital gains for Warren Buffett and everyone else were taxed at the same rate as regular income. Are there estimates of how much revenue that would bring in?  There are estimates. They vary somewhat. But I think it is fair to say that it would raise 30 40 billion dollars a year.  Warren Buffett is also calling for a new higher marginal tax rate for the top .3 percent of taxpayers the very wealthy. And why do not we start with those making more than 1 million a year. First of all there are about 237000 of them. If their tax rates were to go up why do not you pick a point and tell us how much it might bring in?  Well for instance if you raise the top rate to 50 percent from 35 percent now then you might make about 34 billion annually. At least that is what the Tax Policy Center has estimated.  Now that would be a huge jump from 35 to 50 percent.  Yeah. Huge and probably politically impossible but - yeah.  Well there are currently six tax brackets. What do you make of the argument that we need actually more tax brackets not fewer that there is not a single wealthy class now?  You know the top bracket now starts in the sort of 350000 range. There is a big difference between somebody like that and somebody like Warren Buffett. I mean someone who makes 350000 or somebody who makes 350 million in a year. I do not see any reason why those people would be treated the same under the tax system.  It is interesting though. I have seen numbers from the group Citizens for Tax Justice a liberal leaning group which says that the richest one percent - their share of total income is 20.3 percent. They end up paying about 21.5 percent of total taxes. Would you say that is their fair share? That they are paying a percentage commensurate with what they make as income?  They decline for people in the middle class and for poor people as well but the rich have done particularly well. I think that is an argument for increasing taxes on the rich especially in a bigger context where we are really going to be raising taxes on everybody.  Joseph Thorndike thanks so much.  My pleasure.  Joseph Thorndike directs the Tax History Project and is the author of the forthcoming book  Why Americans Tax the Rich.   This is NPR News. 