 The chief executive of Volkswagen abruptly resigned today just days after the company admitted it had rigged vehicles to pass emissions tests. Volkswagen's board said the CEO had no knowledge of the wrongdoing but the board says it will seek to prosecute any VW employees who were involved. NPR's Chris Arnold has the latest.  CEO Martin Winterkorn said in a statement that he was quote shocked by what is happened in the past few days and stunned by the scope of the offenses. But he said he is clearing the way for a fresh start by stepping down.  It is been an amazing week. I am not surprised that Winterkorn did step down as CEO. I mean I think it was the right thing for him to do.  That is Paul Ingrassia. He is covered the auto industry for 30 years and he is now managing editor of Tomson Reuters in London. He says these revelations have now toppled a powerful CEO.  This was a guy had just prevailed in a boardroom bareknuckle brawl against the chairman of the board earlier this year. And the board had backed him. And ironically the board was scheduled to meet Friday with the express purpose of extending his contract you know? So this was a really stunning turn of events.  It is of course also a nasty surprise for anybody who bought a Volkswagen diesel recently. Kathleen Williams works for the county of Clermont Ohio and she bought a red TDI Sportswagon just last summer.  It is just so outrageous. I mean to me it is a you know this tremendous fraud perpetrated on its customers who deliberately bought these clean-diesel engines because they thought they were you know they were clean diesel and they also got good mileage. So I - and then that 11 million cars are affected by it is just real betrayal of customers' trust.  There is still a lot that we do not know about when or what a recall fix might be. But auto-industry experts say if you fix the emissions that is likely to hurt the gas mileage and the performance of the cars - just how much we do not know. But Williams says to her it will never be the car that she thought she was buying.  I frankly do not know of any kind of engineering fixes they can do that would make the kinds of things happen that they promised when I bought the car because if they could do that that would have - they would have done it to begin with and they would have have cheated in this way. So I think that they should offer to buy back the cars at the price that we paid for them.  Volkswagen is going to appease not only angry customers but a growing number of prosecutors and regulators around the entire world. Paul Ingrassia...  Italy is now beginning its investigation. France is beginning an investigation. I am sure something will happen here in the United Kingdom. You know in American this may well evolve into a criminal investigation. There will be class-action lawsuits - already are on two fronts. Korea is about to begin an investigation.  All that has driven Volkswagen stock down 30 percent over the past week. Chris Arnold NPR News. 