 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Im Michele Norris.  And Im Robert Siegel. The U.S. economy may be on the mend but it is been a slow recovery so far. We are all still looking for some signs of hope. Well  imports of computers and electronics jumped recently presumably to meet increased U.S. demand. So we sent Jesse Baker New York's Upper West Side to find out just what people are buying.   Here's ACDC with You Shook Me All Night Long.  This shiny new MacBook is set to play an endless loop of rock to help set the shopping mood for  at least this guy. Mr.  It is a man's store. You know every man loves Best Buy.   Thats Anthony Curry. He is here for a gift for his niece and nephew. Mr.  Yeah Im looking for a DVD for myself called Marked for Death.  Shopper Jonathan Maron just seems to have a little extra money to burn.  Payday. Today's payday so I have to walk around to see what I could pick up.  Would you like a bag?  Comfort thats what shoppers are slowly beginning to feel again says Andy Hargreaves. He is a senior research analyst for Pacific Crest Securities. Mr.  If you go back to the beginning of last year there was so much uncertainty about the economy. People were afraid to spend anything. You know we did not know if our houses were going to zero. We did not know if the world was going to implode. So there just was not comfort around any kind of significant consumer purchase.  But these recent purchases are very targeted. People are not buying so many refrigerators or dining room sets or even flat-screen TVs. Mr.  Cause really right now when you peel back the onion it is largely PC demand that is driving that number rather than just broad electronic sales.  Joe and Sally Cooper already bought an iPad. But still they are in the market for a laptop. Mr.  I am looking for a small laptop and so it is nice and light and so that it is easily... Ms.  To carry. Mr.  ...to carry around. Ms.  So then we can travel with it. Mr.  Right.  Anna Bondarenko who is also eyeing up the Toshibas. Ms.  I am actually going back to school so it was a good time to - my old computer was getting a little rusty.  Back-to-school shopping can account for some of the rise in sales but according to Andy Hargreaves what we are seeing is a wave of people buying this summer who showed restraint last year. Mr.  So it is a bit of you know pent-up demand that was being released. That may be slowing right now though...  Mr.  ...it is going to be an interesting thing.  PCs and Smartphones are the trendy comfort foods the brown beans and cornbread and mint chocolate ice cream that consumers are opening their wallets for - for now anyway. For NPR News Im Jesse Baker. 