 The Labor Department said today that prices paid in July to producers such as factories had their biggest increase in six months. That is a number that fits into the mix when calculating inflation.  Floyd Norris welcome to the program.  Thank you.  And let us start with the wisdom that is driven economic policy I think since we all learned about Germans in the 1920s pushing wheelbarrows full of money because inflation had risen so far so fast. Is not Inflation what we are all supposed to be against?  Interest rates went sky-high and that made Paul Volcker who was then the chairman of the Fed first a national villain and then a hero when it worked.  He wrung inflation out of the economy. For decades we thought that was a huge success so what is the case where perhaps now having some more inflation?  Well the case partially is that the Fed I think did not understand what they should count in inflation or what they should not count. They wanted to count the stuff in the Consumer Price Index and pretty much nothing else. And as a result when you had asset price inflation they looked the other way thought it was irrelevant and we ended up with the housing boom.  And what you are saying is as we were surrounded with houses that were getting more and more expensive every year that was not considered part of the inflation rate.  No. No. The Fed believe that inflation was under control. In fact the way they counted house price inflation in the Consumer Price Index is they looked at rental cost. Now house prices were going way beyond what it cost to rent houses which some people thought was a sign things were getting out of control. But as far as the CPI went it meant that the prices were not rising so there was no reason to be concerned.  We have been living in an economy with officially almost no inflation. If there were say four or five percent inflation how would life be different? What would be the upside of having that inflation?  Well one of the upsides is that inflation your debt relative to your income comes down. And - but what would happen at that point if it worked is that homes that are now underwater - because people owe a lot more than their worth - would get closer to being level. So people who now have no hope of ever having their house worth what they owe on it would have some more hope.  Well I understand that if I were upside down 100000 on a four-bedroom house in Phoenix I would think this could be a really good idea. On the other hand if I was sitting on 10 million in the bank I would think well this inflation is going to erode the value of what I have.  Well and that certainly is what happened in the past with inflation. If you are sitting with a 10 million in the bank right now you are getting approximately zero interest on it. And I - it seems to me you are being robbed anyway because savers really have been hurt by the extended period of low interest rates.  Does it strike people who follow monetary policy or who make it that you can manage a modest inflation that you can have a target of say four or five percent and then reign it in when starts getting too high or is the danger here that before you know it there is 10 percent inflation and everybody's dollars are worth that much less?  Certainly people think that is a possibility and that is what seemed to happen back in the '70s. Part of this is inflationary expectations. If people do expect prices to rise they will act in certain ways that are sometimes not good. If you are worried about inflationary expectations taking hold in the economy it seems to me that it is a worry that is not going to happen real soon.  Well Floyd Norris thanks a lot for talking with us today.  Thank you.  Floyd Norris who is chief financial correspondent for The New York Times. 