 The Food world is perfect fodder for our ongoing exploration of trade lingo. Lots of you restaurant people have written in to share words that make sense to you but really confuse us on the outside. Terms like 86 in the weeds behind all day and this one.   Monkey dish.  Monkey dish for listener Karan Pfings of Salisbury Massachusetts. She is a hospital Director of Food and Nutrition and she and her husband own a restaurant.  A monkey dish is actually a small bowl. And if you picture you know fruit or applesauce especially in a more institutional food service setting you might see it served like on a patient tray or in a cafeteria.  Now we tried to figure out why a monkey dish is called a monkey dish and you can find lots of theories out there. Maybe the dish itself was originally made from a monkey's skull. Maybe royalty used monkeys to test for possible poison or simply put it is just the perfect size for a monkey. Who knows Karan Pfingst has worked in restaurants for 30 years and she could not get us any closer to the truth.  And there is lots of sort of urban myth and folklore etc. but there was not any definitive history on it.  Now to wrap up this litany of restaurant words. Let us go straight to the front lines. deep into the subconscious of the waiter.  I think that having a bunch of strangers sort of  eating needing things from you all at once has an impact. And I think it carries over into the dreams state.  From the dream state of listener Brook Frye of Northampton Massachusetts comes the word waitmare.  And it is a nightmare you have which is set in a restaurant.  And here's the waitmare that haunts Brooke Frye.  I was bartending in this sort of Art Deco like space and I was in this like floating bar. My job was to make these elaborate nachos sculptures. And the nachos - the tortillas were falling from the sky and all these people were pouring into the restaurant and I was trying to keep up pace. I was trying to make these nachos sculptures and get them out. And nachos kept falling faster and people kept coming in faster and I was you know ultimately like starting to get afraid of being buried by people and food. And we are trying to get these like really nice sculptures going and every person was like dying to have one and - yeah it was really stressful .  And here's the wackiest thing about Brook's waitmare. In her restaurant no nachos on the menu.  No I do not make any nachos at work. I do not know where it came from.  Our thanks to Brook and Karen for sending in their trade lingo. We would like to hear words from your line of work too. Please send them our way. We are on Facebook and Twitter at NPRATC ATC. 