 President Trump has said that he wants the country to begin withdrawing from the 5-year-old Korean-U.S. free trade agreement. Tonight Reuters is reporting that a senior administration official says the White House is going to back away from that position for now. But the deal with South Korea will continue to be a sore point because the trade gap has only widened since it took effect. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  President Trump won office by telling voters the global trade system is rigged against the United States and he says the 5-year-old South Korea trade pact is part of the problem. Here he was at the White House in June.   The fact is that the United States has trade deficits with many many countries and we cannot allow that to continue. And we will start with South Korea right now.  South Korea sells many billions of dollars' worth of products to the United States - chemicals cars dishwashers smartphones. Companies such as Samsung Hyundai and Daewoo have become familiar brands to Americans. They have long-sold many more products to the United States than U.S. companies sell in Korea and that has sometimes led to frictions between the two countries. The trade pact was supposed to change that by prying open Korean markets to American exports. But that has not happened says Rob Scott of the Economic Policy Institute.  We were supposed to benefit from the deal. It did not work out that way . At the end of the day U.S. exports to Korea have fallen since the agreement took effect.  Scott says since 2012 the U.S. trade deficit with South Korea - the difference between what Americans buy from the country and what they sell there - has more than doubled to 28.3 billion in 2015. And Scott estimates that this trade deficit has cost the U.S. some 90000 jobs. Why this has happened is due in part to Americans love of spending says economist Sung Won Sohn of California State University.  The main reason for America's trade deficit whether it is in Mexico or Korea is America's insatiable appetite for imports.  Sohn says the American economy has been fairly strong in recent years and people have been gobbling up products such as cars and electronics the very products that South Korea sells a lot of. In contrast South Korea's economy has been lackluster so Koreans are buying less. That is not to say some American industries have not benefited from the Korean trade pact. Ron Moore sells some 2000 acres of soybeans and corn in Illinois and he has seen firsthand the benefits of the U.S. trade agreement with South Korea.  Four years ago they did not import any soybean oil from the United States and now it is up to 180000 metric tons of soybean oil. So it is a huge increase in the opportunities for soybean farmers.  And he says canceling the trade agreement would send farm prices falling. That is unlikely to happen anytime soon. Published reports tonight say the White House has decided not to push to scrap the treaty right now. One problem for the White House is that tensions with North Korea are increasing again and that makes this a bad time to be playing hardball with South Korea over trade. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 