 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am David Greene. With 15 million Americans out of work the number of home foreclosures mounting and businesses still struggling it may not seem like the great recession is over. But officially it is. In fact we found out today that the recession actually ended more than a year ago - way back in June of 2009. NPR's John Ydstie reports.  The people who decide when a recession begins and when it ends are members of the Business Cycle Dating Committee at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Harvard professor Jeffrey Frankel who is on the panel says they are not saying the economy has recovered. They have just pinpointed the month when it stopped getting worse.  So when we say it is recession ended we are not saying that things are now good. We are only saying that things are getting better.  During a town hall meeting in Washington today President Obama said that for people suffering from the recession the official pronouncement brings little comfort.  Even though economists may say that the recession officially ended last year obviously for the millions of people who are still out of work people who have seen their home values decline people who are struggling to pay the bills day to day it is still very real for them.  That is not surprising since even though it officially ended more than a year ago it was the worst recession since the Great Depression. Still it was nowhere near as severe as the Great Depression when the country's economic output declined by 27 percent. During the recent recession which began in December of 2007 the economy lost 4.4 percent over a period of 18 months. That does make it longer than the deep recessions of the mid-1970s and early 1980s. And job losses were disproportionately high this time around causing much of this recession's misery. The unemployment rate soared to just over 10 percent and remains stubbornly high at 9.6 percent. With that in mind Frankel says it might come as a surprise that job growth actually started quite quickly after this recession. Prof.  The turnaround in the labor market is not particularly late this time compared to the preceding two recessions. In fact the turnaround in the labor market came earlier than the preceding two.  Those were the recessions of 1991 and 2000. The problem this time is that the unemployment hole is much deeper. As is often the case it took the Business Cycle Dating Committee more than a year to fix the end date of the recession. That is partly because it was waiting for revisions in data. But Frankel says it is also because they had to clear up one question that was important to the committee if not everybody else. Prof.   If there were a renewed downturn that were to hit tomorrow would that count as a separate second recession - or part of the same recession? And until we were confident that we would be able to answer that that was a second recession we had to wait.  So if the economy starts losing ground again it will not be a double dip but a whole new recession. Personally Frankel says he thinks the economy will continue to slowly improve. That is not likely to get President Obama off the hook. At the town hall meeting today audience members expressed disappointment that there has not been more progress. The president insisted his policies are having a positive effect. Pres.  My goal here is not to try to convince you that everything is where it needs to be. It is not. That is why I ran for president. But what I am saying is is that we are moving in the right direction.  Taking a shot at the Republican policies of the past decade the president said something that took 10 years to create is going to take a little more time to solve. John Ydstie NPR News Washington. 