 I looked up some companies that made initial public offerings of stock a couple of weeks ago. There was Gordmans Stores - it is a chain of discount department stores in the Midwest based in Omaha - and Ambow Education Holding - it is based in Beijing. It provides online and offline tutoring test prep and career enhancement services in China. Then there was IntraLinks Holdings of New York which provides secure online document management it says. That is the kind of company you expect to see filing an initial public offering or an IPO a small- or a medium-sized firm that is trying to raise capital to go big time. Well in a couple of months they will be joined by a little firm out of Detroit. It is called General Motors. Yesterday the company which nowadays is often derided as Government Motors filed papers to prepare for an IPO later this year. Greg Gardner business writer for the Detroit Free Press is following this story and joins us now. Welcome to the program Greg. Mr.  Well thank you Robert. It is good to be here.  And General Motors in its papers offered some risks outlined some risks that investors might face in buying their stock and they are pretty daunting risks. What are some of the things they warn about? Mr.  Well they warn for example that the government will continue to own a major stake in the company going forward and that its interests may conflict with those of other shareholders. It also said that as long as the government's limiting what executives are paid they will have a hard time attracting what they think are the best people.  And they acknowledge that the people running GM now do not have much experience in the auto business. Mr.  Yeah the directors were mostly appointed by the Treasury Department. Two or three of them come from the private equity and hedge fund world. Others come from telecommunications. But yeah they do not have many people who have experience running companies that make things.  Well if those are some of the acknowledged downsides here what is the pitch? What is going to be the argument in favor of big institutions buying huge blocks of GM stock sometime later this year which they can then sell to smaller investors? Mr.  Well part of the pitch is you know they may actually throw out a company like Tesla Motors which did an IPO about two months ago. You know they make electric cars out in the Silicon Valley. They have not made a profit and do not know when they will. GM will point to the fact that they made 2.2 billion in the first half of this year. They will point to the fact that eventually car sales will recover in the U.S. and that they are very strong in growing markets like China and Brazil.  How soon actually would this initial public offering be made? Mr.  Sometime in the next 60 to 90 days.  Before the end of 2010 in any case. Mr.  Before the end of the year maybe not before the election.  Now GM's management could have deferred this. They could have waited longer. What is their thinking? Why is it important for them to have the IPO so soon? Mr.  Well they see a stigma in being called Government Motors. The Treasury Department still controls what they pay the top executives. So the sooner they get the government stake sold off the sooner they can resume running the company like an independent investor-owned enterprise.  And would you say the consensus in Detroit is that they are ready that GM is ready to try it without training wheels? Mr.  Well like the rest of the country the opinion is split. Those that want taxpayers to break even probably feel that they should take a little bit longer get another quarter of profits under their belt. If you were against the rescue or bailout in the first place you probably want them to move full speed ahead.  The government the Treasury still does hold 61 percent of the stock in GM and the Canadians also have a share of the company. Mr.  Correct.  You know I mentioned those smaller companies that made IPOs recently. Gordmans Stores was looking for about 60 million. GM how much will they be looking for? Mr.  Through this first phase probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 6 to 8 billion. But there will be additional steps where more of the government shares will be sold and that will happen over the next months and years.  Okay. Greg Gardner a business writer for the Detroit Free Press. Thanks for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you. 