 Ben Bernanke also set out to demystify the Fed. Instead of the cryptic oracular observations of Alan Greenspan we got the Fed chairman taking 60 Minutes to his hometown in South Carolina. Mr.  Our family came here in 1941. My grandfather Jonas Bernanke bought this building made it into the J.B. Drugs after his initials.  And on PBS Bernanke took part in a town hall meeting with Jim Lehrer fielding questions like this one about banks that were deemed too big to fail.  But I truly believe small business and the companies that support Mr.  Question. Question.  small business are getting shortchanged by the Federal Reserve the Treasury Department and Congress. Am I wrong on that perception? Mr.  It is a great question. A tough question but a great question. And let me just emphasize that nothing made me more frustrated more angry than having to intervene particularly in a couple of cases where taking wild bets had forced these companies close to bankruptcy.  In both style and substance Ben Bernanke has been an unusually high-profile Fed chairman and not always to the liking of economist Simon Johnson of MIT who joins us now. First in style Simon Johnson is it a good thing for the Fed chair to be out in public explaining his institution?  Yes I think it is good. It is very new of course. The Fed has always been - prided itself on opaqueness. And Alan Greenspan was the master of opaqueness. So what Bernanke has done over the past nine months has been quite quite radical in that regard.  Now as for the policies that he has explained and brought more transparency to how do you judge his term so far? Prof.  Well I think you have to divide it into two parts. The first part as you heard in the report since September since the collapse of Lehman and the near collapse of AIG has been one of improvisation and trying to rescue the economy and prevent a collapse of the financial system. And he gets high marks for those efforts.  How did we get into this situation? Let us say think of Ben Bernanke as a fireman and he is done a great job putting out a massive forest fire. But was not he also involved in the conditions that made the fire possible? And you know where was he and where was the Fed and where was he when he of course when he was Fed chairman before that when he worked at the Fed under Greenspan? Where was he with regard to the kinds of risks that these financial markets were taking on and that caused all these problems? And the answer is he was not very much on top of that ball.  Lawrence Summers President Obama's economic adviser speaks of all the soul searching that is taken place at the Fed since those days. Are you impressed with that? You are impressed that there is a real examination of what went wrong and how we missed it? Prof.  No I am not that impressed so far. Of course the Fed you know judging its words very carefully and perhaps they have come to some realizations and understandings of what we need to differently going forward - that they have not yet explained to us. But based on what we have seen so far it looks like a lot of the Greenspan mentality a lot of the views that sort of finance is good and big finance is even better it seems that that view is still there. It seems that that is the line that they are still pushing and that is very worrying.  That there has not been an eagerness to go in and reform the financial sector still more aggressively? Prof.  Yes exactly. Now it is not entirely up to the Fed. The Treasury and the White House matter a lot. Congress is incredibly important. But if the chairman of the Fed is not leading you intellectually and thinking about what went wrong how did the big banks get into the kinds of mess that he talked about very nicely in that PBS special with Jim Lehrer? But what should we do differently? How should the Fed and other government agencies prevent that from happening again? We really heard basically nothing new substantive on those key points.  Just one last question. Is the role of Fed chairman is it as important as we often say it is? Does that person make a huge difference? Prof.  Yes that person does make a huge difference. And that person you know has a great responsibility. It is a very difficult job no question about it. And that person you know deserves and gets a lot of respect in our society. But we also should not be too differential.  How did we get into this mess and how do we prevent it from happening again if we follow these kinds of policies?  Simon Johnson thank you very much for talking with us once again. Prof.  Thank you.  Professor Simon Johnson who is also by the way a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund. 