 Supply chain woes have made car lots emptier and price tags much much higher. As NPR's Camila Domonoske reports this year has been a truly terrible time to buy a vehicle.  Sonja Simpson is a mom of three in Ohio. After putting nearly 200000 miles on her SUV it was time for a new vehicle. Her heart was set on a Kia Telluride. Last time she bought a vehicle she just stopped by after work bought it on the spot. This time...  There were lots where we would go and we tell them what they are looking for they are like laughing at us like yeah you are going to get that. No.  Vehicles in short supply right now especially popular ones like the Telluride. After two months of fruitless searching Simpson finally got her SUV - not a Telluride. She settled for a Hyundai model. Not the same day - she had to pay to get on a waiting list which took weeks.  I was like putting money down ahead of the vehicle even showing up on the lot. That is nuts. But she had to do.  As for price she paid full sticker and that felt like a bargain when some dealers wanted five grand over. This is what buying a car looks like in 2021 and it is not just new cars. Pedro Moncada and Stefanie Franc live in Salt Lake City with their 21-month-old son.  Yay.  Great job.  They were car shopping this spring looking for something that could fit two car seats. They wanted a second baby. And they thought they would set a reasonable budget for a late model used vehicle nothing fancy.  But it is been insane.  Used car prices have been at record highs. Some are almost as much as a brand-new car. After months of searching they found one vehicle they liked in their budget. But...  As we were driving around we noticed it kind of smelled strange. And there was mud.  It had been totaled in a hurricane. No warranty. No way it would be their next vehicle.  That is when we kind of realized maybe we should put a little time out in the planning to expand our family for now .  And they did for months now. Most people are not putting off pregnancies because of the car market but plenty of people are putting off purchases. So why is the car market so bad right now? It is no mystery. Car manufacturers are struggling with a shortage of parts especially the computer chips that are embedded throughout cars these days. The result is plain to see on dealer lots across the country.  Normally all of this kind of in the middle here is filled with new cars.  Sarah Chismar is a Toyota salesperson in Missouri. We video chatted on her lunch break. Her dealership rearranged the lot to try to make it look more full. They would normally have 120 new cars.  And right now I think we have maybe 10 new. And about a week ago we only had five.  There is no sign that this is ending soon and that is bad news for well for people like me. Not to reinforce any public radio cliches here but this car reporter has always gotten around by bicycle. Now I have moved back to my hometown and I am going to need to buy a car soon. I told that to Chismar and she said...  Oh no.  I asked if she had any advice.  Be flexible.  On what you buy on how far you will travel for a deal whether you want new used or leased. And then there is a really big question one a lot of frustrated car shoppers are asking themselves. Do you really have to buy a car right now? Camila Domonoske NPR News. 