 Eggs are one of our most basic and familiar foods and this year they are in short supply. That is producing a frantic scramble in the bakery business to rewrite recipes. As NPR's Dan Charles reports some bakers are turning to high-tech alternatives.  Long before Nicole Rees went to work for a high-tech food ingredient manufacturer called Glanbia she was a pastry chef.  That is how I got into this whole crazy business.  I met Rees at the annual meeting of the Institute of Food Technologists a giant celebration of food processing. But honestly she seems a little ambivalent about replacing the simple traditional egg.  Because personally I like eggs. People like eggs. We would prefer to be using eggs.  Right now though egg replacement is very hot. Millions of chickens died last spring because of bird flu. And now there are not enough eggs to go around. Egg prices have doubled. Bakers in particular are desperate.  Because all of a sudden companies are being told they are not going to have supply. Their phone's ringing and then our phone started ringing saying we need to test products today.  Glanbia her company was one of several at this convention showing off ingredients that can take the place of eggs. But coming up with egg replacements is complicated because eggs do a lot of different things in baking. The yoke brings moisture and richness. The egg white builds the structure for instance of a sponge cake. And that is before you even get to flavor.  It is so primal to baking and to our food system that to remove it requires a lot of work behind the scenes that no one sees.  The easy part is replacing the yoke she says. You need an emulsifier - something that helps oils mix with other ingredients. Glanbia uses a gum-like substance extracted from flaxseed.  It can behave sort of like a guar gum or a xanthan gum or some of the emulsifiers that you see out in the marketplace - sodium stearoyl lactylate you know GMS-90.  But food companies would much rather put flax on their list of ingredients than say sodium stearoyl lactylate. Shoppers want what the industry calls a clean label. Replacing the protein in egg whites is a lot harder Rees says especially in foods like angel food cake where it is really important. For this part some companies use protein from the whey that is a byproduct of making cheese. Others use bean protein others protein from algae. Rees says these products can get close to egg white but it is never a perfect match.  Can we replace 100 percent of eggs in an angel food cake - the egg white - and make an angel food cake? Is it identical? No. Is it a cake? Yes.  That leaves the final piece - the flavor. And for that companies turn to people like Michael Walsh.  I am a senior flavor chemist at Flavor Artistry which is a Glanbia company.  Walsh says flavor chemistry is both science and art.  If you look at it like a painter a painter has a palette of colors. He is going to blend them together. Or a musician has a bunch of different notes. Flavor's very much the same. Each flavor component is a note.  There is a symphony of these flavor notes in the food itself. Some come from the egg. Others emerge during the process of cooking. Walsh's job is to use the notes at his disposal - hundreds of flavor extracts mostly distilled from products of nature - to re-create the smell and flavor of the original. He comes up with an egg flavor formula usually including anywhere from 10 to 20 different flavor extracts. It may be a different formula depending if it is for a sponge cake or a custard. Glanbia will add this flavor combo to the rest of the egg replacement product - the flax and the whey protein. Together they will play a starring role in some commercial bakery a collective understudy for the simple egg. Dan Charles NPR News. 