 This pandemic has created an army of new investors. With people stuck at home a record 10 million new brokerage accounts were opened last year. The market got a little wobbly earlier this week but stocks are still near record highs. So we thought this was probably a good time for people to get their ducks in a row and figure out a good plan for the future and to help us with that we are going to bring in NPR's Chris Arnold who covers personal finance for our Life Kit podcast and joins us now. Hey Chris.  Hey Ailsa.  So a lot of new investors are out there trying to pick hot stocks. What could go wrong right?  Yeah what could possibly go wrong with that right?  .  You know so I mean investors are out there. They are watching YouTube videos and they are in Reddit chat groups. And you know they are probably getting a mix of some good some bad some ugly advice. But overall the market over the past year and even going back before that has been going up and up and up so a lot of people have been able to make some money. I talked to one couple Mollie and Chad Wood in St. Paul Minn. Chad used to wait tables in restaurants and when things shut down he opened his first stock investing account.  There is a marijuana stock that I found to be like significantly underpriced. And I said oh this looks like it might work. And I made like 1500 on that one trade.  Yeah it was a decent amount.  It was a good one. So I felt like I was the smartest person in the world when I closed that out. And then I was like oh jeez no I am not I just got really lucky.   Is Chad the smartest person in the world or not? I mean there are a lot of people like him right now who jumped in did well betting on a hot stock like GameStop or even buying and selling bitcoin. But tell us why maybe we should not all go out right now and try to be like Chad.  Well I mean look it can be exciting to try to be like Chad but as a long-term strategy investing is the most powerful way that we can save for retirement and our kids' college and stuff like that. So the most brilliant investors around for a long time have said that for everyday investors like you and me making short-term bets on what a stock is going to do next it is just too hard to know and it is not the right approach and it is too risky. So we are much better off investing for the long term and investing in index funds. These are very low fees so it does not cost much to go this route. And they let you buy the entire stock market basically. So if any one stock crashes that just does not affect you at all.  But what if somebody does want to buy some individual stocks?  Yeah so people do. I talked to a former financial adviser who now works for the personal finance site NerdWallet. Her name's Tiffany Lam-Balfour. And she says look just do that with a very small amount of your portfolio.  My dad liked to gamble and my mom would like give him 200 and be like there you go you know? And that is it -  and take the rest of his credit cards and anything else away right? So it is a very similar thought process. You have your core responsible portfolio. If you have some excess cash OK open a separate account. But do not let it intrude and interfere with that core portfolio.  OK that sounds sensible. But what should be in that core responsible portfolio?  The key idea is that you want to own lots of different types of investments so you can make money in different ways and spread risk around. It is called diversification. I talked to Paula Volent at Rockefeller University. She is had some of the best returns of any endowment manager in the country and she tells everyday investors this.  I always think of it as if you were in a beach town and you had a little stand you would want to sell suntan lotion as well as umbrellas because you do not put all your eggs in one basket. So you want to have stocks. Maybe you have U.S. stocks. You have some European or emerging market stocks. And then you need to have things that are going to do well in down markets.  That is when stocks are going down. So you own some Treasury bonds a real estate fund. This might sound a little complicated. So there are age-based index-type funds where you just pick the year you want to retire they figure out the rest for you. That is one way to make this a lot more simple.  Sage advice from NPR's Chris Arnold. Thank you Chris.  Thanks Ailsa. 