 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. It appears to be all over for the Borders bookselling chain. The company will be liquidated meaning sold off in pieces. The chain's 400 remaining stores will close their doors by the end of September. And almost 11000 employees will lose their jobs. The first Borders opened in Ann Arbor Michigan 40 years ago. And the company along with Barnes  Noble pioneered the book megastore business. NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports on why one survived and the other did not.  The vast tracts of retail space that Borders will vacate speak to a gargantuan business that essentially killed itself. At one time size worked to its advantage. Borders built a reputation on offering a huge variety of books tens of thousands of titles in a single store. Borders also had the early technical advantage. It had a superior inventory system that could predict what people in different parts of the country would buy. But in the mid-1990s Borders lost its technical edge.  It made a pretty big bet in merchandising went heavy into CD music sales and DVD just as the industry was going towards digital. And at that same time Barnes  Noble was pulling back.  Peter Wahlstrom tracks the industry for the research firm Morningstar. Wahlstrom says Barnes  Noble also invested in beefing up its online sales. Eventually it also developed its own eReader the Nook. Borders did not. Instead it expanded its physical plant and refurbished its stores. It contracted out its eReader business. And Borders outsourced its online sales operation to Amazon.  And in our view that was more like handing the keys over to a direct competitor.  Indeed outside a Borders in Arlington Virginia shoppers say they do not buy books the old-fashioned way anymore.  I go to Borders to find a book and then I will actually buy it on Amazon generally.  I come here to see the books. Then if I like them then I buy them on Amazon.  That was Jennifer Geier and Tristan Abby. With so many people like them buying from online sellers that do not have to pay rent or have as many staff Borders lost big. The last time Borders turned a profit was in 2006. In February of this year it filed for bankruptcy protection. Those who bemoaned the rise of bookselling giants might see irony in Border's demise. With one of the major players gone there might be some room once again for the little guys. Again Morningstar analyst Peter Wahlstrom.  I think that there are a bunch of different niches around that can still be sustained. But I do not think there is a need for you know the mass-book seller to be as prevalent and apparent as they were five 10 years ago.  Wahlstrom says Borders is disappearing at a time when as consumers readers are more empowered than ever. Wahlstrom says he still reads paper books but he also reads on his iPhone computer or tablet.  Just as I am probably device agnostic I am supplier agnostic. I can go online I can go to Barnes  Noble I can go to Apple I can go to Google. Or I can borrow it from a friend or I can go to my library.  Dan Raff is a management professor at The Wharton School. He argues that actually there is something lost especially for smaller-town America.  The big-box store was a glorious thing while it lasted. To people in many parts of America they were a kind of Aladdin's cave.  Where people could access literary variety that only a book megastore could offer. Raff says with Barnes  Noble staking its future on digital technology it is likely the big bookstore will live on only in big cities. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 