 Sprint has made no secret of its designs on its smaller rival T-Mobile. And today there were multiple reports of a tentative deal valued at around 32 billion. Sprint chairman Masayoshi Son has said a deal would make it possible for Sprint to offer more competition in high-speed Internet. But as NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports there are still plenty of obstacles to the proposed takeover.  Since before Son's company Softbank took a majority stake in Sprint he is made no bones about how he wants to go big in the U.S. market. And in an interview on The Charlie Rose Show in March he said T-Mobile was part of his grand plan.   If I cannot have a real fight I go in more massive price war - right? - the technology war.  That is your pattern. When you get a stake hold you undersell everybody.  Yes. Yes.  You are willing to postpone profits in order to gain market share.  Exactly.  But antitrust regulators and the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission have signaled they do not want the number of major phone operators to drop down from four to three. Three years ago they blocked ATT from buying T-Mobile. But Mark Cooper says this deal is different. Cooper is director of research at the advocacy group Consumer Federation of America and points out this deal would merge the smallest of the wireless carriers which combined would roughly compare to their next biggest rival.   And so the antitrust officials have to ask themselves is a bigger stronger number three better for competition?  Earlier this year Comcast announced plans to buy Time Warner Cable. And ATT intends to acquire satellite TV provider Direct TV. Cooper says with so many big merger deals to consider regulators will be forced to think about what sort of market they want to end up with and how many big firms are needed to preserve a healthy level of competition. The answer to that question will go a long way toward determining whether Sprint and T-Mobile will end up together. Yuki Noguchi. NPR News Washington. 