 Before yesterday's wild market ride a lot of people expected that the U.S. Federal Reserve would finally raise interest rates next month. Today the bets are all over the place. Some investors think it could still happen before the end of the year others are banking on the spring. Either way it is not too early to start thinking about what that will mean for you. To dig into this a bit we are joined by Megan Greene. She is managing director and chief economist at Manulife Asset Management. She is joining us from Boston. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  So first we want to remind people that we have been living through this extraordinary experiment right? I mean 0 percent interest rates. What should the average person be expecting when that experiment ends?  Well when that experiment ends and rates start going up people will have a harder time servicing their debts. So some borrowers will have an even harder time than others because some debt is pegged to short-term rates which are very closely linked to the Fed's rates. Other debt is pegged to the long-term rate which is less related. So I think that the biggest losers from a Fed hike are really credit card debt holders. Most credit cards are variable-rate cards so those rates are pegged to the Fed's policy rates. And also those who have stumped up their houses in exchange for a loan they will feel the impact of a Fed hike. They will have a harder time servicing their debt as well. Things like fixed mortgages car loans and federal student loans are pegged to a long-term rate so the impact of a Fed hike will not feed through to them quite as immediately.  You are talking about a lot of important loans in people's lives. So how should they be approaching financial decisions right now?  Well I think that people holding - sitting on a lot of credit card debt should certainly look to start paying it down because credit card debt is the most expensive kind of debt for the most part and they will feel the impact of the Fed hiking rates most immediately. So I think that they should be sort of the most on guard for what happens when a Fed rate hike comes. Also people who have stumped up their houses to get a loan should be ready to start trying to finance that loan or trying to pay it down so that they do not get caught out when the Fed starts hiking rates. I should mention that when the Fed does finally start hiking rates I do not think it will do so very quickly. I think we will see a you know a very slow and episodic rate hike in rates. So we will see the Fed hike rates by 25 basis points then they will sit there at that rate and wait a couple of months see what the impact is on the real economy maybe hike another 25 basis points. That is something we have never seen the past in the U.S. When the Fed hikes normally it hikes you know every single month in a row for a long period of time so it is very systematic. I do not think we will have that this time around. The hike will be slower and it will be based on the impact on the real economy. So consumers should at least feel comfortable about that. They will not get a huge surprise immediately.  And I want to take a step back here also because people may not remember how high interest rates were not too long ago right? I mean even when rates go up it is still going to be worlds from where we were.  That is right. I think that when rates go up they will go up very slowly as I said before. But I do not think that we can expect the normal rates that we have had before for a number of years. So in the past 10-year yields in the U.S. have typically been around 4 percent. We are not going to be anywhere close to that over the next five years so we can expect rates to remain really low for a long time.  And Megan Greene before I let you go I want to ask your guess about when you think the Fed will act when rates might go up?  Well I think that the Fed will probably wait as long as possible to start hiking rates but I think that they will feel some compulsion to hike rates in December of this year. The Chairwoman Janet Yellen has said a number of times that the Fed would like to hike this year and so if the Fed does not then that could really hurt the Fed's credibility. And if the central bank does not have any credibility it cannot do its job. The risk to that I think is that the Fed will wait even longer and we will not see a hike until next year. If you ask me what I think the Fed should do they should definitely wait until next year. There is only one economic indicator that suggests that the Fed should start hiking rates and that is the unemployment rate. But every other indicator suggests that actually the Fed should hold off.  That is Megan Greene managing director and chief economist at Manulife Asset Management. Megan Greene thank so much for speaking with us.  Thanks for having me. 