 Within minutes of opening this morning the Dow plummeted more than a thousand points. It was the largest point loss ever during a trading day. When the markets closed things were at a slightly less scary point. The Dow ended the day down 588 points.  No matter what if you are lucky enough to have a retirement account this was not a fun day to check the balance. The volatility comes after the Chinese government started taking some extreme steps to stabilize its markets - steps that have not helped much. We are going to start this hour by asking what this means for you and your retirement. We will put those questions to David Kotok. He is chairman and chief investment officer for Cumberland Advisors. Welcome to the program.  Well thank you very much. It is nice to be with you although we certainly picked a volatile day to do it.  What kind of phone calls are you getting? How worried are your clients?  They are concerned. Why is this happening? Is this going to start a bear market? How serious is it? What is the Federal Reserve going to do? Could China be the reason behind this? Lots of questions.  Did you have people calling you saying sell?  I had two clients today early this morning direct us to liquidate their accounts and they were panicked. And they ended up selling early this morning when the stock market was off a thousand points on the Dow Jones. I think it was a mistake. I do not think it is wise to panic. But they were panicked and they took over decided to liquidate and exit the stock market.  Even if you did not panic today should people feel reassured that things bounced back later in the afternoon or is this market just a lot more risky than thought?  The market is going through a corrective process. It is about time. No markets go straight up. So in this case correction is warranted. Things have changed. There is a risk premium in the market and it is returning to the market. It does not mean the bull market is over. I do not believe it is. I think we are in a long-term bull market that'ill go on for several more years.  So given what you have told us what does this mean for retirement funds for people who are looking at their retirement funds today?  People looking at retirement funds have to realize I think the best result for them is full worldwide diversification of their risk not concentrate in emerging markets but to be everywhere own pieces of many things. It is a sound principle. It is been around a long time. Diversification of risk works best.  And is that something that you know the typical person can kind of look at what their mutual fund is dipping into and make requests make corrections?  People can look at the asset holdings of a mutual fund. If they do not like what they see they should sell it and switch. The fact is the mutual fund reflects only what is inside of it and there is transparency if someone's willing to do the research. We strongly recommend that investing requires knowledge and understanding. And if you do not know it do not see it do not go there.  That is David Kotok. He is chairman and chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. Good to talk with you. 