 Oil prices took another plunge this week falling below 43 a barrel. That is less than half last year's price. Consumers in much of the country are benefiting but not all and we will get to that in a moment. The downside of low prices also means tough times for oil companies and their workers. Mose Buchele of member station KUT reports from a south Texas town where nearly everyone is feeling the pain of low oil prices.  Carlos Garcia grew up in the south Texas oils fields in a small town called Alice Texas. He was raised with the ups and downs of the oil business.  My dad was a roughneck himself. He was a driller years back in the '80s.  That was during the last big Texas boom. The bus came to Alice around '83. The reasons were the same as today. Oil was not worth the cost of drilling for it.  And when it did hit rock-bottom back then we lost out. My dad lost his home he had just built and I lived through it.  Eventually things picked back up. Garcia followed in his dad's footsteps. He worked on oil derricks and did well. But that was up until last year when prices dropped. He lost his job. He lost his truck. He says he is going to lose his car next.  I am looking for a little work. My wife is working a part-time job. It as not making the bill you know?  So he is got to scrimp and save.  Pinch every penny we have got and we will just eat here and eat at my mom's.  When he says eat here he is talking about the Alice Food Pantry a local charity. It is a busy operation off the old Main Street. Volunteers push creaky carts of canned goods bread and tortillas from a small warehouse to cars waiting in the alley. Bonnie Whitley runs the place. She is seeing more people like Garcia here - first-time visitors.  Men come in which is very unusual. Usually the women come in.  She thinks they need more than free food.  A lot of people are in depression right now and in denial. They just - they cannot come to grips with what is happened.  My name is Tanya Hinojosa and I am a waitress. I have been serving tables for the past 15 years.  You remember Carlos Garcia said his family's been eating in? So have a lot of families. Hinojosa used to pull in 65 to 100 a day in tips. Now she is sometimes clearing just 25 bucks so she biked to the Pantry for some food.  I have never ever made 25 in a day. It is always been more than that.  She and her kids have moved in with her mom and she is scrimping in other ways.  We try to buy 5 shirts for school pants minimum shoes - 30. No more 80 shoes. No more excessive spending.  And that is hurting people like Lidia Escobar. I met her at her family-owned children's clothing store down the street.  It feels like a ghost town. You can tell people are just - do not have jobs right now and the extra money to spend on stuff.  It was the same at a paint store and a car dealership. Able Perez owns a frozen yogurt shop. He wishes the town's economy was more diversified but...  Everybody here now is involved in the oil business whether we like it or not.  So they keep tabs on oil prices and hope they go up again quickly. Back at the Food Pantry Carlos Garcia the unemployed roughneck says it is hard to believe how fast things seem to fall apart.  It was going good. Everybody was making money and everybody was spoiling themselves you know? And I can hear the cry all over town now. Everybody is suffering.  He has advice for the town's young people.  Stick to school. And like I have always said we chose the industry. It did not choose us. And we are just paying for it now.  It is just in a place like Alice there really were not a whole lot of other options. For NPR News I am Mose Buchele. 