 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  NPR's Scott Horsley reports.  President Obama's export initiative has a simple logic - 95 percent of the world's customers live outside the United States. So when this country is looking high and low for new job opportunities it cannot afford to ignore those overseas markets.  But this is not just about where jobs are today. This is where American jobs will be tomorrow.  Trade Representative Ron Kirk is the president's point man on exports. Kirk says the administration's efforts aim to create some two million U.S. jobs over the next five years.  This is stimulus that we do not have to budget for. This is a way to grow the economy and put Americans back to work by continuing to show leadership in liberalizing trade around the world.  In recent months the president's export push has scored some concrete gains. Negotiators persuaded China to reopen its market to U.S. pork and convinced Russia to start buying U.S. chickens again. The Export-Import Bank has doubled financing to encourage foreign sales. And the Commerce Department has sponsored trade missions for more than 160 U.S. companies.  And we are going to go to bat for everyone from largest - the largest corporations to the smallest business owner with an idea that she wants to market and sell to the world.  Today the president named 18 new members to an advisory export council including CEO Scott Davis of UPS. Davis would love to see more cardboard boxes filling the backs of his company's big brown trucks.  For every you know 22 packages that crosses a border creates another UPS job. So you know trade does create jobs in this country and around the world.  UPS and other shipping companies are actually helping to identify American firms that already export to just one other country. The thinking is with a little encouragement they might be able to do more.  So it is essential that we educate you know the small- and medium- sized enterprises you know about that opportunity and then to help them actually do the exporting.  Slaughter who was an adviser to former President George W. Bush says those moves are bound to be more controversial than simply acting as an export cheerleader.  Americans have long been ambivalent about greater global engagement for the U.S. economy. And that is with good reason. Trade and other forms of globalization tend to generate very large gains for the United States overall. But those gains do not always accrue to every single worker and firm and community.  President Obama himself often sounded ambivalent about trade during the Democratic primary campaign. Departing from his prepared text today he said he hopes to escape what he calls a false political debate.  The argument was either you were pro-trade or you were anti-trade. What we now an opportunity to do is to refocus our attention where we are all in it together.  Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 