 The pandemic safety net is only catching so many people. And today two giant holes have been ripped in that net.  An extra 600 a week of federal unemployment money evaporates today for almost everyone who is been receiving it.  And a federal moratorium on evictions that has protected nearly 12 million people also expires today which means a wave of evictions may be on the way.  Barbara lives in a fourplex in New Orleans with her 7-month-old baby. We are using her first name only because she fears retaliation for speaking out about her situation.  We rent here. And we are currently facing eviction. And I do not really have any family. You know everybody's struggling now just to try and survive. And it is hard out there. Nobody's working. People are desperate you know? I do not have a backup plan.  Barbara was working under the table managing a bar when the pandemic hit. And when she lost her job it was unclear whether she would be eligible for jobless benefits. She has not received any so far. And so she cannot pay the rent.  About 30 of rental units have been covered by the federal eviction moratorium. If a landlord has a mortgage backed by the federal government or receives any sort of federal rental assistance those landlords have been barred from evicting their tenants under the CARES Act until today. And Barbara is out of options. Her landlord has given her notice.  My daughter and I will be living in a shelter more than likely. It is pretty desperate. You know it is hard to try and form a plan when you do not have any options if you do not have a support system. It is very easy to fall between the cracks. I just want to do what is best for my daughter give her a decent life you know keep a roof over her head food in her stomach to give her a good life. I do not know how I am going to do that if we lose our house.  Well millions of renters were not covered by the federal eviction moratorium but a patchwork of state and local rules banning evictions has helped many. We wanted to bring in NPR's Chris Arnold to explain the overall situation and what Congress is doing right now to help renters. Hey there Chris.  Hey Mary Louise.  So you have been looking at this patchwork as I called it of protections. How is it working or not working? Who is actually protected from eviction right now?  Well patchwork is a really good word because a lot depends on where you live. If you look at Boston and Pittsburgh for example there is still very strong protections to stop evictions. And a lot of other places though you know there is local moratoriums that have been ending expiring. And I talked with somebody who is tracking eviction filings in a bunch of cities. Peter Hepburn is a researcher with the Eviction Lab at Princeton University. And he says look back in March the pandemic struck. Lots of things shut down. And so did most eviction filings.  But since then we have seen large rebounds in a number of cities. So in Houston we saw 600 eviction filings in April. That doubled to 1200 filings in May and doubled again to over 2500 new filings in June. In Milwaukee Wis. eviction filings surpassed historical averages for the month of June. And that is despite the fact that the federal moratorium covers probably a third of renter households.  And that federal moratorium - like you just said that stops today.  Stops today. Has it worked? Has it been successful? How has it helped people?  You know it is interesting. I mean frankly I was a little skeptical about it at first because a lot of tenants have no idea if their property is covered or not. I mean is the property backed by a government-guaranteed loan? Who knows? And a lot of people do not have a lawyer to help them. But Peter Hepburn who we just heard from with the Eviction Lab says no you know actually this has been working. And landlords for the most part have been complying.  So we are very worried about an ending. The end of that moratorium could signal the sort of - the cliff. This could lead to a large spike in new eviction filings.  And you know when people get evicted it is hard emotionally but it is also hard to recover financially. This can lead to homelessness. It is harder to get another apartment because when they check with your last landlord you got evicted. And on top of that like you said we have got this double whammy. The moratorium's expiring along with that extra 600 a week in unemployment benefits.  It is a huge double whammy in the same day because that money has been helping people pay the rent and stay in their homes.  Yeah. I mean it is been huge. Rent is most people's biggest bill. A lot of states do not pay very much in state-level unemployment benefits. And so 600 a week is a huge amount of money for somebody without a job. And we have got right now upwards of 25 million Americans on unemployment getting that benefit. And all of those people are losing that today or technically this weekend. A lot of people are really worried about this.  Let us turn this around and look at it from the other end - from the landlord's point of view. If you have a bunch of tenants who are not going to be able to pay their rent going forward for whatever reason that is a huge problem for the landlords many of whom are small business owners. They are trying to make a living too.  Yeah of course. Landlords big and small are very worried. I talked to Paula Cino with the National Multifamily Housing Council. She represents the big apartment building owners.  The worst-case scenario is that you have this wave of renters who are just unable to make those housing payments. That directly leads to property owners that cannot make their payroll. They cannot satisfy their own financial obligations on those properties. That risks a system failure when you have a wave of properties then that are going into default.  She is talking about this cascade of you know if apartment buildings start going bust and that sets off a chain of events that hurts the financial system and the economy. And we saw a historic catastrophe not long ago with foreclosures and a lot of people losing their homes. Housing advocates say we could see more people displaced here if Congress does not extend some kind of help.  OK. Well speaking of Congress what is their role here? They - we know they are trying to come up with a fifth coronavirus relief bill. Do we know whether extending that 600 in unemployment might be a part of that? Do we know whether additional help for renters might be in there?  That is on the table and being talked about. Democrats want to extend the 600. Republicans say it is too much money. It creates a disincentive to return to work. They are also split on extending the moratorium. Democrats also want a separate rental assistance fund for renters and landlords. But you know a lot of stuff is changing and moving in their negotiations. And lawmakers will get back at it next week.  All right. That is NPR's Chris Arnold reporting. Thank you Chris.  Absolutely. You are welcome. 