 How do you help a kid born into poverty make it into the middle class? That is a question we are asking in our series The New Middle. Many experts agree education is the key. But some say preschool others say it is a college diploma. Gabrielle Emanuel of the NPR Ed Team tells us about a woman who believes the solution lies in the last mile the leap from education to employment.  This story starts some 20 years ago in a downtrodden part of New Orleans. Aimee Eubanks Davis was a brand-new sixth grade teacher. She came to love her students. And as the years passed she kept in touch helping them pick the right high school and then the right college. Soon they were thinking about jobs and some wanted to become teachers themselves.  All of a sudden you are like oh my goodness. This is like the moment you want is to see your students like living their dreams.  Too often they were only dreams. Many of her former students did not get the jobs. Instead they got rejection notes.  I was horrified.  Horrified and confused. Eubanks Davis realized that once her former students got their college diploma they had no idea what to do no idea how to get a good first job. These were students who were just as hard-working...  Just as talented just as smart who were not getting the same looks from the labor market.  So Eubanks Davis made a plan raised some money and created a nonprofit to teach college students those skills. There were three principles. First bring in professionals from the real world. Second transform the classroom into a work environment.  Can you operate and manage? Can you do a project plan? Do you know how to effectively communicate?  Third working with big state schools Eubanks Davis offered tiny little classes. She called them Braven. Each class has one professional and just a handful of students. For these college students this is often the very first time they have met someone from the professional world. I visited one of the Braven sites.  So how do you all feel?  Six p.m. San Jose State University basement classroom. Yannick Kpodar is a consultant by day but in the evenings he comes here to work with four San Jose State students. Today they are practicing a presentation.  You have to decide how do you stand when someone else is talking? All that is part of the presentation so I recorded it so you can see your body language.  These students are learning the skills of a consultant. They have been given a problem to fix - the student debt load. This group's solution - colleges should get corporate sponsorship kind of like sports teams. Eduardo Abarca a senior says it just makes sense.  Panda Express Subway Starbucks are already in here so I mean might as well have them come in and pay for some of the stuff.  Next door there is another group. They think everything on campus should be itemized - just pay for the gym or the student union or the library. Keep going down the hall. Here the solution involves paying tuition gradually over their lifetime. Lots of different solutions but they seem to agree on one thing.  Braven is the best course that I have taken here at San Jose State.  It was worth signing up it worth staying late.  I think Braven helps even out that power dynamic between you know professionals and just trying to gain that professionalism.  San Jose State agrees with Pauline Bassi Frank Osorio Gonzales and Jalil Ahmad. Braven students are more likely to stay on track to graduation. And after the class they seek out internships and other experiences at twice the rate. So the university made it a full-time four-credit class. They are hoping that will fix the missing link between walking across the stage to get your diploma and walking into the office for your very first job. Gabrielle Emanuel NPR News. 