 There are more than 250 million cars and trucks on U.S. roads. The Volkswagen recall involves about half a million of them. There have been much larger auto recalls but this one is getting so much attention in part because of the brazen way in which Volkswagen disregarded the rules. NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports that VW customers are weighing what it will take to make them feel whole again.  David Chien of Williston Vt. was looking for a bigger fuel-efficient car that could power its way through Northeastern snow so he purchased a 2013 Jetta Sportwagen.  This car seemed to check all the boxes.  Chien likes the car. It drives well and the mileage is even better than he expected. But he wonders whether the scandal has affected its value. What would insurance pay for example in the event of an accident? And then there is the prospect of a fix which he hopes will not affect all the things he likes about his car.  I would be willing to consider I think a minimal impact on performance and fuel economy you know less than 10 percent. But if it is a significant impact then I will not be happy with that no.  In a video message to owners posted over the weekend Volkswagen America president Michael Horn apologized.   We are cooperating closely regulatory authorities to develop a remedy.  A remedy that will involve software and depending on the vehicle hardware as well. Auto experts say it is unclear how much all this will cost and how it will affect how the car runs. Arvind Thiruvengadam says much depends on the reason the carmaker implemented the cheat in the first place. He is an engineering professor at West Virginia University and part of the team that discovered Volkswagen's cheating mechanism. He says it may be possible to find a fix that cures the problems without affecting performance or gas mileage.  It is not unheard of to produce both low emissions and high fuel economy. Of course there will be costs associated with it and that could be one of the reasoning too for why it was not done in the first place.  Thiruvengadam says there are many different types of models so in each instance the question is the complexity of the engineering involved and then the cost. But others say they expect many consumers will remain unsatisfied. Steve Berman is one of the first lawyers to file a class-action lawsuit the day Volkswagen announced the problem.  It seems unlikely to me based on what I know that the fix will properly control emissions as advertised and not affect performance because if that was the case they would not have cheated to begin with.  Berman says he is gotten 8000 inquiries from car owners in the last two weeks far more than any other car recall case he is handled. He himself owns three Volkswagen diesel cars.  Well that is why I jumped on the case so fast. I was completely flabbergasted. I mean I really bought into this concept that clean diesel you know is the best gas mileage and the best air emission byproduct that you can do as a consumer.  Just over three months ago David Whitcomb purchased his 2015 VW Passat TDI.  I wanted something that was clean because I consider myself to be an environmentalist.  Whitcomb who lives in Waynesboro Va. says he paid a premium for the diesel engine because he thought it meant fewer emissions. It seems unlikely Whitcomb says that a fix will not affect the car's value or performance.  There is got to be some kind of compensation to offset that because what - if what you are sold is not what you actually have because they broke the law and lied then there is something wrong there.  Beyond that he says the wind's out of his sails.  I have owned four Volkswagens. I still currently own three. And so I was a promoter of Volkswagen. It is hard to - I cannot speak like that anymore.  Much depends he says on how well Volkswagen engineers its fix. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 