 It may be mid-July but there is a Black Friday-style sales event tomorrow. At midnight Pacific Time Amazon is putting thousands of items on discount for one day - but only for its Prime members the people who pay 99 a year for perks like free shipping. And as NPR's Jason Margolis reports Wal-Mart is punching back.  The idea started innocently enough a birthday party of sorts.  On July 15 which is the eve of Amazon's 20th birthday we are introducing Prime Day a one-day global shopping event offering Prime members more deals than Black Friday.  Wal-Mart quickly countered offering its own online sale with the tagline low prices - no admission fee. In a blog post Wal-Mart's CEO Fernando Madeira said the idea of asking customers to pay extra in order to save money just does not add up for us. Amazon Prime's vice president Greg Greeley came back in an email the idea of charging your in-store customers more than your online customers does not add up for us. So in this battle of the retail heavyweights who emerges as today's winner? Stephen Beck is a managing partner with the consulting firm cg42.  I think what Wal-Mart did was a typical miscalculation by an older slower competitor. So Amazon decided to celebrate its 20th anniversary and Wal-Mart decided to make it a bigger deal by also celebrating its 20th anniversary.  Celebrating Amazon's birthday that is. OK. How about a second referee? Brian Yarbrough a consumer research analyst with the company Edward Jones says no question - Amazon knocked down Wal-Mart this week. He says Wal-Mart is grasping at straws.  One-hundred percent. I definitely think it is a confused message when you go back and look at what they have been doing over the last few months.  He says this because Wal-Mart is offering its own version of Prime - a 50 online membership. Yarbrough says that undercuts its message today that you should not have to pay a premium to get an online deal.  It is funny because the management team they have talked about how well we are going to get away from gimmicky sales it is all going to be about every day low price et cetera and here we are...  Promoting a gimmicky sale. Ultimately Wal-Mart's counterpunch boils down to one thing says Greg Maloney the CEO of the retail division of JLL.  The real question is are they going to be able to lure new customers or will they be able to lure Amazon customers over to their site or to their store? And being just a value retailer I do not think that is possible to get all those shoppers.  And what about Wal-Mart shoppers? What do they think of all of this? We went to the Wal-Mart in Secaucus N.J. and spoke with shoppers there. None were paying attention to the tit-for-tat online membership fees. Shoppers like Vanessa Thompson are only paying attention to one thing.  I go wherever the deals are.  She shops at both Amazon Prime and Wal-Mart and she is delighted they are having a price war for her benefit. Jason Margolis NPR News. 