 The world economy is so messed up right now that even healthy countries are facing a strange kind of crisis. They have become too popular with investors. Take Switzerland it used to be known as a little place that made great cheese had a lot of cuckoo clocks and discreet bankers. Well now investors are buying up its currency the Swiss franc as a safe place to store their money. The problem as NPR's Robert Smith reports is that all this money is ruining life for the Swiss.  Investors are like animals. When they are scared they run. But these days where do you go? The Unites States is in hock. Europe is drowning in debt.  So what is left? Well gold and tiny Switzerland.  That is Charles Wyplosz who happens to be in Switzerland. He is an economist at the Graduate Institute of International Studies.  Unlike the rest of the world Switzerland is growing. Unemployment is only 3 percent. And most importantly it does not use the euro as currency. It cannot get dragged down by all those problems you have heard about in Greece and Portugal. It sounds like good news. But not so fast.  In a way the Swiss are victims of their impeccable management of their economy.  Hear that? Victims. Because while it is great to be loved a small country can only take in so much money. So many people have wanted to convert their cash to Swiss francs that the value of the currency has skyrocketed - supply and demand. If you compare the Swiss franc to the U.S. dollar the franc's value is up 30 percent over the last year. And here's the problem. If an American wants to buy something from Switzerland - a nice Gruyere a Rolex - it is much more expensive than it was a year ago. For exporters in Switzerland this is devastating because fewer people want to buy Swiss products.  The only thing that really helps the industry now the export industry is a weaker Swiss franc. That is the only thing that really helps.  Ivo Zimmerman represents small engineering companies in Switzerland. And he says sure currencies always drift up and down and the world eventually adapts but...  When it happens that quickly for a company it is impossible to let us say do innovations in that short period which can compensate the disadvantage.  In fact Swatch - the giant watch company - says its profits are down 12 percent because the Swiss franc is so strong. Now there' Imports become cheaper. And we are already hearing about some of this. Supermarkets in Switzerland say they have cut their prices up to 20 percent. But I talked to Ville Heimgartner a 24-year-old student in Switzerland and he was not yet seeing the big price drops.  Supposedly yeah. But that is not what happens. More or less the products more or less stay the same.  But that means that somebody is making a lot of money off you.  Yeah exactly. That is what happening. So like if I go clothes shopping I probably would not go now like to Switzerland. I probably would go over the border and buy something there.  Across the border to Germany where the strong Swiss franc means a much better deal. In fact Ville says as he drives by Swiss shopping centers on the way to Germany he sees empty parking lots and lots of Swiss cars in Germany. So there' You can never be too rich or too thin. Well it turns out your currency can be too strong. But economist Charles Wyplosz says there is not a lot the Swiss government can do.  There is a huge storm in the world and how high can they build dikes to prevent waters from flowing in?  The government cannot stop investors from buying the Swiss franc. But they can make it less attractive. For instance they have reduced interest rates so foreigners will not make a big profit off their francs.  I do not think that it is going to work.  Wyplosz says only two things can solve this imbalance. Either the world economy gets better or the Swiss economy gets worse. And with exports hurting the Swiss miracle is already slowing down. In other words investors might be destroying the very thing they love about Switzerland in the first place. Robert Smith NPR News. 