 One of Detroit is great landmarks is going on the auction block. The Fisher Building is often called Detroit is largest art object. The bank foreclosed on the 29-story art deco building recently and on Monday the bidding begins at auction.com. As NPR's Jason Margolis reports it could be a rare chance to pick up a bargain on a national historic landmark.  The story of the Fisher Building begins in the late 19th century. The seven Fisher brothers built carriages for horses then bodies for cars. General Motors bought out the Fishers in 1919 for an unheard of 200 million. That would be about 2.7 billion today. The Fishers used some of that money for civic causes and some to build a palace to honor their legacy. Ryan Hooper with the group Pure Detroit gives tours of that palace designed by Detroit is most prolific architect Albert Kahn.  So the Fisher brothers reach out to him. They say we are going to give you a blank check. In return we want the most beautiful building in the world.  The New York League of Architects said the goal was achieved. They declared it the most beautiful building of 1928 largely because of the three-story arcade.  So we are talking about these art deco chandeliers hanging above us this beautiful frescoed ceiling above us. On the exterior of the building it is marble clad making it the largest marble clad commercial building in the world. Inside you have over 52 different types of marble.  And 430 tons of bronze to really set things over the top.   Some of that bronze is on display in the lobby elevators.  I mean it is a cast bronze door marble frame. It is kind of mind blowing when you think about it.  These were once the fastest elevators in the world. There is also a 2000-seat theater inside the building. And all of this can be yours for the low low price of... A.J.  Let us do this real quick. Six-hundred thousand feet.  That is A.J. Weiner making a back-of-the-envelope calculation. He is managing director for the real estate firm Jones Lang LaSalle's Detroit office.  OK. In my opinion I think the property has the potential to trade in the 20 million to 30 million range.  And bear in mind the Fisher brothers originally put 140 million - in today's dollars - into the property. Weiner says in Chicago or New York a building like this could sell for perhaps 500 million today. Next week's auction also includes the neighboring 10-story art deco Albert Kahn Building and two parking garages by the way.  I think it is throwing good money after great.  That is contingent on a few things though. This neighborhood was once among the wealthiest commercial areas on Earth. General Motors has its world headquarters here. Detroit boosters say it is the next commercial part of Detroit that is ready to take off. Jim Bieri with Stokas Bieri Real Estate in Detroit says if that happens the Fisher Building's price tag could be really low.  Well it is shocking because it is a magnificent architectural gem.  He says beautiful historic buildings like the Fisher can attract more tenants and fetch higher rents. But he adds people do not work in the marbled lobby.  I have not ridden the elevators much lately but I am told they do not operate like they used to. I just know that when they get into a building like that if you have not been taking care of it there is just issue after issue - from electric to HVAC...  ...To the bathrooms and the plumbing. Occupancy rates in the Fisher Building have dwindled in recent years.   Step off on the floor here.  Tour guide Ryan Hooper takes me to the vacant 19th floor. In a word it is drab.  I remember I had a 12-year-old girl that came up on this tour. She was just like who the hell would put drop ceiling in here?  It could cost a new owner 60 million to fix up the Fisher Building - perhaps double the purchase price - and it will require an active faith that this neighborhood can indeed come back and new businesses will want to move in. Jason Margolis NPR News Detroit. 