  Do not buy stock in Motors Liquidation Company. That should go without saying since the management of Motors Liquidation Company on the companies Web site reminds investors of its strong belief that the stock will have no value. At the moment it is trading for under a dollar a share and some investors are apparently buying and selling it. Motors Liquidation Company is the new name for the old General Motors which is bankrupt. So far there is not any stock for sale in the new General Motors and it is a little puzzling that people are buying and selling stock in the old one. Joining us is Al Koch whose corporate consulting firm is now in charge of the old GM. So he is the CEO of Motors Liquidation Company. Welcome to the program. Mr. AL  Liquidation Company Well thank you very much.  You are a CPA you are an expert in bankruptcies. First why is there any trading at all in the stock of a bankrupt firm that is in liquidation? Mr.  Well it is always a little bit of a head-scratcher but it occurs in virtually every bankruptcy. I saw it also in Kmart and Delphi. And in almost no large bankruptcy do shareholders ever see any recovery whatsoever. But I cannot think of a single large bankruptcy where the stock did not actively trade. And Motors Liquidation is no exception.  Yeah. I read last week that almost 13 million shares traded last Thursday. Is that about what you are seeing in terms of volume? Mr.  You know I do not track the daily volume but I did read that there was substantial trading. General Motors says over - the old General Motors -has over 600 million shares outstanding so it does not  surprise me that trading would be at that level.  Who do you figure would be buying stock in Motors Liquidation Company nowadays? Mr. KOCH I believe that there is probably a fair bit of day trading that goes on. And then there are some people who are covering short positions and perhaps other people who mistakenly believe that they are investing in new General Motors Company.  If I understand trading rules Motors Liquidation Company is traded not the way ordinary stocks of solvent companies are but on pink sheets. It has a two Q's actually in its ticker symbol which means - it is a caution I gather. So there would be plenty of signs saying danger do not buy this stock? Mr.  Absolutely.  And yet some people are out there buying it. Mr.  Unfortunately they are.  Now you Mr.  Very unfortunate.  you are commonly described as a turnaround expert so that might have some people thinking well maybe it will turnaround maybe something will come of this stock. Mr.  Well I hope they are not thinking that because we have made it very clear that what we are going to do is sell off the assets and do environmental remediation and ultimately settle the claims and distribute the stock that we are holding for the creditors of old General Motors Corp.  So is there a date you have in mind that could be the final closing of the doors on this company? Mr.  Not at - it is a little too early to estimate when that might be.  And again just to summarize here somebody who is tempted to buy stock in Motors Liquidation Company your guidance as it is CEO is Mr.  Absolutely do not buy.   Okay thank you very much for talking with us. Mr.  My pleasure.  That is Al Koch who is a CPA and who is now the CEO of Motors Liquidation Company - that is the new name for what used to be called General Motors. 