 Texas officials estimate that Harvey flooded nearly 50000 homes in the state. That number could grow and most of those homeowners do not have flood insurance. Those who do will soon be filing claims. The insurance industry is getting ready to send in hundreds of so-called catastrophe teams to assess the damage. As Charles Lane of member station WSHU reports some of those adjusters could cause new problems.  Even before the rain stopped property owners we are calling Joel Moore.  They filed claims before they evacuated. So they actually have no idea if there is damage or not. They just wanted to be at the front end of the curve.  Moore is an independent adjuster for Gulf Coast Claims in Houston. Insurance companies hire him to estimate damage costs. To work this many insurance claims the industry will rely on hundreds of small processing companies who then hire independent contractors.  Catastrophe adjusters are a unique breed. They work real hard for a - you know an extended period of time. They are well compensated for their expertise. And then they may sit for years.  Their work is grueling going house to house in the mud and sun and emotional wake.  The guy that was my mentor told me - he said look your job is to pay claims granted. But how would you feel if you were in the same situation? You need to slow down. Shut up. Let them vent. Let them cry. Tell them you are sorry. And if you are not sorry you need to get out of business.  But at the end of the day it is still a business. Moore says to process all the claims cat teams will develop shortcuts and some will hire inexperienced adjusters who just got their license. How quickly does it take to get a license?   Moore is referring to clinics set up by FEMA the administrator of the National Flood Insurance Program. Anyone can register for the course online and be a certified a flood adjuster by the end of the day.  Not being experienced is really bad.  Jeff Major is a public adjuster in New York. He says during Superstorm Sandy green adjusters overlooked all sorts of technical details.  These people do not know if there is conduit running on the outside of the wall that they have a line item for that to put in the estimate. So it is not going to be in the estimate.  And if it is not in the estimate homeowners do not get paid. Thousands of Sandy victims complained and FEMA eventually reopened 20000 claims that missed more than 390 million. Don Griffin is with PCIA a trade group that represents flood insurance companies who work with FEMA. He says FEMA and insurance companies learned a lesson after Superstorm Sandy.  There is much - a much stronger awareness that FEMA has made and much stronger points that FEMA's made with the companies to try to ensure that the consumer is treated appropriately and fairly.  He says FEMA is exerting more oversight and holding daily calls with private insurance companies to remind them about new rules. But again this is only for the people with flood coverage. Those without will have to rely on government aid. Following both Katrina and Sandy Congress authorized FEMA to spend about 60 billion per storm to help those who did not have flood insurance. For NPR News I am Charles Lane.  