 President Obama was back on the road talking about the economy today. Lately he is been taking a trip or two a week all over the country with a different focus each time. Today he was talking about housing in Phoenix where the 2008 crash was louder and more painful than in most places. The president laid out some new proposals to help the housing industry and he described some old ones too. NPR's Ari Shapiro joins us here. Hi Ari.  Hi Audie.  So first the basics. How is the housing market doing?  Recovering but not recovered. Here are a few of the statistics President Obama rattled off in today's speech. He said home prices are rising their fastest in seven years sales are up almost 50 percent constructions up almost 75 percent foreclosures are down by about two-thirds. This morning I spoke to a realtor in the Phoenix area. She told me she was just looking at a chart and that things today are about where they should have been if the boom had never happened and the bust had never happened. So President Obama says now his goal is to unleash the housing market without getting back into that boom and bust cycle again.  So what are some of the headwinds for housing as it makes its way back?  One of the biggest ones is that there is not enough lending. People who have perfect credit or have a lot of money can get loans for a mortgage. But middle-class people who have good but not great credit people who in a typical economy would be able to get a loan to buy a house they are having a hard time. Credit is just a little too tight. And this makes a difference because housing is roughly a fifth of the U.S. economy. One analyst I spoke to today says if the housing market were where it should be economic growth could add a whole 'nother percentage point 1 percent which given that current economic growth is about 1.5 percent an extra 1 percent would really be a lot.  So back to President Obama what does he suggest in the way of solutions?  He laid out a smorgasbord in today's speech. A lot of the ideas are focused on getting more people into homes.  We got to give more hardworking Americans the chance to buy their first home. We have to help more responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages because a lot of them still have a spread between the rates they are paying right now on their mortgage and what they could be getting if they were able to refinance.  So he also talked about immigration and the need to get the law right to help stabilize housing demand. He talked about getting rid of blighted properties either rebuilding or tearing them down which he says will also put construction workers back on the job. He talked about ensuring affordable rent. But the top line idea of this speech is winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These are the government-sponsored enterprises that back most 30-year fixed rate mortgages in the U.S. President Obama wants to put private lenders out front on these long-term mortgages and use the government as a sort of backstop. He wants to ensure the mortgages do not go away for middle-class families. He says the private lenders could pay a fee to the government and that would allow the government to sort of be this insurer of last resort.  Now Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have had lots of critics for a very long time. So how popular is this idea of winding them down?  Well in the Senate there is bipartisan support. There is a bill that is been working its way along but less so in the House. House Republicans at least some of them prefer to get the government out of the mortgage insurance business altogether have no backstop whatsoever.  So what are the options if this bill does not become law?  Yeah. There is actually a lot that the White House can do administratively. Before President Obama's speech I spoke with Housing Secretary Shaun Donovan. He said they want Congress to act but they are already taking some of these steps. For example they are lowering the loan limits for Fannie and Freddie they are shrinking the footprints they are putting private money out in front. Donovan says we need Congress to act we need this bill to pass. But you know anyone in Washington knows it is not wise to count on Congress to pass anything nowadays. So Donovan and others in the administration say they are going to do what they can on their own in the meantime.  That is NPR's Ari Shapiro. Ari thank you.  You are welcome.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 