 As we have been reporting the government said today that the unemployment rate remains stuck at 8.2 percent in June and 5.4 million Americans have now been unemployed for more than 27 weeks. People who have been out of work for a long time are often advised to go through some kind of job training. That could mean starting over in a new profession which is especially hard for older workers. NPR's Jim Zarroli recently spent some time with a Connecticut woman who is trying to defy the odds by starting a new career at age 62.  Deborah Klein sits in a parked car with a pile of envelopes on her lap. She is looking for work as a pharmacy technician and she is come to a strip mall near the old industrial city of Waterbury to drop off resumes with employers.  I hope they get in touch with me they want to meet with me and who knows? They might have a position that comes up. It may not be now but if I put something in their hand they have something to think about.  Klein crosses the parking lot to a drug store looking very professional in her blue dress and matching shoes. Today she is in luck. The pharmacist agrees to see her. He tells her if she wants a job she has to apply online. He does not seem too encouraging but Klein is a positive person and later she is upbeat about the encounter.  I thought he was charming nice man and I think I might have - I am hoping. I got the feeling that he would actually go in and look at my resume.  Klein had her last full time job in 2008 when she worked for a software company. She is answered hundreds of job ads since then but the unemployment rate in Waterbury is Connecticut's highest. She has a hearing loss and her age does not help. She talks about one of the few times she was ever called in for an interview.  I walked in and I was the old lady of the place. You knew I was not a fit.  Now her unemployment insurance has run out and she is burning through her 401K. She even had to accept help from her two grown daughters. Not long ago Klein decided to retrain as a pharmacy tech. She would always liked science. Klein says her family thinks she is nuts starting over at 62 in a field where she has no experience but she graduated at the top of her class. Stephen Romano of the Connecticut Labor Department says she is gone about her job search the right way.  She has not been kind of scattered all over the place. She is focused on one mission here and I think the longer she continues this and you know gets a couple interviews and I think she is going to get a job offer pretty soon if you want my opinion on it.  The notion of starting over at 62 is not as unusual as it once was. Sara Rix of the AARP Public Policy Institute says labor force participation among older workers has gone up. Rix says there are lots of reasons for that. People live longer. They want to stay active but Rix says a lot of older people cannot afford to retire.  The recession has had a devastating impact on individuals' financial well-being and one of the few options over which they have some control is to remain in the labor force longer to recover some of the losses.  Rix says people can apply for social security when they are 62 but opting into the program so early means their monthly payments will be lower later on so they have to make a choice. For Deborah Klein the choice was obvious. A few days later she shows up at Griffin Hospital in Derby. She is decided to volunteer in the hospital pharmacy.  What I am trying to do is do as much as I can do whatever I have to do to get into the field. If it means I need to get experience by working for free I will do it.  Klein likes the idea of coming here because it is not just about money. She says she does not feel her age and she still wants to work. She cannot bear the thought of sitting at home watching TV all day.  I would rather be working. I mean there is nothing better than getting up in the morning and going to work. I am not ready to give that up.  And the years have taught Klein something. There are drugstores and hospitals everywhere. If she keeps knocking on doors she knows one of them will open eventually even if the odds sometimes seem stacked against it. Jim Zarroli NPR News. 