 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. If you think that you need to crack open a few eggs to make an omelet well there are some young entrepreneurs in San Francisco who are betting that will not be true much longer. A new business backed by venture capital dollars is taking aim at the traditional egg industry with egg-replacement products.  The strategy is to take the chicken completely out of the process and instead use plants to re-create the taste and feel of eggs. NPR's Allison Aubrey is here to tell and show us more. Allison.  Hi there. So are you guys up for a taste test?  Let us do this.  OK.  All right. Well what I have here are two types of cookies. Both are chocolate chip. One is your typical grocery store brand made traditionally with real eggs and the other cookie contains an egg substitute called Beyond Eggs. It is actually made from peas and sorghum. And the question is can you taste the difference?  All right. So we are going to taste these and we are going to report back on that question.  OK. Well while you guys deliberate here and taste let me introduce you to the 33-year-old entrepreneur behind this. His name is Josh Tetrick and several years ago when he was trying to figure out what to do with his life he had competing ideas. On one hand he had sort of do-gooder instincts but he also had the desire to be a businessman to make money. So when I caught up with him at his company headquarters in San Francisco I asked him how these two goals led him to eggs.  So the egg industry is massive - over 9 billion around the world. And what people do not understand I think is as population explodes around the world if we continue to eat the eggs we are there is an environmental cost.  Tetrick points to issues such as concentration of manure that can pollute water and...  Leads to lots of greenhouse gas emissions.  Since it takes a lot of energy to grow the food to feed the chickens that lay the eggs. Now as Tetrick talks he sounds more like an activist than a business man.  And I think there is a better way to feed the world.  Now much of what Tetrick envisions is still being developed and to his ear this is the sound of innovation.  No that is not a jumbo jet ready for takeoff. It is a giant mixer. Tetrick is taking us inside his 2400 square foot  food laboratory where a molecular biologist he is hired named Joshua Klein  is at the helm.   You see when it comes to reproducing the egg they are trying to find plants that will do the job but there is no slam dunk. The egg has so many functions in food. It can make muffins rise. It can emulsify fluff things up and help ingredients bind together. So Tetrick's team has had to experiment a lot.  We really have to dig deeply into plant-based functionality. So what we do is we bring in hundreds of different types of plants. We look at them under microscopes. We throw them in mayonnaise and put them in cookies. We process them in different ways.  And over time they have settled on a combination of peas and sorghum and a few other ingredients to make their product. Now it has not been easy. In one of the early Beyond Egg prototypes Tetrick says when they figured out which combinations of these plants created the right cookie texture they thought they had a homerun.  It was good when you first took it out of the oven.  The cookies looked good they tasted good but Tetrick says there was a problem.  Then the next day it would harden up and it was drying out really quick and we actually did not even know what was drying out.  Tetrick says through trial and error they found a particular species of sorghum that helped the cookie stay moist.  And now ours lasts even longer in terms of being moist than an egg-based cookie would.  Now this egg of the future has attracted lots of attention from high tech investors including none other than Bill Gates. But Tetrick's company Hampton Creek Foods is certainly not the only player in this market.  Egg replacements are not something new.  That is food scientist Kantha Shelke. She says there have been vegan products such as eggless mayo for decades. But she says global demand for plant-based foods is rising fast.  Today having an egg-replacement or non-egg label is very appealing in the food industry.  She points to issues such as food safety egg allergies and the cholesterol in eggs. And Kantha says since big food companies are not jumping in to innovate it creates opportunities for start-ups like the folks behind these cookies. For Tetrick the next big goal is to figure out how to replicate the scrambled egg which he says is a challenge.  An extreme challenge no doubt about it.  And it turns out that they have got a version that will actually fry up in the pan but Tetrick says the texture's just a little different. It breaks into little pieces in your mouth.  That is NPR's Allison Aubrey reporting on Beyond Eggs. My question Allison is if they even look like eggs when you...  You know frying up in the pan it looks like eggs. I really think it is a texture issue here and a taste issue. And speaking of that what do you guys think?  I think I am not tasting egg I am tasting cookie. I cannot form an opinion.  I think I will need two or three more to really adequately get an idea.   Right. Well you know first of all they are tasters. I do not think people can detect big differences here. But for bakers this is attractive because it is turning out to be cheaper than real eggs and for folks who care about conservation there is a cleaner environmental footprint here.  That is NPR's Allison Aubrey. Allison thanks so much.  Thanks to both of you. 