 Every morning at six a mail truck arrives outside an office in Watertown Massachusetts. The truck is filled with other people' box after box of medical bills. But one person's hassle is another person's business.  paperwork.  This professional paperwork handler you may not know him but you know his cousin and uncle. They were both presidents of the United States. Mr. JONATHAN health My name is Jonathan Bush and I am the CEO of Athenahealth.  Jonathan Bush's desk does not have a chair. He likes to stand and talk. Before he was handling other people's hassles he was handling other people's miracles. Athena actually began as a child birthing center. Mr.  The first summer we did it said it is going to be the summer of wow. Every pregnant mom is going to come into this place and say wow. Corny but we were really excited. We really thought we had it. We literally - you could hear babies' first cries through the HVAC ducts in my little office.   getting paid is an enormous pain in the butt. The patient is covered by Blue Cross which Blue Cross plan? Did she need a referral? What form do you fill out to get paid? What is the right billing code? Mr.  It became our obsession all day long. We thought nothing about women's health. We thought nothing about birth. We spent all our time screwing around with trying to get checks.  According to one study the over-complexity of billing is costing our country 7 billion a year.   This the processing center where all that doctors' mail arrives. How much mail? Athena can tell you by the pound. This is Glen Conway. Mr.  When we receive the mail you see John here. He is weighing it on that scale over there. And the reason why he is weighing it is because we have done this long enough that we know how many sort of checks per pound of mail we are going to get. And...  You know how many checks per pound? Mr.  Yes. So we would get about 26 checks per pound of mail.   The envelopes get opened by machine. Some have handwritten checks from patients. But a lot of checks come from insurance companies which is kind of amazing if you think about it. These checks were printed out by a computer sent through the mail here they are opened rescanned into a computer checked by hand here and by workers in India and finally electronically deposited to a bank. Who knows the money might have started out in the very same bank's computer. Mr.  We will probably do over a billion this year and...  A billion dollars in paper checks. Mr.  Paper checks correct.   Today about 70 percent of the money comes in electronically. Jonathan Bush says some insurance companies have been easy to work with and some have not. Mr.  We rank all the payers. We have this pain-in-the-butt index and it ranks how big a pain in the butt all the different insurance companies are to deal with across six metrics. Cause it is such a pain in the butt to deal with insurance companies.   Medicaid of New York State. New York Medicaid requires claims be filed on paper. Mr.  And they require you to order the individual blank pieces of paper upon which you will print these claims from Albany one at a time.  The form has to be signed by hand by the actual doctor - so more mail more paperwork. Now the explanation New York Medicaid has offered for this cumbersome system is that it helps prevent fraud. New York Medicaid declined to be interviewed for this story but offered a statement saying quote We believe that many of the difficulties that Athena has experienced in the past were the result of a lack of understanding of New York State Medicaid billing procedures. Jonathan Bush says he understands why some of this is still such a pain in the butt. Our health care system love it or hate it it just is complicated - lots of insurance companies offering lots of different plans. Mr.  Each one of them has created some customizations that have turned into memos or faxes that have gone out to everyone. So you now have everyone has sent everyone a whole smorgasbord of little tidbits to know and keep in mind when treating this type of patient or that type of patient. Because what health-care really is is this awkward word slapped on top of a million little tiny markets.  That means even if the paper part goes away the rules that govern what gets covered how much under what conditions those are not likely to get much simpler. And Jonathan Bush thinks his company is going to be around for a long long time. David Kestenbaum NPR News. 