 Normally when a celebrity athlete endorses a product it gets more expensive. Kenny Malone from our Planet Money podcast tells us about one big-name basketball star trying to use his name to make his sneakers cheaper - much much cheaper.  All right Stephon is taking his shoe off. He is holding it up.  .  Stephon Marbury is a two-time NBA All-Star who is not afraid of a bold sneaker choice. I am colorblind so I think it is like a salmon.  It is like a salmon pink.  But Marbury's boldest sneaker choice came in 2006 when he launched the Starbury a basketball sneaker that cost 15.   Another basketball star is lending his name to a new sneaker.  Stephon Marbury unveils his line of high tops at a low cost.  Making them affordable for low-income families.  Marbury was everywhere explaining how when he was a little kid he could not afford fancy shoes. And so he partnered with Steve  Barry's a discount retail chain to make this affordable sneaker. But interview after interview the same question would come up.   One question I might ask is are you cutting corners at the production end? 'ecause that is a sensitive issue.  Not at all. This shoe is...  What the Starbury had was a price signaling problem because in retail we use price as a signal of how good an item is. So the 15 price tag had unintentionally signaled that the Starbury was garbage. Stephon Marbury tried to fight this a couple of ways. For one he challenged people to take an expensive shoe and his shoe...   And you cut both of the shoes down the middle with a chainsaw it will do the same exact thing.  You will see the same thing.  He did this over and over until finally...   Cut it down the half and it will do the same exact thing.  Really?  John Stossel of 2020 actually took him up on this took two shoes to a sneaker expert...   So he cut both shoes up. And he and others in the business concluded...  They are constructed the same way.  Marbury decided there was really one way to fight this price signaling problem once and for all.   The opening tip controlled by...  On November 1 in 2006 Stephon Marbury wore his 15 sneakers in a real NBA game. And it seemed to be going great until the third quarter.   Oh Stephon has turned his ankle. He is asking to come out of the game.  He hobbled over to the bench.   Remember he is playing in those reduced priced shoes.  It was not the shoe though. Someone had kicked him in the shin or something.  You know it is part of basketball.  Marbury wore 15 sneakers for the entire season and sales did great. In total he sold over 4 million pairs of affordable sneakers. But in 2008 the financial crisis hit. The Steve  Barry's company went bankrupt and around the same time Marbury left the NBA. And for a lot of people who followed the Starbury story this was where the great affordable shoe experiment ended. But it turned out it was not the end.  .  And what does that mean?  I love China.  Stephon Marbury went to play in the Chinese Basketball Association where he led the Beijing Ducks to three championships. He has become a legend in China.  It is like a whole new life baby. I cannot tell you no lie.  it is the truth - statues museums.  Am I mistaken? There was like a musical also?  Yeah I did a musical.    From that moment our lives connect.  Vice News went and recorded this play.    I am Marbury.  .   We all are Marbury.  Stephon Marbury is now very well connected in the global hub of sneaker manufacturing. And so six years after it looked like his quest for cheap sneakers had died Marbury is going to try and bring back the Starbury. There is a limited run available online and the company is starting to ramp up production for a relaunch. Can you still make and sell basketball sneakers for 15 that you could play basketball in?  Yes you can because I want all the little kids to be happy when they are playing on the court with a fresh pair of kicks you know what I am saying? That is what it is really about.  This time around Stephon Marbury will also include a couple of higher-end shoes in his line. For him that means 50 60 bucks. Kenny Malone NPR News.  