 President Obama's economic road trip took him to Chattanooga Tennessee today. He visited an Amazon warehouse just after the Internet retailing giant announced that it is adding more than 5000 jobs. The president spoke of employment as a source of pride and dignity.  It is proof that you are doing the right things and meeting your responsibilities and contributing to the fabric of your community and helping to build the country. That is what a job is all about.  The White House also used today's event to roll out a proposal to change the corporate tax code. President Obama said it will help create middle-class jobs. NPR's Ari Shapiro was traveling with the president and joins us now. And Ari what exactly is the president proposing here? And is there anything in it to attract Republicans?  Yeah right now the base corporate tax rate is 35 percent and President Obama wants to lower it to 28 percent with a special 25 percent tax rate for manufacturers. Right now some companies use loopholes to pay almost no taxes and so the president wants to eliminate some of those loopholes which would create more tax revenue even with the lower rates. The lower tax rates appeals to Republicans. They are not crazy about the revenue and they also do not want family-owned businesses which are in some cases taxed as individuals to pay a higher tax rate.  And so in his own party what is in the plan for Democrats?  Well he wants to impose fees on overseas profits which he says will encourage U.S. companies to create jobs here at home. And then the president wants to use the new revenue from those fees and from closing loopholes to build roads and bridges improve community colleges and fund the other kinds of spending that Obama says will help build a strong economic foundation for the country. Here's how he put it this afternoon.  I am willing to work with Republicans on reforming our corporate tax code as long as we use the money from transitioning to a simpler tax system for a significant investment in creating middle-class jobs. That is the deal.   That is the deal the president says.   So Ari what is the reaction so far from the Republican side?  The reaction from Republicans is no deal. A spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner said if this is a grand bargain it does not look very grand and it is certainly not a bargain. Republicans say it is a mistake to change the corporate tax code without simultaneously changing the individual code because that they say will hurt small family-run businesses. Also Republicans oppose government spending or stimulus to boost the economy. They want a tax code overhaul to be revenue neutral without any new money coming into the government. And then finally this morning House Speaker John Boehner's office said the fact that President Obama began by leaking the details of this plan to the media shows that he is not serious about negotiating. Then today on Air Force One White House spokesman Jay Carney told us actually the White House called Boehner's office yesterday and nobody called them back.  OK. So this is President Obama's fourth economic speech in less than a week. You have heard them all. I mean what is your assessment so far of how it is going?  Look we have asked the White House how they are going to judge success and they say it is about re-centering the debate in Washington on helping the middle class and boosting the economy. Strictly speaking it is true that every time President Obama gives one of these speeches Republicans engage in the debate. But so far that debate does not seem to be very productive. Democrats say go this way Republicans say no go that way. The president makes suggestions Republicans dismiss them as old news or unhelpful. That said this is just the first week of this approach and the White House plans to extend this series of speeches for weeks to come leading into some financial showdowns in the fall over the debt ceiling and government funding. So the real test of whether these speeches are working could be whether those showdowns go the way the White House wants or whether Republicans are able to extract significant concessions from the White House on things like spending and deficits.  That is NPR's Ari Shapiro. Ari thank you.  You are welcome.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 