 After more than 50 years the Ford Motor Company has stopped producing the E-Series van. The last one rolled off the assembly line in June. The E-Series - sometimes called the Econoline - is so ubiquitous you might not even notice it. It is the ambulance the airport shuttle the church van. At this very moment an indie rock band is driving to dig in an E-Series van. And as NPR's Sonari Glinton reports the end of the line for this van says a lot about the future of the car industry.  In order to tell the story of the full-sized van I wanted to come to a place where it is put to work a lot. So I have come to Hollywood Boulevard where there are a lot of Ford Econoline vans roaming the streets. And I am here to talk to Patrick Hickey. He has a novel use for the van.  I am the owner of Rocking Hollywood Tours the premier sightseeing tour operator on Hollywood Boulevard.  Hickey like most of the tour companies in Hollywood has his vans converted.  They literally cut the tops off - the roofs off and then remove the windows them making it a convertible.  Now he has six vans but he started off with one that had a top.  And no one wanted to go on that because it obstructs your ability to see all the sites. And so people were actually sticking their head outside the window to get a better view so we said let us cut the top off.  Of so this makes it easier to see Russell Brand's mailbox?  Absolutely and his bushes as well.   How is everybody doing today?  Good.  Oh much better. Some of the tours like to rock and roll. Well I like to party so I hope you are ready to party.  so I decided to go on a ride in the van. I am here with Mark Takahashi and he is with Edmunds.com. What makes this van special?  The history of it. It is an icon. It spanned everything from hardcore commercial drivers to these awful you know make-out vans in the '70s with plush carpeting and buttoned leather everywhere.  Takahashi says part of what makes the van a bit creepy is what makes it good for commercial work. It is enclosed. You can lock your stuff in. And unlike other vehicles that get radical redesigns every couple of years it is been almost exactly the same since the '80s.  They are sturdy. They are reliable. They just keep running and running and once they are done with them they get repurposed.  If it is so great why is Ford not making them anymore?  Part of it is to consolidate their worldwide operations so that their building one van for the U.S. and for Europe.  Take one car - build it all over the globe. So in the U.S. while the E-Series is essentially going away and GM builds its own - though less popular - van Ford is going to bring the Transit which has been in Europe for decades. The person in charge of the transition is the head of global marketing for Ford - Jim Farley.  My cousin was Chris Farley. And I am the more formal side of the family.  Yes that Chris Farley of Saturday Night Live fame. One of Chris Farley's most famous bits on SNL was as Matt Foley the terrible motivational speaker.    You are going to be doing a lot of doobie-rolling when you are living in a van down by the river. J.   Yes down by the river. Yes. I cannot think of the Transit without thinking of my cousin to be honest because I always visualize -what would that van be? Would it be a Ford E-Series van with a little plexiglass love window in the back and a nice velour couch? Or - what would that van look like? .  Farley says as beloved as the van down by the river is the European version has more options to trick it out and better fuel economy which is important to commercial drivers. J.  And fuel economy for them is actually a very critical purchase reason because it is a business expense and they watch it.  Meanwhile back on the van in Hollywood Mark Takahashi with Edmunds says we have used the van - that shape - in so many ways it is like we almost could not think of any more uses.  You know it is served so many purposes over the decades this might be the final purpose for them.  Well that sounds like an end.   I am Sonari Glinton NPR News Hollywood. 