 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris.   Arun Venugopal of member station WNYC reports the protesters have come from all over the country and show no sign of going home.  Until a couple weeks ago 34-year-old Casey O'Neill worked as a data manager in Oakland California. Now he lives in a park next to ground zero.  I actually quit my job and got a one-way ticket out here for the protests. I just felt like it was really - in a lot ways this was the last hope for some sort of real change.  O'Neill and others feel the American political system is being gamed by corporations and the wealthy what they call the 1 percent. The demonstrators have no leader and so far they do not have any solutions either. But amid the air mattresses and sleeping bags scattered across the park they discuss everything from income disparities to keeping their camp clean.  We also propose...  We also propose...  ...that it is disgusting...  ...that it is disgusting...  ...to be spitting your toothpaste...  ...to be spitting your toothpaste...  ...anywhere you please.  ...anywhere you please.  At each general assembly demonstrators echo every word a speaker says in lieu of loudspeakers. When the crowd likes what it hears they raise their hands over their heads and wiggle their fingers like jazz hands. To outsiders passing through it can look a little strange. But everyone seems to have found a role for themselves from the men who sweep up the park while riding their skateboards...   ...to volunteer Anj Ferrara who is serving up some of the food bought with donations.  Well today for lunch we had ratatouille we had couscous and chickpeas and we had...  Some demonstrators stay for just a day or two like Elena Spence a young military widow and single mom from Buffalo. She barely earns minimum wage like some of her friends.  I am talking about people who have master's degrees in a lot of cases who have to work 8-an-hour jobs because there are just no jobs. My generation - I am 23 - my generation is really like the lost generation.  Demonstrator Nathan Schneider says the hope is that all this frustration can be channeled into a national movement one that is free of party politics.  You do not hear a lot of talk about Obama. You do not hear talk about Sarah Palin or even someone like a Dennis Kucinich. People are not pinning their hopes on political candidates they are pinning their hopes on themselves and that is the strength.  But Mayor Michael Bloomberg says the protesters are playing the blame game.  Our problem today is we keep going and vilifying the banks. They are not going to make any loans. If they do not make any loans companies do not expand. If companies do not expand people do not have jobs.  As to how long this occupation can last demonstrator Justin Wedes a local school teacher says the company that owns the park property has made it clear it wants them out. But for now everyone is sitting tight.  The reality is that we are deep in our work and we are not planning to leave anytime soon.  For NPR News I am Arun Venugopal in New York. 