 From NPR News this is All Things Considered. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. The quest for a compromise to raise the debt ceiling appears to have come down to the nation's top Democrat and top Republican huddling in private. But with only 11 days left to prevent an unprecedented debt default neither President Obama nor House Speaker John Boehner gave any indication today that a deal is at hand. And with the clock ticking closer to the August 2nd deadline NPR's David Welna reports on the growing uncertainty and anxiety among lawmakers.  The race for a solution to the debt limit crisis moved a bit closer to an end game today as the Democratic-run Senate shelved a Tea Party-backed measure passed by House Republicans earlier this week known as Cut Cap and Balance. It made lifting the debt ceiling contingent on Congress passing a Constitutional amendment to balance the budget. The bill faced a veto threat from the White House and rather than allow a debate on it to proceed until tomorrow as planned majority leader Harry Reid led Democrats in killing the measure.  There is simply no more time to waste debating and voting on measures that have no hopes of becoming law. We have no more time to waste playing partisan games.  Meanwhile in another part of the Capitol House Speaker John Boehner was being pressed by reporters on whether he and President Obama had reached a reported 3 trillion deficit reduction deal to raise the debt ceiling.  I am going to say it one more time. There was no agreement.  probably never an agreement and frankly not close to an agreement. And so I would just suggest that it will be a hot weekend here in Washington D.C.  Boehner had just come from a closed-door meeting with fellow House Republicans Minnesota freshman Chip Cravaak said Boehner assured them there is been no discussion whatsoever in any of the negotiations he is been involved in of raising taxes. Rep.  Speaker Boehner's been very clear. There will be no tax increases on anything so that is where I am as well. I mean that is what people in the District are telling me. They are saying we are taxing up.  Congressional Democrats have been adamant that new tax revenues have to be part of any deficit reduction deal. This morning President Obama told a town hall meeting at the University of Maryland that he is willing to sign a plan that includes tough choices he would not normally make but then added a caveat.  There are going to be a certain set of equities that we are not willing to sacrifice. And I have said we have to have revenue as part of the package.  Yesterday a meeting of Senate Democrats with White House budget director Jack Lew exploded in fury in response to news reports that the deficit reduction deal might do only spending cuts now and leave revenue increases for later. West Virginia Democrat Jay Rockefeller was there. Rep.  I have never been in such an intense high octane meeting in my life. Rep.  I do not lose my cool. I lost it yesterday in the caucus.  That is California Democrat Diane Feinstein. Rep.  You have to know that revenues are going to be part of it. In other words X amount will be revenues or there is no agreement.  Majority leader Reid admitted today he does not know much about what President Obama and Speaker Boehner are discussing.  I say as sincerely as I can I wish them well. It is extremely important we address the debt and it is extremely important we understand we are no longer talking about credit ratings we are talking about default of our debt.  Reid said by law any deficit reduction deal that involves taxes has to be dealt with first by the House. But many House Republicans absolutely oppose new taxes and many including South Carolina's Tim Scott question whether the debt ceiling even needs to be raised. Rep.  I think the reality of it is there is just no possible way that the American government because we have plenty of revenue coming in without the increase.  And that attitude may explain why it is been so hard for Speaker Boehner to find a deal that his own party as well as Democrats can vote for. David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 