 When you think about the huge ups and downs on Wall Street this week think about this - the value of the Alaska Permanent Fund dropped by more than a billion dollars in one day on Monday. The fund has lost about three billion in value since its peak at the end of June. The Alaska Permanent Fund is among the largest investment funds in the world. Its current value is just over 37 billion. Michael Burns is the fund's chief executive and he joins me now from Juneau. And Michael why do not you explain how this fund works? The money is coming from oil companies right?  Yes Melissa. This - if you think in the simplest terms this fund is the people of Alaska's saving account for when actually the oil runs out. Our general fund or state treasury is funded probably 90 percent one way or the other by oil. And you know that is a nonrenewable resource which is actually what our mission is is to turn nonrenewable natural resources into renewable financial resources for all generations of Alaskans.  And part of the money from this fund goes out every year as dividends to every Alaska resident.  That is correct. We pay out a portion of our earnings and it is based on a 5-year trailing average of those earnings.  So as an example last year how much would an Alaskan have gotten?  1281.  And that is every man woman child.  Okay. Well coming into this this downturn on Wall Street you had had a banner year with the fund. The value had gained about 21 percent by the end of the fiscal year that ended in June. So you are coming at this from a position of strength but I - but still if you lose a billion dollars in one day that is gotta hurt.  Well it certainly does hurt and obviously it gets your attention. But the most important words that you just said were one day. I mean the greatest strength of this fund is our ability to take a very long term view of the markets. These days are difficult. Tuesday was a nice day. Wednesday was another bad day. The markets are up strong today. But it is the long view and it is the very long view that we like to take.  Well when you think about that long view what percentage of the fund is in stocks?  Right now we are about 50 percent.  50 percent in stocks.  Yes 50 percent in stocks. We have probably 10 percent in bonds 12 percent in real estate. I am trying to think. Private equities are in the stocks. Various strategies also. I mean we are invested really across the board in almost all asset classes.  Are you moving some of the fund's assets around this week?  Yes. Actually based on some of the weakness in the markets during July we have a  I guess a discipline that we refer to as rebalancing. And when your assets fall below your targets for them then you put more money in. And we actually put about 400 million into the market in just the last couple of days.  Into stocks?  Into stocks. And that discipline of rebalancing is what forces you to buy when the markets are not attractive.  Well what is your outlook as you look forward in this market what is your outlook for the fund?  Well I you know I guess to be an investor of this size and again always taking the long view you have to be optimistic. I mean this country - and we are U.S.-centric. I mean we are international investors but most of our assets are denominated in dollars. You have to be optimistic. This is still the strongest economy in the world. I think we are going through maybe too much politics and not enough economics right now but you know these things go in cycles. And I guess our staff - we remind ourselves of what our mission is every morning when we walk through the front door because there is a sign that says we are the Alaska Permanent Fund. And that permanent word is very important. It is for multi-generations and gives us that opportunity to take that long view.  Michael Burns it is good to talk to you. Thanks very much.  Thank you very much.  Michael Burns is the chief executive of the Alaska Permanent Fund Corporation. He spoke with us from Juneau. 