 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Earlier this year it looked like General Motors' Saturn Division might go the way of Oldsmobile and Pontiac. Then Roger Penske announced he would buy the Saturn brand. Saturn's 13000 employees breathed a sigh of relief. Sarah Hulett of Michigan Radio has this report on Penske a racecar driver turned businessman and his prospects for success with a GM castoff.  Roger Penske's colleagues and admirers say he has the drive and stamina of several much younger people. And they say he is the one guy who can make Saturn into a viable standalone company. But speaking to reporters after the deal was announced Penske was quick to dismiss his role as a savior. Mr.  Oh I do not know about that. I think that it is just a pleasure for me to be part of this transaction. You know I love Detroit. I love Michigan. And certainly to hopefully play a part in GM's success in the future is very important to me personally.  Penske is probably best known as the owner of the most successful Indy car racing team in the sport's history. His automotive empire also includes the nation's second largest chain of car dealerships and a truck leasing company. And he is well-known in Detroit as a billionaire civic booster who oversaw the city's preparations for the 2005 Super Bowl. Mr.  All eyes were on Detroit and most eyes expected Detroit not to do too well.  Matt Cullen is a former General Motors executive who worked with Penske on the Super Bowl. Mr.  When a guy like Roger comes in he just is a force of nature and he just gets stuff done in a way that I have never seen before.  During the Super Bowl preparations Penske was known for driving around the city in the early morning hours to look for buildings that needed graffiti cleaned off or storefronts that needed sprucing up. Bob Buckler is a former president of the utility company Detroit Edison who served on the Super Bowl host committee with Penske. He says he got a feel for Penske's humility and work ethic after one of their planning meetings. Mr.  Everybody got up and walked away left their coffee cups on the table. He started picking up the coffee cups. He knew that something needed to be done. He was humble enough to clean up after other people. He really led by example.  Buckler says Penske inspires the people around him from his fellow captains of industry to people on the salesroom floor. And after months with an uncertain future inspiration is something Saturn's workers could use. At a Saturn dealership in suburban Detroit Brian Lanzon is sitting in a 2009 Vue SUV with a customer going over its safety features. Mr.  StabiliTrak is standard ABS OnStar head curtain side airbags side airbags.  Lanzon says business slowed way down after GM announced it was getting rid of Saturn. But he says recently things have picked back up. Mr.  It is going on 3 o' clock and I have delivered four Vues already.  Carl Galeana owns this dealership. He says what changed was the news that Roger Penske would buy Saturn. Mr.  All of the sudden overnight we started to get the trickling back in of customers again because you know they feel - they know who Roger Penske is. Dr.  When you think of his track record of success you would not bet against Roger's ability to be successful here.  That is David Cole. He is the chairman of the Center for Automotive Research. Cole says the Saturn deal allows Penske to build a company around the sales and marketing of cars. He says that is the opposite of the car companies that are unraveling now where the core functions are design and manufacturing. Dr.  Here's somebody now with a very powerful set of dealers with the ability now to work with multiple different companies and avoid what you know has become one of the really huge challenges of the auto industry and that is the very high fixed cost of manufacturing.  GM has agreed to continue to supply Penske with three Saturn models for the next two years. After that he can shop around for the vehicles he wants from any carmakers around the globe. Cole says that will give Saturn a flexibility that other car companies will not have. And it means Roger Penske could just usher in a new business model for the domestic auto industry. For NPR News I am Sarah Hulett. 