 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  Over the past few months we have brought you stories of babies and childrearing for our series Beginnings. Well today an ending. We conclude our series with two stories about early childhood education told by two reporters with a vested interest in the subject.  But first here's Alex Blumberg on why preschool matters.  Let us start with a mystery - a mystery James Heckman a Nobel Prize-winning economist discovered when he studied job training programs targeted at low-skill low-education young workers. Heckman compared a group of these workers that had gone through a training program with a group that had not.  I mean for boys they would have been better off if they had not gone into the program. And for many other groups the effects were basically zero.  So these programs were supposed to train you in a new skill that would enable you to get a better job. And when you looked at them they did not do that. And in some cases they actually made you worse off?  They harmed people correct.  And Heckman discovered these soft skills which are so important in getting a job you do not get them in high school not in middle school not even in elementary school. You get them here.  I love trains. That is why I am going to make trains.  You are going to make a train?  Yeah.  Preschool James Heckman found might be one of the most effective job-training programs out there. One piece of evidence he looked at a study called the Perry Preschool Project.  In the early '60s some very visionary individuals conducted a social experiment.  Then both groups went back into the same regular Ypsilanti public school system grew up side by side into adulthood. But when researchers followed up with the kids as adults they found huge differences. For example at age 27 the boys in what Heckman calls the control group - the ones who did not go to preschool - got arrested a lot more than two times each. But in the preschool group what Heckman calls the treatment group?  In the treatment group that was cut in half.  Wow.  You look at monthly earnings on the job the control group is earning about two-thirds of what the treatment group is earning.  So these kids who - over 20 years ago - got two hours a day of preschool decades later they were half as likely to be arrested earned 50 percent more in salary. And that was not all girls who got preschool when they get to age 27 were 50 percent more likely have a savings account twenty percent more likely to have a car. Preschool kids got sick less often were unemployed less often went to jail less often. Lots of other studies have had similar findings.  Do you come here every day?  Yeah.  And when you come here what do you do?  I do not know. I just do not know.  Ella's teacher Eliza Cutler was better able to explain what exactly that is.  They kind of - they play in the morning and then we will sit down and have like a morning meeting just having general conversation about what we might do during the day. Then we play outside. And then they take a little nap.   There is painting building with blocks. If you did not know where to look you would not see all the job skills being formed.  I am using that one.    Not even I cannot have just one?  If they learn these skills now they will have them for the rest of their lives. But research shows if they do not form these skills now it becomes harder and harder the older they get. By the time the time they are in a job training program in their 20s it is often too late.  For NPR News I am Alex Blumberg. 