 In Florida the pandemic continues to exact its price. New cases are rising and a record number of COVID patients are hospitalized - more than 11000. All this ramps up pressure on employers trying to keep workers safe. NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports on one firm's struggles.  George Boue works on a palm tree-lined street close to Fort Lauderdale's beaches where COVID-19 transmission runs especially high.  Well we are the epicenter.  Yet resistance to vaccination has also been relatively stiff. That is sowing division within the ranks of Stiles where Boue is vice president of human resources. The company's 260 employees work in teams to design construct and manage office buildings. Boue estimates 40 of the company's staff have yet to vaccinate.  We have always had a very trusting culture. What is happening now is there is a level of distrust as to who is vaccinated who is not. It has been really taxing just appeasing the two extreme groups of the overly concerned and the overly unconcerned.  Across the U.S. many employers are grappling with similar dynamics trying to maintain safety in workplaces polarized over vaccination. So far only a fraction have mandated vaccines. In Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has banned businesses and government from requiring proof of COVID-19 vaccination. Boue does not think his company would have gone that route anyway. It is hard enough trying to recruit workers. Instead he tries to urge vaccination in a way that will not alienate workers opposed to it. But that too is not easy. For example he recently surveyed employees to gauge how many would get their shots if the vaccinator came on site.  I got a whopping three individuals.  He thinks some workers may be waiting until the vaccines win full approval from the Food and Drug Administration instead of just for emergency use. But...  I do think there is a significant percentage that will get vaccinated no matter what. I do not think they could be convinced otherwise.  And so he says the emotionally charged divisions seen in the real world spill over into the workplace. The conflict is not necessarily overt. Workers vent to managers or to him about their worries like having asthma or an immunocompromised family member.  It has been my toughest job in human resources ever.  Boue tells them it is OK to ask whether a colleague is vaccinated but he knows from experience it can be extremely awkward.  It is impacting a very critical glue within our culture. Those that are vaccinated who feel they have taken all the precautions feel resentful to the unvaccinated especially the unvaccinated who do not wear a mask because that is the worst combination.  Managing masking policies alone has been a huge headache. Boue says the company's policy is to follow CDC guidelines.  But the challenge is that this thing has changed constantly because the CDC issues new guidance and we have to be quick on our feet.  Like last week when the CDC renewed calls for universal masking indoors in regions where COVID transmission is high. Each time guidelines change Boue sends out another email. The problem is the nuances are not always clear. Like does a vaccinated employee whose child was exposed at school still need to quarantine under the new rules?  People refer to the guidelines that existed previously and say well what about this?  It is hard he says helping people navigate this ever-changing landscape. But George Boue says he realizes he is not alone. Employers worldwide are in the same boat. Yuki Noguchi NPR News.  