 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block. Presidential candidates and outside political groups are spending record amounts to get their message out this election year. While many viewers might wish all those ads would just go away the spending is good news for TV stations and that is especially true for stations in swing states. Here's NPR's Brian Naylor.  Someone once said that owning a TV station is a license to print money. Now that was before the advent of cable TV and computer screens and streaming video but these are clearly good times for some stations especially the ones in presidential battleground states says Ken Goldstein of Kantar Media CMAG which tracks political ad spending.  If you are a television station in a media market in one of those handful of states there is an incredible amount of demand for your inventory from political buyers.  Take Ohio for example. TV viewers there are being treated to lots of ads like this one from President Obama.   Mitt Romney's companies were pioneers in outsourcing U.S. jobs to low-wage countries. He supports tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas.  And this one from presumptive Republican nominee Mitt Romney.   Mitt Romney has a plan to get America working. Barack Obama worst job record since the Depression.  Dan Bradley is president and general manager of WCMH in Columbus the NBC affiliate in Ohio's capital. He says there are many different political ads airing on his station.  Both presidential candidates are running a variety of PACS and superPACs are running. And then on top of all that we have an interesting argument going on with the big power company.  According to one media buying group that provided its figures to NPR last week alone the Obama campaign and its outside supporters spent some 345000 on Columbus TV the Romney campaign and its supporters around 220000. With all that demand says WCMH's Bradley  prices will go up.  It is a commodity business. And when there is a large demand on that commodity and a lot of people trying to buy the same thing the natural forces of the market cause the price to rise.  Bradley would not say how much ad rates at his station have risen. Jane Peters is president of Media Management Services a Columbus firm which buys TV time for a range of clients from car dealers to local garden centers. Peters says she is telling those clients to expect to pay up to 50 percent more for TV time in the coming months.  We usually spend about oh six 7000 a week like in Dayton Ohio. But it will look like we will need about 10 or 15000 you know just to make that same impact once we get into the political window. But we will be preempted and we probably will not even run.  Those spots may get preempted by political ads whose buyers are willing to pay top dollar to ensure their spots are seen at key times such as adjacent to the local news or on popular shows like Jeopardy. Setting TV ad rates is a complex equation. Kantar Media's Ken Goldstein says what you pay depends on who you are.  Part of political advertising is very highly regulated. And part of political advertising buying is absolutely the Wild West.  The regulated part pertains to candidates for federal office like president or Senate. Within 60 days of the election those candidates have to be given the lowest rate the station has charged for a similar ad in the past year. Outside groups on the other hand are charged whatever the market will bear. That is not likely to slow the deep-pocketed advocacy groups. But local businesses just like many TV viewers will be glad when November has come and gone. Brian Naylor NPR News Washington. 