 Today Planet Money's Alex Blumberg brings us the story of the unlikely man at the center of Norway's strategy and the lessons he has for Libya.  So first off just how bad is it having lots of oil?  It is awful. Most countries would probably have been better off without oil than they are with oil.  So how did Norway avoid this fate? A lot of it was due to this guy.  My name is Farouk al-Kasim.  Kasim not a Norwegian name right?   No it is not.  Al-Kasim is Iraqi. And for over a decade he worked in Iraq for an oil company. He was trained as a geologist. But in the 1960s al-Kasim and his wife who is Norwegian decided to move to Norway. Their son had cerebral palsy and needed medical care. Job-wise Norway seemed at the time like the worst place in the world for an oil guy like al-Kasim.  You see the Norwegian Geological Survey had already said that there is no hope in heaven of ever finding oil or gas.  Al-Kasim figured worst case scenario he would drive a taxi. But it turns out al-Kasim's skills were needed in Norway. Even though Norway's geologists had said there was not oil companies were still out there looking for it. And so the Norwegian government hired al-Kasim to review the reports these companies were sending in about their explorations. And what he saw in the data was surprising.  Remember the country was saying there is no way there is oil out there. And here I am looking at data that says my God they have already found it four times over. Admittedly not yet commercial size.  Not yet anyway. But around a year later the Ekofisk oil field was discovered a massive find. Norway was officially rich. Now how to keep the riches from destroying them. Al-Kasim and a colleague wrote a series of proposals that found their way into a government plan that most people credit with saving Norway from the oil curse.  limit the amount of oil money there is. Do not drill everything at once. As you might imagine this plan did not go over so well with everyone.  It was received with skepticism by the industry who wanted Norway to go full-speed ahead.  Again journalist Martin Sandbu who himself is Norwegian.  It is been saved in an oil fund a savings fund and the government only gets the interest on the financial wealth that is in that fund. The trust fund is I have not checked the latest numbers but it is on the order of 500 billion now which amounts to 100000 dollars per Norwegian citizen.  Does anybody in Norway say - you know what I just want that money now? Can you just give me 100000?  Surprisingly few.  Well that is what I call the Norwegian Miracle.  Again Farouk al Kasim.  The Norwegian Miracle is that all the parties in parliament agreed on a policy. And they agreed among themselves that they will never use oil policy as a subject during elections.  For NPR news I am Alex Blumberg. 