 All those involved in the debt ceiling debate seem to accuse their adversaries of being overly concerned about 2012 and public approval ratings. To the extent that politicians were keeping an eye on the polls we are going to spend some time examining what they saw in those numbers. And to do that we are joined by Nate Silver of the FiveThirtyEight blog at The New York Times. Welcome back.  Yeah thank you.  Now you spent some time looking at the electoral impact of this bruising and prolonged debate. Let us look at the Republicans first. The Republicans held the line at least for now on taxes and they have kept revenues out of this equation. But there is something interesting. Public opinion suggested that GOP voters were more open to targeted tax hikes than GOP politicians. Are those votes applauding the Republicans now?  But you know the Republican establishment feels that tax increases once you give one then you have kind of lost the whole argument I suppose. So they towed that line and they towed it effectively.  But at least in terms of public approval ratings right now did the Republicans emerge from this bruising battle somewhat victorious in terms of an approval rating or electoral impact looking ahead to the next round of elections?  No. I do not think so at all. I mean I think they got a win on the policy you know and that is what you get elected to do you know in theory. But public opinion has not reflected well on them where right now the approval rating of the Congress is 14 percent - one four not a typo. Now it always tends to be low but that was from a CNN poll conducted last night. It is the lowest number they have ever recorded and they have taken this number going back to 1974.  Fourteen percent. That is a very low number. But are voters saying you know I may not like Congress but I like that guy or that gal that represents me?  Well you know you are not going to have 86 percent of Congress voted out of office. But historically there has been a clear correlation between what that number is right the number disapproving of Congress and how many incumbents lose their seats. We are seeing you know record low numbers for the Congress. We are seeing record low numbers for both major parties. Both Democrats and Republicans have very poor images right now.  Well let us dig into this a little bit deeper. Does some of this umbrage spill over to the White House? President Obama's approval ratings had been trending down before the debate moved into Defcon Five status. What happened to his numbers as the debate intensified?  It is a little hard to say because there have also been a lot of bad economic numbers. So you know Obama's numbers have tracked down a little bit. They have certainly tracked down since the killing of Osama bin Laden in May which was probably to be expected.  So his numbers spiked at that point and then...  I think the question is for the Congress is this a temporary shift or is it gonna be something which affects them through the next election? Remember the Congress does not get as many opportunities to make an impression with the public. If there is a major foreign policy event the President gets on TV the Congress does not. So to leave the public with a bad impression certainly - although Obama was not popular as well there might be more of a hangover I would think for the Congress when this is something that voters will process more in 2012 because they have fewer things to weigh against it on the scale potentially.  It has been reported that the Obama campaign is particularly concerned about Independents. Are they concerned for good reason?  Sure. I mean Independents are often kind of the canary in the coal mine and his numbers with Independents have been getting worse where I think you see up to 55 or 60 percent disapproval from Independents. And Obama certainly because of the economy and because of you know his mediocre poll standing is a extremely vulnerable incumbent president right now.  Nate Silver good to talk to you. Thank you very much.  Thank you.  That is Nate Silver of the FiveThirtyEight blog at The New York Times. 