 Finally to a budding business that is been helped along by the extreme heat we have been having here in Washington. It is one of those ventures that might make you wonder now why did not I think of that? NPR's Andrea Hsu has the story behind Pleasant Pops.  Thank you very much.  Look around the Mount Pleasant Farmers Market it seems every other person has got a frozen treat in hand but do not be mistaken these are not popsicles. That is a trademark term owned by Unilever. So say the guys with the bike cart cooler these are ice pops not the ones you grew up with but more modern flavors - peaches and ginger strawberry rhubarb watermelon and black pepper all made with ingredients from the market itself. Mr.  You guys have watermelons today? Mr.  Yeah. Lots of watermelons cantaloupes.  Roger Horowitz half of the Pleasant Pops duo checks in with his vendors. The bad news for Jared Sykes of Richville Farms no cucumbers this week. Mr.  And they are not producing well so we got to wait for the next planting. Mr.  Okay. Cool. I mean cucumber chili is probably our biggest seller so far. Mr.  They are also out really quick.  That is right cucumber chili a nod to Mexican ice pops or paletas which inspired this whole thing. Cucumber chili is one of 60 flavors Roger Horowitz and his friend Brian Sykora have tried making since early last year after Brian spotted an empty storefront and asked Roger want to open a business? Mr.  I said sure. What do you want to open? And I said oh what do you think about popsicles?  The storefront is not a reality yet so this summer they have been renting kitchen space from a cafe. There they juice the fruit blend in sugar and sometimes milk or cream and pour it all into molds. On a recent evening they were blackberry and creampuffs in the making as well as blackberry basil and cream. Mr.  Brian whose idea was it to add basil to the blackberries and cream? Mr.  I will give you . Mr.  Okay. Thanks. It was my idea.  Buying local ingredients is expensive. And even at 2.50 a pop they are not making a living off this. Mr.  No not yet but we hope to in the near future.  The first goal they say is to become ramen profitable. Mr.  To be able to just feed ourselves off you know Top Ramen or beans and rice or something cheap.  And in the meantime they do have day jobs. Horowitz is a preschool teacher and Sykora is with the National Democratic Institute. He is got a project in Afghanistan. There are other gourmet ice pop shops around the country in Austin Nashville New York. So far D.C. seems to like the idea. Mr.  It is very refreshing on a hot juicy day. Ms.  It was wonderful so it is a Saturday morning tradition. Mr.  It is really gingery and peachy. It tastes like it is made from fresh stuff. It is awesome.  And if the opinions of market goers Paul Marquart Theresa Pierce and Kirk Anderson are not enough Roger Horowitz also got thumbs up from a couple of its preschool students and their moms. Mr.  Hey.  .  And 15 minutes before the farmers market closed Pleasant Pops completely sold out. Now the trick is making that happen come fall. Andrea Hsu NPR News.  And you can find out how to make your own strawberry rhubarb pops at home and share your favorite recipe at npr.org. 