 It is been nearly four months since a massive tornado slammed into Joplin Missouri destroying about a third of the city. More than 500 businesses were in the direct path of the storm. Missy Shelton of member station KSMU reports that as they rebuild business owners are finding opportunity in the wake of their tremendous losses.  On that Sunday night in May the building that housed the Medicine Shoppe Pharmacy in Joplin was destroyed. A safe used to store narcotics was one of the only things to survive and even it got knocked over by the powerful winds. But within two days pharmacy owner David Starrett held the keys to a new location for his business a building originally built for installing car phones.  Where we are sitting here this was part of their garage in the back and they brought your car in. If you go outside you can see they have stuccoed in the two doors. Most recently there was a cellular company that had moved from here just two weeks prior. So it was just - had gone on the market.  He says the new location has brought him some new opportunities even though many of his previous customers left town.  We have had 75 80 families being displaced. I mean they have had to move to Neosho Springfield Carthage places where they cannot use me. And that is fine but the positive thing about our new location is we have had new faces. Even though I am just a mile south of where I was I have gained more than I lost.  Rob O'Brian is president of the Joplin Area Chamber of Commerce and says he expects more than 400 of the businesses to reopen by the end of this year. He said the international news coverage of the tornado and Joplin's quick response are helping attract businesses to the area.  We have heard from many of them that they see that as a big plus. It is a big difference when they know that that can-do attitude can kick in even in the face of a severe natural disaster.  I am standing here along 26th Street in Joplin Missouri. As I look to the west I can see an open littered field and off in the distance the hulking remains of St. John's Hospital. Now to the east there is an elementary school - it is still standing but is in shambles. Immediately to my south is a brand new brick building. It is the new home of Cut Loose a hair salon. The original building on this site was destroyed when the May 22nd tornado ripped through this part of the city.  It is amazing some of the things that we lost including a brick building and washer and dryer but we did recover fingernail polish.   For NPR News I am Missy Shelton. 