 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. Plenty of young aspiring lawyers dream of landing jobs at high-powered big city firms so to them an internship in a sleepy rural town might not sound like a dream summer job. But that is what three law schools in Iowa and Nebraska are encouraging their students to consider. New law school grads are facing one of the worst job markets in decades and as Iowa Public Radio's Sarah McCammon reports some say working in smaller towns is looking more appealing.  I am in downtown Garner Iowa if you could call it that. It is a small town. I am on the main drag here which is dotted with a few businesses a coffee shop a restaurant some furniture and clothing stores. Also on this main drag you will find the law office of Phil Garland.  OK. Marilyn you had not met Kay before but she is been with me this summer and...  OK.  ...so she is going to explain a couple of things here.  Garland has been practicing law here in this town of about 3000 for more than three decades since before his 22-year-old summer intern Kay Oskvig was born. She just finished her first year of law school at the University of Iowa. Today she is advising 83-year-old Marilyn Hayes who wants to pass her family farm on to her seven children.  OK. So Marilyn what I have been doing is researching your basis in the land which is kind of the amount of investment that the IRS considers for tax purposes.  Sure.  And so when I was preparing the deed...  Oskvig is part of a new program offered by her law school plus Drake University in Des Moines and Creighton in Omaha. They are pairing a handful of law students with rural firms. Oskvig grew up in a small town but says she had not thought about practicing law in one until now. Phil Garland her mentor this summer is on the Iowa Bar Association committee that organized the internship program which they are hoping to expand next year.  It is sort of a - what we call a kick the tires program. You get a chance to know the student. You get to have the chance to have the student have some real hands-on experience see if you have got a good relationship between the two of you they like the town. It is a pretty minimal cost.  The American Bar Association has not collected data on rural law firms in more than a decade but as younger professionals gravitate toward urban life Garland says many older small town lawyers are nearing retirement with no one to fill their shoes. Some areas have just a few attorneys for an entire county. About three hours south in Albia Iowa John Pabst works out of an old Victorian house. Pabst does not have anyone waiting in the wings so he is also taken on a law student this summer who will have to adapt to the small town.  If you are a single person in Monroe County Iowa unless you have local connections it is not what I would call a hot spot for social activity.  Maybe not but many recent law grads cannot afford to be quite so picky. A report from the National Association for Law Placement last year called the market for entry level lawyers the worst in 30 years. Those big city law firms are not hiring at the pace they used to and fewer than half of newly minted lawyers found jobs in private firms. But Kay Oskvig thinks she may have a better shot at employment in a rural area. Already she is getting hands-on experience working a variety of cases with a veteran attorney and even getting paid while many of her classmates are interning for free with large firms. And she is not stressing about her social life either.  I think there are places to meet people. There are always opportunities. They might be different places so instead of you know at a bar or a social hour on a Friday night you might be set up by somebody's grandmother so it is - you know it is kind of a different way of doing things.  And while Oskvig still has two years to go before she makes up her mind she says her path to the law career she wants just might wind through a small town. For NPR News I am Sarah McCammon. 