 There are lots of worried Canadians right now with the news that Burger King is buying the iconic Canadian coffee and doughnut chain Tim Hortons because Tim Hortons is not just another chain it is part of the Canadian psyche. It is named after a hockey player - of course. Politicians make speeches at Tim Hortons comedians do routines about it - like this from Scott Harris.   Hamilton Ontario Canada is the home of Tim Hortons coffee.   That is where they built the first Tim Hortons ever that is where they came up with the recipe half coffee half heroine.   Nobody lines up behind 40 other cars at 6 oclock in the morning for plain coffee.  Ian Hardy is one of those anxious Canadians who runs the site insidetimmys.com devoted to all things Tim Hortons. And he joins us now from Toronto to explain why this is such a big. Ian welcome to the program.  Thank you very much for having me.  And what was your reaction when you first heard the news that Burger King is buying Tim Hortons? What'd you say?  I did not believe it and I could not believe it. It was shocking actually and then it is true.  Shocking and then it is true. In fact on your website -I have been taking a peek at it - your headline was - Hell Has Frozen Over.   Like the only thing from a business stand point that is Canadian that people know is Tim Horton's.  Well why do not you explain what the deep appeal of Tim Hortons? It is a doughnut chain it is a coffee chain. Why does this strike such a deep chord for Canadians?  I think there is a lot of things that Canadians and Canadian families have been part of - like myself I grew up going to Tim Hortons. I now take my little boy there - well I do not give him coffee but I give him like a doughnut. We go there when we start our day and we go there on our road-trip and it is always there.  What is the buzz that you have been hearing from people who comment on your website or just when you go to a Tim Hortons - what are people saying about this sale to Burger King?  I think the general reaction is really shocking like why are they doing this? Are things going to change? They still want it to be Canadian they want it to feel Canadian. So they do not want it to change in a perspective that is going to lessen the Canadian heritage of it.  How many times a week would you say you go to a Tim Hortons Mr. Hardy?  Oh at least 20.  Twenty? Really.  Oh yeah. Oh I go about three times a day like I am crazy addicted.  Have you done the math of how much money you have dropped over the years at Tim Hortons?  Thousands. I probably could have bought a franchise.  And your favorite things on the Tim Hortons menu - what would that be?  I get a steeped tea - a medium steeped tea and double double with milk. If I was going to do a doughnut it would be the honey cruller - it is spectacular. It is this light fluffy doughnut and if you rip it open its little flakes of baked goodness in there. And it is filled with honey - light touches of honey - spectacular.  Well Ian Hardy thanks so much for talking to us about the special appeal of Tim Hortons. And I hope this transition goes OK for you. I know it is a traumatic time.  I am going through some severe stress.  That is Ian Hardy the editor-in-chief of insidetimmys - a website devoted to all things Tim Hortons. And one more note about the fast-food chain - this is not the first time it is been owned by an American company. Wendy's owned the chain between 1995 and 2006 a fact apparently unknown to Mr. Hardy until we mentioned it to him. I know that kind of rocks your world.  It does very upsetting.  Mr. Hardy can rest a little easier though. As long as the acquisition goes through Burger King will officially become a Canadian company. 