 Farmers all over this country have a problem. They do not have enough workers to harvest their crops. It is estimated anywhere from half to three quarters of farm workers are in the U.S. illegally. Some growers say President Trump's anti-immigrant rhetoric has made a chronic worker shortage even worse. NPR's Melissa Block has this report from northern Michigan.  We have come to an apple orchard on Old Mission Peninsula a finger of land poking into Lake Michigan. Workers from Johnson Farms climb wooden ladders high up into the trees with picking bags strapped across their bodies. Their fingers are a blur nimbly plucking the fruit and filling those bushel bags about 50 pounds per load.  .  These pickers are all Mexican. One has brought music in his hip pocket to make the time fly by.   .  .  According to the farm owners the workers either came from Mexico on temporary visas or they have paperwork showing they are in the U.S. legally. Owner Dean Johnson says it is just about impossible to find Americans to do this work.  We have tried. We really have. Sometimes people come out on a day like today and they will pick one box. And then they are gone.  It is hard work. It is hard work out here.  This is Dean's daughter Heatherlyn Johnson Reamer who manages the farm.  What happens if we did not have the migrant labor here picking apples picking tomatoes picking lettuce picking everything? There would not be food. It is just as simple as that.  What is behind the farm worker shortage - for one a stronger economy that is driving many seasonal workers into better-paying year-round work like construction. Also the children of migrants are upwardly mobile. They are finding better opportunities and are not following their parents into farm labor. Add to that Dean Johnson says Trump's crackdown on immigration.  As we all know there is a pretty good number of workers in this country illegally. And so they are scared. Those people do not want to travel anymore. They are in Florida and Texas you know? They will not come up from Mexico.  Johnson says even though Trump's aggressive stance on immigration hurts him as a grower he did vote for him last November.  I was in favor of change. There is other things involved besides just the immigration issues.  Dean's daughter Heatherlyn is not a Trump supporter and Trump's talk about building the border wall leaves her cold.  When we heard that I said you cannot say things like that. I said there are so many migrant workers in this country. You just wonder do you really see who your population is?  Because of the farm labor shortage many farms are relying more heavily on workers from Mexico brought in through the H-2A temporary visa program. The workers earn 12.75 an hour at minimum plus transportation and housing. Farmers complain that the program is cumbersome - lots of red tape with multiple federal agencies involved and it is expensive. It can cost about 2000 in fees for each worker they bring in.  .  Across the bay we stop in to visit a migrant who works on a different farm. We meet him at home in the trailer he shares with his two daughters and his wife Leticia who is busy making tortillas for dinner. Marcelino and Leticia are both undocumented. They asked that we not use their last name to protect their family. Their daughters are U.S. citizens born in Michigan. Marcelino tells me he crossed illegally from Mexico in 1989 when he was just 14.  My home is in a rural rural place.  He came to the U.S. to work in the fields and has lived here ever since. In the winter the family lives in Florida where Marcelino and his wife pick oranges. Come March they head north to Michigan for field work - cherries grapes and apples. And the girls switch schools back and forth.  .  Marcelino has been making this trip for 28 years now. In the past migrant families would drive north in a long caravan.  .  He says we would all come up together in seven vehicles...  .  ...Including a pickup truck with a camper attached all filled with workers.  .  Have you seen a change in how many people are coming up from Florida?  A lot.  A lot.  Nobody wants to come.  They are too afraid Marcelino says. And he is fearful too.  .  What are folks back home telling you? Obviously you came. You said you are afraid but you made the trip yeah? What are your friends back home in Florida saying?  .  They are telling you you are crazy to come.  Yeah yeah.  He knows it is risky but he needs the work. And he says he cannot let fear rule his life. What would you say to people who would say look we are a nation of laws undocumented workers are taking the jobs away from Americans?  .  So you are saying come work with us.  .  If you like the work and if you produce as much as we do then here is your job.  Yep.  Marcelino dreams of a better life for his daughters who have a boost up as American citizens. One wants to be a police officer the other a surgeon. He warns them pay attention in school. Study hard or else you could end up like us...  .  ...Coming home from the fields all dirty and stinky.  .  I want them to be better than us he says. That is why I am pushing them.  .  Melissa Block NPR News. 