 How much would you pay for some Canadian coffee and doughnuts? Burger King thinks 11 billion sounds about right. The company is buying the Ontario-based chain Tim Horton's. And the new company will be based in Canada making a whopper of a difference for Burger King's tax bill. Here's NPR's Jim Zarroli.  The deal is being carried out as what is called a corporate inversion - something that is being used by more and more companies to reduce their U.S. tax burden. The CEO of Burger King Worldwide Dan Schwartz insisted today that the merger is being carried out because it makes good business sense and not for tax considerations.  We do not expect our tax rate to change materially. As I said this transaction's not really about tax. It is about growth.  But Geoffrey Loomer assistant professor at Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia says it is fanciful to think the deal will not cut Burger King's tax bill. He says it is not just that Canada's corporate tax rate is lower...  It is more about the treatment of foreign earnings.  Loomer says unlike other developed countries the United States taxes its companies on the profits they make overseas. And Burger King which has restaurants in more than a hundred countries makes a lot of money overseas. But Loomer says Canada does not tax foreign earnings.  As long as the income is active business income - and running a Burger King restaurant in Hong Kong would be active business - you can bring that money back to the Canadian parent company with no further tax.  The move is likely to intensify the debate over inversions which have been roundly criticized by the White House and some members of Congress. One irony of the merger is the involvement of billionaire Warren Buffett who will contribute 3 billion in financing toward the deal. Buffett has become a big critic of the U.S. tax code arguing that it is unfairly skewed toward the rich. Buffet's company is based in Nebraska so it will still have to pay U.S. taxes on the money it makes from Burger King but the company he is investing in is likely to benefit from a controversial tax maneuver that critics say can only erode the U.S. tax base. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 