 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. If you are used to customer service and tech support from the other side of the world you may be surprised the next time you place one of those calls. The person who answers might be in the United States. The recession has shifted the scales. Companies are hiring people to answer calls here at home. As a matter of fact they are hiring those people in their homes as NPR's Carolyn Beeler reports.  Maureen Quigley-Hogan is the next generation of call center workers. Ms.  Hello good afternoon this is Maureen may I have your name please?  Quigley-Hogan is at a makeshift desk in her home office in Virginia. She is wearing pink slippers and she is taking a call from a woman in New Jersey who has a question about her credit card bill. Ms.  For verification purposes may I have the last four digits of your Social Security number please?  Quigley-Hogan was unemployed for 10 years because she says she could not hold down a traditional job. She has rheumatoid arthritis and fibromyalgia a disease that causes severe fatigue. Ms.  It was hard to get to a job. The idea of going through a regular schedule of getting up and getting ready for work I would be exhausted.  She would worked in customer service for more than 20 years. So two years ago she was thrilled to land this job where she can work from home. And increasingly companies that want to outsource their customer service jobs are happy with the arrangement too. Ten years ago it made a lot of sense to outsource these jobs to the Philippines or India. But that is changing. High inflation and double digit annual raises in some sectors are pushing up the cost of labor in India. At the same time wages in the United States are falling and companies are rethinking the trade-offs associated with outsourcing. Richard Crespin is the director of the Human Resources Outsourcing Association. Mr.  When a company is deciding where to put something they have to weigh in the cost of doing that as well as the inconvenience of having something distant from you and not close in proximity - what I would call like the pain-in-the-neck factor. So when wages drop in your home economy you are less likely to move something over as the balance between pain-in-the-neck and labor arbitrage comes more into alignment.  Experts say outsourcing is still accelerating for jobs in IT services and manufacturing. But even before the recession started companies were starting to realize that offshoring was not the best option for other services like handling calls about credit card balances or broken cell phones. That is according to Phil Fersht an outsourcing analyst. Mr.  People have found that losing the customer service capability for having local staff who can understand products and services well and can deal in context-based situations it has not faired that well in offshore locations like India.  Today Fersht says in some cases workers in India are making only about 15 percent less than workers in say Nebraska. He says that is about the point where companies start thinking it is worth it to hire an American worker instead of a foreign one.  home workers like Maureen Quigley-Hogan. There are an estimated 60000 people like her doing call center work from home. Mr.  It provides a lower cost point than other traditional means of onshore customer service.  That is Chris Carrington. He runs Alpine Access the Denver-based company that Quigley-Hogan works for. He says the low overhead of having home-based workers allows him to charge 20 percent less for the same services that brick-and-mortar call centers in the U.S. provide. Mr.  We do not have big buildings and we do not have all of that infrastructure cost and so we are able to pay our people more as well as lower the price for our customers that we serve.  Even with these cost-cutting measures American workers are still the more expensive option. But industry watchers say so-called home sourcing will continue to grow as companies look for quality that used to be harder to afford. Carolyn Beeler NPR News Washington. 