 One of the unemployed workers flanking the president as he called for extending jobless benefits used to work at an auto dealership. But a new watchdog report says the Obama administration may have jeopardized tens of thousands of auto dealer jobs when it pressed Chrysler and General Motors to quickly shed more than 2000 dealerships last year. NPR's Scott Horsley reports.  There was little question last year that GM and Chrysler had more dealers than they needed. Both companies planned to eliminate some of them gradually. But the special inspector general monitoring the government's bailout program says the Obama administration wanted to cut more dealers more quickly as a condition of rescuing the automakers. That was bad news for Russell Whatley a third-generation Chrysler dealer in Mineral Wells Texas. Mr.  We were given three weeks to shut down operations and it just pretty threw everybody for a loop.  The inspector general now suggests that haste may have backfired potentially costing tens of thousands of jobs at shuttered dealerships without necessarily saving big money for the automakers. Analyst Michael Robinet of IHS Automotive says some of the dealers that closed were in underserved rural areas not in the big cities. Mr.  There is no doubt that in hindsight the government would certainly look to slow down the rate of dealer reductions as well as the criteria they used to implement them.  After Congress ordered arbitration GM and Chrysler offered to reinstate about a third of the dealers. Whatley was not one of them. He is now trying to hold on by selling used cars. But he says it has not been easy. Mr.  We have obviously had to cut back on things like Little League sponsorships and high school sponsorships and things like that but we have not cut our employees. We are just not going to do that.  The Obama administration defends its push for more rapid dealer downsizing. Meanwhile the Ford Motor Company which did not get a government bailout is closing some of its dealerships but at a much slower rate. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 