 The stock market is riding high these days. The major U.S. stock indexes are up near record highs. A number of global indexes are too. NPR's John Ydstie is here to talk with us about what is lifting the market. Hey there John.  Hi Audie.  So in the months after Donald Trump was elected president the market actually rose and everyone called it the Trump rally.  Right.  But there is been a lot of turmoil in Washington since he took office. So it is what we are seeing in the stock market connected to the president?  Well since the election SP 500 is up 16 percent and the Dow is up 18 percent even though President Trump has yet to deliver on most of his pro-growth policies. On the other hand the Congress and the White House have eased regulations and created a more business-friendly regulatory environment and that is helped stocks. Also there is still the possibility of tax relief. And a failure of the health care bill could actually clear the way for action on taxes later this summer. That is helping drive stocks higher. But there is enough skepticism that I would say it is not solely a Trump rally anymore.  Well if they do not think it is a Trump rally then what else could be pushing stocks to these levels?  Well one big reason is that the global economy is growing faster. That combined with the recent decline in the value of the dollar has sparked more demand for U.S. goods abroad. That is helped boost U.S. company profits. And here's a relevant data point. Forty percent of the profits of SP 500 companies come from foreign sales. So a stronger global economy is boosting U.S. stock prices.  What about here in the U.S. though? I mean growth here is still sluggish for many people far below the Trump administration's goal.  True. But the U.S. economy does continue to chug along. And there is still solid job creation. And another thing that is helped stocks is that they are very attractive compared to bonds which investors see as the main alternative. That is because long-term interest rates remain very low. And investors would rather buy stocks than a 10-year bond that gives them an annual return of only 2 and a quarter percent or so.  Now people are talking about a stock market bubble. So how real is that fear?  Yeah you know that fear is largely connected to the huge stimulus central banks have injected into the global economy since the financial crisis. The concern is that lots of that money has been invested in stocks and dramatically inflated their value. Central bankers like Janet Yellen have made clear the stimulus will be taken away very gradually. So far that is been enough to reassure investors. However back to Washington turmoil - if efforts to get a tax cut stall we are likely to see stocks retreat.  That is NPR's John Ydstie. John thank you.  You are welcome. 