 We are turning now to Jeff Padnos. His grandfather started the family business Padnos Recycling in 1905. He is with us on the line now from Holland Mich. where the company is based. Mr. Padnos thanks so much for joining us once again.  Thank you for this opportunity Michel.  Could you just tell us a little bit about your company? What do you do? How does the company work?  We help companies and people make the best use of all resources. We are in the scrap processing and recycling business. When companies make something they always have a byproduct. Anytime anybody makes anything physical there is always a byproduct and we help them to recognize the value whether it is the trimming from making a file cabinet door or a part of a car or - and then after a product has been used we also help get the value out of an obsolete product such as an automobile. We will shred that up and sort out all the different metals in it and help put that back to use.  So just...  We also do that with paper and plastics.  Just help me see it. So you gather recycling materials and then you sort it and then you sell it right? Is that it?  Right.  Is that about right?  Yes.  OK. Have the tariffs affected your business so far?  It is been a pretty dramatic effect. Different materials have been affected differently but the biggest effect was felt very quickly - was China's retaliation. I certainly hope that any idea that there would be no retaliation has been put to rest. They put a 25 percent tax on aluminum scrap and it was imposed immediately so even products that our customers had bought that were on the water and could not be diverted faced that tax when they got there. But in the last week or so it is gotten even more dramatic because the customers over there who have seen the effect on one product are afraid to buy anything else from us. So China was 60 to 70 percent of our metal exports and the market's virtually gone.  Well the - obviously the intention of these tariffs is to create more business and more jobs in the United States. So I guess the question would be can you replace those overseas customers with customers in the United States? Can you maintain your business and perhaps even grow your business internally?  We will have to look for other markets. It is happened very very quickly but we will find a way to respond. The irony is that the - one of the intentions was to improve our balance of trade and the industries like ours that are being affected by the retaliation are exactly the industries that had been already contributing to a favorable balance. We were helping to offset the trade deficit. The United States exports a lot more of our product than we import and so we are helping. And this will - it will certainly hurt against that objective. As far as finding other markets it is very hard to replace a market like China. That will take some doing.  That is Jeff Padnos. He is co-owner of Padnos Recycling in Holland Mich. Mr. Padnos thanks so much for talking with us once again. Let us keep in touch.  OK. Thank you very much Michel. I appreciate this opportunity. Thank you. 