 We are going to put ride sharing services to the test in this next story. It seems every month we are hearing about companies like Uber and Lyft facing new legal threats. Right now in L.A. and San Francisco district attorneys are looking into the quality of the background checks the companies do on their drivers. This comes as a new study in San Francisco shows Uber and Lyft are taking a lot of business away from traditional taxis. NPR's Laura Sydell did a comparison of her own.  I did an experiment with two of my colleagues Michaeleen Doucleff and Richard Buster Gonzales. We stood outside our office in San Francisco and Michaeleen called a taxi Richard called an Uber and I called a Lyft. We are going to take it to the same destination - San Francisco's beautiful Ferry Building. So who is first fastest and cheapest? All right. Are we ready? Let us go. I will tell who won in a minute but first here's Amy Keyishian to explain why she stopped using taxis.  I had too many bad experiences where I would call a cab and either be waiting for over an hour or over two hours in one case when I was pregnant and standing in front of UCFS Hospital.  But if you talk to traditional taxi drivers as my colleague Michaeleen Doucleff did while she raced to the Ferry Building they will tell you that riders like Keyishian are taking a risk. Her driver Abdul Anabazaar  says last New Year's an Uber driver hit and killed a six-year-old girl.  Uber said we are not responsible because the driver did not have the customer in the car. But he was going to pick up somebody.  Taxis in San Francisco are always covered by a million dollars of insurance - Uber and Lyft far less. And Kate Toran of San Francisco's Municipal Transportation Authority say rider services are not set up to help the disabled. But since traditional taxi drivers are struggling to make ends meet the number willing to put in the extra time to serve the disabled has dropped.  It is not easy to provide accessible taxi service. And it is something we have been doing for many years and we still work hard at it. That requires a very robust training program.  Still there is a feeling that overall service is better for most San Franciscans. Alan Cooper  says it is gotten easier to get a traditional cab and it is often cheaper during peak hours.  I have now found myself in those peak hours when Uber is at 2 - 2.5X surge pricing or - this morning for instance - 10 to 15 minutes away is the closest UberX hailing a cab is actually much easier.  But at other times when you are far away from downtown at a non-peak hour Uber and Lyft have a lot to offer. I took the Lyft. OK. So I have arrived and I am looking now for Buster or Michaeleen. I waited a couple of minutes. Did you just get dropped off?  You beat me?  I beat you. How much it cost you? It cost Buster 12.09. It cost me 12. Michaeleen does not arrive until 11 minutes after I do. Now how much did yours cost?  Twenty bucks - 16 and I tipped him.  So on this trip Lyft came first Uber was a close second and the conventional cab a distant third. But ironically when it came time to head back to the office the Lyft driver could not find us along the crowded waterfront so we hopped into an empty taxi. We started chatting with driver Frank Tan  and he shows us his new app Flywheel. It is like Uber or Lyft for regular taxis.  When - after the people use it they will like it.  Clearly the competition is forcing traditional cab companies to step up their game and its consumers who stand to reap the benefits. Laura Sydell NPR News San Francisco. 