 The national housing supply shortage that we are seeing today has actually been decades in the making and it is probably going to take another decade to fix. A lot of people blame baby boomers but Sarah Gonzalez with our Planet Money podcast says it is not so simple.  OK in a healthy housing market you would have about six months of housing supply. According to a report last month from Harvard there is currently less than two months of housing supply in the U.S. which is very very tight. We are talking record-low inventory. There are 3.8 million fewer homes than we need to meet demand. Baby boomers have the biggest share of real estate wealth - 44 of it - even though they are just 28 of the adult population. And unlike previous generations baby boomers are not selling their homes as they get older. They are not moving in with their kids or into a nursing facility or downsizing to a little condo somewhere. They are choosing to grow old in their homes. So some people are like sell your homes already. But not everyone.  I think it is very very unfair. Baby boomer generation is just not creating the housing shortage.  Karan Kaul is a housing supply specialist at the Urban Institute. Can I ask if you are a baby boomer?  I am not.  You are not. OK.  I just had to ask. He says baby boomers are healthier than previous generations so many do not need to move in with their kids or to a nursing home. Also they do not want to move. They like their grocery store their friends. And even if they did choose to sell their homes they would still need to find some other place to live. They would probably just buy a different house.  The point of all of this is if you just reallocate people from one type of housing to another you are not solving the problem in the long run. The problem is we have more people wanting to live in homes than we have homes.  So the obvious answer is build more houses right? But we cannot. And this is where things maybe do come back to boomers a little bit.  I would say the one area where we can kind of point the finger at boomers is that they have tended not to allow change in their neighborhoods.  Jenny Schuetz is an economist at the Brookings Institution and she says baby boomers have tended to block new housing development. They have not really wanted anything in their neighborhoods other than stand-alone single-family homes.  We literally cannot add more homes to a neighborhood because the older residents who live there will not let us build it.  And OK blocking new housing goes way back - stems from racism and redlining. Boomers did not invent this. But their opposition to different kinds of housing has led to some really hard-to-undo zoning laws.  Oh yeah it is illegal to build anything other than a single-family detached house on the majority of land even in big cities across the country.  So no duplexes no condos no tiny houses no mobile homes.  Right.  Some cities are starting to change their zoning laws like Minneapolis Raleigh. They now allow duplexes. It sounds so weird. It is like why has it not been legal to build a duplex?  That is exactly the question. Why did we ban most forms of housing on most land?  Housing experts pretty much agree we cannot get out of this housing crisis without building more housing. And we cannot build more housing without changing some of these zoning laws. Sarah Gonzalez NPR News. 