 As NPR's JJ Sutherland reports the proposed cuts are going to force some hard choices.  Since 911 when the Pentagon asked for money they got it - a lot of it. Now reining in that spending is going to force the country to ask some basic questions really basic.  What do we want a military to do? What is it supposed to be for?  Gordon Adams is a professor at American University and a long time defense budget analyst both in and out of government.  Is it about big wars? Is it about little wars? Is it about nuclear deterrence? Is it about sailing in the oceans? And so on. The key here is you cannot do all of them with less money.  And less money means you have to decide what you are and are not going to do. What are the real dangers the country is going to face in the next decade and just how likely are they?  For example are we going to war with China in the next 10 years? Highly unlikely. Are we likely to be invading a lot of states to overthrow regimes like Iraq and Afghanistan over the next 10 years? I would say that is highly unlikely.  But other dangers say al-Qaida and its affiliate groups or cyber attack those are probably more likely and things the military must be ready for but things that do not require the kind of military the United States maintains today.  And that means that there is going to be winners and losers.  Todd Harrison of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments has some guesses to who those losers may be. First up the Army and the Marines.  As we continue the withdrawal from Iraq we start the drawdown in Afghanistan eventually these wars will come to an end troops will be home. I think there is going to be little appetite for this type of major counterinsurgency campaign in the future.  The Pentagon is already undertaking its own comprehensive strategic review. Here's Ash Carter the top Defense official for weapons acquisition at a recent industry conference.  Comprehensive means comprehensive and that includes things that usually do not make it onto the table.  Things like do we really need 11 aircraft carriers? How many fighter jets do we have to have? Is that new bomber a real priority? How big should the Army be? What about how much we pay soldiers their health care their pensions and other less glamorous items like the 100 billion maintenance budget things that simply have not been on the table for the current crop of military leaders?  A generation of whom have grown accustomed over the post-911 decade to circumstances in which we could always reach for more money when we encountered a managerial or technical problem or a difficult choice and those days are gone.  That could be a shock to an institution that has grown accustomed to being given nearly unlimited amounts of money for the past decade. Again Gordon Adams.  They are going to take a while to adjust to the realization that they are living in scarce resources instead of the days of wine and roses.  JJ Sutherland NPR News. 