 An exciting day for U.S. soccer fans the U.S. team tied with Portugal in a key World Cup match leaving them very much in the hunt. Players are not the only ones battling for supremacy on the pitch - shoe brands are too. It is the florescent Nike Vapors versus the Adidas Adizero battle pack cleats. And have you noticed those mismatched pink and blue shoes out of the field? That is Puma's counterattack. They are called the Tricks.  Well Puma personally I think is one my favorite colors so far.  Edgar Salazar is the store manager at Soccer Central in Torrance California. He takes a break from watching the game to open up a box.  Left shoe turquoise white.  These are the cheaper versions of the Tricks - the 60 evoSPEED's. He says they are not selling all that well. But as for the 200 evoPOWERs the ones you see on TV.  We are actually sold out of those. We could not keep them on the shelf.  Probably because players like Italy's superstar Mario Balotelli are sporting them on soccer's biggest stage. When he scored his goal against England.   Goal Italia - Mario. Mario. Mario.  He was wearing a pair of the blue and pink Tricks. Kyle Stock from Bloomberg BusinessWeek says on a green field Pumas cleats really pop.  I mean you see a lot of yellows out there and oranges and reds - but in the blur of the feet you notice it.  And these cleats we should call them they are called the Tricks - the Puma Tricks.  The Tricks. Yeah evoPOWER Tricks. You know Adidas has the Adizero F50 - it sounds like a sports car or something. Tricks is a little more approachable.  Is there a risk in that though? I am just talking about the mismatched shoes in particular 'ecause that could be a goofy thing to try to get people to pass off as hip.  Yeah I think think it is polarizing but I think they have these players playing in the shoes before they are actually on the market so it is almost validated from the outset. They are committed to this sort of zany color scheme but it is the only one that you really have. So Adidas will make top-of-the-line cleats in a number of different colors and patterns. And Puma is pretty much just doing the blue and the pink which from a supply chain perspective makes doing business much easier.  Obviously Nike and Adidas are far ahead of Puma. But could you give us a sense of the scale here? How far behind is Puma in terms of you know their share of the sportswear market?  Nike does about a 25 billion a year in sales. Adidas does about 19 million. Puma does about 4 billion. And then in terms of soccer it is widely considered that Nike and Adidas have about 70 percent of the soccer market. And then that remaining 30 percent is split between Puma and a bunch of other brands that are in the space.  You said they have been very savvy with their marketing. Why have not I seen any Puma Tricks commercials on ESPN?  Puma has said very publicly if we advertise during the World Cup we will just get drowned out. So their strategy to advertise after the World Cup - a lot of that noise dies down and then it is a little closer to back-to-school season when kids are going to be bugging their parents for a new pair of cleats. So you will see Puma ads. You probably will not see them though until after the World Cup.  Kyle Stock is an associate editor at Bloomberg BusinessWeek. Kyle very interesting. Thank you.  Thanks very much. 