 It was a big goal - get 100000 homeless people off the streets and into housing in four years. The leaders of that campaign announced today they have done it a month before their deadline. As NPR's Pam Fessler reports the effort involved hundreds of communities the federal government nonprofits and businesses across the U.S.  Most of those housed in what is called The 100000 Homes Campaign were chronically homeless. Today they are in a place that many of them thought they would never see again.  What is the right word I am trying to think of? It is just...  Mallyveen Teah is one of them.  It feels like I am a normal person again I guess is what I am trying to say. And I haven' He is 53 and was homeless or couch-surfing on and off for the past 25 years. Now Teah is walking from his job at a construction site in Arlington Virginia to his new home - a one-bedroom apartment nearby.  Something as simple as giving a person a set of keys to their own place makes a huge difference in terms of their outlook on life the world.  Teah says he used to spend his nights drinking sometimes using drugs and wondering where he was going to sleep.   But now he worries about things like what he will make for dinner.  All right. Here we are.  Do you want me to take my shoes off?  Yes sure.  I ask because his shoes are lined up on a towel by the door. The apartment is small but spotless. He says he has no intention of returning to his old chaotic way of life.  By virtue of being sheltered and in a permanent place a lot of the stress and acting out that people have to the environment goes away.  That is Anita Friedman deputy director of the Arlington County Department of Human Services. She says the county joined the campaign despite some skepticism that the long-term homeless could be helped. Many have serious substance abuse or mental health problems.  People thought well you see them cycle in and out of the winter shelter every year. They come in. They go back out. They come in. They go back out. So what is really the possibility of getting them housed?  Turns out the possibility was pretty good. The county got about 100 homeless residents into permanent housing and other communities in the campaign like Phoenix New Orleans and Salt Lake City also made huge dents in their homeless populations. Now just to be clear not all these people are still housed. About 15 percent of the cases did not work out for one reason or the other. But that still leaves about 85000 people off the streets. The key say advocates is housing people first then providing services like counseling and health care to make sure they stay housed.  It is not just touchy-feely nice things to do. It is saving tons of money for taxpayers.  Becky Kanis coordinated the campaign. She is with Community Solutions a New York nonprofit. Kanis had volunteers go out and interview tens of thousands of homeless individuals around the country. They got their names and histories and ranked them according to who was most likely to die if left in the streets. The most serious cases were the first to be housed.  When you add up the costs of the hospitalizations and the emergency room and the cycling in and out of jails that costs much much more than providing someone with housing and services.  More than 1 billion in savings a year she says. Some people were skeptical the campaign would ever reach its 100000 goal. Kanis on the other hand was so confident she had the number tattooed on her arm without the final zero. She planned to finish the tattoo when the job was done. But now she thinks she might leave it the way it is.  It is not like you ever just cross the finish line and that is it.  Because even with the campaign's success there are still more than 600000 homeless individuals in the U.S. on a given night. Pam Fessler NPR News. 