 Many Americans are out of work of course and looking for creative ways to find employment. Enter Clear Channel Radio. Its 850 stations are letting people who are unemployed market their skills on the air. From NPR member station WKYU in Bowling Green Kentucky Lisa Autry reports.   Final couple of minutes of the week of The Joe B and Denny Show  Football season generates plenty of banter about flags and fumbles on WKRD's Real Sports Radio in Louisville.   Are they are talking about position switches for some of these guys are red shirts? I mean seven backs is a lot to have.  But in between those segments the station dedicates airtime to the unemployed.   Here's another radio resume. Ms.  My name is Cassie. I recently relocated to the Louisville area. I have been working in health care for the past 11 years. Mr.  Hi my name's Adam. I have a bachelor's degree in business management with a minor on entrepreneurship. I have years of experience in retail and currently serves as an assistant manager in the retail industry.  I worked in the hospitality industry for two years as well as other customer service jobs. To see my resume visit this station's Web site or see ccwildon.com.  Texas-based Clear Channel has launched an effort called Radio Resume which connects job seekers and employers via the airwaves. Every week Clear Channel stations pick a number of unemployed people to record 30-second spots. Interested employers can get job seekers' resumes on the station's Web site. Bill Gentry is president of Clear Channel's Louisville market. Mr.  Obviously we want to get the best candidates on the air who are very articulate and have a real need and have great experiences and have been laid off or just new folks coming out of college looking for their first job.  Kevin Burroughs has been out of work for three months. He was driving down the road listening to country music when he heard the Radio Resume and that was his aha moment. Mr.  That would be kind of interesting. It would be different. And different people listen to the radio than watching TV or sit in front of the computer. I thought it would be a good chance.  So Burroughs applied and was chosen to record his resume. Inside the Louisville station studio Burroughs gets help from assistant operations manager Dave Jennings. Mr.  So I would start off with the degrees and then go into experience and you know because you have had a couple of fairly lengthy management jobs. Mr.  Really over 25 years of health care. Mr.  I would not say 25 years. Mr.  No because that kind of dates you.  Once his script is written Burroughs takes his first crack at the mic. Mr.  Be slow and conversational. Mr.  Hey my name is Kevin and I have a bachelor of administration and an associate in computer programming and I have worked in the medical field and I have worked in restaurants and retail. Mr.  Okay going to start one more time. You are just about there. Mr.  It sounded halfway decent.  Mr.  It is getting there. It is getting there.  Many takes later Kevin Burroughs leaves with a polished radio resume a little optimism and a lot of hope. Again assistant operations manager Dave Jennings. Mr.  You know sometimes they will think man I am going to be on the radio and I am going to be heard by so many people and this you know this is going to guarantee it and so I hope we have not given false hope either. I know we have helped some and gotten the hopes up of so many more but you know the economy is tough.  Jennings points out the Radio Resume allows job seekers to get their name and experience out there for free and is an unconventional way that shows aggressiveness. Mr.  That takes a certain you know level of you know humility to get out there and say your name and I am looking for work. You know that just shows you how tough it is and what people are willing to do to help themselves and their families.  Nationwide 4000 radio resumes are broadcast each week. At least 100 people have been hired. For NPR News I am Lisa Autry in Bowling Green Kentucky. 