 NPR's Robert Benincasa has been looking at another report put out by the Labor Department one that tracks hiring firing and quitting. What are you finding out in there?  Well it is this other report and it is called JOLTS. And JOLTS stands for Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey. Even in recession there are millions of people getting hired every month. So in June there were almost 3.8 million people hired. So that is not as many as before the recession but there still are opportunities out there.  In a way though it does seem strange to hear it. Frank Langfitt says well it is bad. You are saying there is a chance you know you can go out there and get a job.  Yeah. I mean it sounds counterintuitive. I talked to John Haltiwanger. He is an economist over at the University of Maryland. He tells me that about half these hires are just a normal turnover in the labor market someone leaving a job and someone replacing them. The other half though he says really represents businesses that are doing well despite the larger economy.  Right.  And in terms of the layoffs you know the layoffs continue but they may have peaked in the spring. And you know of course the hope is that they will start to drop off more dramatically in the future.  Well how would somebody know out there somebody who is really stopped looking for a job that indeed some people are hiring - some sectors are hiring workers?  Well I mean it is difficult of course it is difficult to find out. The pockets of prosperity that the economist was talking about they exist all over the labor force across sectors across regions. We do know that over the summer we saw some improvements in home building. We saw some improvements in manufacturing. And today's employment situation report show that there were some small amount of jobs added in the education and health services sector.  Okay so the jobs are there. What do the professionals say about how to wake up some morning perk up and go out and actually  Right.  found something that you had not been thinking about?  Right. Well the job recruiters say one of the first things to do is to look at your skill set and think about how those skills might translate to another industry. So someone who is a good salesperson might find that they are good at marketing. And someone who is done Web servers for a corporation might be able to do the same kind of thing for a nonprofit. One of the hardest things really is that people who are in the workforce now are pretty reluctant to quit. So the number of job openings remains pretty small. You know when times are good over three percent of the jobs in the economy are open. You know right now it is about two percent.  Two percent. Another factor in that talking about people who are actually working it seems they feel that they have to work harder really sort of improve their job performance just to hang onto that job.  Right. And the data bear that out. Productivity has actually gone up even though the overall workforce is smaller. So this Labor Day we have a smaller productive workforce doing more work.  NPR's Robert Benincasa thank you very much.  You are welcome.  And to mark Labor Day we have launched a multimedia feature on our Web site. It is called The Way We Work. You can see and hear people talk about their work and what it means to them. Mr.  Got a 2004 truck. How about a volunteer? We get 10000  we get 10-2 Ms.  Mostly people are very interested to know that midwives are still working. They are still doing that. Mr.  One of the things that I do notice by keeping a job paying bills taking care of my son is people look at me as a different individual. They smile. They accept me. They - I am so proud of you.  Stories about The Way We Work at the new npr.org. 