 The resignation of Steve Jobs as CEO of Apple has prompted a lot of retrospectives on the man who is run the iconic company for the past 14 years. Jobs will take on a more limited role as chairman. But as NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports Apple's future now depends on how well it can manage without the day to day guidance of the man who created the company.  Most companies if they are lucky have one great idea. What is made Apple different - the thing that sets it apart from other technology companies - is its ability to stage wildly successful second third and fourth acts. Michael Gartenberg is a director at the research firm Gartner. He thinks Apple is well-positioned to carry on.  At the end of the day there is much more to Apple than just one person even if that person is Steve Jobs.  Gartenberg says Apple's biggest asset is its culture and its other long-time employees. Skeptics of the past doubted the company could succeed in retail or in music or in the phone business. It managed to master each one and in the process transform those industries.  Perhaps Apple's greatest success has been their ability to not rest on their laurels to not be satisfied with the status quo but to continue to drive innovation forward.  But to anyone who suggests that Apple without Steve Jobs is still the same Apple Trip Chowdhry says you must be crazy.  Apple is Steve Jobs Steve Jobs is innovation innovation is Steve Jobs and Steve Jobs is Apple. That is the equation.  Chowdhry is an analyst with Global Equities Research. He says history proves Apple is not successful without Jobs. The company faltered after Jobs was forced out in 1985 then flourished when he returned. Chowdhry says Apple clearly has some talented people but in the past they have needed a visionary to succeed. He cites a list of firms including Palm that were started by ex-Apple executives that eventually flopped.  If that is not convincing Apple's co-founder Steve Wozniak what has he accomplished when he left Apple?  Nothing.  He says this time Jobs is leaving Apple with a detailed roadmap that Chowdhry estimates may help guide the company for another three years. And he compares what is left of Apple without Jobs to a bunch of preprogrammed robots carrying out those orders.  The only thing is they are preprogrammed for the next couple of years. After that what happens you know? We do not know.  Rob Enderle is a long-time Silicon Valley watcher who runs his own research firm. He says it is not just that Jobs had the ability to see huge opportunities in the market that no one else saw he was also an incredibly feared micromanager. Enderle says Jobs made final calls on things like whether a device should lose a standard feature in order to have a thinner design. And if something was not to his liking he was swift and harsh in his critiques which Enderle says could verge on cruel.  It is not uncommon to find people in Apple that have been fired multiple times by Jobs personally.  Jobs would upbraid or threaten suppliers whose products were late or defective.  He was kind of the hit man inside Apple who you did not want to talk to if you were either an employee or a supplier.  Yet people wanted to work there Enderle says because the flipside of that was that Jobs possessed an uncanny ability to see the future and channel that to the masses.  And you often see that in political leaders or religious leaders that try to pass the torch. That intangible something that made you sit down and hang on every word is unique to them.  And that is why Enderle says it is hard to say what lies ahead for Apple. He says Microsoft Intel and IBM all lost something special when they lost their charismatic leaders. He says they are all doing fine now they are just not as magical as they once were. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 