 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. Oil giant BP reported its second-quarter finances today and the numbers were something of a surprise. The company lost 1.4 billion dollars during a three-month period. That is quite a drop from the nearly 6 billion dollars in profit the company raked in during the same period last year. As NPR's Jeff Brady reports  Oil companies have been among the most profitable corporations in recent years as prices steadily went up. World crude soared to nearly 130 a barrel this spring. But since then prices have fallen rapidly dropping almost 30 percent. In a conference call with investors BP's chief executive Bob Dudley said very low natural gas prices also hurt his company's bottom line.  To be profitable this has been a particularly brutal quarter in terms of low gas prices hitting a low of 1.94.  That is per 1000 cubic feet of natural gas which is enough to supply the average U.S. home for four days. Just a few years back the price was more than five times higher. The reason for the big drop is a big boost in natural gas drilling thanks in large part to new technologies like hydraulic fracturing or fracking. Rocco Canonica is with Bentek Energy a Colorado company that monitors natural gas markets.  Natural gas production in the United States has grown about 30 percent from 2005 to 2011 so that is a huge increase in gas production and it is outpaced demand growth.  It' when there is more supply than demand prices head down. Low prices are expected to continue for some time so BP now says its natural gas holdings in North America are worth about 5 billion dollars less than before. BP is responding by idling drilling rigs. At the end of last year Bob Dudley says his company had 12 natural gas drilling rigs operating in North America.  By the end of August we will be down to seven and I would expect by the first of January - at these kind of prices - we will be down to five rigs.  On the other hand BP is expanding oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. It plans to have eight deepwater rigs in the gulf by year's end. Dudley says that will be the highest number ever for his company. BP still faces expenses associated with its massive 2010 oil spill in the gulf. It settled with most of the plaintiffs earlier this year. BP plans to make its final payment in coming months to a 20 billion fund set up for those affected by the spill. The company still faces federal government claims. A trial is scheduled to begin in January though BP says it is interested in settling the case. Jeff Brady NPR News. 