 On to a different of recovery now economic recovery the 787 billion stimulus package. Some of that money is helping to provide relief to places like Perry County Tennessee. Just a few months ago it was suffering depression era unemployment levels. 27 percent of the county was out of work after an auto parts factory shut down. Now Tennessee governor Phil Bredesen is spreading the stimulus money around the county to fund jobs and state agencies and private companies. And Perry County's mayor John Carroll has been giving the good news to businesses including a bakery that is been a local institution for decades.  Armstrong Pies was originally established in 1946.  What kind of pies do they make?  All kinds of turnovers.  So apple lemon cherry  Strawberry chocolate Bavarian cream.  So you basically went to the Armstrong Pie Company and you said listen guys. We can provide you free labor. The government will actually pay their salaries and their benefits. Can you put them to work? Is that essentially what you said?  That is it. And they looked at us and said are you sure?   Now this is something nobody has ever heard of before.  Right.  And quite innovative I have got to admit on Governor Bresden's part.  What other companies are you working with aside from the pie company?  Everything from local restaurants to hotels to state inn county and city agencies.  So some of these business like the Armstrong Pie Company are getting free labor provided for by the government. And that is okay that is aloud under the stimulus program?  That is allowed under this program yes. What the money has done is taking people that were already on unemployment and has put those people back to work. What you have done is what money from one pot to another. You are actually paying the workers to be at work somewhere instead of being at home.  I see. So otherwise they would just be receiving an unemployment check.  They would be receiving a check. But at the end of the day they would not be able to be providing anything back to the community.  How many people do you estimate have you put to work now?  Right now there is probably between 300 and 310 that is gone to work.  And how many people live in the county total?  7600.  How drastically have you cut unemployment now?  Well we have come down from 27 to 22. But I think whenever we see the next month's unemployment numbers I think we will be down into the .  But when the unemployment rate reach 27 percent you did not really have to the time to sort of think about a big infrastructure project. And you did not have the luxury to wait for tenders and projects to be proposed. You just had to get it out there.  I had to get the money out. We would certainly love to see a long-term project like improvements to the roads or something that something that either put people to work on today and still have benefit from it 40 50 years down the road. But since we did not have anything that was already in the pipeline you know this was the only thing that we had that could get the people back to work in the masses.  The stimulus bill was controversial particularly in parts of the South. Can you understand the concern of some governors in the South who have tried to refuse some of the stimulus money for fear of its impact on the federal deficit?  Well yes - now I did not design the stimulus plan. And had it been mine there would have been some changes. But this is a plan that we have so it was not what I had originally envisioned for the stimulus plan but I am thankful for the investment that has been made.  How long can you sustain it? I mean what happens after this program ends?  Well what this has done is given us an opportunity to live to fight another battle.  Right.  We have got until next September to continue our efforts to try to bring manufacturing or service type jobs that will have a long-term effect.  So so far it seems to be working huh?  It is working good for now. Before the additional workers and the additional investment and equipment the Armstrong Pie Company was making around 3000 pies a week. They have been able to take it to the point they are making around 3000 a day now. So a pretty significant increase.  Do you eat one pretty regularly?  Try to.  Which is your favorite?  Strawberry. Highly recommend it.    John Carroll is the mayor of Perry County Tennessee. Mayor Carroll thank you so much.  I appreciate your time and I appreciate the opportunity. 