 Facebook reported earnings today for the first time since its bumpy initial public offering. Sales at the social media company came in slightly ahead of expectations but that did not stop the pummeling the company has been taking in the stock market. Facebook shares are falling in aftermarket trading. NPR's Steve Henn joins us now to talk about Facebook's first turn in the public spotlight. And Steve tell us more about how Facebook did during its first three months as a public company.  Well as you said despite narrowly beating many analysts' expectations in terms of revenue Facebook is still having a hard time making friends on Wall Street. After today's earnings hit the wires Facebook's stock dropped sharply falling to a new all-time low. Due to onetime changes Facebook actually recorded a loss last quarter but that is not what spooked investors. That was expected. That loss was caused by onetime charges related to stock options and employee compensation. If you back those out Facebook would have made 28 percent more money this quarter than it did the same time last year. Now usually when a company is growing that fast Wall Street loves this but in this case it is a bit of a disappointment. Facebook is not growing as quickly as it was before its IPO and it is spending more money on investments and those two things have scared investors.  Well Steve at the beginning of this year Facebook was not making any money at all in its mobile phone ads. Has that changed?-  Yes. Facebook introduced mobile ads shortly before it went public. And today everyone is curious to see how those ads are doing. On a conference call Mark Zuckerberg Facebook's CEO said mobile advertising was growing quickly and demonstrated early success. Later Sheryl Sandberg the company's number two said mobile ads were already generating a half million dollars a day in revenue.  Well when you do better than expectations and your stock gets pummeled you have to wonder were there signs ahead of today's report that investors were nervous?  Yeah there were. You know a couple of Web tracking firms reported declining or flat Facebook use in the U.S. and in some of the wealthier countries around the world. Remember before Facebook went public and it was valued more than 100 billion investors were betting Facebook would continue to grow at that kind of rapid rate for years. The problem is when you have 900 million members or 950 million members you cannot add customers as quickly as you could and the ones that Facebook is adding tend to come from countries that are not as wealthy. So to grow Facebook is going to have to sell more ads to the customers it has and more valuable ads. It is doing that. That was one of the few bright spots in that report today. It sold 992 million in ads.  Would you say they are just...  That is a big jump.  ...they are just running out of planets is what you are...  Yeah basically. They are running out of wealthy people on this planet.  Now ads are not the only way that Facebook makes profits. Hundreds of millions of people play games on Facebook. Company makes money from them too no?  Yes it does but again even before today's report there were serious signs that that part of the business is struggling. Zynga which makes social games and is one of Facebook's most important business partners reported a big unexpected loss last night. Zynga stock actually fell 40 percent today. It turns out many of Zynga's games like FarmVille are losing users and Zynga is actually losing money. That matters for Facebook because close to 12 percent of its total revenue comes from customers who are buying credit to play games like these. And revenue in games this quarter was flat so clearly Facebook is going to continue to struggle to win over Wall Street and to calm investors.  OK. Well thank you Steve.  It is my pleasure.  NPR's Steve Henn talking to us about Facebook's first earnings report as a public company. 