 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. And this hour begins with something that we have not reported much of recently good news from Detroit. Today General Motors posted its 14th straight profitable quarter since emerging from bankruptcy and for the first time in more than 20 years a domestic sedan the Chevy Impala won top marks from Consumer Reports. Yesterday Ford posted its 16th straight profitable quarter and Chrysler is expected to report strong earnings too. Of course this all comes in the midst of Detroit is bankruptcy. NPR's Sonari Glinton covers the auto industry and as he reports what is good for the car makers is not always good for the city.  In order to tell the story of Detroit the city and its relationship to the auto industry I have come to the corner of Randolph and Jefferson in downtown Detroit. Now on the corner that I am standing on is the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center essentially city hall and across the street is the Renaissance Center and that is the home of General Motors. Now here is an important thing. General Motors is the only car company headquartered inside the city limits of Detroit. Now for the rest of the tour I am going to meet up with Michelle Krebs who is an auto analyst with Edmonds.com.  How are you kiddo?  I am all right. How are you?  Good. Okay. So we are going to east Jefferson right?  Yes.  Okay. In my import.  Ironically enough Krebs picked me up in a Toyota SUV she was test-driving that is manufactured in Indiana which is kind of part of the story. While Michelle Krebs and I drive to our next stop let us take care of some business. None of the car companies would agree to talk about Detroit is bankruptcy on tape. And when you think of those car companies and the total industry there is one fact to recognize.  The epicenter for the U.S. automotive industry from a vehicle production perspective is probably northern Kentucky.  That is Michael Robinet. He is an analyst with IHS Automotive. He says cars and Detroit are inextricably linked emotionally and culturally but not so much financially anymore.  All the major decisions within the global automotive industry somehow weed their way through Detroit. So this is still the heart of the industry. A lot of the muscle around it has sort of moved to other parts of the country.  Robinet and I were talking across the street from a Ford transmission plant. Ford is headquartered in Dearborn Michigan and its plants that are in the region are outside the city limits. Chrysler is headquartered in Auburn Hills north of the city. And to give you an idea GM has about 30000 employees in the Detroit area a little over 4000 of them work inside the city itself. Okay. Back to my tour with Michelle Krebs. Tell me where we are at.  We are at the Jefferson Avenue plant that is owned by Chrysler where the Jeep Grand Cherokee is built and it is building a lot of vehicles right now. They are fully employed and then some.  So what makes this plant special?  This plant is special because it is really the only plant that is left in the city of Detroit.  There are two other plants. One manufactures the Dodge Viper which is not a volume-selling car and the other makes the Chevy Volt. That plant is half inside the city limits. Krebs says what helps to make the Detroit car makers healthy is that they got leaner and shed much of their legacy costs for retiree benefits. She says that if the auto industry cannot come to the rescue of the city maybe it can serve as an example.  First of all we did not know if they would exist and we did not think they would make it through a bankruptcy process. And now they are flourishing like crazy. We are seeing that same bleak picture for Detroit so I think there is some hope that we got through the GMChrysler bankruptcies maybe we can get through the Detroit bankruptcy.  People who are interested in the auto business and Detroit say cars are absolutely vital to the health of the city but they are not enough not anymore. Sonari Glinton NPR News Detroit. 