 Forget the G-20 this week. The real meeting of rival superpowers was in Bavaria Germany today. That is where a soccer match took place featuring players wearing rival footwear Adidas and Puma players who work at those rival companies. The game is remarkable because of a long-standing bitter feud between the iconic sneaker makers. It goes back to Germany in the 1940s when shoemaking brothers Adolf and Rudolf Dassler had a falling out. One founded Adidas the other Puma. Barbara Smit author of the book Sneaker Wars explains how the rivalry got started. Ms.  Well their joint company worked pretty well for some time but it became apparent fairly quickly that they had very different personalities. Adolf was really the cobbler. He was a rather quiet man whereas Rudolf was more outspoken typical sales-type person  cigar-chomping. Basically the tensions arose over the years but it really came to a boiling point during the war when Rudolf Dassler was sent to the front in what is today Poland. And after his return was picked up by American soldiers. And so he was imprisoned for about a year in Germany. And of course he was fairly convinced that this came from his brother's side the will to have him evicted from the company.  Could you argue though that this rivalry actually turned these companies into multinational success stories and transformed the sneaker business or actually created a sneaker business? Ms.  Well I mean it is certainly - if you were an athlete in the '60s or the '70s it was pretty easy because all you had to do is go to Herzo and you know cross the river a couple of times and up the stakes. And that is what quite a few people did. The rivalry did contribute to shape you know sports marketing really.  This rivalry took place in a small town in Bavaria. How did it manifest itself in this small town where the brothers grew up? Ms.  Well for several decades the town really was split in two. People really had to take sides. They were either Adidas or Puma. And in fact Herzo as it is known in short became known as the town of the bent necks because you know you always look at people's shoes before - to see what they were wearing before you strike up a conversation. So you actually had Adidas bakers Puma bakers and people from one side would preferably go to that school and not to the other school. The town was totally divided for quite a while.  So today's soccer match will do what for the two companies? Ms.  I do not think it will change very much between the two companies because the business rivalry of course remains totally intact. Then again on a personal level I mean I did receive personal messages from various people. It all seemed pretty good-humored. And for some of them yeah it would - it probably will be the first time that they actually are in contact with people from the other side at a personal or sports kind of level.  Barbara Smit is the author of the book  The Enemy Brothers Who Founded Adidas and Puma and the Family That Forever Changed the Business of Sport. Thank you. Ms.  You are welcome.  Mr.   My Adidas walk through concert doors and roamed all over coliseum floors.  Well we know what side Run-DMC is on. The winner of today's soccer game it was management. Adidas and Puma employees played on mixed teams. The team which had both CEOs on it that team won.  While we are on the subject of sneakers we would like to hear your sneaker story. Send us a photo of you and your favorite sneakers and tell us why you love them whatever the brand. Were you wearing them when you met your significant other or when you ran in the Boston Marathon? Send us your sneaker story with photo attached to sneakersnpr.org and we will put the best stories on our Web site.  Mr.   Adidas standing on 2 Fifth Street. Funky fresh and yes cold on my feet. With no shoe string in them I did not win them. I bought them off the Ave with the black Lee denim. I like to sport them that is why I bought them. A sucker tried to steal them so I caught them and I fraught them. And I walk down the street and I bop to the beat with Lee on my legs and Adidas on my feet. And so now I am just standing here shooting the gip. Me and D and my Adidas standing on 2 Fifth.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 