 At 4.3 percent the unemployment rate is the lowest it is been since before the 911 attacks. And it used to be that low unemployment drove wages up. The thinking was that employers would have to pay more to hold on to workers who had more options. But that is not how it is worked out the last few years and it is baffling economists and policymakers alike. Bloomberg Businessweek economics editor Peter Coy investigated this and joins us now from their offices in New York. Welcome to the program Peter.  Thank you very much.  All right so this idea that wages should rise if unemployment is falling - is that economics gospel? Where does that come from?  Pretty much. The Phillips curve described by a New Zealand economist way back in the 1950s. And it does seem to hold over the short term. And it makes sense. You know oranges - if oranges are scarce in the supermarket the price goes up. Why would not that be true for workers? Fewer workers available you have to pay more to get them.  All right but in your article you bring up a bunch of reasons that explain why wages may not be rising. And I want to talk about a couple of them. Let us group them into categories. So the first category is it is the employer's fault. What is going on there?  One argument would be that we have a chronically low productivity rate in this country. And productivity is simply the output per hour of work. Now you would think well is not that the fault of the workers? They are just not working hard enough. And you know maybe to some degree it is. But I think the bigger reason is that workers do not have the modern tools they need to do their jobs. And the companies have not been upgrading. They have been underinvesting in such things as computers software or you know factory machine tools. And if they are not investing then it is hard to blame the workers for the fact that they are not producing more.  Another category is essentially that it is our fault. Two reasons that surprised me - one that we are content with what we are earning which does not really sound like what you hear out - right? - on the campaign trail.  Yeah.  Or that we do not have the bargaining power we used to as employees.  I will start with the bargaining power one. We have a drastic decline in the share of the civilian workforce that is represented by labor unions. So workers they go into a negotiation with an employer it is pretty much one against the company instead of all for one and one for all labor unions. And I do think that is part of it. There is also lack of bargaining power because workers are facing more competition from people in other countries. That is the globalization. And then the thing you mentioned is the contentment. Now I use the word contentment but what I am really talking about there is how much you are willing to dare to ask for a raise from your employer when you know you could be replaced by somebody else. You might be saying look things are not that bad. Even with these low pay raises I am doing a little better than inflation so my real income's going up. I will take it.  So in the end are we giving up on this Phillips curve? And not just economists - is the American worker pretty much looking forward to stagnant wage growth?  I think A.W. Phillips may be in his grave but his idea is alive and well. And I think we will - it has not happened much yet but I think we will see stronger wage growth as the unemployment rate falls probably even lower than it already is down towards 4 percent possibly below. There is only so long that employers can hold off from giving workers higher wages.  Peter Coy wrote the article Unemployment In The U.S. Is Falling So Why Is not Pay Rising? for Bloomberg Businessweek. He is the economics editor there. Thanks so much for speaking with me Peter.  Thank you. 