 Now to charges filed today by the Securities and Exchange Commission against the manager of one of the world's biggest hedge funds. Steven Cohen the billionaire head of SAC Capital Advisors allegedly allowed insider trading to go on without properly investigating it. That is according to a so-called civil enforcement action the SEC has now filed against Cohen. Joining us now to talk about this is NPR correspondent Chris Arnold. Hey there Chris.  Hey Audie.  So help us understand the charges against Steven Cohen because he is not actually charged with insider trading.  Right. Two of his portfolio managers at his hedge fund have been charged with insider trading. And from what we can tell the SEC did not feel like it had the same level of evidence against Cohen himself at least so far because they are charging him with having enough information to strongly suspect that there was insider trading going on and then looking the other way not investigating it or being a good manager I guess. It is sort of like the movie Casablanca you know I am-shocked-to-find-gambling-going-on-here kind of allegation.  So what sort of insider trading are we talking about?  It is actually interesting. As you read the complaint some of the details are like out of a Wall Street you know Hollywood movie where there was this Alzheimer's drug and it was in phase II trials. And one of the portfolio managers for Cohen's hedge funds finds out like okay actually the trials are not going very well. And he starts to allegedly use this information. And so acting on this the hedge funds allegedly sold hundreds of millions of dollars worth of stock and were able to make a lot of money before the market knew what was going on.  So in a lot of cases like this one emails are a big factor right? And prosecutors have found some smoking guns there? Talk a little bit about that.  Yeah in this case there is emails. There is also instant messages. And these are interesting too when you get down into the complaint and you read them. And I will read part of this here. At this point Cohen's messaging back and forth with an analyst. And the analyst is saying do you think your guys know something or do they absolutely have a - or do they know something or do they have a strong feeling? And they go back and forth and the analyst says the question that I would ask is if it is possible to know that data yet I could be wrong but I do not think it is yet. So the analyst is - appears to be saying look this is not public.  So Chris this is a civil case right. So even if the SEC proves its case Cohen would not go to jail.  Right. We should absolutely stress that that this is not a criminal case. We do know that regulators are seeking to try to bar Cohen from overseeing investor funds in the future so he could not work in that field again. A spokesman for Cohen and the hedge fund said in a statement that the SEC action quote has no merit and Cohen has 20 days to officially respond.  That is NPR's Chris Arnold talking about civil charges filed by the SEC against the billionaire hedge fund manager Steven Cohen. Thanks Chris.  Thanks Audie. 