 Democratic Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut has floated a different vision for financial regulatory reform. Senator Dodd is an influential voice in these matters. He is chairman of the Senate Banking Committee and he joins us from Capitol Hill. Welcome to the program.  Hi. Good to be with you.   The Obama administration wants to eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision but create a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency. They would make the Fed the chief regulator of systemic risk and keep the FDIC and the Office of the Controller of the Currency in Business. You have taken a very different approach creating one big bank regulator. Why? Why is your idea better? Sen.  Well first of all it is not necessarily big. But - and you have to know the history of this. We have a very convoluted system of bank regulators. It is an irrational system created by historical accident. One of the problems we have why did we end up in this mess? Now there are a lot of reasons but one major reason of which there is consensus is that you had what they call charter shopping going on. One major financial institution - which I will not name - just the other day said in the absence of your changing the rules we will shop and we will find the regulator of least resistance because we do not believe that over-regulation is in our interests. I do not either.  But when you speak of what is bipartisan and what there is consensus about it had been - at least - the conventional wisdom in Washington that there was not sufficient consensus on Capitol Hill to go to a single streamlined regulator and that you would not have it. Do you find in the Senate that you have Republican and Democratic votes for this idea? Sen.  Well I find it sort of an interesting debate. What people seem to be telling me is I cannot win because the regulators the constituency there will oppose them being consolidated. The institutions want to continue shopping for regulators. And so the answer is not that I am wrong. But the answer is I cannot win. Now that is where we begin reforming the regulatory system. Not on the basis of what is right what ought to be done to correct the mistakes that have given us this mess on our hands - then we are not going to get very far. I have a lot more confidence in my colleagues. If we end up drafting a bill that everyone likes believe me we have failed.  The Federal Reserve - has the Obama administration are they too enthralled with the idea of the Fed as the regulator of the financial sector? Sen.  Well I would not attribute motivations to it. Here's my concern about that. The Federal Reserve's primary function is in monetary policy. The Central Bank here is the most important central bank in the world and therefore they need to be actually focused on their primary function and job. And my concern is that you start loading up the Federal Reserve with additional responsibilities including in the regulatory process of financial institutions you begin to denigrate the principal responsibility they have. I am worried that we are going to lose the independence of the Fed you will end up having more and more demands as the responsibilities increase of congressional oversight and intrusion into the Fed's activities. Now I know that can be appealing to some but I think it is dangerous. We end up turning the Fed into basically another regulatory body then I think you lose the very critical importance of the Fed - and that is a strong financial monetary policy regulator that it ought to be.  There is an idea out there which I want you to comment on which people describe as the plain vanilla requirement. It is that if I am going to look for a mortgage at the bank the lender should be required to at least show me and to offer me the straight-ahead - say 30-year fixed rate mortgage before rushing straight to the more exotic products. Is that a fair regulation? I know the banks think it is an undue constraint but does any borrower think that is an undue constraint on the banks? Sen.  I am more inclined to sort of agree with the banks on that one. And over the years I have authored provisions that would require for instance a credit-card company tell you what the cost to that consumer would be if they owed  1000 at a certain rate and only paid the minimum balance what would you ultimately owe? So I do not mind having examples of what can happen. But the idea that we are going to promote one financial product over another be it vanilla or otherwise makes me a little uneasy. I do not - you know what that - the fact that some thing is not quite vanilla does not mean it is any less good a product in the end.  But as I understand it the requirement is not saying you cannot offer people no-principal flexible-rate mortgages. It is saying among what you offer you have got to show them the straight-ahead three-yards-in-a-cloud-of-dust mortgage the old-fashioned mortgages. Sen.  Yeah.  I mean I understand why a bank might say that crimps my style. But is not it a fair protection for a borrower to say you are allowed to see the most basic product they offer? Sen.  I think we are spending too much time debating that point. I am not -I do not think it quite does everything its advocates claim. I do not think it is quite as pernicious as the opponents claim. I just do not think it ought to be the major point.  Let me ask you about yourself and this issue. You are up for re-election in Connecticut? You have long been a good friend to the financial services sector. You have raised six billion bucks by my count from people who work in banking financial services insurance. Does that right now - should it lead people to say Senator Dodd takes money from bankers he is writing regulations that bankers want? Sen.  Well if I thought there was another way as someone who has supported public financing of campaigns for almost 40 years - believe me I wish there was some other way to finance a campaign. I am looking at potential opponents who are going to sell fund to millions of dollars. They can write their own checks I cannot do that. And so I am stuck with the system we have. I do not like it. I wish it were otherwise. I do not believe in unilateral disarmament for either my country or for me. I have got to respond to these things.  You mean in terms of raising money for your campaign  you do not believe - Sen.  Yeah and - but I have never taken a nickel in contributions on the basis of a commitment to be for or against something. Never have never will. And over the years I have tried to be balanced in my approach. I do not consider myself anti either financial institutions or necessarily their best friend. That is not my job. My job down here is to do the best job I can primarily on behalf of the people who are the ones who walk through the doors of financial institutions.  Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut thank you very much. Sen.  Thank you very much.  Senator Dodd is the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. 