 To paint a picture I am sweating profusely. The AC has broken in this home at an undisclosed location and to hydrate because I have nothing that is cold besides what is in my hand I have hard kombucha and Jeff is drinking carbonated water. So this is an unfair fight to begin with. We will see where this all goes. I thought we would start with I suppose the beginning of a story that I cut short when we were having lunch earlier today and it came about because of the phrase scratching your own itch' or scratching my own itch.' And you mentioned Ralph Lauren which I confirmed as not Ralph Lauren as many people will say but Ralph Lauren. So I thought we would just start there. And if you could tell me the story that I so rudely interrupted earlier because I wanted to keep it for the beginning of the show. B.  Well I was talking to Ralph about how he got started and what motivated him to start a business. And Ralph's muse were the movies. He loved films and he would really lose himself in the fantasy of the movie house. And he would look at people like Cary Grant and Fred Astaire and Gary Cooper and he wanted to dress like that and he wanted to find suits that were cut like that and ties that were wide like that. And they did not exist. He started designing first with ties then moved into the rest of men's wear. He started designing that stuff because it was stuff that he liked and he figured I am not the only one that wants to dress like a movie star. And so I said to him You have kept your pulse on the consumer for so long. How have you done that for so many decades? That is quite a feat. And he said which is a kind of scratch your own itch thing he said I know who my consumer is because I am the consumer. So I thought that was just a really brilliant insight not unlike when you and I spoke when I interviewed you and you talked about your book The 4-Hour Workweek. It was the same kind of thing.  For sure. You have spent so much time in front of students and speaking that I know in some respects what you have done in the classroom at Parsons School of Design is scratching your own itch. And that is doing what feeds and nourishes you or checks the box for an unmet need. I had written this book because it was the book I could not find. Furthermore I then had workshopped that although I did not know I was doing it at the time by speaking to students. And I knew what students responded to and I knew what fell flat. It was sort of like a comic working on their one-hour special. It is like you cut you refine you test again. That was the reason why after 26 29 however many rejections it was I still kept going. People sometimes ask about how I maintain the faith and I always point out it was not faith. I already knew that at least there was a verified market of one which is ahead of a lot of folks. So let us talk about these degrees in philosophy and psychology. You have written in your book that at the time when you graduated the wisdom factories were not hiring so what did you do after graduation? B.  Well I went to work in this boutique and I would actually been working there before graduation. It was this little clothing boutique in Madison Wisconsin where I went to college. The wall behind the cash register is where we had the stereo system. That puts it into a timeframe of many many years ago. And we were in the base of a rooming house so when somebody ODed and fell down the stairs the arm would skip across the album and we would go Oh there goes another one.  Rooming house. What is a rooming house? B.  A rooming house is somewhere between an apartment and a hotel. You pay every week you have a room upstairs. Let us say that the clientele are not necessarily very upscale.  Got it. B.  In the campus where we were in downtown this rooming house was kind of notorious.  And what was sold in the boutique? B.  We sold clothes. The old impulse buy as they say where at a restaurant it might be mints or when you are checking out at the grocery store it is candy bars and magazines. We had hash pipes and rolling papers. That was the impulse buy.  Location location location right? Underneath the rooming house. B.  That is right.  And how did that job inform your path if it did? B.  Yes it did but I know how it informed it in retrospect. I did not realize that before. And that is my firm belief. Here's some of the practical information. I think that everything you do if your eyes are open informs everything else you do. So I did not know anything about clothing design and I was totally naive. I thought that when I saw fabric on the bolt I thought that was wholesale because it had not been made into anything yet. I was ignorant fortunately not stupid. And the difference is ignorant you can learn. Stupid's forever. So I did learn. And I wanted to go back and refer to what you had mentioned in terms of your book because I think this is a really important part and that is  you had at least 29 rejections. I believe it was 34.  It was a lot of rejections. I was also rejected from my first job so that was 30-plus rejections. Quite a few. B.  So what is that component that keeps somebody going in the face of all those rejections as opposed to giving up? I think that when I am asked about entrepreneurship and business and that sort of thing what is a key ingredient and I am curious if you agree with this I think it is perseverance.  You mentioned ignorant but not stupid. I think I would add to that informed perseverance. Because I think that you can smash your head against a wall and never break through but if you have some informational advantage meaning in my case I had this feedback from students. I knew that the material worked in front of live audiences including people who would land squarely in the demographic the book would be positioned for. So I do think that is a huge component. If you have informed belief having the commitment to persevere through the pain I think is a large deciding factor. And I should also just add as color for this conversation because people most likely have no idea. We first met in 2007 or 2008 shortly after the first book had been published. You helped with The 4-Hour Body. Many of the photographs from the photo shoots that we did related to exercises were a product of your help. So we have definitely kind of been along jointly for each other's rides over the last it is hard to believe decade plus now. And I love this type of conversation with a friend because it gives me the very unnatural asymmetrical opportunity to just pepper you with all sorts of questions that I get to choose in a fairly lopsided way. Although this can certainly be a conversation but it also gives me an excuse to do a bunch of homework on you which would otherwise seem really creepy. So let me ask you just as a way of looking at your earlier years what or who are The Hidden Persuaders? My understanding this is a book that had some effect on you The Hidden Persuaders by Vance Packard. Is that a fair statement? B.  Yeah it is. Interesting you bring that up. Going back through the memory bank here I think I was in seventh or eighth grade and I read this book The Hidden Persuaders. What it related to is how products are placed and what creates desire. And this was long before behavioral economics was applied to consumerism and that sort of thing. So to give a simple example the colorful cereal boxes would be on the lower shelves so that the kids would pull it off the shelf and basically nag their parent usually their mother at that point into buying it. There were all these things. I would never thought about strategic placement of products or anything like that and then I started realizing wow there is a whole science to this in terms of trying to elicit preferences trying to place things in the right eye line. And the fact that instead of being at five feet which might be eye level for the mother it is down at two feet where it is eye level to the kid. And so the kid will take it off the shelf. So Packard's book was like Wow I had never thought of that before. And it was really cool.  How did you end up going from fashion as a designer where you found quite a bit of success to film and video production? How and why? B.  Is this a mini-series because   This is the beginning of our mini-series episode zero. B.  I wanted to move to New York and my financial backer was a very good guy but he made it clear from the beginning that he was backing my company because we banked at his bank and that the employees of which I was 22 and I had 110 120 employees I provided jobs for Wisconsinites and we banked at his bank. When I made a decision that I wanted to move to New York he said I am not going to continue to back you if you do you know why I invested. So I had to make a really big decision at that point in my life which is I was I think 24. And am I a failure if I close the business? What does this mean to me and who I am? I was the type that went out there and competed and did things and now I would be closing down a business that I had started. Is that failure? What is that? I decided and I think part of this is an influence of my dad which is I learned that money comes and goes time only goes.  That is a great way to put it. B.  I like the way that words relate. You can spend money to spend time you waste money you waste time. Investing in your future that is a really weird concept when you think about what does that mean? So I decided   If anyone heard that that is Molly trying to eat flies that are deftly avoiding her maw. Please continue. B.  I was so tempted to snap at that one myself but I figured I did not want to interrupt the sound.  Do not want to throw your neck off. B.  That is right. So I made the decision to close down the business and it was really based on that kind of a conversation of realizing I could never replace the time but I could replace the money.  Quick interruption. Was the desire to go to New York to play in the big leagues of design? B.  Well I was already playing in the big leagues and what made me unique was I was doing that from Wisconsin.  So why go to New York and enter the shark tank? B.  Why go to New York? Because I discovered I am a stimulus junkie. I love the energy of New York the activity. If you are bored in New York it is on you. There is so much going on all the time and I can go hear a jazz concert see a play eat at a great restaurant and walk to all those places. I love it. That is why flying saucers land in Wyoming. New York you cannot find a place to park. So I was seduced by the energy of New York and wanted to be there. One of the people I bought fabrics from he said to me Do you know anything about the movie business? And I said Not really. I have read some books. I love film but not really. And he said Well my son is your age and you are a bright kid you have a good head on your shoulders. Would you mind meeting him? Because he is getting involved with some people and he is not going to listen to me but maybe he will listen to you. Would you mind meeting with him? He is your age. I said No I do not mind at all. Happy to. Well the people he was involved with was Dennis Hopper William Burroughs and Terry Southern. And Tommy the son had bought the rights to Junky which was one of William Burroughs' novels and Dennis Hopper was going to direct it and star in it. So this was interesting. I mean you have got Dennis Hopper coming off of Easy Rider and then Apocalypse Now.  I think for people who are listening who maybe do not recognize the name or the gravitas at that time associated with that name that is a big deal. B.  It was a very big deal. And he had just come off of filming Apocalypse Now with Marlon Brando another iconic film name and Dennis would get the checks from Zoetrope which was Francis Ford Coppola's film studio endorse it on the back then give it to Burroughs' assistant. And he would go out and score drugs and buy alcohol.  That is the shortest line between two points. B.  That is correct. So I saw Wow Zoetrope that is Coppola's studio. Oh there it goes. When I met Dennis we really hit it off and it was a weird way that we hit it off. I have never shared this before but it is funny. I think you will get a kick out of it. I said You know why I am familiar with you Dennis? He goes Yeah man I know. Vroom vroom Easy Rider. And I said Actually it is not Easy Rider. He said What? I said No I remember all those Warner Brothers TV Westerns and everybody would be wearing a Hollywood wardrobe of what a cowboy looked like but you actually had the 10-gallon hat and actual authentic cowboy clothes. And he goes Man you are blowing my mind. Nobody ever said that. You know what I would do man? I would take my own money and I would go to Arizona I would go to Texas and I would buy authentic actual Western clothes man. Nobody has ever said that to me. That was my money man! So he loved me after that. That is where the fashion background kicked in.  Yeah no kidding. B.  It was really funny. I was granted a part in this movie.  Acting role? B.  An acting role. He wanted me to act in it which I thought would be a blast. Although it became clear that this was never going to get made because these guys were staying at the Chelsea Hotel which was another awesome destination in New York and they would get up at about five in the afternoon have something to eat then start drinking doing blow. And by about two in the morning it had devolved into Dennis and Terry Southern arguing who actually wrote Easy Rider. They had the same argument. It was like Groundhog Day.  The loop would start. B.  Yes yes. It was like an Escher drawing. And so they would argue with each other really animated arguments. You thought they were going to get into a fight which they never did.  Just Fear and Loathing in New York City. B.  And the funny thing was is that Burroughs would sit there and he would click off his hearing aid because he did not want to listen to any of this stuff. So he would click off his hearing aid they would argue and then they would fall asleep. And then I would get there the next day at around five see the mirror with all the finger scrapings on it from the blow. And I said to Tommy They are going to squeeze you out of this and this movie is never going to get made. What do you mean? It is my film. And I said These guys cannot get it together to go have dinner. You think that they are actually going to get a movie made? Not going to happen. Sure enough about two weeks later they offered him money to buy his part out.  So you were Nostradamus. B.  I was Nostradamus or just somebody who realized these guys cannot get out of their own way. It is not happening. So they offered him four times as much money as they paid for it. And I said Take it. How long have you held the rights? He said four months. So you have quadrupled your money in four months and this film is never going to get made take the money and run. So the reason Tim that you have never seen me on the big screen is because the film never got made but at least he got his money out of it.  And did you go from that into being involved in production? B.  God it is so convoluted how things happen but there was a lawyer who was representing William Burroughs and he thought I was an interesting guy we were around the same age. He was young. And he wanted to introduce me to some people. What I had seen that was really attractive to me is the promise of what it could be to make a film and tell a story like that. That was really exciting to me. So I met these people that were starting a production company and they asked me to join them and I did and taught myself how to shoot how to edit how to light how to do all that stuff.  Two questions. Why did the lawyer do that? Presumably he is got many things he could spend his time on. So why do you think he offered to make introductions? And then number two without any previous production experience why did that production company want to bring you on? B.  They wanted to specialize in fashion and so my knowledge of fashion had value to them. And when we first started watching some of the videos they had done together I was able to distinguish between  when I saw work I really liked  I said Who is that cinematographer? And then we would watch for another hour and then something would come up and I would say That is the same cinematographer is not it? He said Yeah how did you know? I could recognize style and recognize how it was done. And so they were interested in my fashion knowledge that was one thing. And I kind of had for whatever reason an innate and I can tell you the reason actually an innate understanding of the medium. So earlier I mentioned I think everything you do informs everything else you do. Well when I was designing clothes it would start with a sketch. I would have to cost out what were the materials? What was the labor? How long would it take to get made? Could I ship it by a deadline collect the money for it and start the cycle over again? Well making a film you start off with storyboards a concept you figure out the costs of the labor involved the cost of the materials and rentals involved and can you complete it by this time and deliver on deadline?  I would imagine that there is the process similarity but that also whether it is by nature or nurture I do not know but your ability to look at fashion and the components of fashion visually in high definition had to also be reflected in your ability to spot the same cinematographers right? A certain visual acuity I would imagine also helped. B.  Yeah that helped. And that was certainly developed as I was doing the fashion work and that is a part of what I do dealing in those visuals. So yeah you are right. And I think that jargon is what separates a lot of fields as opposed to if you look at just the protocol and the practice most businesses are the same in those very broad strokes. They are very much the same.  The vernacular the terminology is different. Different dialects of the same language. B.  That is right.  And the lawyer why did he help you? B.  So the lawyer helped because he was more than a lawyer he was a dealmaker.  Yeah. That is a great point. B.  And so he was really interested in bringing me into this mix to show them he knew people and that is really why he brought me in. He said This guy has got the fashion knowledge you need. He is working on this film. He has a sense of what production is. You guys ought to meet. And so that was why. That was part of his selling point was that he knew people.  Which I should point out is one of the things that separates in some cases really good lawyers from great lawyers. Is that they are dealmakers and they are very creative about getting deals done and they recognize that by getting deals done they ultimately have the most renewable resource of repeat clientele they could ever want. But there are very technically legally adroit lawyers who are perhaps more interested in billable hours and the microlevel tactics but they are not dealmakers at heart and they are very different animals really different. So I am glad you mentioned that. I am going to grab another hard kombucha and be right back. I am going to ask you about success and definitions thereof with your students. B.  I just wanted to make a comment about your lawyer thing and that is in that definition of good lawyers who can recognize a potential deal and do something they are also kind of like if they were a doctor they would infect you so they could treat you because they create more work for themselves by putting those deals together.  I mean I guess there are sort of not to use like Dungeons  Dragons parlance but constitutionally there are sort of they are in the light arts for doing that and then there are the dark arts. And they are different. They are very different. So let us talk about students. At the beginning of every semester at Parsons you ask your students to define success or at least you have done that many times. Why do you do that? And you can answer this in whatever order you would like and what have been some of the insights or answers that stick out? Or what are you looking for? Let us just explore why you do that. Because you mentioned when you had to or chose to lay off whatever it was 110 120 people in Wisconsin you were asking yourself is this failure? Does this mean I am a failure? What does this mean right? And we are meaning making machines as humans. So you ask your students to define success. Why? B.  I think it is really important to question some fundamentals that maybe you never ask yourself. So what does success look like I think is a really important question. And it does not mean by the way that your definition cannot change. I mean my personal definition has changed but I think it is always important to sort of have your own compass going on and knowing what it is you are after what it is that you are doing. And so some will say Well having enough money and oftentimes money is attached to this Having enough money so that I do not have to worry about anything. And I said So having enough money so you are not worried about anything. Can you be making that much money however also hate doing what you are doing every day you are doing it would you still consider yourself successful? And so that starts a dialogue. So I use that as kind of a kindling in the hopes of igniting a dialogue about thinking about what does success really mean? And one of the things that I think is overlooked in so many circumstances is context. And looking at that in context and looking about what success is. I mean the nature of success to me changed when I got married when I had kids and then I thought of a separate definition of success when my business was going really well and that was I would consider myself successful when I could say no without any negative financial consequences. So the freedom to say no was a big part of success for me. But now I am at a different stage of life and I would say that my definition of success has evolved for me into engagement. I want to be engaged in what I am doing. I want to be excited about doing it. I want to look forward to it and I do not care how much money I would be getting. If I am not engaged if I am not involved I do not want to spend my time doing that.  What does engagement feel like? How would you know you are engaged? B.  You know you are engaged when you are unaware of the time that passes that you are so in the zone of the work that you are doing that time does not mean anything and you love doing it. And that you look forward to the next time you get to do it. And that can also mean the group of people that you are collaborating with and working with that you just enjoy that process. And to me that is what is really important is knowing and understanding why I want to do this and that it brings me fulfillment and I think that is really important.  How do you choose who you interview for your class? I mean you have interviewed some enormous names. Taylor Swift being just one example. How do you choose them? What are the criteria? Or what are you looking for? What are you hoping to share with your students? How do you go about guest selection? B.  Now this is interesting because this also scratching your own itch.  Okay. Tell me more. B.  And by the way Taylor Swift was part of a Victoria's Secret job. She did not do my class   Oh got it. B.   just to be clear.  Got it. Got it. Nonetheless. B.  But I think that from our legal department   Fair enough. B.  She never did that! He is misrepresenting! So my criteria for a guest is have they demonstrated in some way whether it is a lecture I heard their book that I read an article whatever that they have got knowledge that I think is interesting compelling can bring about a change in the way people look at things make people aware of things. So it is really it is scratching my own itch. I find what they are doing really interesting and I love the idea of being able to talk to somebody and explore what they do and learn from what they do. Teaching is a fabulous way to learn.  Yeah it really is. B.  And I love learning.  So side note for people I do not know if this footage can even be found anywhere but thanks to your introductions  you may remember if people could find this it would be hilarious  there was a very very unusual promo that I did for The 4-Hour Chef during one of the Victoria's Secret annual events and I ended up cooking some dish and I think it was Alessandra Ambrosio or Ambrosia and then Adriana Lima next to me and I have never felt like such a hobbitbridge troll. I mean the visual was so hilarious because A they are super tall and obviously stunningly gorgeous and they are in heels and there I am like three feet shorter with some kind of Willy Wonka jacket on trying to make God knows what. It is quite hilarious. So if people can find that I highly recommend taking a look at it. Finding people who are interesting. I want to shift to someone who may or may not be interesting and we are going to move from New York City to the Mojave Desert. Can you please tell the story of the life coach who lived deep in the Mojave Desert? B.  I am laughing because I love that you picked that.  And I do not know the story. I do not know the story. I am just using the prompt because I want to hear you tell the story. B.  I may have to reread my book. So there was this person that I heard about who supposedly had insights into what makes life meaningful and eternal.  And how old were you at the time? B.  I was in my late 20s or late 30s.  Okay. B.  You know the seeking ages. And so I heard about this person who lived deep in the Mojave Desert and that for a fee he would share that knowledge. And so it was really hard to get there by the way. It is not like there were direct flights to this place or anything. And so I make this journey which involved a plane flight then a train then walking and a car and it was like quite a thing to get to this isolated place. And I go in and there is this kind of very beatific man smooth skin like porcelain sitting cross-legged on the floor. And he motions me in and asked me to sit down I sit down. And he said You are a seeker. I am thinking Well yeah. I made it here seeking something that is not under the umbrella of big insight. And he said You see this fire? I said Yes. He said First I want you to close your eyes. And I closed my eyes. And he said I am closing my eyes. And he said You have opened your eyes. And I am thinking How did you see that? Your eyes are shut. I was testing you! So he said Close your eyes and I want you to allow your mind to go blank. And I want you to think of nothingness. So I will not tell you where my mind went but it did not go to nothingness. And he said Now I want you to open your hand and place it in front of you. And I opened my hand and placed it in front of me and he said Your right hand. And I am thinking again How did he know? His eyes are closed. And he said Put your palm towards the ground and move it in front of you. And it is where the fire was. So I moved in front he says Now I want you to slowly put your hand into the fire. And I opened my eyes and said Are you fucking crazy? I am not putting my hand in the fire. And he said You do not know how many people I have to stop once they start putting their hand down and I reach out. We are in the middle of fucking nowhere. If they burn their hands seriously I am in the shit and they are feeling miserable and we are probably 120 miles from any kind of hospital. So thank goodness you had the good sense not to do that. You want a beer? And so he hands me a beer and he is got this diamond-encrusted can opener new can opener. And he said Yeah one of my followers sent me this. You believe this? They spent their money on a fucking diamond beer can opener. So he takes a big sip of it. And I do and he said to me You came here for the secret right? And I said Yes. He said Okay here's the big secret. I said What is that? He said There is no secret. If you were to put half of the effort into your own career and what you are doing into what it took you to get here you would have been far ahead of the game. Everybody comes here thinking that I have got some secret. And they are so invested in what it takes to get here that I feel like I have to do something. And I said What about the eternal life thing? And he said Listen you live in the middle of nowhere with a bunch of people coming up wanting a piece of you and all the answers from you it feels like an eternity. And I said Why do you do it? And he goes Ah it is a living.  That is amazing. Okay. A few follow-ups how did you hear about this guy? And what impact did that have if any on you? B.  Okay. Here's the big reveal Tim.  You are the man sitting cross-legged? B.  Yeah. And simultaneously across from myself. The big reveal is that I wanted to end my book with a parable and so I made that story up.  Ah I like it. B.  And I cannot tell you how many people said Well who is this guy? And all of that kind of thing. And what inspired me to write this is that there are so many self-acclaimed people with insight. And so many people who were clamoring to share in that insight so it will somehow unlock the secrets of riches and long life to them. And I thought you know what it really takes  and I do not know any exceptions to this rule unless you are born into money  is it takes a fuckload of work. That is what it takes to do what I have done what you have done what everybody I know who has accomplished something has done. So there are no secrets. What there is is the hard work the perseverance and that keeps you going after what you are going for. There are not any secrets to unlock. You have got to do the work.  Yeah. I want to talk about a particular type of work. I was hired to sell shoes not be a zookeeper. Please elaborate. B.  Those do not go together for you? So when I was a kid I was about 16 a new shopping mall was opening in Akron Ohio which is where I grew up. And I am going to piggyback the story piggyback the monkey story. We are going to feel like Dr. Dolittle right now. There was a manager there. It was a chain of stores and they had run an ad for somebody who was at least 23 had shoe selling experience and was married. I was 16 unmarried and never sold a shoe. So   Why let that stop you? B.  Well that was my thought.  Yeah. B.  Truly. And so I met with this guy. And I would done door-to-door sales I would done all kinds of selling.  What did you sell door to door? Not to digress. B.  I was a Fuller Brush Man which maybe many of your listeners do not even know what that is.  I do not know what that is. Paint brushes? B.  No. Fuller Brush was kitchen stuff and personal grooming stuff and went around with a sample case. You would start off so they would not slam the door in your face. You would say I have got a free gift for you. That was a big thing back then and   It is like being a missionary? B.  Yes. And you get a choice of one of three gifts that we have got this week. And then you try to sell them shampoo or dish soap or whatever. One time a woman opens the door wearing a robe and her hair is wrapped up in a towel. And I said In our special this weekend it may interest you since you just got out of the shower is our hairspray. And she said Well I actually could use the hairspray now. Can I? Do you have a sample? And I said Yeah. And so I picked up the aerosol everything was aerosol back then.  Yeah. B.  And I handed the aerosol can and she starts to  she first brushes her hair then she sprays this. And as she is spraying and I see oh man I handed her the oven spray.  Oh God. B.  So I take the can back before she looks at it and puts it back in the thing she is going This is very firm. And I am thinking Yeah and food will not stick to your head either. She actually bought it. She was probably disappointed with the actual hairspray but I had 30 seconds to engage a potential customer before they closed the door on my face. I mean nowadays I do not even think you would get anybody to open the door but back then you could. So it was an actually amazingly good experience for selling. And that also prepped me for retail when somebody walks into the store   Totally. B.   I engage them and get them selling. So I had that conversation with Bob who was the manager and he said Look I cannot hire you. You are supposed to be 23 you are 16. You are supposed to be married you are single. You are supposed   I just love that the number is 23. B.  Yeah. And he went on to found 23andMe! No just kidding. Just kidding. So anyhow he said I cannot hire you. I am really sorry. I like you but I cannot hire you. And I said Well I sold you and you have got to  it is got to be harder to sell you than a pair of shoes. And he laughed and said I am sorry. So as I am walking out he comes after me. And he said All right fuck it. You are hired. And he hired me. And I said Why are you hiring me? And he said Well you are right. You sold me. I am willing to take a chance on you. Well that was really good management because although he had policies when he saw what he thought would be a good opportunity and in fact I was a very successful salesman for them he was willing to take a chance take a risk and do something and sort of make the perimeter for the job qualifications a bit more elastic to fit me in. Well in the back of the store there was a monkey.  In the back of the shoe store? B.  In the back of the shoe store there was a monkey and   Attention. Do I have your attention? Interest. Are you interested? Yes. Decision. Have you made your decision for Christ? Yeah. Anyway for those who do not get the reference you can look it up. B.  And as you had said earlier this is an adult show.  Yeah yeah. Exactly. B.  So the idea behind having a monkey in the back of the store which by the way would never ever happen these days.  Not up to code. B.  No no. So since it was a family shoe store the mother would come in and she would say to the kids Go back and look at the monkey.  What could go wrong? B.  By the way a phrase that I had never heard before or since Go back and look at the monkey. And so there was a  when we first opened there was a name the monkey contest.  Okay. B.  And the monkey's name the winning name was Solo. Now at that time The Man from U.N.C.L.E. was the most popular TV show. And the hero's name was Napoleon Solo. That is why everybody thinks we chose the name Solo. The truth revealed here for the first time is we named it Solo because all the monkey did was masturbate. So of course what would you do sitting in a cage all day?  Yeah if I were a monkey in a cage that is what I would do. B.  That is right. And so the mother would then look back look at her kids and she would see the monkey furiously masturbating. She said Get away from the cage. Get away from the cage. So somebody had to clean the cage. Finally getting to your point. And the assistant manager   The masturbating makes that task so much worse. I did not know that detail. B.  I did not want to reveal everything over lunch. And so the manager Jimmy says to me The assistant manager wants you to clean out the monkey cage. And there were five other employees. And I was by far the youngest. And I said Do you ever clean out the monkey cage? And he said I told you to clean out the monkey cage. And I said  and by this time the other employees gathered around because he was very animated when he said that. And I said to him I will take my turn if everybody else takes their turn. Otherwise I was hired to sell shoes not be a zookeeper.  He must love that. B.  And he said I told you to clean out that cage. And then Bob the manager who hired me had heard this and walks over and he says Jimmy why do not you show him how to clean the cage properly? And then you will take your turn Jeff will take his and then everybody else will take theirs. Well I was okay with that because then everybody was treated equally and fairly and I was not treated differently because I was a kid. And I was often the top selling salesperson. So again I learned something about management from that which is first of all hear people. Listen and hear people. Do not just assume because the assistant manager said I am not doing something maybe there is a reason. Maybe there is something to learn from that. Maybe there is something to make the situation better for the employees or whatever. And again he demonstrated this very common sense good judgment and that stayed with me to this point. Traumatized by the masturbating monkey but learning from his management prowess which I thought was quite good.  Oh my God masturbating monkeys. Glengarry Glen Ross Alec Baldwin's performance is my reference from earlier for people who have missed it. B.  Good reference by the way.  Thank you. Thank you. And the last is action. A-I-D-A. Flipped over on the chalkboard. I think he was nominated for an Oscar. B.  He was.  Like six-minute performance which is just incredible. B.  Yeah. David Mamet wrote it.  Such an incredible writer. I mean just stunning stunning writer. This is a complete non-sequitur but I have to ask. And I know we are jumping around but that is the nature of our conversation  B.  As did the monkey by the way.  As did the monkey. So from monkey masturbation to 2009. So you are Madoff as you reminded me very kindly before we started because I was asking you about Lauren versus Lauren. Now there is a Madoff who became quite famous in the wider world. So I do not know if this is accurate. Were you actually quoted in The New York Times as saying I got a package at my office which I returned to the post office because it was addressed to Bernard Madoff and no return address. Is that you being quoted or is that somebody else? B.  Yes. Yeah it is.  So what was that? Did that year turn into a massive headache for you or was it really just a comical distraction for a short period of time? B.  It is interesting. It was a few things. So first of all my first initial although I go by my middle name Jeffrey. My first initial is B   B. Right. B.   for Ben and   Not Benjamin. B.  Not Benjamin and not Big. Well let me say that let me phrase that differently but anyhow yes it was Ben. And I would get calls all the time my office would get calls because it was Madoff Productions. The pneumonic so you can keep it clear in your own mind is he Madoff with the money. I am Madoff.  Oh. B.  And so we got this package and the package was addressed like a kidnap note. There were letters cut out of a magazine or magazines.  That sounds promising. B.  Yeah. And I thought I doubt if this is anything good. But I did not know it was even potentially dangerous.  Oh it could be a bomb for sure or poison. B.  And I had gotten so many calls at all hours of the day and night four in the morning I would get calls.  From people who had lost their money to Madoff? B.  Yeah. Yes. And I had real compassion for these people because in good faith these people invested and they had lost their money. And so I got some really horrible calls some people who were crying and begging and I said It is not me. And Bernard has been sentenced. You think that you are going to find a number in a phone book? There were still phone books then. I am not him. And yeah I got a call at five in the morning from Fox  Friends. And it rang I picked up the phone and they say I forgot the person's name From Fox  Friends we would love to have you on today. Bernard Madoff is being sentenced and we would love to have you on. I said Well first of all let me be clear at five in the morning you are not my friend. And no I have no interest in being on your show. And he said Well we know it is early but we wanted to get to you today. And I said Do you think that I want your audience to see me on the screen then you talk about Madoff or Madoff being sentenced with my face on there and they are going to think it is me. I want absolutely no part of this.  Nothing but upside. B.  Yeah that is right. That is right exactly. Sounds like a wonderful opportunity. And could you put a target on me too?  Do you have any anthrax I could borrow? B.  I was aggressively pursued for The David Letterman Show. They wanted me to   Just because you had a name that was spelled the same way? B.  Yeah so they wanted to do top 10 reasons for not having the last name. And so they called me a few times and it happened my studio was less than a block away from Letterman's studio. And so his producers invited me over trying to talk me into it. And I said Look I understand that you guys have to entertain your audience every night five nights a week. And I am not interested in making fun or making light of the pain that so many people have suffered nor am I interested in being the butt of jokes because my last name is spelled the same way. They said Well do you know how big our audience is?  Do you know how huge an ass you could appear? B.  To so many people?  To a national audience! B.  Yes. Yeah I said I am aware. No. But what ended up happening  so there was a period of time and obviously to this day I am still asked about it when my mom died. And this is in 2010 I am in Akron with my wife. We are at the funeral home. And the funeral director is looking at the certificate and he says to me I could not help but to notice the last name. I said What? You usually do not check when you are going to bury somebody? And he said Well I do see the last name. May I ask are you related? And I said Yes it is my mother. So that ended that discussion. But what I did though was I wrote an article. I get a call back from The Daily Beast. And I had not submitted it. I sent it out to a bunch of friends and somebody must have submitted it. And it was called I am Not That Madoff. And   Or I am Not That Madoff. B.  Right. Correct. And so I have never gone into this. So this is kind of bringing back memories not all of them good. And so The Daily Beast said This is what  we love your article. I said Thank you. We would like to publish it. Thank you. But we want you to make one change. And I said And what is that? Well you have a line in there. It is very funny. It is very clever. But you have this line in here that we would like you to take out. And I said And what is that? And they said Well you say that wealthy people often cloak themselves in religious and philanthropic causes to inoculate themselves against criticism. And I said Yeah. So we would like you to take that out. I said No. And they said Well I mean we would love to run it but we would like to take that out. And I said How much you paying me for this? Zero. But I would not take it out anyhow. And I said No that is an integral to the piece.  Why did they want you to take that out? As far as I am concerned it is a statement of fact. B.  It is.  I mean you you do not have to look very far to get a lot of confirming evidence. Did they give you a reason? B.  No other than they thought that it was very clever and good but they did not like that part because it got serious. So I said no. The next day I got a call from The Huffington Post. Love your article. I said Thank you. We would love to run it. I said As is? They said Oh we would not change it. Absolutely. And then that led to me writing for them. So I did around 50 some articles because I wanted to get down the discipline of writing regularly. So they did not impose that on me but I did an article a week for them for a little better than a year. And so it actually ended up being something good.  So I do not know if this is going to be a natural segue or not. B.  Like all of our others like monkey masturbating?  All of my monkey masturbating to Glengarry Glen Ross segues. I am a natural folks. Just goes to show how far you can get with perseverance and a lot of ignorance. B.  But that is how since we have known each other the conversations are like pinball.  They are always like this. They are always like this. Yeah pinball meets racquetball meets LSD. Lloyd Price. Who is Lloyd Price? B.  Well Lloyd Price is a dear friend who died on May 4th. And Lloyd Price is and I hate this term because it is beaten to death but it is true in his case an icon one of the founding fathers of rock and roll. He is in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. And his first song Lawdy Miss Clawdy back in 1952 broke down the wall that was called race records where you could only buy records by Black artists in Black record stores. And Lawdy Miss Clawdy sold and was the first record to sell this much over a million copies. No record by a young person had ever sold anywhere near that.  Yeah that is crazy. I mean it is a crazy number. B.  And by the way at that time which would have been my grandparents' generation kids did not buy records. The only kids' records were Shirley Temple. Kids did not buy records. It was not a market. So there were a bunch of independent labels around the country that sold blues gospel and jazz. And this was the breakthrough album. So there are many rock and roll and musical scholars that consider it the cornerstone song of rock and roll. And it was covered by Elvis by The Beatles by Bruce Springsteen on and on and on. And I met Lloyd. We really hit it off. And I was   When was that? B.  I met him in 2012 or '13 something like that. And I was asked to do a documentary about him because they wanted to start getting his story out there in hopes of doing something. And so I researched him. And I met him first really liked him and then researched him and did this documentary. And I was so taken by his story because it takes place at the crossroads of the youth movement the birth of rock and roll and the civil rights movement. And I felt like this is a story that needed to be told. Most people do not know Lloyd's story and just how influential he was in breaking down that wall that was called race records. Nobody's prejudiced against green.  That is very true. B.  And he opened the doors not only for Black musicians but for young musicians. And that started that tidal wave that became rock and roll. So he and I became very close friends. And I said to him after doing the documentary I know I can capture your voice. I want to tell your story. Little did I know that meeting him was going to be a life-changing event because since then  I wrote the first few scenes read them for Lloyd.  So let us pause here for a second. So you wrote the first few scenes of what? B.  Of a play.  There we go. B.  Yeah. I wrote the first few scenes.  How did you get to a play? Did you already have it in your mind when you said I can capture your voice? Was it in the form of a play? B.  Yes. And although movie was in the back of my mind as a next step but play there is something about theater and live performances whether you are seeing a play whether you are seeing a comedian even a live concert where the talent is at risk the entire time they are in front of an audience. Because in movies you can do another take. On a play you cannot.  Yeah. I love that. B.  And so that risk I find profound and profoundly seductive because you have to be there present in the zone to really be good at what you are doing. And I have so much respect for the talent that I work with and the actors that I work with. It is incredible. And comedians they put a product out there and they get immediate feedback. It is no AB testing. Right? They   They laugh or they do not. B.  That is right.  There is no charity. B.  That is right.  If it is not funny they do not laugh. B.  That is right. Yeah and you cannot talk them into You know that was funny. That is right. That is the proof. And so you have got to pivot quick and recover quick. And if you get angry at your audience for not doing it that is the death knell of your career.  So I stopped you when you said I wrote the first few scenes. I do not know if you remember that thread to pick up on that. Was not sure where the thought was going. But you wrote the first few scenes of I am not sure if it was called this at the time but Personality subtitle The Lloyd Price Musical based on his life. And what happened when you wrote the first few scenes? B.  Well I wrote the first few to tell him the kind of voice I wanted to do the play in.  Right. B.  And so when I read them out loud to him he loved it. He said You have got it. And I said to him But there is something really important that we need to understand right now. And he said What is that? And I said You are the messenger. This story is bigger than you because your life and what you did changed the face of music was instrumental in creating this new form. And you are the messenger. And he said Jeff I have been waiting years for somebody to say that to me. And they all puff smoke up my ass. And it is not about my ego. It is about wanting to tell this story. That is why I want you to do it. And that began a friendship and a collaboration that lasted until his death. And now I have an additional mission and purpose which is to keep his legacy and story and music alive.  So many questions. I want to ask you first how did it feel? What was it like to hear him say that to you I have been waiting to have somebody say that? B.  It was really gratifying because what I said could have pissed him off if he was a lesser person. But his ego did not get in the way of that. And Lloyd had a phrase The truth needs no defense.  Oh That is great. B.  And I love  yeah I love that. I love that. And he had another one which I thought about as I was raising money for this which is  I was telling him about some of the meetings and so on. He said Jeff you got to understand something. There is a million ways to say no. There is only one way to say yes. You write a check.  Right. We will get back to you. Let us think on it. Yeah. B.  And there are people by the way that just love having meetings. And they think it is cool to have a meeting about a play and all of that kind of thing.  Yeah if you want an all-you-can-eat buffet of that just spend a bunch of time in Los Angeles and get plenty of practice fucking meetings and phone calls. Jeez Louise. So as it stands right now where is this musical? What is the state of affairs? B.  So the state of affairs is back in September of '20 we got a theater deal. We did a workshop. First of all let me say that if I knew how long it took to mount a play I would have started when I was younger. And we did a full-up workshop with choreography in the end of March 2019. We got a theater deal. And that theater deal's with People's Light Theater in Malvern a very good regional theater. And we are very excited about that. And we are   That is in Pennsylvania. B.  Yes. And we were going to open in March of '21. And with to make the decision because theaters by the way get booked up a year-and- a-half to two years in advance. So in September of '20 I made the decision to see if we could move it if my management could move it to 2022 which is what we did.  That was prescient of you. B.  It would have been really screwed if I was wrong. Fortunately  or not fortunately I wish COVID was over. But my hope is that by March we will not only all be safe we will believe that we are safe and that people will be attending theater which is beginning to happen. Bruce Springsteen opened his show on Broadway last weekend. I mean today's June 30th that we are doing this.  It is June 30th. That is right. B.  And last Saturday I am just putting a timeframe on this Springsteen was the first Broadway show to open. And he sold out.  Wow. B.  And three weeks before that The Colbert Show invited full audience without face masks. They just had to pass a COVID test and show proof of vaccination. And he is been full to capacity every day since. Those are all good omens. So that is really good.  Yeah the Roaring '20s here we go. B.  So we are now in the process. I am raising some more money because it is like any startups like the tech startups you have been with. You cross a certain threshold then you have got to raise money for the next stage. And then you cross that stage and you have got to raise money for the next stage. And we have got wonderful talent involved. Sheldon Epps who is the director is phenomenal who is been with me since the beginning as has Shelton Becton who is the musical director and Chester Gregory who plays Lloyd and Stanley Mathis who plays Logan who was Lloyd's mobster mentor.  And many many awards across these people. B.  Yeah we have a creative team. David Gallo who is won multiple Tony Awards is doing set and projection. And Rob Kaplowitz who is doing sound design is a Tony Award winner. And we just have a tremendous number of people involved who are so good and so committed to the project. And that is very gratifying. And you might like this. When I hired Sheldon which was before we did our first reading  and I really liked him and I liked his insights into theater and everything else. And so I said to him I want you to know I have a no asshole rule. And he laughed. He says Well I think I know what you mean but why do not you explain it to me? And I said If you are an asshole but you are paying me I will put up with it but I will never put up with abuse. But if you are an asshole and I am paying you I will not put up with it. And he laughed and said We are in the same place. And we have built such a sense of community for each of the productions we have done. And it is been just a joy. And the thing is and I said this to the assembled cast before we did our workshop is and I think this is a general life lesson for me anyhow which is never let anybody rob the joy of the process because the process is what is magic. The process is what is so much fun. And that is the journey on your way to that finished product that process. I mean that is where the real stories come in as you are on that journey. And   It is also the bulk of your time. B.  That is right. That is right because once it is up and on its feet there is a lot less to do.  Is it fair to say that and I know very little about theater but that The People's Light Theater in Malvern and certainly others around the epicenter of Broadway act as effectively feeders if they are successful into Broadway? B.  Yes. Yeah it is. And that is from whether it is La Jolla Playhouse in California or whether it is the Goodman Theater in Washington. There are many regional theaters of very high order. The Public Theater In New York is a regional theater. That is where Hamilton started.  I did not know that. B.  The La Jolla Playhouse is where Jersey Boys started.  Oh no kidding. B.  And those were all like what we have enhancement deals.  if you are successful.  Could you define for people who do not know the term enhancement deal? B.  An enhancement deal basically means that a good regional theater will set aside a certain amount of money for original productions. Maybe they do one or two or tops three a season. So they have their fixed budget. And then on our end we have to enhance that budget with the rest of the financial contribution. So they are putting up the set shop they are building the sets they are building the costumes they are doing the marketing and sales. They are doing all of those things. And if there is any recoupment they will be able to get that. So we are not producing it. But what we are doing is marketing from that. That is the idea. But we have enhanced their budget. So we are both able to put on a play that the cost would be prohibitive for either party alone but together in pooling resources we are able to do the production.  It is very similar not entirely it is not a perfect parallel but very similar to the marquee titles that a publisher will select. They will hand pick a few that they will double down on in terms of betting their bandwidth and capital to back. Very very similar. B.  Did you find by the way I am just curious after the success of The 4-Hour Workweek and I think it is fair to say that that launched your career   Sure. I think that is fair to say. B.   did you get any kind of response from any of the publishers that had originally rejected you that wanted in on your next book or anything like that?  I did get a couple of letters from publishers who rejected me not only rejected me but did so with no grace whatsoever I mean really abrasively rejected me. And I do not think I replied to any of them. I found them amusing found them very amusing because you can say no in many different ways. And there were people who said no but did it taking just an extra sentence or two to encourage me even though it was not a fit for them. And it was really just an extra sentence or two and a shift in tone just a few different words. And that made a real world of difference. For instance there was an agent she may still be an agent really really capable agent named Jillian Manus who did not take me on as a client but gave me a lot of really good advice and feedback and was very generous and gracious in how she interacted with me. And a bunch of her advice helped me in my writing of the book even though I ended up working with an agent who I still work with Steve Hanselman. And I have the utmost respect for her. And I think she is a better player a more competent actor in that field because of the way she handled herself. And she had no reason to do it at the time. I should not say no reason but I felt like it was her default way of existing in the world because I had nothing to offer her at the time. But there were examples like that. And then there were the counter examples of people who are just like Who the hell are you kid? This is a dumb idea. Goodbye. And it just struck me as so shortsighted in a way. Even if your job is to say no 99 percent of the time which is certainly true for venture capitalists as another example I mean a lot of people say no 99 percent of the time it strikes me as a very good investment of time to decide in advance how you are going to do that with some degree of grace. So yeah absolutely I received letters from some of them. And none of them were going to get a bite of the apple before the publisher who took a calculated risk on that first book for sure. And they got a great deal on it as they should have. Right? I mean after all I would been punched in the face and kicked in the nuts 30 times or whatever it was. So I did not exactly have a lot of leverage. B.  But that is smart to be aware of because a lot of people get very resentful about rejection but they do not look at it in a context of I have got no backstory here yet. I cannot point to my successes in this world.  Yeah totally. And it goes both ways right? You can be gracious in receiving no. I think that is very important. And these days I get through various channels hundreds of communications a day. And 90-plus percent of those are asking for something. And it is not physically possible for me and my team to even respond to all of those. But if we do it is usually a no and it is usually a polite decline. And that is how I phrase it with my team. I am like Please polite decline. And some people get extremely upset and they do the equivalent of responding rudely as the publishers did but they do it from the perspective of the person who is asking for something. They get very morally outraged and offended and then they burn the bridge. Right? I say No thank you. I cannot do this right now or There is no bandwidth or I am heads down on projects. And they get really offended. And they guarantee that I am never going to do something with them in the future by responding in a very overly sensitive brusque way. Right? So it is definitely a two-way street. If you are going to try to do anything in the world you need to get used to people saying no to you. B.  There is a lot more nos than yeses. And the question that I have is how does one construct that emotional moat around that part of your psyche that you want to protect? And you realize They do not know me. What is going on here has nothing to do with who I actually am. And I think establishing that moat is critical for emotional survival otherwise more kicks to the head.  Totally. And also I have now on the receiving end developed tremendous empathy and compassion for people on the receiving end because in the beginning I might ask someone for a book blurb and they would say no. And I would be very upset. I would not respond rudely. I think I knew enough not to do that. But it would stick for a while and I would be very upset. I would be like Why would they say no? This is such an easy ask and this and this and this. And I can come up with a laundry list of reasons why they should have said yes. And now that I am in the receiving seat it is physically impossible to respond. I mean if I look at my phone right now I have got 98 unread text messages from close friends. And then I have another 253 unread text messages on Google Voice. And it just goes on and on. 834 notifications on Calendar. I mean I cannot physically respond to this many things. And it is entirely possible that the vast majority of people or a high percentage of people who say no to you will say no because they just do not have the bandwidth to figure it out. And just because it is not a fit for them which you should accept as valid if they say it is not a good fit does not mean it is a bad idea. It just means that your shoes are too fucking tight. It is not going to fit on their feet or whatever. It is not the right fit. And it is going to take a while if you have a novel idea and if you are unproven in a particular area it is going to take a while to find Cinderella with that glass slipper. B.  Right.  It is just going to take a while and it does not matter if you have had a lot of success in one area it does not automatically copy and paste to the next. In many respects you are going to have to start over. And I really respect you for doing that not once but multiple times sort of taking your not necessarily leave but departing from a well-trodden path that you know very well where you have all the connections and you understand all the dynamics to explore an area where you are inevitably going to face more nos. And I hesitate to say rejection because I do not view those as exactly the same. Do you know what I mean? B.  What is that distinction?  Well it is like rejection I guess just has such a negative connotation whereas No not right now No not for me do not quite have the stigma or the stickiness of rejection. Rejection is just such a for me at least has such a heavy connotation so I do not think about it that way. And yeah it is been a strange journey and an interesting one. Let me ask you a question with respect to fundraising without giving out your personal contact information because I think that would be a terrible terrible idea. I have seen that backfire before. Where could people go to maybe learn more about the production or consider supporting what you' The Lloyd Price Musical? B.  Well as of yet because it is too early. I mean tickets do not even go on sale till September. So if somebody was interested they could message me on LinkedIn.  Okay. That is easy. All right so  B.  B. Jeffrey Madoff.  All right. We will include that in the show notes as well for people. So you can direct message Big Jeffrey Madoff on LinkedIn and great I mean if that works that is easy. I just suggest people do it that way and those who are motivated will figure it out. B.  Yeah. And if they have just a bag of cash they want to drop off I can give out the many convenient drop off locations.  Well let us talk for just a little bit longer. So the process of doing homework I saw somewhere that you have read everything by Raymond Chandler. I think that is how you say the last name. B.  Yes.  James Ellroy. You talk about Michael Lewis Charles Dickens you have clearly read a lot. Aside from your own book which just as a reminder is Creative Careers subtitle Making a Living with Your Ideas has I think an average of five stars on Amazon it is very well reviewed. What books have you given most as gifts to other people? B.  Well you preempted the actual answer which is my own.  Yeah well right. Right. That is why I preempted. B.  God damn you! There are books that I have suggested to people.  That is good enough. B.  And so a book that was really amazing to me Michael Lewis wrote. Well first of all I think Moneyball was astounding.  Spectacular. Spectacular book. B.  Yes. And   I am trying to get Billy Beane on the podcast. B.  Oh really?  I am. We will see fingers crossed. Billy if you are listening I would love to have you on. B.  I mean Michael Lewis as a non-fiction writer is so good.  Yeah mind-boggling. B.  And the way that he is able to make things understandable without dumbing them down he is just so good. And I have read everything he is written except his latest book I have not read that yet about pandemic but I will. Moneyball which was great which I read Moneyball and Freakonomics back to back and it was like   That is a good combo. B.  Yeah. It was like a case study. Right. But I love The Undoing Project.  I know the story of The Undoing Project but I have not read the book. B.  It is brilliant. And about 15 years ago I read Heuristics And Biases by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky. And that   Quick side note I was a test subject of Danny Kahneman's at Princeton where I was a subject in some of his experiments. B.  Really?  Just as a quick side note. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway please continue. B.  Well they created the field of behavioral economics.  Yeah. In Green Hall. I was sitting there in front of a computer looking at things on a screen and hitting space bar or whatever the indication was. B.  Wow.  Yeah wild. Never met him. B.  They are brilliant. And the thinking about thinking and why we believe what we believe I found so amazingly insightful and useful and I was just blown away by it. I just absolutely loved it. And so The Undoing Project went into who they were as people and it just even enhanced even more what their whole mission was in terms of behavioral economics. So I loved that but Michael Lewis' books I have recommended tremendously same with Timothy Wu. Timothy   Timothy Wu I do not know the name. B.  So he wrote The Master Switch. He is a professor at Columbia University. It is incredible about dissemination of media and the attention economy. And I may have screwed up that name but it is Timothy Wu W-U and he is brilliant. And I kind of read him like I put together Freakonomics with Heuristics And Biases. With Timothy Wu I put together James Gleik and The Information which is God it is an amazing book. So I love things that make me look at things differently and challenge my own beliefs in really interesting ways. So those are the kinds of things that I recommend. I read mostly non-fiction. Back when I was reading a lot of fiction I loved Raymond Chandler. Raymond Chandler created the prototype Phillip Marlowe the hard-boiled detective who is got integrity and a bottle of rye in the deep desk drawer. And his books I was always sorry that they ended because they were so much fun to spend time with those characters and I really loved it.  Have you ever read Motherless Brooklyn? B.  I saw the film.  I thought that Edward Norton and team did a really nice job with that. B.  They did. And I thought it was really interesting and of course the eccentricity of having a detective with Tourette's.  Tourette's. B.  Was just kind of interesting. And I am a sucker for any of these movies whether it is L.A. Confidential which is one of the best ones.  Incredible. B.  With the fedoras and I love that genre the film noirish kind of genre. I just love it. And James Ellroy who I mentioned who writes with a blowtorch it is   Okay. Please elaborate. B.  His use of language has such velocity to it and is so strong. And he wrote L.A. Confidential it was based on one of his books.  Oh I did not know that. Okay. B.  Yeah. And the movie which I loved was like a Disney version of the book.  That is hard to imagine. B.  I know. But if you read the book which I would highly recommend   By the same name? B.  Yes. Yeah. It is wickedly rough but really good if you like that genre.  I love it. I am looking for more fiction. I have really been drawn to fiction recently having been a non-fiction purist for decades. But I think I cannot remember who said this so I do not know the attribution somebody can figure this out but the masks we wear tell us more about the truth than the real faces we own or something like that. But the masks often tell us so much and so I am sorry I do feel like fiction can convey deeper truths sometimes as effectively or more effectively than non-fiction. So I have really been drawn to that craft recently. And do you have any favorite documentaries or movies? B.  Oh God. As you know I love film so to name a film is really tough. I mean I recently re-watched for the 19th time I do not know To Kill A Mockingbird which I loved. And I had the additional joy of turning my kids onto it when they were like 12 and watching it with them. And there are certain points in that film that I cry   Somewhat intense subject matter. B.  Yeah. But I have got really smart kids and they loved it. And I loved when I saw tears welling up in their eyes at the same points that had happened with me when I watched the film and it is just so beautiful. Quick sidebar to that so I had done a film for Liza Minnelli at Radio City and there was a big party afterwards in the Rainbow Room which is as glamorous as the movies make it it is a gorgeous space and is wonderful. Gregory Peck was sitting there and it is weird since I said to my wife Margaret as opposed to my wife Alice my other wife. I said to Margaret my wife You want to meet Gregory Peck? This is in 1991. And she said I would pass out. I said Come on. So we go over and I shake hands with him and said I have always wanted to shake Atticus' hand. And Atticus Finch is the character that he played. And he said It is interesting that you say that. And he has by the way one of the great voices of all time. I was just speaking with Alan Pakula who produced the movie and we were wondering if that movie would be made today. What do you think? And I said I do not know but what a sorry statement about our culture it would be if a film that was that great would not have been made. And I said Were you aware that you were making something that was going to live on for generations? And he said I have made over 174 movies.  That is a lot of movies. B.  Never before or never since did I have the feeling that I had when I was making that. And the very first scene he said We shoot movies out of sequence. And I said Yeah I am aware. And he said The very first scene is actually the courtroom scene although it happens later in the movie and I walk out on set and Harper Lee was there.  I do not know that name. B.  Harper Lee wrote it.  Okay. B.  She wrote To Kill A Mockingbird. And when I walked out onto the set she got up burst into tears and left. She came back about an hour and a half later and I walked over to her. He was wearing a three-piece linen suit which is what her father always wore. And she said I am sorry. I was so overwhelmed by how you reminded me of my father but there was one thing that was missing. And he said What was that? She said He always had his pocket watch and a watch fob. And then she hands him her father's pocket watch.  Wow. B.  Which he put into his pocket. And she said Whenever he was giving a closing argument he would rub his thumb over the face of the watch the pocket watch. And I said Wow. And he said And when I got the Academy Award for best actor for that film as I was giving the speech I had my right hand in my pocket and was rubbing my thumb over the face of the watch. I said Oh wow. And then he takes his hand out of his pocket and says Would you like to see the watch? And he hands it to me.  Wow. B.  And I thought man wow! That was to me like somebody seeing the sacred Shroud of Turin or something. I mean it was just amazing really amazing. But that is a film that not only was the book great the movie was great.  So I have to interrupt for a second because this reminds me of an experience that we had where we were at some party I cannot remember where it was L.A. or something like that and I was a huge fan of Jason Statham's I do not know if you remember this and he walked right past us at this event and ended up whatever 100 yards behind us in the middle of this throng of this crowd. And I think I mentioned something along those lines and you were like Well should we go meet him? And I was like I do not know. I do not know. I do not know. And you just grabbed me and we marched right up to him and said hello and he was extremely friendly. He was very very kind and gracious. Also built like a brick shithouse I mean God is that guy well-built. And funny enough I saw that photo about a year ago and I was like Wow. Since I have lost my hair I am kind of converging on Jason Statham. Have you always had that chutzpah to walk up to people or was that developed or how did that come to be? B.  God first of all I just love when gentiles use words like chutzpah. After you were telling me that your ancestors came here in the 16th century or something like that mine did not they were kicked out of a country. But you know   I like to keep my doors up. B.  I think most people do not mind you approaching them if it is about something nice. And so I had a short conversation with him because I said My son is a huge fan of your movies. And when I watched them with him he said you have got something going on. I mean you can act you have got chops. You can really act. And he said Oh man thank you. And we talked for just a moment or so and then I said Would you mind if we got pictures with you?  Yeah wild. B.  And so the sure way to make sure that nothing happens is do nothing. So worst case scenario he says Get away from me kid. Worst thing he does is he says No but we both ended up with pictures that we really enjoyed. And it was nice to meet him because he was a very nice guy.  Yeah really sweet guy. B.  And so it was cool and I have seen his they are married now I think but his wife I had shot many times because she was a model and I did some videos with her and she is really really a nice person too.  Yeah. I was supposed to have Jason and I think Guy Ritchie on the podcast some time ago and then without any explanation we were all slated to go and then the phalanx of God knows what in between very last minute canceled. So maybe someday I will get to actually thank him in person for being so cool on our first encounter. Here's a question that might be a dead end and I accept that possibility and I will take the blame if that is where it goes. But nonetheless I will ask. B.  Good preamble though.  Thank you. Thank you. I specialize in preambles. If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere metaphorically speaking right? This is to get a message a quote an image anything out to billions of people. What might you put on that billboard? Does not have to be an original could be from somebody else whatever you want something non-commercial. B.  Well if it was an actual billboard I would say Pay attention to the road.  That is a very B. Jeffrey Madoff answer. B.  And if it was metaphorical in terms of just a metaphorical idea that I wanted people to get would be Stay curious keep learning.  Stay curious keep learning. I think you have done an excellent job of that. So you walk the walk. B.  Oh you are very kind. Thank you.  It is true. It is true. I have seen it over and over again. That is very inspiring and  B.  But it is fun. I mean when you and I first met all those years ago the conversation which was going to be you had a half hour I think and then we were like four and a half hours later.  Yeah. I remember. B.  Because we were ricocheting all over the place like that. I mean it is a very enjoyable thing to do when you are talking with somebody who I do not want to presume you respect me but.  I do respect you. B.  But the same it is fun. And you also unearth things about oneself that you might not have hit on otherwise or you see it in a different way. And I think that is a great thing about doing a podcast is not it? When you get to talk to people that you find interesting and.  Oh yeah. B.  All of that.  Totally. And in some ways all the more so when I know someone and have the excuse and the pretext to do all this creepy due diligence that would otherwise be really strange. And I think this is a pretty good place to start wrapping up. Jeff are there any other things you would like to mention? Any requests you have for the audience? Anything you would like to say? Closing comments anything at all that you would like to add before we bring this first conversation to a close? B.  Well I am going to be taking a leap into the podcast world because of all the guests that I have had in my class. So I think that you being a master of that and I have been learning podcastian. And so I am looking forward to that because it is just I think like you I think it is accurate to say it is about spreading ideas.  Yeah. B.  And that is what is fun to do that and engaging with people about ideas. I am proud of my book. I think that that was an interesting thing especially as I was going through some of the same things I was writing about in terms of that was one of the things when I was thinking about well was I a failure? And all that. And writing a book about things you have experienced in life can be therapeutic at the same time and bring things up that maybe I would not have thought about otherwise. And as I had already mentioned about the teaching is that teaching is such a great way to learn is such a great platform to engage with ideas. And I have got an audience that changes every semester so I really enjoy it. And I am very grateful for an opportunity like this where we can just pinball back and forth and talk about the kinds of things that interest us and in scratching our own itches hope that we also do the same for our audience.  Yeah. Well I am excited for you to get into the podcast game. You are a natural and you are already doing the heavy lifting and you are doing the interviewing you know how to do it. You are an expert storyteller and it is just a matter of sharing the audio so I think you will do very well. And to just repeat where people can find you are a few different options acreativecareer.com that is acreativecareer on Instagram. The book is Creative Careers subtitle Making a Living with Your Ideas check it out. You can also find Madoff  not Madoff  madoffproductions.com which can be found madoffproductions on Instagram. If you are interested in learning more about possibly supporting Personality subtitle The Lloyd Price Musical which I am very very excited to see you can direct message B. Jeffrey Madoff M-A-D-O-F-F on LinkedIn. Is there anywhere else that people can find you or any other links or any such things that we should mention? B.  Well actually they will be hearing that podcast. This is kind of surreal self or another M.C. Escher thing. I was going to say you could tell them about this podcast but the only way that they would hear it  it is like I had a teacher that would say And if you are not here today please raise your hand. What? So no. No I think that is it. No.  So people can search. B.  I got nothing else.  Yeah. People can search your name and podcast. And by the time this is reaching their ears perhaps they can find it. And also if it is live I will link to it in the show notes along with everything we have talked about all the books all the people all of the everything at tim.blogpodcast as per usual. And what fun B. Jeffrey Madoff thank you so much for making the time and putting up with this sauna infused with hard kombucha. It is been a lot of fun. B.  I loved it. And thank you very much for having me on I really appreciate it.  Absolutely. And until next time to everyone out there listening thanks for tuning in. Interview with B. Jeffrey Madoff on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast 'Good enough' equals shitty. - Brian Grazer Brian Grazer  is an Academy Award-winning producer and New York Times bestselling author  who has been making movies and television programs for more than 25 years. Grazer and his longtime You cannot own results. You can only own initiative. - Aisha Tyler Aisha Tyler  is an award-winning director actor comedian bestselling author podcaster and activist.She is amazing. If you enjoyed my episodes with Brandon Stanton Debbie Millman or Adam Robinson among others you will love   