 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of The Tim Ferriss Show. I am nervous. I will explain why I am nervous in a minute. My guest he is a very friendly fellow. He is not trying to make me nervous. His name's Chris Bosh on Twitter ChrisBosh. He fell in love with basketball at an early age and earned the prestigious Mr. Basketball title while still in high school. That was at Lincoln High School in Dallas Texas not far from where we are sitting in Austin Texas. A McDonald's All-American Bosh was selected fourth overall by the Toronto Raptors after one year of attending Georgia Tech. By the end of his basketball career he was not 11-time that is more fingers than you have folks 11-time NBA All-Star two time champion and the NBA's first Global Ambassador of basketball. In March of 2019 Bosh's number one jersey was officially retired for the Miami Heat. In addition to his basketball career Bosh founded the community-uplift organization Team Tomorrow in 2010 and regularly speaks to youth about the benefits of reading coding and leadership. Bosh his wife Adrienne and their five children reside here in Austin Texas. His new book is Letters to a Young Athlete which includes a foreword by Pat Riley.  Twitter as mentioned ChrisBosh Instagram ChrisBosh and Facebook Official Chris Bosh. Chris CB welcome to the show.  Appreciate it man. I am excited to be here.  I was looking at the copious notes in front of me. I was joking that I feel like the main character in Memento. I do not like to show how the sausage is made but this is the first in-person interview since COVID for me really certainly indoors. And I am looking at this bio and I am looking and I am looking and I am looking did you ever go to the Olympics?  I went to the Olympics yes.  I thought so.  I may not be the best researcher but I thought that. And how did things go with the Olympics?  Amazing.  What was the outcome?  The Olympics were one of those things. I had the time of my life there and when I mean time of my life at that age I was right where I was supposed to be. Back in '92 when they constructed the Dream Team together I was just a little kid in Hutchins Texas watching TV. And I just thought it was cool that they had basketball in the summertime on regular TV. Because you could not really watch TV you had to have cable to take in as many games as possible. And I was just one of those kids anything basketball I am taking it in. And I remember just that time of the Dream Team watching them. It was just incredible. Wait a minute Michael Jordan and Magic Johnson and all these guys on the same team that does not  yeah I was trying to comprehend it.  The X-Men.  Yeah. You know what I mean?  Yeah.  And that pretty much sparked the obsession. And so every Olympics I mean I would watch the Olympics. I mean we watched gymnastics we would watch track and field we would watch anything to do with the Olympics. And getting to take part in Beijing it was quite amazing. And just to be there taking part in the opening ceremony but most importantly getting to have the experience of playing basketball for my country and being able to represent the USA and win a gold medal. I mean  You know that you have a good bio just for those who did not pick up on this when you can omit the Olympic gold medal from your bio. Just as a side note that does not happen all too often. The reason I brought up the Olympics is because I had heard I think it was it might have been LeBron James who mentioned this but that while other people were killing time or doing A B and C playing cards you were trying to teach yourself Spanish. And this is the type of anecdote that came up over and over again whether related to craft beer collection and making craft beer there were these parallel tracks. And I found that very interesting because sometimes it is the side notes that tell a lot of the main story even though basketball is the most obvious. Is that a myth? Is that true? Spanish did that enter the picture?  It is probably true. I am surprised that they would remember something like that. To me that is  that was when you had to like have the whole eight-CD set.  Oh yeah.  You had to lug the bag around.  You had a separate bag for it.  Yeah. You got to have a whole separate carry on. I could see that and I forgot all about that actually. But yeah I mean language was always something that was just nagging at me and I just had to do. And golly back in '08 that would mean I had just started and I was trying to put two and two together and I thought it was so cool that Rosetta Stone had an eight-CD packet that you could take with you and download on your computer and all that stuff.  That you could buy it an airport kiosk. Remember when that was a thing?  Absolutely. And I thought that was so cool because I am like Yo I got that. Yeah I mean I remember taking it with me. I always had a fascination with language and always trying to pick it up. And believe it or not it actually  getting drafted by Toronto in the beginning years for some reason I thought I could learn French. I am like Oh yeah. I am going to learn French.  No problem.  No problem. And I got up there everybody speaks English. And so it was like you got to watch TV and I was trying to watch TV it just did not happen and it did not make any sense. And so probably a few months after that I said Okay I need to learn Spanish. Because there is more Spanish speakers in the world than there are French so let us start there. And yeah I started learning Spanish and that was before I got a tutor. So I started with Rosetta Stone and that was okay. And then I hired a tutor and then I ended up making the move to Miami eventually which it helped me out quite a bit just in   Calle Ocho.  Yeah. Calle Ocho.  Your shout out in Spanish.  I am their son. And they really really loved it but just the culture that was down in Miami it was really just a perfect fit. And I do not know what it was I just had to learn languages. It is just one of those things that just calls me communicating with people talking with people and really it was always beneficial because we would have teammates  I have had three teammates from Spain two or three teammates from Spain. And you have guys coming from Europe and Africa and South America and stuff like that so you want to be able to communicate efficiently with them. And just learning different languages and stuff like that has helped me quite a bit.  You can cover a lot of the globe with Spanish.  Yeah absolutely.  You can go to a lot of places.  Absolutely.  You can go to a lot of places.  And it is a good beginning right?  Oh it is great.  That is a good Latin base because then you can be like okay Portuguese Italian and   You can hop around.  Yeah. You can hop around pretty not easily but it could happen.  So I heard you say the words Calle Ocho in your I do not want to say last speech but when your jersey was put up into the rafters. So for people who do not know and do not worry folks if you do not know anything about basketball that is me too because I have little squirrel hands. I am very small. And during the winter is when basketball was an option I actually did not get accepted to the JV basketball team because as the coach put it I dribbled like a caveman so I ended up wrestling. That is going to be my excuse for not knowing much about basketball.  I was wrestling!  But we will come back to the very very very very building blocks of basketball in a moment. But because this is also not explicitly mentioned in your bio could you explain for people how you came to retire? Or how your basketball career came to an end? And then we are going to fill in the in-between.  Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So year 13 and it was kind of like a not a long drawn-out process but pretty much what happened is it started with a pulmonary embolism. I ended up having a pulmonary embolism. I had chest pains back pains all kinds of different pains had a collapsed left lung partially for a while and I was still playing. I chalked it up to something else happened. It was not definitely anything life-threatening. And it definitely was not anything that would end my season let alone my career. But I kept playing and we eventually it got so bad I went to the hospital and I ended up having to get surgery. Let me see I was in the hospital for close to two weeks. It was pretty much like solitary confinement. I did not really think about it until it was over but I did not leave that room for a good two weeks. I had two tubes in my chest right here on my ribs on the side of my ribs right below my chest. And I had to drag that around with me after surgery for a few days until it got all the leakage out and that took about a week. And then after that I was able to recover was able to come back and play basketball. And then that next year we found another clot. When you are in a situation with blood clots and stuff like that if you have a second blood clot it is almost like you are radioactive and so that pretty much was it. It was during All-Star weekend in Toronto. I was reshaping my game. I am a three-point shooter now. I am actually in a three-point competition. I am looking forward to my career being revitalized and still being on top of my game still being an All-Star still performing at a highly level. We felt that we had a team good enough to compete for a championship that year. We were second or third in the east. We are ready to go. We are right there in the driver's seat and we unfortunately found another clot. It was a blood clot in my lower extremities. And that was pretty much the end of the season. I continued to try to come back but it just did not happen. With doctors and things like that and teams and question marks we found out that it is not that much research the research has been inconclusive about athletes blood clots and things like that. We tried and I did try I gave it the old college try to try to come back but it just proved to be too much. And I have a family I have children and I had to start thinking about that. It is like the easy tough decision to make. You know it is right but I just love basketball so much. And I just figured this was my time to really prove myself for the umpteenth time to be an elite player in the world. And it was just that second act or third act rather that did not happen.  And was the cause ultimately whether definitively or just tentatively concluded to be a hereditary disease or was it unknown?  You do test. I did test to see if it was hereditary. It is not. I do not have the genetic markers that would mean I just have reoccurring clots. When they said that I was like Okay. Well great. It just seemed to have come out of nowhere especially in a sport where trauma is pretty  you are getting leg trauma on a nightly basis. But it is just something that I had to move past eventually. And as tough as it was I had to move on with my life and eventually figure out how to move past it and do something else.  We will likely come back to that at some point. And just psychologically philosophically how you have navigated that. But   Yeah. Absolutely.   as promised I want to jump back to Lincoln High School and we are going to at some point  well we I am using the royal we I do not mean to embarrass my audience by including you in the questions I might ask about basketball. They are going to be very very basic but let me first ask as we kind of segue into this I just want to read part of this paragraph from Wikipedia because I have something related to ask about it. All right. So the 6 foot 11 teenager we did not mention that yet 6 foot 11 teenager helped Lincoln High capture and this again Wikipedia so feel free to fact check any of it Class 4-A state title as he delivered 23 points and 17 rebounds to go along with nine blocks. Now here's the point that or the paragraph that really caught my attention all right Bosh was subsequently named High School Player of the Year by Basketball America Powerade Player of the Year in Texas a first team All-American by Parade McDonald's and EA sports a second team All-American by USA Today and SLAM Magazine. And it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. And my question is what was it like for you at that age to get that amount of visibility? And that amount of I suppose fame I mean this is  later you would be much much better known but at that age I think back to all the terrible decisions that I made in high school all the terrible decisions I continued to make for a long time and it was not in any way fueled. I would not have had the opportunities afforded to someone with a tremendous visibility. What was that like as a student in high school? And was there a moment when you were like Oh wow okay. Okay. Things are going to be different.  It like continuously happened like that. The thing with me is I was lucky to find the thing. That thing that you love. Once I found basketball and that is one of the things that I always encouraged not only the youth but people in general find that thing that you love. And people can help you get there but only you know and only you know that feeling whether it is sewing knitting architecture it could be anything. But for me I found basketball pretty quickly. And in my mind it was all supposed to happen. One of the interesting questions I get is when people ask me Well what else would you be doing? That is kind of a hard question to answer because I did not do anything else. So it was basketball video games and friends and of course schoolwork anything outside of that it really did not get too much in my atmosphere. And so with that said I was always able to go to practice or go to the gym or even play basketball video games or read the newspaper and see what the stats are and who is leading the Eastern Conference or who is leading the league in scoring rebounding and things of that nature. I never wanted to do anything else. Basketball was it. I grew up watching Michael Jordan and Kobe Bryant and of course all the other stars too but those two guys in particular they were always winning. As soon as I found out what basketball was I knew who Magic Johnson was and huge success in the '80s five championships. And then Michael Jordan is there. I watched him pretty much win six live and then Kobe Bryant comes along and he was the dude that made it real because he was a teenager doing things that Jordan did. So once that started happening it became more obsessive. Are you familiar with SLAM Magazine?  I am not but I can imagine the subject matter possibly.  So SLAM Magazine was pretty much like the basketball magazine and so that was like the internet. You know?  Right.  So you go get your SLAM Magazine. And I started putting these posters on my wall of Kevin Garnett Tim Duncan Kobe Bryant Michael Jordan all these guys and just obsessively following the game. But they would also put in these articles with the high school talent. It was all basketball high school college and pros. And so for me with all the content I consumed whether it was movies whether it was watching SLAM Magazine these things were supposed to happen. So when they started happening for me it was more like Okay cool. I was still in my bubble.  Did you feel in a way because of this extreme focus on basketball that you had identified it as the path your path?  Yeah.  That these things were sort of I do not want to say ordained to happen but you were like If I am in fact destined to be on this path these are the following markers along that path.  That is exactly what it was.  And therefore when you show up yourself in SLAM Magazine you were like   Somebody's in SLAM. Okay.  As it was written!  Full disclosure I did not like the SLAM article that they made of me. It was like I finally got my half page and I am like That is the photo they chose? But yeah it was kind of those markers getting those markers pretty much from the ninth grade on. So there was no reason to  and one of the things that was always interesting nobody  fun fact in our yearbook because we had other good players as well I was not chosen most likely to be in the NBA. So I was never like Yeah Chris   Just like you were reading off you saying USA's second team that still   Wince a little bit!  They messed that one up. It is okay USA Today. Excuse me. But with that said that was just always my mentality. I was not written off but in my mind it was always how it was supposed to happen and I started growing. And then I guess once that notoriety came for me it was like Okay yeah about time. But once I started getting that notoriety I wanted to get in the gym more because it was working. So from ninth grade pretty much on every time I saw success or if I was in the paper or if the coach told me Good job or something like that I wanted more. It was always an emphasis on doing more work doing more work and getting in there.  You were like The recipe works let us   Man    crank out some more pizza pies with that recipe.   you know what I mean? It is going pretty good let us make something out of this. And one of the interesting things and probably one of the things that lit a fire under me was my dad. We were not the poorest kids. I would describe my upbringing as lower middle class but he sat me down or we would drive all the time and ride everywhere and he told me one day I was like 12 he said Hey man I cannot pay for college. So basketball you love basketball that is awesome. You can get a scholarship playing basketball. And that is great because I cannot pay for college. He kept saying I cannot pay for college. And I thought that was fascinating that wow you could go to college and play basketball. Okay. And I started  that began an obsession with schools and mascots and learning the colors on top of all the stats and stuff. So once I really started getting into it I mean it just grew and grew and grew and as it grew so did the notoriety.  So let us talk about making those pizza pies. The recipe that was working I want to try to tease apart some pieces of that. So you mentioned a name Kevin Garnett if I am pronouncing that correctly.  Mm-hmm .  Were there any players you watched and decided to emulate? I had read that KG was one such player I do not know if that is true. You cannot believe everything you read on the internet   Of course.   so you can confirm or deny. But were there players who you watched early on in your development as a player or as a player who you decided to emulate for one reason or another?  Oh yeah. Kevin Garnett and Tim Duncan.  All right.  More so KG but Tim Duncan of course too because he was right down the street and his nickname was The Big Fundamentals and every coach loved the way he played the game. And I would play the power forward which is kind of a dying position now but it was called the four and it was cool to be a four. Oh man early 2000s late '90s to be a four man it was awesome. And so it was just kind of looking for guys that look like me and   Looked like you in terms of like physical dimensions?  Physical stature or lack thereof but it is kind of  growing up playing the game when you are skinny when your mass has not caught up with your bones people kind of be like Ah you hear all the skinny jokes and You need to eat something and Lift some weights. And like I am lifting weights. But it was always this preconceived notion or this stigma that you had to have size to play down low. And once I saw KG play   When you say down low what do you mean?  Closer to the rim.  Oh I see.  Closer to the rim. Now the game is more spread it is more around the three-point line. The game back then was more people in the paint. So that is how the game was played closer to the basket a lot more physicality a lot of banging around and I am sure a lot of people were worried for me. But once I saw Kevin there was one highlight in particular long and skinny. He was a All-Star when he was 19 20 years old he came straight out of high school in '96  no '95  and he was long and skinny like me. And one of the things kind of you were joking and saying how your coach said you handled the ball like a caveman he can handle the ball. And so that was kind of like a new thing. Not new all the way but old school coaches would tell me If you are tall do not dribble. That was a part of the game Do not put the ball on the floor. I saw him put the ball on the floor and rebound and block shots and play defense and he had this intensity and tenacity to him the way he played the game it was just infectious. And I was like Yo I want to do that. And so I would imagine going to the park and imagine these moves and imagine myself doing  I would visualize every day man. And once I saw that it was over. And I mean he was cool too. He had to have the swag. The young guy swag back then. Had the look and had the off-court look in the SLAM. And it was just amazing to me. And that is all I wanted to do. I want it to be  that is what I want to be. That right there.  KG.  KG.  Not only tall. Ball-handling skills.  And a lot of people do not know this a lot of people do not know this but that was actually my nickname. I have not told anybody that was my  they called me KG in high school in summer league like KG. That is how bad I wanted to emulate his game and make it to the NBA people were calling me KG.  All right. So this is the intended segue into all sorts of terminology that I am going to need your help with.  Oh no problem.  But let us talk about Tim Duncan just for a second because The Big Fundamentals.  The Big Fundamentals man.  That is a cool name. Now what did the coaches like about his playing style? You said they all loved his playing style. What were the ingredients that they loved about his playing style?  He had that stoic demeanor. He was never  just he brought the intensity and he played hard but it was not anything extra.  It was not flashy.  The opposite of flashy. But like we were speaking of playing down low closer to the basket his moves that he used were very basic but devastating. Sometimes when you are dealing with younger players that are good at the game the simplicity can get to them. So they want to show that they are good by doing something fancy and then usually you are messing it up. But Tim he made his career off of basic stuff establishing position getting your move technique playing within the system and he was unstoppable. I mean he was MVP of the league and perennial All-Star and the best four man to ever play the game. You had to put him in that same context if you are trying to be successful.  And by playing within the system do you mean within a coach's prescribed system?  Mm-hmm . Mm-hmm . Like a set number of plays. Basketball is a fast-moving game and it can look like guys are just out there or girls are just out there just running around and not really doing much but there is   A method to the madness.   a method to the madness. You are supposed to be in a certain position even if it is within the flow of a game. So when I say system that is what I mean by that. If he was at the top he knew exactly what to do. If he is down low he knew exactly what to do. And that added on top of the talent yeah they could have given it to him and say Okay bring us home big fella. And that would have worked. But he added so much longevity on his career by playing within the system in my opinion. And I mean that made him more dangerous because you have to worry about all of these other things happening if you are defending him. There is four other people out there that you have to worry about but then he is hitting you and your body down low getting the ball and he was incredibly strong too.  Okay. So this is fun for me as a basketball illiterate to begin to sort of piece this together in my own mind because you have the Big Fundamentals who is playing within the system not as a derogatory not in a negative sense but meaning he understands how to play with and synergize with the other elements on the team.  Absolutely.  He is not doing anything fancy for fancy's sake right?  Right.  So as we were talking about before we started recording how Morgan Spurlock once told me Once you get fancy fancy gets broken.  That is a good one. I am going to  that is a good one.  And fancy can work but you better have the fundamentals first. So he is devastating within the system which is a possibility. And then you have KG Kevin Garnett who is in some ways violating the expectations of him not because it is impossible to do so just because there is not much historic precedent for somebody his size also having the dexterity to handle the ball really well.  Especially in the mid '90s.  Which later you would also receive that compliment quite a lot. And I want to go to power forward and you said four man is that right?  Yeah. The four. The four.  All right the four. This is where I am really going to embarrass myself. Here we go so I am going to make a confession. I was reading through the research. I was reading about your bio. I was watching videos. And I thought to myself this might as well be in Greek. I cannot even begin to imagine what these terms mean half of them. So I went to the people are going to love this. So I went to Wikipedia and I looked up basketball. I was like let us just start there. And just to be clear I do watch basketball. I appreciate  I mean I clearly do not follow it very well. But I can appreciate the athleticism I understand what a three-point shot is. I understand what a jump shot is layup slam dunk et cetera. Some of these terms I actually do know. But I realized that I did not know the positions whatsoever. And so I just want to read something and then we can dive in. This is from the Wikipedia entry on basketball folks. Yes feel free to laugh. All right. First of all I do know this five players on each side it turns out. All right so the five players on each side fall into five playing positions. The tallest player is usually the center. The second tallest and strongest the power forward. A slightly shorter but more agile player is the small forward. And the shortest players or the best ball handlers are the shooting guard and the point guard who implement the coach's game plan by managing the execution of offense and defensive plays . Informally players may play three on three two on two one on one. Then I will just add this because I was like What? Really? Invented in 1891 by a Canadian-American gym teacher James Naismith   Naismith yeah.   Naismith in Springfield Massachusetts United States. Basketball has evolved to become one of the world's most popular and widely viewed sports. So number one 1891 not that long ago?  Not that long ago yeah.  That is crazy.  Yeah.  That is insane.  Not that long ago man.  That is like wheels on luggage we were like Really? It took us that long? Wow. Amazing.  Yeah. And it started with a peach basket. Did you get to that point?  No.  So back in the day when they made the game they had to have something to do in the winter time in Massachusetts. So they put the peach basket up there. And when you make a basket they had to get a ladder to climb up and take it out. It was not until later that they cut a hole in the peach basket.  The climbing up and getting it out not as compelling for television.  Yeah. No it is not. It is like Oh good shot! Okay let me go.  Hold on hold on. Give me a few minutes.  The game will be two to three or something like that.  So I just want to run through this again and then get your commentary just as to how to think about the game. Now I also understand the game is not static right? And how the game is played changes.  Especially now.  Especially now.  So we can take these rules and then we are about to break them.  Okay. All right. Not to say you have to comment on what I just read because obviously you are much more qualified than the 37 people who put that together. But how should we think about the positions of basketball? If I were an alien which might as well be the case and I am looking at this and I understand what I said I understand. But all right how are the jobs and responsibilities separated out here? How should we think about that?  Man well with those positions with all those positions with that said it is been totally open.  And each of those positions is numbered therefore power forward   Yeah. The one the two that is like when you get into it like Oh yeah play the two. That is when you are super cool. You know what I mean? Like I am at the five.  Yeah the shorthand.  Yeah I am at the five.  All right.  One two three you have your positions. But with that said with the way the game is now that has been totally cracked open. So it is been  What is the word when the company comes in and it is something totally different? God what is that word?  It is been restructured. No.  Not restructure but we will get to it. I will remember the word.  So the game has changed.  The game has changed. So you have one through five. The one is the point guard. The two is the shooting guard. Three power forward. Four  I mean three small forward. Four power forward. And the five is the center. What has happened in the last few years is that it is become more of a spread game. Because mathematically people that do data eventually said Hey let us shoot more threes. Because these shots  we do not like these shots we like these shots. So let us spread the floor.  Oh that is interesting. So is the reason  sorry to interrupt but I am going to do it a lot. So is the reason that the three-point shot has become more and more prominent that was driven by the sabermetrics equivalent   Yeah.   it came from the data wonks not from the players' side?  No. I mean there were some players. So in particular me and Shane Battier we would talk about  my good friend Shane Battier we played together in Miami during the championship years. And we would talk about this. We had just got him  he had played his career in Houston and Memphis. In Houston it is a guy by the name of Daryl Morey he is the president for the Sixers in Philadelphia right now. Big stat guy. Loves stats. I mean a number cruncher. And so they had a certain team and it was a whole culture of stat-driven guys. Shane came from that. And so that is where we would talk and we would talk about threes and contested twos and just different shots that you can take.  What is a contested two?  So if you are within the three-point line right? Or a contested shot is if you are shooting and I just put my hand up trying to defend you   Got it mm-hmm .  Right? Trying to deny you from actually putting two or three points up. And so it turns out   You are pretty good at denying other people.  For sure. Use that link.  I have seen these.  So it kind of came to be that the worst shot in basketball is a contested two 15 to 18 19 20 feet away from the   Got it. Just statistically when they look at the   Statistically it is terrible. And so people took that information and said Okay hey we need to play faster we need more points. Big fella you need to dribble. So now it is you want everybody to have the ball.  Interesting so all of a sudden   All of a sudden it opened up.   that thing that you were not supposed to do   Everybody should do it.   became an asset.  You know? And it is like Wow you play the game. Everybody should be able to do the basic fundamentals. But now it is opened up to where now you have guys like Nikola Jokic you probably never heard of him. He is a big man that plays in Denver one of the best players in the league. He is a five man but he handles the ball you know   Which is a five man again?  The center.  Okay.  So to confuse you more   Yes please.   now you have a thing called the point center.  Okay. Oh boy.  Your big fellow can bring it down. But the evolution of the game  you have had guys like Magic Johnson then LeBron James comes and he is very tall but he can handle the ball. Then you have Ben Simmons Giannis Antetokounmpo these guys who are very tall seven feet six eight to seven feet who back in the day you could say Okay hey you are a four or a center or something else. They have totally transformed the game because they are the guys bringing it up the floor and they are getting the team into offense. So they are doing the job of the point guard. So now it is more of a  the term positionless. When I was playing  it is crazy to say the last decade  early in the 2010s that became one of our words to say positionless. Disruption that is the word I am looking for. So basketball has been disrupted. What we thought was the game has been cracked open and now it is become a faster pace longer shots more athleticism and not so much the cookie-cutter approach to where someone should be on the court because of their size or lack of size.  You know it makes me wonder about adaptability and the adaptability of not just some players. And I am sure there is also just a selection bias that changes with respect to who is drafted and how and just the entire feeder system into the NBA. But also coaches even more so coaches. If their entire career has been predicated on a system of a certain type like I mean I am not asking you to name names but have you seen certain coaches who have been really able to adapt to this new style of play? Others who are like I do not know I do not get it.  Well the ones who say I do not know I do not get it they do not have jobs right?  Yeah and they get weeded out quickly. Yeah.  One of the guys  and I mean of course my ex-coach Erik Spoelstra I remember him. He was having the vision of having that positionless type of basketball and that faster pace which I did not like at the time because that would mean I would have to play the center as opposed to the power forward and I did not want to do that. But just taking advantage of the speed   Why did not you want to do that?  Because I was banging up against guys bigger than me. So usually in the NBA my playing weight was about 235 240. If I am playing the five I am banging with guys that are 280 270. And on a weekly or nightly instance man it gets brutal. But it did work as far as using the speed to get around the bigger defenders. So essentially playing  I guess if you were a fighter going a class up in weight because you are quicker you can hit them more.  Yeah right.  That was pretty much the philosophy. One of the other guys who have done it I think has done a great job is Gregg Popovich. He is in San Antonio. He is done a wonderful job because they run the same place. They just extend them.  Oh interesting. Okay could you expand on that? Because I remember watching The Last Dance and watching this segment on the Spurs and sort of their I do not want to say playbook but sort of systematic approach and some of the debate around that. Right? Because there are other players that are like That is not fun to watch. Right? Like They should do A B and C instead.  Yeah because it beats you.  Yeah.  It is not fun to watch your team getting beat you know?  So can you expand on what you mean by that? So they have the same fundamental system but they expanded it?  Mm-hmm . So it is kind of  the best analogy I could put to it is  I do not want to expose their system but everybody knows their system. It is predicated. And I might be saying this wrong but it is two plays that are the base in their system weak and strong. I cannot remember which side of the court if they are on this side of the court it is weak on another side of the court it is strong. But that is their base of the offense. Like I was saying earlier the game a few years ago was being played closer to the rim. There was nowhere to go. There is no space. Even if you want to get your best player attacking into the paint if there is eight other people in there it makes it a little more difficult.  Yeah traffic jam.  Traffic jam. So you can take those same plays in basketball and just tell your players Hey  all these things from the Heat days are going to come into my head like pace and space. I cannot believe I am saying   I like it.  But that is what  the space was very particular because you wanted to be able to see what is going on and to attack the rim get closer to the rim for easy buckets. All you have to do is Hey if you are in the paint I want you to get out there. We are going to run the same place. But as opposed to being six feet away from the basket get 16. I need you in this 12 to 16 area feet right here. Because usually bigs they wanted to keep them  we call them bigs the fours and the fives bigs. We want to keep you as close to the basket as possible. But that was clogging it up for the smaller guys to be able to attack. So you would tell  to be able to spread offense.  And they want to keep their bigs close to the basket not to state the obvious but so that you can receive a pass jump done or   Be tall    or rebound.  Right? Do your thing.  Yeah the tall things.  Do all the things that tall people do. Well if you spread the court that makes it a little tougher to guard. It takes bodies away from the painted area. You know that area where  the paint   Yeah.   is what we call it.  Harden the paint.  Harden the paint.  If people have wondered what that term refers to as my girlfriend told me I was like What? Oh my God I never knew that.  Going hard on the paint man. So you can have the same type of offense which is  nobody is reinventing the wheel here but what is happened is the the game has become faster and more spread so that more offensive opportunities can happen.  So you have preemptively developed ball-handling skills which lo and behold now are this huge asset as the game evolves but you get put into center where you are basically running into freight trains.  Mm-hmm .  Right? So I mean not   It was a part of my whole career. It happened in Toronto too.  Yeah I am not saying a bad thing but initially you were like   I do not want to do it.  I do not want to do it. Now again based on just the homework that I have done I mean you seem to be also very very well known as a rebounder right?  Mm-hmm .  And one of the questions that comes to mind for me is if suddenly the bigs  is that the term?  Mm-hmm .  Are expanded out further away from the basket does that not make it harder for you to utilize one of your superpowers?  In a way there are certain things that do get taken away. But in our case it was a little easier to make that sacrifice because we had Dwayne and Wade and LeBron. So if it is saying Hey Chris we need you to get out the paint and spread the floor. Yeah your offensive rebounding opportunities are going to sink quite a bit but it is better if we get those guys attacking. So you need to be out here. And one of the things that that kind of developed was having a more sound defense. Okay instead of crashing the boards just get back.  Yeah.  Because the defense especially if the defense gets the rebound now they are on offense. If they are running they are a fast team you want to mitigate their opportunities for easy baskets. And that can be a stat too which I am pretty sure we dug up. We did dig up that stat what is the percentage of you getting an offensive rebound versus not getting a stop because of that?  So a question for you on the stats and maybe this is getting too nerdy but do all the teams have equal access to data and it is just a matter of analyzing it more effectively?  Yeah. Oh we can go on NBA.com and get all the stats right now.  Wow! So that is hard. Everybody has  It is an open book right?  It is an open  it was not like that before. And the way you crunch those numbers is not an open book. So everybody gets the data but that is all it is is just data. It is just telling you what happened the last game or over the course of the game it is on the teams to kind of take that and utilize it if they want to. Now some people do overdo it in my opinion. You can kind of get some people like It is the way we want to play.  Got to tie your shoes with the left hand first.  But in my case there is still some fundamentals to the game that you cannot really get around you know?  You mentioned Erik Spoelstra if I am getting the pronunciation right.  Mm-hmm .  Our mutual friend Ryan Holiday had given me a bullet which was related to books that Erik had given you. What books did he give you that come to mind?  So he would give books every Christmas to the team. So there were   Quite a few.   quite a few of them. And I read all of them. I was probably the only dude to read all of them. It was kind of funny because one time we were cleaning out our lockers and somebody I will not name who but somebody grabbed the book from their locker Oh man Spo thanks for this Christmas gift. It is in June we are blowing dust off it. But when we first met I had just signed to Miami and I was always reading. I have always been an avid reader since I was a kid. And I just fell into reading books. I would always read books especially on the road before naps before games that was my thing. And he knew that about me. He had heard that about me him being a good coach said Hey I am going to get him this book. I heard he is a reader. He got me Outliers by Gladwell. And I said Okay you know he gave it to me and I took it. Oh that is cool. I read that book. And he just kind of looked at me like What? And then ever since then he would I hope that I pushed him to do more research in his book buying. But yeah he would get us books every Christmas.  Were there any that stood out to you?  One in particular was Grit because he used that term all the time. The author's slipping my name   Angela Duckworth.  Angela Duckworth. And he got us that book and he would always use these phrases you know? And so grit was a huge huge huge word that he used that I am sure he still uses to this day. But that book in particular he bought for the team and I read that one. I do remember that one. And then it is another one that is slipping my mind. But I remember specifically we were having a conversation and it was not an easy conversation. Usually when you are a coach you are having tough conversations 24-7 with your players because everybody wants the ball. I was having one of those conversations like Hey give me the ball you know? And it was one chapter in particular that was saying Push versus pull. Some people you have to push some people you have to pull. Another chapter that said you have to have an open mindset or a closed mindset. You do not want a closed mindset you want an open mindset. The book will come to me in a minute but I had to challenge him on having an open mindset Hey give me the ball. Have an open mindset Coach.  Remember that book you gave me?  And I always love that one because it is the book that he gave us. And I had to use it to kind of try to get my way.  Oh man.  But I always  I want to say it is Good to Great but that is probably not the one. But Good to Great is one of them. But those books in particular. And I mean like I say throughout the whole time throughout the whole stint in Miami he gifted us books and I am pretty sure he gifted us The Obstacle is the Way. I want to say he did. I am pretty pretty sure. But I just thought it was fascinating. Just a coach taking the time to think of his teammates and give them food for thought something to think about. And I always enjoyed that and I would read it and I felt like I was getting inside his mind and in the minds of others reading these passages and kind of taking and interpreting it for myself right before the game. It was always great.  Wow so you would read right before playing?  Oh yeah. I would  yeah it was a funny Pat Riley he told me he is like You are like Kareem Kareem Abdul-Jabbar he would sit there and read the whole   and a couple of my young players when I was the old grizzled vet they told me like I would just sit there and you know I am oblivious to this stuff. I am just getting my mind right you know? I read because this was my relaxing time because it is about to get hectic.  Yes you are not reading like Black Hawk Down. You are reading   Maybe.  Maybe. Okay.  I might. But if I am reading Black Hawk Down it is the playoffs. You know it is winning time. But you know I always try to give myself that peace of mind. I felt like it was my time. And granted we are in the locker room it is media everywhere. And people it is like the buzz of an NBA game about to start. And I was sit there and they told me Man when you close that book its like all right he is ready let us go. Yeah I would read and all the way up until Coach is about to start talking. I was like All right cool let us   Let us go.   go ahead and do it.  Are there any books that you have re-read multiple times that come to mind? I mean or was it always a new book that you would read?  I always read a new book but the book that I read all the time which  I know that you are a connoisseur of Japanese culture is The Way and The Power. Have you heard of that book?  No.  So it is a book called The Way and The Power. I had a buddy of mine who was a Kenpo black belt many times over he gifted me that book. And it pretty much was breaking down the way of the samurai. And it was two books into one The Way and The Power. The Power is more so like strategies for a master distancing you know confusion how to handle conflict things like that. The Way is moreso shaping the body and shaping the mind to become a samurai. So the exercises that one has to do to get to the point to start mastery before you can even think about it. You know you need to be here  one of the passages said you have to look successful. You want to be able to look good. So I took all these principles and applied them to basketball. So what they meant by looking good with saying Hey shirt tucked in regulation everything is good to go. My shoes are tied I do not have to worry about them because I have this knot that they will not come loose. So I am not worried about my shoes while I am playing. It also says exercise must be vigorous. People need to tell. So you have that strong spirit when you are showing up before you even play. My muscle definition is good. I am ready to play because we have been working hard. We want people to feel that  it is feeling the spirit before you even start playing the game working on your key things like that.  Oh. The Way and The Power.  The Way and The Power. I think you would enjoy it you should check it out.  Cool title yeah.  And it is got Japanese and you know   I am going to do it.   they do not translate the words. So for instance one of the principles is called Mushin and that really resonated with me quite a bit.  It is like no mind.  No mind. So you attack with no mind. I do not think about everything we have done all the studying. I filled myself with my opponent and I am attacking with no mind   That is super cool.   because I have done all the training.  That is super cool. This is  that is Mushin.  Yeah so you read that and you are like Oh yeah.  That is cool. Yeah. Mushin. No mind or  this character shin which is also kokoro is also used for heart. But it is like spirit heart and mind all wrapped into one. It is culturally super interesting.  Yeah. It was very fascinating. And I mean yeah they do not translate  because some of them have no translation right?  Yeah.  So they have like mushin for instance it is called Mushin. Then they do English but the title the principle is all Japanese.  So you mentioned the knot. Having the right knots you are not worried about your shoes. I might be mis-attributing to this I do not think I am. But even though I know very little about most sports I am fascinated by consistent top performers. Because it is like once you are lucky twice you are good. Like for a decade? Okay. There is some method. And I recall reading this story about John Wooden famed I guess UCLA coach   Mm-hmm  he is got a book too you should check out.  And I recall reading a story I am sure many of the details are wrong. But when he would meet a bunch of new players sit down and he would walk them through tying their shoes. And they would be like Why does this matter? And he would be like The little things matter because if you mess this up you are going to get irritated. Then you are going to get a blister and then you are not going to be able to move properly and that is going to cost you points and that is going to cost you the game.  Yeah man.  And and I was like Oh that is so good. So good.  Pyramid of Success.  Pyramid of Success.  The Pyramid of Success by John Wooden you can check that one out. And that pretty much describes that. So he had a pyramid of success and you know that is one of the myths or stories or whatever you would  and I mean he won  they pretty much owned the '60s and '70s. UCLA basketball they built it to what it is historically today. And not only did he get the best players and great players Abdul-Jabbar being one of them he had the best teams. And coming in to play for a great coach like that it is like Okay first day of practice I cannot wait where are we going to do? And he is showing them how to put on their socks and shoes practically and perfectly. And that was the first day of practice. So you know just   I am just imagining the faces.  Could you imagine them? Like Oh what offense are we going to run? This is going to be the   and you know it is  and if you read there is an actual pyramid that he built and constructed and tying shoes and socks was at the very bottom of the pyramid of success. And he would do this every year. Every year that would be the first thing that they would go over. And then they would build on top of that.  And you know he was testing and tracking and keeping notes. It is not accidental that that ended up at the bottom of the pyramid.  Of course. Of course but that makes sense right? If you get a blister especially back in those days everybody was playing in Chuck Taylors that is important man. You have got to Hey this is important stuff. And like I was alluding to earlier that is the challenge with younger players right? They want to go right to being the master and doing the things that you think that a master is supposed to be doing when we need to do this first the basic basic fundamentals. That way when it is winning time we can be healthy. It is kind of like  many sayings out there but the bit and the horse and the shoe if that nail is not right then the horse  you know it is all these catastrophic events that could possibly follow if this one basic thing is not correct.  You have spent a lot of time as a leader with other leaders whether players iconic players coaches a whole broad spectrum. Are there any particular lessons or stories related to leadership that stick out to you? The things you saw or absorbed from anyone in particular?  You know what? My high school coach Leonard Bishop he talked to me one time and as much as I became more social later in life this is me as 17 years old six-11 all the accolades are possible and they can possibly come he called me in his office and he told me You do not have to be loud to be a leader. You can lead by example. And you know we always hear the thing lead by example right? You will hear that all the time but what does that even mean right? And he told me he explained it to me he said you know You can lead by putting your work in being on time being dressed and ready to go when it is time to practice staying after practice. Your teammates are watching you all the time. So if you do these things and lead by example never giving up never quitting playing hard these are the things that could be infectious. You do not have to be the guy giving the Win one for the Gipper' speech. You can go out there and you can be yourself. And that was so comforting to me. I remember that conversation we were having in his office and I said Wow okay. That gave me so much more confidence because I could be myself because on the court I am going to yell and scream and do all that stuff all day. I was not always the player to always talk during the game at that age. But if it is getting hype and screaming and yelling that was basketball was always my release to do that. It was comforting to know I could be myself and still bring the leadership qualities to that team. And that always stuck with me.  What are some of the things that people do not know or do not see that you think are important about some of the big names you have spent time around whether that you can take your pick could be anybody. It could be a player it could be a coach could be an owner it could be anyone at all somebody not on that list but  because people see you on TV maybe they have followed you for a long time and maybe they think they know what makes you you right? And they might have a few things right. But they probably have a whole lot of things wrong. And that would also I assume be true for many of these big names that you have spent time around. Are there any particular ingredients or special aspects of some of these folks that come to mind that you think are maybe less appreciated or less obvious to people?  I think  man one being human. Humanizing the people that can kind of get lost in translation when you are on TV. So remembering that there is a human element these are people with families and feelings and emotions. And on top of that I think the work that is being put in to anybody who is elite at their craft or even professional at their craft I mean it is a ridiculous amount of work that is put in to even be in the league.  Right. Let alone on the short list of people   And even on the short list man they are working hard. And I do not know the first thing that came to mind when you said that it was like you ever  I was about to say You ever watch a basketball game?  Well I have watched basketball. I have.  You have watched basketball? So have you ever watched   I have watched not saying I understood all the finer details but   So have you ever watched it when they say Okay they have got two days off until their next game.  Yes.  That is not true.  Right.  Not true. Practice treatment appearances the professional aspect that it takes to be able to perform because usually people just see you on TV and see you doing your thing. Okay two days off. No we did not have two days off. There are no such thing as weekends. If there is a weekend maybe we play at eight o'30 like usual that was the only cursor for me that let me know it was the weekend. So I think just trying to remember  and it is really for all people who are good at what they do if you admire that person remember that there is a human element that is a human they are probably going through it or maybe not or just whatever comes with life they are dealing with it. And the tremendous amount of work and focus that it takes to be able to do that to be able to say Hey I need to put this to the side to be able to perform it is happened many times in my career you go to funerals you have things you have to fight through and then you have to play and you are still expected to win. So just remembering those things just remembering that when you are watching your favorite player or your favorite author or your favorite engineer whatever that is the tremendous amount of work and dedication that it takes to get to that level. That is what I would like people to really remember and understand.  I have watched maybe not enough basketball but I have watched basketball. And in fact at one point not to say I ever got particularly good at it but when I was working on a book called The 4-Hour Chef which is very confusingly actually about accelerated learning which might explain why there was so much confusion on the part of readers also but there is a section looking at free throws in basketball. And so I actually practiced quite a bit with the help of a few people sort of technicians who were trying to help me understand basic principles. And part of the reason for that is that I have been just dazzled by say three-point shots because as someone built like a small Flintstones character myself right I watch people who are jumping over the rim and performing these incredible feats of athleticism. I am like well I cannot even imagine myself doing that the physics are just not there. My bones never caught up with my mass is the problem. It is the other way around. And plus my vertical jump is somewhere between half an inch and an inch at best. So those are things I just cannot even imagine myself doing. And I think people might be I am not saying that this is everyone but people might be inclined to say Well he is six foot 11. It is like of course he can slam a basketball but it is a lot harder to use that justification when it is a three-point shot right? No actually like you short guy. Yeah Tim that is you I am talking to you. You should technically you have the physical capability of doing that right. I would just love to hear  and this might be getting too into the weeds but how you improved your three-point shots. Because it is not just repetition in the sense you can make the same mistake over and over and over again. And I have read about you doing video review watching games six to eight times and so on. So I know that you are methodical about reviewing your own performance but how did you improve something like a three-point shot?  I did not start shooting threes consistently until about my third year in Miami second and third year in Miami. I shot them in Toronto a little bit but like I said it still was not we were talking about the game earlier it was not that widely accepted in the game big men shooting threes handful of them. Now you have a handful that do not. We got to Miami and my position or my responsibilities changed. So I was not getting the ball closer to the basket anymore. That was my job in Toronto to get the ball as close to the basket as possible. That is where we function. I was pretty good at it. And then the team would go from there and we would distribute and kind of base our game off of I guess my success or lack of success down low. I was telling you earlier that in Miami I had to get out of the way that was my sacrifice in particular with that team so that LeBron and D could penetrate and get into the paint and do what they are best in the world at doing. And as we continued to play I had Coach me and Shane Battier we would talk all the time about it. But then I had discussions with coaches as well. And somebody said something one day. He said Hey man just take a step back take one step back shoot the same shot but just take a step back. Because I was always an avid worker on my jump shot. I was pretty good. I was lethal from mid range. That was my thing. I always worked on it and worked on it. So it is the hundreds of thousands or millions of reps that I have shooting the ball I know I have a touch anyway. It was just extending the range. So it was kind of one of those things that if you are good at short range and midrange hell if you practice your long range you can be pretty good too. But getting those fundamentals of the shooting motion the arm snapping your wrist following through balance all these different fundamentals that you learn and what goes into a great shooter going and seeking that advice learning from other shooters always kind of taking in information but relying on my own information. I think you have to have a good foundation on what you have done already by yourself even if it is in the weeds or in the dark and then you have hopefully someone that can refine what you already have or say something to you to say Hey man take a step back. You can shoot threes. And then I started shooting threes. And then as I became more consistent I found more success. And it is funny to watch the game now because I am like Man I could still be playing. I am 37. I saw myself playing until 37 38. And I started practicing more threes because I saw where the game was going. I said Okay yeah they are shooting more threes. Me and Shane have talked about this. Three is more than two. Okay I am going to start shooting more threes. And in my last year in the league I had a higher frequency of three-point shots and I was seeing some success. So that was exciting. But that was like the part of my career that I never really got to crack open.  Yeah. So with three-pointers when you are watching other players make three-point shots are their styles dramatically different or are the good three-point shooters do they all have the same ingredients?  I think there is the same ingredients. I mean you are always going to get different flavors. But it is the same ingredients to me. It is always follow through one fluid motion and good balance. If you have those things you can shoot the ball. And I always  it is kind of funny you learning to shoot free throws. I would always tell people I give my friends pointers. So I have a few buddies that they are producers and songwriters. They always play in rec league games. I will not give away your sauce dude do not worry I will not give away your position. But I would I just give them pointers and say Hey man can you help me with my shot? And I just look at them shoot a couple of times and give them corrections. And then they see instant success but that is just elbow in follow through one fluid motion boom. You have a better  you just wanted to go straight. And you can get super deep into it trajectory and all that stuff. But that is when you see it is good to get into the fundamentals of where the ball is supposed to go and how you are supposed to hold it. But one of the things that we always do is just start with one-hand shooting. I do not know if they had you doing that right under the basket just all day and just get a lot of repetitions in there build that muscle memory and then you can start stepping back as you get better.  Yeah. The thing that kind of blew my mind also which I had not thought about at all because why would I I had not had any exposure was I was just missing missing missing. I was like over 20 even at a close distance. And one coach  I am blanking on his name I want to say it was Rick Torbett but he did an eye dominance test and he is like Oh you are right-handed but you are left-eye dominant. And he is like Yeah shift it like an inch over. And then the whole thing changed. I was like Wow.  Yeah that is pretty good.  Wow. That is a thing. Okay.  That is pretty good.  Well maybe someday I will pick up a basketball again. Got to confiscate all phones and cameras first. This'ill be critical to my self-esteem.  Close your right eye and shoot it.  What did it feel like going from and why did you go from Toronto to Miami? Because you were king of the hill   Yeah I was Mr. Canada.  Yeah you were Mr. Canada.  It was a tough decision. I loved Toronto and Toronto loved me. And it was great just to be able to compete and put a city or a country on your back and just hope for the best and just go out there and work hard every day. And I just felt like a pillar of the community I wanted to do it so bad for Toronto. You eventually get to a point in your career where you have to make a choice. And I went to I talked to many people. It was a dilemma. I did not know what to do. And if you are familiar with popular culture or maybe not that year in 2010 there was a that was like the first mega free agent  everybody who was free agents it was about eight or nine free agents that is like okay they are the best eight or nine guys in the world right now they are ready to go. Things can and will dramatically change. That was the atmosphere that was coming. And I knew that was coming. And I had tried everything. I tried everything in Toronto. I tried to recruit I tried to push myself push my team and we were not even scratching the surface. And one of the tough things dealing with it is seeing the early success of my peers. I wanted to win. I have always wanted to win and I have always wanted to put in the work to be able to do that and compete. And hopefully gain glory in that way. I talked to a lot of older players and   About what to do?  About what to do and older gentlemen as well. And the thing that I kept hearing was that You want to play on the stage. Man it is about going forward. It is about competing for a championship. You want to play on that stage. That is the phrase that stuck with me. And I had an opportunity to play with two other great players. And we had known each other since we were teenagers. I have known LeBron since we were 16 17 years old. I knew Dwayne since we were 19 20 years old and it just fit. And it was a possibility to be like my heroes. I told you I idolized Jordan and Kobe. And it was right there to be able the calling happened and I wanted to play on that stage that I was talking about was telling you from since I was a little kid I was watching Michael Jordan. I distinctly remember and even the moment I found out about basketball was because Michael Jordan was playing on TV all the time. I mean even we would go to Dayton Ohio. My dad he would drive us crazy 18 hours in a single cab pickup truck '84 F-150 man. He would drive us from Dallas to Dayton and drop us off. And every summer '91 '92 '93 for sure. The night that we got to my grandma's house The Bulls would be playing and it is winning time. It was in the finals. And I understood after a while after they get the trophy I am like Oh wow this is amazing. And I wanted to do that man. And I could not even tell you what happened the rest of that summer. I could not tell you what happened that night. I could not even tell you who was around the TV. I know I was and I was just taking it all in and every year I would watch it and watch it and watch it. And that is all I wanted to do aspire to do. And at that time that situation was right there in front of me. It was right there in front of me to take so I took it. And that was only a chance. This is just an opportunity not to even say that you are going to have success but this is your best chance to go for that right now.  Now did you feel 100 percent confident when you made that decision and in the weeks and months following? Or were there any points where you are like Oh man.  Oh yeah. There is always going to be those points.  I do not know.  Yeah. There is those points you get to those points. But I had gotten used to that by then. And for whoever's listening sometimes it is just going to be like that. You are supposed to feel it right. You are supposed to  it is a major leap of faith. And if you are making that leap of faith yeah there will be some questions. But I always that was part of my mental training. Like Hey they are just questions. That is okay. Let us just keep going forward. Logically it makes sense. It is sound. And then yeah when the emotions come in and yeah you get those feelings. Like I do not know if I can do this. And we came together in such a way to where it was explosive and pretty infamous. So that comes into it as well. Yeah you start having self-doubt. And that is one of the things we eventually got to with talking with The Heat that self-doubt is going to come and does not make you any less of a competitor or a person. It is just a part of the process.  Yeah. I am so glad you are mentioning that. I remember not too long ago I was talking to a really  not on the podcast this is a private conversation but an extremely famous investor who from the outside looking in I am like Okay this guy's balls are bigger than my house. I do not know how this guy  I do not know how he does what he does. I would not get a second of sleep. It is just the risks that I perceive him as taking. And we were talking about self-doubt and second guessing. And he goes Oh just to be clear. He is like No matter what you are going to have some regret. He is like If buy something and it does really well you are going to kick yourself for not having bought enough. Why did not I buy enough? If you buy something and it does really poorly you will be like Why did I invest in that? He is like No either way you are going to have second guesses. He was like Just accept that as part of the game. And I was like it was actually very stress relieving. I was like Oh okay.  Yeah I have been fighting myself all this time man. Because a lot of people they get that and they think something's wrong with them. Or they think something's wrong with the situation or they will pull out and say Hey no no no no. I always kind of think of one of my favorite books was Blink by Gladwell. And just talking about the gut decision trusting your gut then we talk ourselves out of it. We knew the answer then we talk ourselves out. Talking yourself out of it that is a part of it it is going to happen. But just stay with it stay with what you said you were going to do what you are meant to do. And sometimes the self-doubt comes. You have just got to be like Shush hold on. I am working now. It is okay to dismiss that voice.  Yeah. Totally. It does not mean you are uniquely flawed.  It does not mean that at all.  When you were reviewing footage of yourself could you give an example of if one comes to mind of when you did that and then once again like how do you watch what are you looking for and what are you seeing? Right? Because  someone was asking me as I was preparing for this they are like Well have you watched basketball? And I said I think I have seen basketball. I am not sure I have watched it. Because for instance I mean there are sports I know a lot more about like wrestling or boxing or these things and I can watch it. And I see things that some of my friends will not see just because I know the technical underpinnings.  Absolutely.  So when you are watching footage if you can think of any examples of reviewing your own footage why did you look at it? And then what were you looking for? What types of things did you pick out?  I think naturally every player will start on offense. They want to watch themselves on offense and it can easily turn into just a highlight tape.  The Instagram of your own mind?  You know what I mean?  Yeah.  Your highlight tape and that is  I would look for mistakes.  Did you do that consistently? Did it start at a particular point? Was it always?  No not always. Like I said highlight tape. It started off as a highlight tape. So you just want to see yourself doing good but then you get to a point to where you are looking for the inconsistencies. Or if there was a game certain particular game that you were unsuccessful I am looking at the whole game to see what exactly why what happened what I can do to get better. What is this team doing? They might have had some success against me in defending me. So one of the things I would look for I would look for I mean it is so hard to describe but I would look for everything all at once. You get to the point where you are looking for everything but the main main main things were defense and offense. My positioning on offense I would always look at my teammates' characteristics seeing what they are doing. See what the scouting report on them is they might do a certain particular move every single time in this play. And you have to watch film to know that. It would help build continuity. And we talk about it too. When you are doing that I want you to zig instead of zag and it is having those discussions.  You watched the video with coaches with teammates?  Everything. By myself with the team. We always started practice with half an hour of film.  Oh you did?  Yeah. 45 to an hour if Spo felt long-winded. But yeah we would   That was game footage?  Yeah pretty much usually the night before looking at all the mistakes. And then I developed a habit of going home and dissecting other players. So in particular was Dirk Nowitzki three-point shooter seven feet late '90s early 2000s. This is when it was he was shooting threes back when it was very taboo I guess for a big to be doing all that stuff. But he revolutionized the game in that aspect. We lost against them in the 2011 finals terrible terrible tragedy. But one thing it inspired me to do he did these certain particular moves within the system that you could not stop it. And I had to figure out what it was he was doing. So I watched a tremendous amount of film on him in particular but what happened and in our losing effort but what happened was you start seeing like you are saying you start seeing other things. So what I started doing was I started compartmentalizing the film and I would say Okay I am going to watch what Atlanta or I am going to watch what The Lakers are doing on offense. It became this thing of Okay I have got my offensive system down. I know my game. Now I will watch film on the other team. I just want to get inside the mind of the other team. I want to know all their plays. I want to know their best players' best moves so we can take all those things away. So that is what it became. I would study to take the top two high-percentage things away from a team or person.  I have to imagine also that with that amount of footage and also just that amount of time on the court practicing playing that you are almost certainly absorbing a lot more than you are consciously aware of.  For sure.  You know what I mean?  For sure. Absolutely. And what starts happening is not that it happens on tap but you can start anticipating what is going to happen on the court. So things will just come to you and be like I am going to run over here because I am going to be wide open or I am going to crash the boards because I am going to get a dunk. And it happens. Yo that shit is crazy. It is crazy. But the more it just becomes a part of you the more that you watch it. And I was having those second guesses and doubts and stuff the other week I was talking with my buddy and I said Man I should have I could have done more man. He said Okay stop. You watch more film than anybody I know. Because film is more of a thing a football term. So it was kind of like the quarterback in football they have to watch a tremendous amount of film because they have to it is really anticipation. They have to anticipate they have to look where they are looking and say Okay this is what they are doing. If you watch enough film you will pick up on people's tendencies and you know what they are about to do before they do it because he is leaned in a little those subconscious things that you pick up on   Yeah telegraph.  So and like I say you would be surprised how much success you have as a defender if you take the best move away. Every day I watch film whether it is the team or the player and be like Okay take away that from him he goes right every single time he is got to go left today. And if he scores 30 points going left hey I am going to tip my hat to him. But percentage that is where we would mess with the data. We would play with the numbers we would twist the numbers a little bit. And team-wise and individual-wise you develop a reputation for knowing the team's plays. That is the biggest thing. Right?  That is got to really mess with people.  It does it is just two minutes in the fourth quarter and they call the play it is like He is going right there. That is why a lot of people look at LeBron and be like Oh my God. These were the discussions we were having every day. LeBron James Shane Battier Ray Allen Dwayne Wade Rashard Lewis myself. We are talking about it is like I guess a master class every day in how to stop people or how to be successful.  Take away one leg of the stool.  And then hey if they beat us with two legs then hey man that is a good job. But probably not.  The footage is so important in the fight game too whether boxing or MMA same story also because I guess like many sports if you have person A versus person B and A beats B and B beats C it does not automatically mean that A is going to beat C.  Right. For sure. Match-ups and styles and another component to that is you might play a team like San Antonio in which we were duking it out with them for a couple of years. And they will run certain plays against certain teams and have certain things or they will play they have certain set plays against you that they think are successful and you have to crack those codes and figure that out on top of the individual tendencies for Manu Ginbili for Tony Parker for Tim Duncan for Danny Green you have to know their individual tendencies on top of the team tendency. So it can get pretty deep like you were saying get in the weeds you can be in the weeds.  Yeah. Manu is such a sweet guy. He is close to here lives nearby.  He will dunk on you too.  Oh he will definitely dunk on me.  That was the thing about The Spurs people are like Man nice guys. Well he is elbowed me in the face a few times. So you know the nice guy!  Gentlemanly elbow.  He is a hell of a competitor.  Let us talk about Letters to a Young Athlete. So this is your new book. Why? Books are hard.  Books are hard. Books are hard.  How did this come about?  So I was just in a place I got the unexpected news that I would not be playing anymore. And I was just kind of in a place and I was just not wandering around but reshuffling the deck.  Yeah that is a great way to put it.  Yeah. Getting used to being a father in the household being a husband in the household all the time. I never knew how much time that I had given to basketball. And people think things are easy and be like You should write a book. I remember people were saying You should write a book. I am like What am I going to write about? I did not even know what to even think about but I just put it to the side and really did not think too much of it but always being an avid reader I guess it was somewhere in the back of my mind. I continued to think about it. And I was in a period whether I liked it or not of reflecting I had never reflected on my career. You are too busy playing.  Yeah. You are in it.  You are just in it. You are too busy playing and going to the next thing and going from A to Z. And I find myself just reflecting on the journey and how that child from Hutchins Texas was able to actually jump from lily pad to lily pad and make it to the NBA and actually be successful. And thinking about those who helped me along my path and all the coaches who set the wise words to me friends who helped me out my family of course that helped me out my wife. And I was in deep reflection and then the opportunity came we just kept talking about it kept talking about it I have agents and they were like Yeah man. Just keep talking about you will think about it. Yo you should meet Ryan. You should meet Ryan Holiday. Yeah. I have read a few of his books man. That is cool. So we met right down the street here in Austin and we hit it off. We had like a three-hour lunch just sitting and talking and shooting the shit. And we had a great time. And then I said okay great. Let us figure this out. And there is no reason to talk to anybody else. He was the first person that we interviewed to help us out. And from then on we just were bouncing ideas. It took months and months and months just to even figure out what are we going to write about? But sitting there and being open to thinking of myself in that position of not being a player and thinking of man what would be the book that I wanted to read before a game if I were a younger player today. So this is kind of that book that I wanted to read. And one of my favorite parts about books like that is that they always translate it whether you are an athlete whether you are a CEO a leader a follower a librarian a teacher we wanted to have those basic principles that apply to everything whether you are a young athlete or an old athlete. We wanted to have those lessons from myself that have actually helped me and worked and from people that I admire things that have tools that have gotten them through challenges. I think that is the biggest thing. There are challenges every day everybody goes through challenges. And this is kind of a book to give you those tools to hopefully rise to the occasion when it comes.  Who are some of the people you admire whose advice you have featured in the book?  Man Spo of course Erik Spoelstra is in there. My coach Leonard Bishop we talk about some things like that. One of my good friends is Candace Parker. She is in Chicago now getting ready for her season but she is such a tremendous athlete and a person. And we were having a particular discussion one time just about  and really just a female player what they have to go through. We were in Beijing and the whole female team after winning squad they have to go to their respective places to go start a season not in the States not home. They are going to Russia. They are going to Spain from Beijing China and they just finished playing the whole summer or they will finish the season in WNBA and then go right back to it. So they were summer spring fall winter. They are playing year round. And they do not even get the credit for that. That was just so inspiring to hear because it was like Candace man you really it just does not stop. It never stops. I know it does not stop for me. And I know how I feel. How do you feel? and just kind of hearing her story and how she gets through that. I do not think she does it anymore. I do not think she plays in Europe anymore but when she was just hearing those stories and how to actually get through that and be successful and still be the MVP and still compete for a championship in both leagues that was tremendous. And of course Pat Riley he is always been a great motivator and mentor or for me. And we had a discussion with him kind of jumping back to the book thing. He was one of those encouragers too. He said You should write a book. And he said You do not have to think about it now but just think about it. This is what I did when I wrote my book The Winner Within. I was going through this and yeah it is a good thing. You should check it out. And this was a casual launch in Malibu. I really did not think anything of it but he is always been that person to really be an example and he is one of my heroes and he read the forward too it was so cool   Yeah it was really amazing.  And it turns out he is a huge writer. He empathized with me quite a bit because his career like mine whether it was because of other people's opinion or professionally being able to withstand the athleticism that the new league was coming or whatever his career just abruptly ended just like mine. And he is a writer as well and he told me about his writing experiences and he is got a few books out there and he is even wrote screenplays and stuff like that. So it gave me the openness to accept other things and say Well okay. Just get the wheels turning. What if I were to write a book what would it be about? And a two and a half year process man   Before you know it two and a half years later.  Two and a half years but going and looking within to try and find those stories and those principles to what has made me me.  You mentioned Pat a few times. What do you think his super power is or super powers.  Motivation and excellence.  So a lot of people try to be motivating. Right?  Yeah that is for sure.  So he is good at it?  He is good at it.  Why is he good at it?  Well the experience.  Yeah. What is the experience?  He is got the experience. I think when you are in team sports for so long and you have seen every level whether that is good or bad and everything in between I think you can start to collect things that work and things that do not work. And in the NBA you are around each other every day. And I am sure there've been plenty of things that he said that did not work.  Those get left on the cutting room floor.  Yeah it is like Okay. That is okay. That is all right. But he is experienced   He is like Crickets? Okay. We are going to cut that one from the next speech.  Yeah they did not care for that one in practice so we will move on from it. But he is an extensive note-taker. I know that. A voracious reader and talking to people. I think that is one of the biggest things actually having that relationship and having those conversations and sitting down to talk with a person because if you come in just trying to be a motivator why? You have to have a why in things that you do and sometimes it can backfire. If you are trying too hard to be a motivator it can come off as phony and people are very smart and they can pick up on those things. Pat he is always had that open door policy. He is always been one of those guys you just knock on his door and talk. It can be intimidating. A lot of people do not do it. It can be. It is like going to the principal's office but he has always been open. I mean many dinners lunches talking dissecting the game and he wants to be great. I think a lot of people can work on their appetite to be great. And that does not necessarily mean having a bunch of money or having a bunch of tremendous amount of success. That could be Man I am coming here. I am being consistent. I am working every day. I am putting in the work. My mental preparation is good. I am ready to carry out this task for this goal having this unified goal and going after it. I think sometimes it is being as simple as that can be a tremendous help for a lot of people. But with Pat once he identifies a goal I mean he goes after it passionately and wholeheartedly. And then that is when you get into the teeth of it when you are in the foxhole that is when the passion comes out. You cannot really motivate someone and you just met him or it is going good. That is very naturally going. You want to motivate somebody when it is tough and you have to be in there with them suffering.  Yeah. The shared privation!  Not to be too dramatic but yeah you have got to take part in the suffering to get over the hump.  So this is going to be a strange segue but I am going to do it. I am going to start on this one and we will probably go for just a few more questions. True or false I read that you are a fan of Leonardo da Vinci.  I am.  Okay. Please tell me more. Why? How did that come about?  I cannot remember how it really happened. Of course everybody knows the Mona Lisa and the famous inventions and things that he had. I got my hands on one of the books about his notebook and I read it. It was amazing. I love Italy. And we went to Rome. I went to Rome pretty early in my career around 2007 2008 somewhere in there. And so the fascination's already there. I got to see the Colosseum and I was already infatuated with those things and I got to see that. One way or another I started reading books and I read the biography Walter Isaacson wrote   Oh that is great.  That is a good one. It is amazing. But I guess you were alluding to learning to learn and pushing the human mind and all that stuff. I was just always fascinated by that. So naturally he just became a person to emulate.  Yeah. The polymath of polymaths. I mean the breadth of his fascination is just amazing. And also and I know that you know this but if you look at the entire pie chart let us just say of his completed works or actually I should say his works and the percentage that were completed versus incomplete very high percentage incomplete   For sure and that is a perfect segue actually. I have had to come to appreciate that because one could consider a lot of his unfinished work to be a masterpiece and that is how I look at my career because it was in my opinion it was unfinished it is finished but it was still an unfinished painting in my opinion. And that gave me a little confidence too like Yeah he did not even finish all his paintings you guys.  That was da Vinci people!  Yeah. You know what I mean? And one of the cool things me and my wife we love to vacation. Getting to see those things in person. I mean I am an avid note-taker and I doodle and draw and have sketchbooks all over the place so that was a natural connection right there. But then actually seeing the paintings we saw the Mona Lisa in person we saw the Last Supper in person which they were so nice and gave us a private tour in Milan. And when you see it is  have you seen it?  I have not.  It is bigger than the size of this wall. People cannot see it but I thought it was like more of   Yeah arm-to-arm. Like Tim Ferriss arm-to-arm.  Man that thing is huge. It is the whole side of a building and it was just breathtaking and just got away. But seeing these relics and all of these things that still stood the test of time and he is still actually here today and just seeing that it was very inspiring. I was always fascinated in the Renaissance period and knowing that the houses were right down the street  so you could go and go study under Michelangelo and be a sculptor. And you could go under da Vinci and be a painter and it is all right there in this small little space outside of Florence or in Florence or whatever I cannot remember   Just think of the density it is crazy.  It is crazy. It showed me that things are possible that you could do. It was just through his observation and extensive note-taking and curiosity. I try to embody those things.  Yeah. And he had these also these incredible inventions and part of the reason this is reasonably fresh on the mind is that I have interviewed Walter Isaacson a few times and interviewed him about his da Vinci book. And even some of his inventions were just these passionate accurate predictors of the future like hundreds of years later. And a lot of them were terrible and they never would have worked. And you would not want to be wearing his mockup for bird wings and jump off a cliff. And I think that is also very inspiring in a way because he had these masterpieces that were masterpieces despite the fact that they were incomplete. Maybe in some ways that makes them even all the more interesting. And he also had misfires. Right? And so it is like if Leo is allowed to have both of those maybe we should be allowed to have those   It is okay. We could have them.  And I would love to hear your thoughts and I apologize if you have been asked this a million times but I think for people listening your story has many different points that can be inspiring. The one that I think everyone can identify with certainly is points in life when you realize that certain things are within your control and certain things are outside of your control. In fact a lot of things. And so you have this pulmonary embolism and for reasons or for causes perhaps partly known partially unknown that marked the beginning of an end of a career are there any particular books or resources or advice or anything that helped you through that period? I mean what was it like emotionally when you realized Okay I cannot actually forestall this any longer. This is it.  It happened in stages. I knew I was not going to play again for sure all the way when a player by the name of Gordon Hayward he is still playing to this day thank goodness. He dislocated his ankle. I had not played the year before and I still had dreams and aspirations of playing in the NBA. And I mean that took all the wind out of my sail. First game of the season first five minutes of me watching that season I was like Let me watch basketball. I am going to get back into it because I am playing this season. Somebody's going to pick me up and  that is a dislocated ankle.  In that game.  In that game. I had not watched basketball in close to a year. First game that I watched Gordon dislocates his ankle. And I mean whatever motivation that I had instantly went away and I said Oh man that could be me. Oh boy those workouts just were not as intense after that. In the midst of figuring these things out I cannot remember what I read but it was pretty much trusting everything that I read and all of these books that say find what you love to do. You have got to love it. And it sounds great until you are put in that position. Right?  Yeah.  And so I found myself asking Well what do I love to do? Basketball. Okay what else? I had to answer that question. I did not know anything else. And I had to deal with the preconceived notion that I guess people think I am smart which is great Chris you will be fine. You will figure it out. But in that moment you still have to figure it out to figure it out. And so I sat I was finding myself sitting around Okay let me answer this question. What else do I love doing? And that is where music came in and I always wanted to learn how to play an instrument. It was one of those things where I gave up two or three times in my teens and 20s. So I said Man you know what? This time I am going to pick it up and I am not going to put it down. I am going to learn how to play. I am going to learn how to play an instrument.  Which instrument?  The guitar. I started with the guitar.  Let me ask this really naive question. I am just looking at the size of your hands compared to my hands. Is it harder for you to form chords on a standard guitar?  Yeah. It is a little bit.  All right. All right.  The things you have to but you have got to figure out.  I was like I am thinking maybe bass?  It was just the same not core structure but it is the same what do they call it? The string patterns and everything. The notes it is all the same system. So yeah. I have recently gotten into bass in the last few weeks and months but yeah. I mean I wanted to learn how to play the guitar man. And I said Man I never stopped. Does it make any sense? Of course it does not make any sense but I love it. I love it. I was watching the Rolling Stones was on TV playing their   It does not need to make sense.  Well into their life and they are still doing shows. I said I want to do that. I would do that for free. And then I found myself my wife and I we were already avid music lovers and stuff like that. We cranked it up a notch. We went to rock festivals. We went to Coachella Glastonbury Bonnaroo going to see certain shows meeting all of these cool musicians and just doing something different. And I mean it was just it was amazing. And I started getting magical feelings and those things that magic that you want to pursue. It did not make any sense at the time I just knew it felt good. And so that opened up a new world of possibility to me and I started making more friends making great connections. Music is one of those things that really do bring people together and it is a live element to it. It is a recorded element to it. It is just all these different elements that you could put together or keep separate and just really enjoy it. And so then I found myself okay playing a guitar and then I wanted to make beats. Then it just went out to full-fledged productions and writing sessions and stuff like that. But continuing to go on and meeting great people. Rico Love is a great friend of mine. Miguel the artist Miguel is a great friend of mine. Meeting Billy Corgan meeting Collective Soul having beers after their show and just hanging out. There is some Atlanta Georgia boys. We are connecting with so many different people in so many different ways was really really cool. And especially here in Austin it is been great. Gary Clark we met him a few years ago but I was just so enamored by how he could play the guitar man and just do all these cool things. So that is just really been a thing that has actually turned into something but has been great for the spirit.  What would you aside from trying to find the thing that lights you up inside because I am sure you had some dark moments too I would imagine   For sure.  For someone who is going through an experience like that maybe there is something they had planned that they no longer can pursue. Maybe they had a career or a relationship or something and now they just feel this void and they just feel directionless not necessarily hopeless but just really unsure of what to do. What advice might you give them or what would you say to them?  Be open. I spoke with a friend I will not name who they are. I was having one of those days right? Just in the dumps and I was taking this trip and I was doing some work and this particular person was running a network and running a company the CEO and I was feeling all bad and stuff. And I said Man how do you know? He is a brilliant person. I want to get some insight. The first thing that person said was Well I was a child with cancer. And when you really do go through a situation to where you are going to wear hair or no hair you truly do find out that it is upon you to make a choice to enjoy it or be happy or attempt to get yourself going. And when he said that I was like Man all these problems that I feel that I have and this person just told me they were a kid with cancer. So that made me realize Okay put everything to the side. This person just told me that it is really our choice. Not necessarily that bad things will not happen or life will not throw curve balls or things happen or you will not be in a rut. It is just that when you are in this rut it is on you to get out of it and to actually have confidence. Now people can help you but one of the things that we always said in basketball if you were on a shitty team one of the worst experiences to have because you are losing and then you are feeling bad inside but then you are making money and it is good money and people are like Oh you are fine it is like this paradox. But we always used to say Hey look nobody's coming through that door. If you are waiting on that perfect person or that perfect utopian moment to come it is not. You have got to start putting the work in now. Pick yourself up. Self motivation right? You have got to get yourself going and then you would be surprised. Things start happening. But you cannot sit in the bed feeling sorry for yourself. That is one of the toughest things to do. Sorry with all these basketball analogies but five-game losing streak one of the hardest things to do is to bounce back and actually win a game because it is hard. And start watching basketball. Watch a bad team play. They have a chance to win the game. They are in the game one bad thing will happen and they just the body language the shoulders start slouching people start  no no no. Keep playing. Yeah. Okay. There is a couple things that hurt or there is a couple things that hell it sucks. Let us get that out the way. It sucks right now but we are not going to no pity parties. That becomes being old very fast and you do see success. That is not going to take away the challenges. You are still going to be faced with challenges daily. But if you get into the mindset to where you say Okay hey problem  look in the mirror. What am I going to do right now because I am going to stop feeling sorry for myself. Because it is so easy right? You can just Oh man the coach they did it. Oh man. After a while it gets old. And I assume if someone's listening to this now even if they are in a place where they do not want to be and frustrated with it it is a daily grind but it is not going to happen tomorrow. You have got to make that decision. Start focusing start visualizing and start working toward that goal and know just because you had this moment of thought and say Okay I am going for it. The seas are not going to part. It is just not going to just open up for you and say Okay Chris great. Yeah this is what you wanted? Why did not you ask? It is not like that. You have got to be consistent be diligent and just know that the challenge is going to come and when these things arise again I am not going to feel sorry for myself. We are going to win this game even when it gets hard. And then we are going to do it again and again and again and again and just get to that point.  That is a great story. It is. And when you had that conversation with this I guess network exec do you recall what the next thing was that you did when you were like Oh wow. Okay. That puts things in perspective.  I stopped complaining. I did not know I was complaining but I heard myself. I heard my language. Sometimes you have got to listen to yourself and this was me after me promising myself that I would not complain after I came from Africa. I went to Africa we went to Joburg. We went out to Kliptown in Soweto and saw real poverty. I went to India speaking of being the NBA global ambassador. We went to places and we have seen real poverty that make the projects look like a five-star hotel. And so when I saw those things and you take in all that stuff it is like Man it is heavy. What have I been complaining about? I have not been complaining. Man I have been complaining a little bit. When she said that I instantly stopped feeling sorry for myself and said Okay at the end of the day 13 years in the league and I have got a shot at doing something else. That is all I need. I do not need like I said that leader to come by and I say No Chris let me tell you something. Kick the door in and just get me going. That right there it was like oh man I felt bad for even having not weakness not points of weakness but just having those thoughts and just saying  what do people say? If you think you have got problems or everybody puts their problems on the table you will pick yours back up real quick.  I have never heard that. That is great.  That is pretty much what it was. Like Okay. I have got some problems but man okay.  I will take those back.  Yeah. I want them back. How are you feeling? Fine. I am doing great.  I am so glad that there we are having this conversation. It is so easy to complain and I feel like I have been complaining a lot in the last handful of weeks and it is socially reinforced. You will find somebody if you go searching who is going to encourage you Oh yeah. You are right to feel that way. Oh that is terrible.  And then how do you feel right? How do you feel when you are doing it and that is for people listening too and make you look at who is around you a little more and it is because it is like yeah yeah it is tough and it sucks. And it is been like that for years but are not you tired of it? Are you sick and tired of being sick and tired right? After a while it is not going to change these habits that you are building. You have got to think about the habits that you are building. I tell people to be conscious of what you are consuming especially nowadays. I tell my kids that and I try to even for myself just with everything you can consume it is a lot of BS. So just be aware of what you are putting into your mind what you are thinking about and yeah birds like a feather right? If you find yourself complaining and yeah people ASAP you can have a pity party but after a while they are going to get tired of you complaining they are going to be complaining about you. So you just get to a point where it is like Okay hey man let us talk about solutions. How do we get out of this rut? Or How do we find that next thing to do? For me music and writing I would have looked at you like you had eight heads five six years ago. Music maybe five years ago. Not so much writing. I always did them but just thinking of that I would not have even come close at that time. But going through challenges and situations you want to come out better right? You do not want to still be holed up talking about what could have been or why it did not happen. That gets old after a while.  So ladies and gentlemen if Chris Bosh can have these days you can too. But it is about what you actually do in response to those days   It is the response man.  And a long time ago you are inspiring me. I am going to do it again I read a short book. It was called  written by Pastor Will Bowen I think is the name. And it is just a commitment to not complain for 21 days   I like it.  And it had a huge impact   I have got to read that.  And I am going to do that because like you said if you were to put your problems on the table with even a small subset of humankind you would be like I will take those back. Thanks. Thanks. Nobody take my problem cookies. I want those. I am going home with those. And it really does make a tremendous difference and I think that Letters to a Young Athlete is going to do a lot of good. I am very excited about this. I am thrilled you took the time to do it properly two and a half years. When I hear people like Yeah we started writing. Three months later we were done. I was like Do not send it to me.  And hey look would I have preferred it to be one one and a half? Sure. We had the intention but the process is the process   The process is the process.  You go through and we have been hands on. From the jump this has been so special to me but it is like I was joking the other day. We said in writing about a book overcoming obstacles we had to overcome obstacles writing the book. So that was a good one man and it was a tremendous process. And I think a lot of people will really really be able to take something for themselves no matter what they do they will be able to take something for themselves because it is been a team effort through and through. It is been one of those things to where I am talking about people that I admire and situations that I admire from my own life that was like oh yeah in the moment you are just doing it. But then reflecting on it it is like oh yeah that conversation that I had with my coach back when I was 21 that   Set off these ripple effects   That set off the ripple effects so I would not freak out.  Yeah. It makes me happy you took the time. I remember somebody said to me at one point I was struggling as I do with any writing and I was struggling through a book. And they said Oh you are 90 percent done. Congratulations. You only have 50 percent left. And I like Oh.  90 percent done 50 percent left. Wait a minute   Wait a minute. They are like . And then they are like You will see what I mean. You will see what I mean.  No. That is great.  And I think athlete is an interesting term right? And Letters to a Young Athlete you might even say Letters to a Young Competitor and people might be inclined to say Well I am not a competitor. And I would say you are. Even if you do not compete with other people there is a competition like we have been discussing between your lesser selves and your better selves.  Absolutely. That ego man. That ego   We are all in the game.  Everybody's in there. And like I said giving you the tools and teamwork is definitely one of the main tools. Of course mental preparation self motivation getting yourself ready and going. But teamwork working with others learning how to coexist with people going after that goal. I think that is a huge huge important thing that we definitely definitely talk about because going to Miami playing with the best two players in the world. So my ego had to take a back seat. I came in thinking I was going to be the number one scorer in the league. Definitely in Miami only because I said Man they can score but I can score too. And they are going to be making plays for me. That was in my head. But the math does not work. You are going to have to learn how to co-exist within this structure being the third peg on the stool nothing wrong with that. But fighting that notion that that actually means something and putting the team before yourself and making those tough decisions that you have to make because it does not feel good but the team is done. So Hey Chris you need to play at the center guard these bigger dudes because you are the only one that can do it rebound the ball and get it to these guys. Like No no no no. I want to score. You give me the ball. No no no you must have it wrong. You get me the ball and everybody else get out of the way. That is how we did it. And it is not necessarily the case if you want to be successful. So that is always a thing that always took very importantly and took to heart is that if you are going after a championship or legacy or greatness or something like that and you are part of a team the team has to come before the person and what is best for the team might not be best for your ego sometimes and you have to be okay with that. You have got to tell your ego Take the back seat let yourself take the back seat. We are going to be champions man.  Sometimes that is what it takes.  Yeah man.  If you want to go fast go alone. If you want to go far go together and   Together man.  Chris Bosh chrisbosh on Twitter. Also on Instagram chrisbosh official Chris Bosh on Facebook. The new book is Letters to a Young Athlete. I have really enjoyed this conversation. It is so nice to meet you.  Same here. Nice meeting you man. It was great.  Is there anything else you would like to say to the audience? Any other requests comments questions anything you would like to add before we wrap up?  Oh man I just love starting a discussion. I think that is what the future is really going to be about. So I want this book to be a discussion and really all books and just be a civilized discussion where we can see where each other's coming from because I think nowadays things get polarized and either taken out of context or being too much. I just want everyone to know how important this book is to me but with that said we want to start the conversation of how to be great. Breaking those things down how to constantly get over those challenges like I keep alluding to that are coming and to have those open discussions and just man just continue to push the boundaries and in a positive great way but just let everybody know they can do it. If they have that thing do it. Do not wait and you can do it.  Look in the mirror do not complain and    look in the mirror.  Problem and solution. Letters to a Young Athlete is the book. And I am excited for you. It is a big accomplishment. I know how much effort goes into it and I am thrilled that people will get to learn also the principles right? You will have stories but also the principles that you have applied not just to one thing but to many things even though you are best known for one thing. And I think in a way the obstacles that you have faced within the context of a book like this are a tremendous gift because there are battles everyone is fighting that we know nothing about. Right? And you have had to face and overcome obstacles yourself. And I think that is incredibly humanizing also   Absolutely. And that is what I like to call the pillars of getting through things. The pillars of success is my working title for this perseverance. Mental preparation rising to the occasion. Teamwork is a huge of them. Visualization is huge because I feel in my life everything that is happened I always saw it in my mind's eye first and did hours and hours and hours of imagining. And then it is time to put in the work after that. And you cannot just sit there and dream about it. You have just got to go out there and do it and work be calculated. Of course you just cannot go out there with no goal and just run around like a chicken with your head cut off but you can identify that goal and then work backwards and say Okay what do I need to do? And work hard at those things.  Yeah one step at a time. Chris thank you so much for taking the time.  Thank you man. I am so glad to be on here. It is great. I have been listening for years and it is great to be on here. Really cool. I hope it fits.  Yeah it does fit. It is great to spend some time together and for everybody listening we will have links to everything including Letters to a Young Athlete in the show notes at tim.blogpodcast easy to find. And until next time thank you for tuning in. Interview with Chris Bosh on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast I try to put myself in a mental state of 'How do I learn from that defeat? How do I learn from that loss?'  LeBron James Recovery never stops.  Mike Mancias This episode represents the first time that LeBron James has been interviewed alongside his very below-the-radar some Mullet wigs change everything. - Chris Sacca Sometimes one interview just is not enough. That was certainly the case with my good friend Chris Sacca. Chris  was recently the cover story of the Midas Issue of Forbes magazine. He was on the cover because he is a newly minted   