 I thought we would start at the beginning because you represent quite an international cocktail. You are born in the UK of a Chilean mother and an Italian father. How does that all come together? How does that happen?  Well the short and unsweet answer to that is that dictatorship and exile leads to that. So my mother was a victim of the coup in 1973 here in Chile. She was a political prisoner for a year incarcerated and tortured and then made to leave. And she left Chile arrived in Italy where she met my father and then moved to London with a scholarship to study a master's degree. So I am a product of exile.  Wow. I have many follow-up questions. So we are going to work in reverse order. What did your mother study for her master's?  My mother is a geographer and an economist so she has always studied things that have to do with decentralization.  Why was she persecuted under the regime after the coup in Chile?  Because first of all she thought differently and that is one of the biggest sins in these regimes. She was a student and she from a very young age was active in politics in student fora and really in just creating discussion.  When she fled or when she left how did she choose where to go?  No there is no choice. She was incarcerated for 365 days and then given two weeks to leave so that all boils down to where you can get to. And she jumped over to Argentina jumped over the Andes. She did not jump but she flew over to Argentina. But Argentina was also under really unstable political regimes various dictatorships. And from there she was able to travel to Italy where she stayed for two years and then to England. So really there is no choosing.  Now did Italy come out of a contact in Argentina? I am just wondering why Italy specifically that country. I know that in places like Buenos Aires of course you have a very long history of immigration from Italy from Spain from Germany. Is that how the country Italy itself as a destination came up?  No it was not through Argentina. It was because her mother my grandmother and aunt had already left Chile and had established in Italy. The reason is Italy was open to receiving refugees. Italy had a policy of welcoming people who were fleeing the regime here. And so did other countries like Sweden and other places around the world. So it is more to do with how Italy was open to receiving people.  This may not seem germane to much of what we will explore later but it is germane because it relates to how you became who you are. How did your parents meet?  My father was a student in Rome. I come from a very small village in Calabria my father's family. My grandparents did not know how to read or write. They were contadini so producers of olive oil wine salami  subsistence living. And my father left his village and went to study by day and work by night. And was studying when the Italian Communist Party and Socialist Party were welcoming all these Chilean refugees. And he met my mother during a welcome party for Chilean refugees. And they fell in love.  And that was it.  And that was it.  In your life you were born in the UK. How did you end up being born in the UK?  Because my mother was offered this scholarship to study in London she left with my father and that is where the magic happened in council housing in North London.  And for you then just geographically because of course you are back in Chile now   Tim sorry we have to say this. So my mother came back but I did not come back here. I was born and I came so we are another generation of uprooted people. I did not come back.  How did you end up then where you are now?  I was born in England and grew up in England. And when my mother came back I came with her. But I never left Chile to come back here. I was born outside during her exile.  That is right. That is right. Fair enough. Fair enough.  Yeah. So there is an untold story there of many of the offspring children of refugees and exiles who also have their life sort of truncated in some paths because their parents can return to their homeland. And you come with them because who are you to stop them from coming back to where they never chose to leave from?  How old were you when you not returned to but traveled to Chile?  Almost 15.  What was that like going from the UK to Chile? Because I am no cosmopolitan connoisseur of all cultures but I happen to have been to both countries. They are not identical.  They are definitely not identical. It was a challenge but I was always very conscious that I was in no place to be an impediment for my mother to come back to the country she never chose to leave. So I came in total humble respect of making her return smooth.  And was it smooth?  It was not smooth. It was very difficult. She came back to a country she did not recognize. She came back to parents that were old and in the case of my grandfather ill. And she came back to a country that was disjunct. So a country that was looking for this sort of neo-capitalist development way of doing politics and commerce but not quite getting there. So it was hard.  And did you then study in Chile? Or did you study and do your undergraduate and so on elsewhere?  So I stayed in school here with very difficult stories. My mother had never told me that there were people who liked the dictator. So I got to school here and people would ask me Where are you from? I would say I am from London. And why were you there? Well my mom was a refugee. And I remember a classmate saying Oh your mother was a terrorist. She should have been killed and having a go at me in the classroom. And I remember running back home and saying to my mother How did you not warn me that there were people who liked him? I had never ever in my life encountered people who liked the dictator so that was challenging. I stuck in school and then at the end of my schooling and it was time to choose undergraduate studies all I knew was that I wanted to give back. In some way I wanted to give back. And at first I thought that it was through humans and I went to university to study social working. And about a year into that I was really really clear that it was not humans. Humans were not my thing. And so I then realized that it was nature. It had to do with giving back in some sort of way. And I thought Okay let us get humans into green spaces. So I tried a second career an undergraduate career at landscaping and ecology. And it was still so many humans. It was like planning parks in urban areas. There are a lot of homo sapiens involved. And I was like No this is not it. And finally I said Okay I am just going to try plants in the water. There will be no humans there underwater. And I studied aquaculture and that is where I finished my undergraduate studies in Southern Chile and Northern Patagonia. I went to a university in a city where I knew nobody and I managed to finish it. And it was on that journey that I got to where I am now.  Well let me ask first. Is aquaculture a vibrant and widespread endeavor in Chile? Because I have very little familiarity. I know for instance in New Zealand it is a huge focal point. But in Chile I would imagine with the coastline perhaps that is also the case.  Unfortunately Chile is a country that has housed open net-pen salmon farming in its waters. So for your audience and our audience today to understand aquaculture is basically the cultivation of aquatic resources aquatic species. So it could be algae it can be shellfish mollusks or finned fish. And Chile is one of the largest producers of farmed salmon in the world. Salmon are not native to the Southern hemisphere. And therefore the aquaculture industry of salmon in Chile comes with tremendous environmental and social impact. But it means also that there is a vibrant aquaculture industry. And so there were university careers. And I studied aquaculture and got into algae seaweed farming. And that was really what I did my thesis on and what I graduated doing and ended up curiously working in NGOs against the salmon farming industry and its negative impacts. Not against the labor opportunities but against their environmental practices.  And I should really know this by now. Usually I blame it on my audience. And I say For those of my audience who may not know could you define NGO? I have long thought that I have understood what NGO means. But perhaps just to confirm that could you define what an NGO is?  NGO is the acronym for a nongovernmental organization so a nonprofit. It is an organization that represents civil society and that has a place at tables recognized as where people organize and find a voice that represents them.  So can you give me an example  or maybe they are one and the same? Is it fair to say that not all nonprofits are NGOs but all NGOs are nonprofits? Or are there for-profit NGOs?  No there is never a for-profit NGO. NGOs we measure our success not in revenue of money in the bank but of durable change. That is our measure of success the change we can make.  So where did you go or how did you go from aquaculture to fungi? How does that happen?  Oh it is a funny one Tim. So I was in university and I remember one morning walking along the corridors. And there was a poster stuck on the car door that said Volunteers needed to look for fox poop in forests And I was like Oh that sounds amazing. Fox poop. I really love scat and poop and we can get into that afterwards. So much grows out of it. So of course I volunteered. And of course I was the only one who volunteered. And I ended up getting the volunteer position. And traveling with my professor Jaime Jimnez who studies foxes and no other animals.  That is a great name also.  Yeah. We traveled to Chilo Island in Southern Chile. And what we had to do was we had to put these big cages out to capture  nonviolently but to capture and trap the foxes. We would put radio transmitter collars on them. And then we would free them and walk around the forest collecting poop and also with a huge antenna trying to find a signal to triangulate their position using radio telemetry. So this is really old-school technology. Today you would just put a GPS chip on them on the collar but this was 20-something years ago. And we are walking around bushwhacking with a huge antenna and trying to get some sound in to see where their position is. And at the same time picking up all the poop we could find. And then I would go back to the laboratory and dry the poop. And then sort of open it up and see what they had eaten. That was my job. But it was on that trip that I was walking along a path with this antenna. And I saw a huge mushroom on a tree trunk. And I wanted to know who it was. And there were no books on Chilean fungi. And it was a lightning bolt. It was like I am going to do this. And something happened that I have never been able to stop even if I have tried. But I got home and online shopping had just begun. And Barnes  Noble had the opportunity to ship books to the US and then I would have somebody ship them to Chile. And then Amazon was a thing too. And I bought every book I could find on fungi. Of course Paul Stamets' books were the first ones I found and I would devour everything I could read. It was that one mushroom who I wanted to know that triggered it all.  I love that you use who with the fungi. I really really like that. And I must ask because I just need to know it will bother me if I do not what was the objective of the research with the fox scat and radio telemetry?  We were measuring how the foxes were being displaced due to logging of native forests. So as the forest was being lost habitats destroyed where were the foxes going? And they were going uphill up the mountain trying to get into more and more remote places. But then you get to the tree line and there is not much more food for them. So we wanted to know what they were eating as they were moving. And there were a lot of rodents they were eating. And a lot of really beautiful beetle exoskeletons. You find rainbows in fox scat. I have to say that.  Sounds like an art opportunity for some aspiring graphic artists out there. As you tell the story of seeing this mushroom on the tree trunk being unable to find a book that covers that describes or catalogs Chilean fungi for me that begs the question in general why does it seem that mushrooms and fungi have been so understudied?  Yeah there are two main reasons. And the first one is because fungi have always been associated to the pagan to paganism right? They are organisms that are associated with rot with decomposition. They often have textures and odors that are not pleasant to all. They grow associated to humid and sometimes dark places so that is one reason. And of course their fantastical properties at altering states of consciousness which for the Catholic church was something very scary and very dangerous. And on the other hand they were thought to be plants and they were thought to be inferior plants which is even worse. They were treated as this group of organisms with moss and with ferns that were just very minorly important with respect to vascular plants that formed trees and beautiful flowers. And so they were discarded.  So you mentioned Paul. Paul is a huge fan of yours as we both know. You have certainly from that first encounter with that mushroom on the tree learned a lot. And I would love to hear within Chile what you found that strikes you as unique or interesting with respect to mycology.  There are two ways to answer this question. First of all my journey is forged on the absence of opportunity in Chile. So when I discovered fungi and discovered that I could not really find much more about them there was no way to study here in Chile. Nowhere at all. I had a choice. My choice was I could leave Chile and I could go back to England. I could study mycology. I could become a researcher and really really enrich my knowledge. Or I could use my life's effort to make sure that nobody else would ever be faced with that decision again and use my life's effort so that nobody would ever ever have to feel that they had to leave their country if they loved mycology. And that was my choice. And that is where I found I could give back. So really what startled me about Chile first of all was the absence of opportunity and the opportunity to create opportunity. And in terms of the fungal diversity of Chile everything is fantastic. Every encounter is sublime the colors the textures the possibility to walk in a forest in fall and in an hour encounter over a hundred different species different sizes different contextures textures smells different functions. And ultimately just this opportunity to coincide with these most amazing organisms in the world. Yeah.  Have you discovered any new species of fungi?  Yes I have. I have had the honor and pleasure of coinciding for the first time as a human with a fungus. I have named two formally. One is a very special fungus called Amanita galactica. It is an Amanita that grows in mixed monkey puzzle trees with southern beech so Araucaria with Nothofagus. And it is a very very old species Tim. It is an elder species. It is a species that was around when the supercontinent Gondwana existed when the continents still had not drifted apart. So we know that it is a species that originates when the huge landmass that created the Southern hemisphere was still stuck together.  How do you know that in the sense that you could take a snuff tray in Atacama and do carbon dating? But with fungi that is not the tool that you would use. Is it looking at  this is a term I only recently learned the phylogeny and somehow mapping it to the span of humankind? I would just love to know how humans have confidence that that is the case.  We have convened as humans that we organize life based on common ancestry. So we know for example that fungi are more closely related to animals than to plants because we have a more recent ancestor. And curiously  this is a small parenthesis to what we are talking about  but that common ancestor between fungi and animals are the opisthokonts. So it is a cell that has a posterior flagellum. Namely a sperm for example. A sperm cell is an opisthokont. Now there are some fungi that have that same type of cell. There is this one cell with a posterior flagellum. So that is how we know that we are more closely related because both fungi and animals have that type of cell that is like a sperm. Now with Amanita galactica we know how old she is or he is because the most recent common ancestor that we have discovered is extremely old. So we build relationships and timing of these relationships based on common ancestry and the closest relation.  What was the term you used for the supercontinent?  Gondwana.  One more time?  Gondwana.  Gondwana. Is that the same as Pangaea or they are the same?  No they are not the same. So Pangaea was one big supercontinent that first split into two. Laurasia that then divided to form the Northern hemisphere and Gondwana that then divided to form the Southern hemisphere.  I see. Thank you. Learning so much. I am learning so much. And I am going to dig further. So Amanita galactica you mentioned he or she. Now is that just a personal preference as to which pronoun you choose or are fungi gendered? I do not know.  They are not gendered but they are not its' either. They are not objects. So if we are talking about an animal we would not really call it an it.' When we are talking about plants we would not either. And I honestly cannot and I am very uncomfortable with objectifying any species of living organisms. I just cannot call them it. Really that is it. Yeah.  Of course this is a very sensitive subject in a lot of places now but in English this is where we fail in a sense because we have to choose a pronoun. We could use they' of course.  Yep.  But then you have something like Chinese where it is like the pronunciation at least the writing is different. But you have ta ta ta it is the same pronoun regardless of who or what you are talking about effectively so it is a lot easier to navigate. How did you choose the name? And also I am not familiar with many Amanita I am only familiar with Amanita muscaria. And pretty much everyone is familiar visually with that because it is the most commonly depicted red cap with white dots. What does Amanita galactica look like and how did you name it?  So Amanita galactica is a little smaller than Amanita muscaria which is the fly agaric. Some people know it as the Smurf mushroom some people call it.  Yeah. The Santa Claus mushroom.  The Santa Claus mushroom. Actually Soma Amanita muscaria is the God Soma in Vedic cultures. It is a very very divine fungus. And it is the oldest known hallucinogen to humanity. Huge respect to Amanita muscaria. Amanita galactica has a black cap with white scales. And I can let you in on a funny story. People think that it is really romantic to find a new species. I was actually in the car driving and of course one's eye is pretty used to catching that fungal fuzz. There is a vibe in fungi that is different from soil it is different from plants. That visual vibe came through and I stopped the car. It was snowing it was freezing cold. And I saw this black mushroom cap with white dots. And it was like looking into a starry night. And I immediately said This is Amanita galactica. It was instant. It was looking into the galaxy. And I was in the car with two other people and nobody would get out because it was snowing and raining and literally freezing. And I was like Oh I am getting out. Of course I am getting out! And I spent quite a while with the mushrooms there. And had the sense that it was something new. It was in an old habitat and a very pristine habitat. And so yeah it was called Amanita galactica. And then the journey begins of finding out if somebody else has ever coincided. And that is a long journey. You have to look at records of people finding Amanitas. And if they did what were those Amanita what did they look like microscopically what was their DNA? And over time it became evident that it was a species nobody had ever coincided with before.  So what is the protocol? I am just imagining you are in winter clothing you are driving along you hop out your friends were like Oh God how long is this going to take? We are freezing our asses off.  Exactly.  Because I have been to Portillo and some places in Chile and it gets cold. And do you pluck the mushroom the fruiting body and then go back to the lab and I am not sure if it would be spore prints or what the current process is.  Yeah.  How do you go about determining if it is a new species?  So the first thing to do I have a particular method which is I like to spend time with every species I encounter. So I get to their level. So I am one of those people who lie on the floor and I will lie down. I will  first you have to feel Tim. Because if you are going to describe you have to feel. So there is a lot of looking without touching. There is a lot of smelling without touching observing the surroundings. Who is it growing with? What trees are close? Because fungi are specific to their substrate. They never grow and live separate from a symbiont. So what trees are around? Are there more? And then clearing begins. Clearing around the mushroom. Observing what happens. If I touch it does it change? Does it change in color? Does it stain? Does it break? There is a lot of that. There is a lot of very detailed feeling with the senses of touch of seeing of smelling. Observing if animals come out of it or do not. And we do not pluck them. We will when you are doing scientific collecting you will try to pop it out making sure that nothing remains in the soil. So you will dig a bit with your fingers and you will make sure you get to the bottom of this sporom of this macroscopic body and pick it up observing every single step. Because there are some mushrooms that you touch and they change color. That you touch and that you lose a texture. That you pick up and it breaks. And whether it is hollow whether it is stuffed whether it is solid are really important features. Whether when you pick it up and it starts going dry it changes color is a really important feature. Everything is important. So there is a lot of sensuality in that first encounter. And then you carefully wrap it in something that does not scratch it or sometimes you can just hold it in a basket making a little bed. And we go back to if you are lucky you are in a place with electricity. I am a field mycologist that explores pristine areas of the world. So sometimes it is just going back to camp. We go back and another process of observation begins but now opening that mushroom up. Cutting it. Again what is inside? Is it solid inside? Did it change? Does it smell? It is really a sensual process. And after you write down all these notes you take photographs with size references. You proceed to dry it. Now you have to dry it in a very specific way in which DNA is not degraded. Now we cannot cook them. 80 to 90 percent of a mushroom is water. So it is a process that is really important otherwise it will rot. And if you have electricity you will use a food dehydrator. Now traditionally because I explore pristine places for fungi and there is no electricity the drying part is the biggest challenge. And believe it or not nobody has invented a really efficient field dehydrator yet.  Yeah.  So I put them in my sleeping bag. And I normally share a tent with my fungi my collected fungi and use body heat to dry them or silica gel. And then once they are stored dry you look at the microscope for microscopic features and you extract DNA for sequencing. Now before it used to be the microscopic features that would determine the relationships between species. Today we know that those microscopic characteristics are not enough to determine relatedness. And we use DNA. So based on those DNA sequences and databases that exist of all these sequences you know whether it is been discovered or not. And then you proceed to describe.  I see. So you have the equivalent of an Interpol DNA database for fungi.  Yes.  Are you drinking mate?  Yes. I am drinking mate! I wish I could share.  I am so jealous. So jealous. Do you call that straw? Okay. For people who cannot see the visual you are holding a gourd. It has I do not know if it is covered in carved leather.  No it is pumpkin. Carved pumpkin. Yeah.  Calabasa. With some ornamentation on the outside. Has a metal top. So it looks kind of like a baseball that has the very top cut off. And then it is hollowed out. You have yerba mate in there which looks kind of like chopped spinach to the untrained eye. Which you then what is the word in English? Steep? Cebar right? Cebar.  Yeah.  And then you have the straw. Do you call that a bombilla? Bombilla?  Una bombilla. Yes.  Una bombilla.  Yep.  So you stick a straw into this and the straw has holes in it. It is a metal straw. So the straw does the filtering. That really brings back the memories. I used to live in Argentina. So I drank mate almost every day whether it was .  Oh yeah? Oh wow you lived in Argentina Tim?  I did. Do not hold it against me. Do not hold it against me.  I will not. I will not. But I am really curious as to why.  I was spending time in Panama in 2005 I think it was 2005. Might have been 2004. And I became friends with someone who is half Panamanian and half Argentine in Panama City. And his family had been there a very long time living in Panama. And he had spent a lot of time in Argentina. And I had no plans for my next step. I was letting the wind to carry me at the time. And he said You need to visit Argentina. I said Why do I need to visit Argentina? And he said They have the best wine in the world the best steak in the world the most beautiful women in the world and you can live for pennies on the dollar. And I said Well that is a pretty good pitch. And went to Argentina planning to be there for four weeks. And I was just dying one day in the middle of summer it was so humid. And I was walking down this pedestrian walkway called The Avenida Florida which is a peatonal. And I am walking down this pedestrian walkway which is like an arcade. Like the Santa Monica Promenade for people who have ever been to that. Walking down and there was a tango shop blaring music but I could feel the air conditioning coming out of the tango shop. And so I walked in and I am just loitering. I am waiting for a friend to get out of a class a Spanish class. And ultimately the woman who was working there this chain smoking older woman was very upset. She was not upset she was annoyed that I was clearly not going to buy anything. And she was like Hey pibe. Pibe' is like kid.' Pibe pibe. She said If you are going to sit here you might as well buy a ticket to a tango class upstairs. And so I did for I think it was 10 pesos. And I became obsessed with tango and I danced and stayed there for nine months.  Tango.  Yeah.  That is incredible.  Yeah. Ended up competing and doing all this stuff.  Oh wow.  It is great. It is great. So I have not danced tango in probably 10 plus years. But that is what took me to Argentina. And I drank mate all the time.  That is amazing.  And I actually had something called Matte Leo from Brazil this morning which I had the instantized mate. But I was thinking to myself this morning I am like This just is not the same. The instant mate is not the same.  No I have to send you a mate. I am going to the US next month so I am going to take you a mate gourd.  Amazing.  I am going to take   Amazing.  No. I gifted Pablo  Paul  on this one too. I wonder if he uses it. I have to get back to that one.  Well if he does not he could just mail me his.  No no. I am sending you a mate. You have to it is so good for your health.  I love mate. People ask me all the time we are getting off topic here but What is your favorite smart drug? And the brain is a very sensitive instrument so I do not I try not to bludgeon it too often. But for me yerba mate is absolutely my favorite stimulant. I mean the Argentines will say that there is mateina which is different from cafeina. I do not think that is true. But my understanding is that mate has not just caffeine but also theobromine as found in dark chocolate.  Yes.  And theophylline as found in green tea. So you get the pharmacokinetics of it are very very interesting in the sense that you do not just get this one peak and then tail. You get seemingly at least three peaks and tails which for me allows me to write for several hours. Whereas in contrast drinking a cup of coffee and I love coffee I am a fast metabolizer and I will have this very rapid peak within maybe 20 25 minutes. And then I will feel tired.  Yeah. No mate keeps you going. And I think it is worth mentioning that there is also an amazing ritual around drinking mate.  Yes.  Which obliges you to share your mate and really creates kinship brotherhood sisterhoods.  Yeah.  It is important to our cultures. Yeah.  And also side note at least in Argentina at the time there was a line you could ask someone if they wanted to Tu maro mate. Is mate I am forgetting is it masculine or feminine?  El mate. El.  El mate. Tu maro mate. So you could ask if somebody asks you if you wanted to take a mate in their apartment that was like Hey come upstairs for a drink kind of thing.  Yeah. Yeah.  So it is a very deep culture of mate with the gauchos and everything. And it is different in you go to Argentina if you go to Uruguay it is slightly different. The gourds.  And the gourds the gourds are different too. So I am drinking this is a Uruguayan mate that has a wide mouth. Yeah.  Wow. Brings back the memories. Really brings back memories. So you mentioned I think two species was it two species?  Two. Yeah.  What is the other?  So the second species is called Cortinarius chlorosplendidus. Chloro is green and splendidus is splendid. It is a beautiful green mushroom that has a great story to it. And this is I have not only found new species to science but I found some new species to Chile. And there is a way of finding them that is quite amusing to many. And this is how I found Cortinarius chlorosplendidus. And of course you are in the forest you are hiking with mycologists and you have to go have a pee of course. When nature calls and you go behind a tree and there you go you are there. Like Oh look there is a green mushroom! Oh it is new to science. And so I found Cortinarius chlorosplendidus while taking the pee break in the forest with a mycologist from Kew Gardens Tuula Niskanen. So I am like Tuula wait for me I will be right back. And then I am coming back I am like Tuula look this is a green mushroom! Where did you find that? I said I was having a pee behind the tree and it was there.  Do you have colleagues who have spent decades going on the expeditions to find new species and they are like God damn it Giuliana what next? She is going to go to find a sandwich and look behind the hotdog vendor and find a new species. I can imagine. Or maybe you are just a good luck charm they keep with them.  It is the mate. It is the mate. You drink enough mate you have to stop more often.  You have to stop and pee. And it definitely sharpens your visual senses. Where is Kew Gardens? That is K-E-W?  Yep. K-E-W. Kew Gardens it is a royal botanic garden in England in Richmond and it houses the world's largest fungarium. The largest collection of dried fungi in the world. And it has the largest collection of holotypes which are the actual physical dried mushroom from which a species was described. So Amanita galactica has a holotype which is the exact mushroom I got out of the car to feel when I first encountered and to collect. And so Kew is very important in mycology.  Holo type. Like H-O-L-O like wholeness.  Wholeness yeah.  Yeah. Like holistic holotropic.  Yes.  Holotype.  You can split a holotype to form an isotype which is part of that holotype.  So the isotype would be like taking an arm or a leg off of a human.  Yes.  Is that the equivalent?  Yeah. It is like taking  so that this brings us to something really interesting. And it is the fact that the mushroom is not the entire fungus.  Right.  Now we are all talking a lot about mycelium lately right? And so mycelium would be like the body. If we do a parallel with a tree the mycelium is the tree and the mushroom is like the apple of the apple tree.  Right.  So when we see mushrooms on the forest floor we may be seeing 20 mushrooms spread out but they may be from one same individual one mycelium. So it might be like seeing 20 apples it comes from one tree. The problem is we never see the tree. So if we walk into a forest and it is full of Amanita muscaria all this red mushroom with white dots we have no way of knowing how many individuals are there.  Right.  It might be one individual. And that is why we know that the largest living organism on Earth is a fungus is the Humongous Fungus that is in Oregon. It is one mycelium one genetic body that covers 900 acres and produces thousands of mushrooms every year. Right. But it is one mycelium.  That is also true I want to say I do not know if the location is Colorado but for certain aspen groves I want to say are also one gigantic biomass.  Yes. Absolutely right.  It is so incredible to try to wrap your head around.  Yeah.  Question for you as we think about or just hold as a bookmark this description of the mushrooms being the apples on the tree. The fruiting bodies. Okay. So various animals are attracted to fruits. They eat these fruits they spread the seeds they help propagate the lives of these species right? So we are symbiance in that way. How would you explain why mushrooms as fruiting bodies the equivalent of apples might have hallucinogenic properties? Since if we look at serotonin it is a very old neurotransmitter. And the serotonin receptors are very old. And so you would certainly many animals if not all I do not know above my pay grade but would experience some of these hallucinogenic effects. Like the reindeer in Lapland who eat Amanita and so on. How do you explain that? Because it is it well I am not even going to hazard a guess. I would just love to know because there are people who have hypothesized or speculated that the hallucinogenic effects of some plants are a basically an insecticide or a pesticide. But that seems to contradict the purpose of a fruiting body.  Yeah.  Now putting aside or maybe not putting aside also there are many many fungi that are extremely toxic if ingested. But how should one think about the analogy of the apple and the mushroom and factor in the fact that you have hallucinogenic mushrooms you have poisonous mushrooms and so on?  One thing that we are learning and at the Fungi Foundation we are participating in a phylogenomics study of the genus Psilocybe with the Natural History Museum of Utah. And what we are learning so we are not looking at the hallucinogenic compounds and the chemistry of the fungi in detail we are looking at the whole genus. So if we look at the genus Psilocybe we are discovering because this is all very new research we are discovering that it is very old. That it precedes humanity. That it originates most probably in Africa over 25 million years ago. And that it has radiated across the world because of animal vectors because plants have moved as well. Now the relationship of a species with a compound is not necessarily direct. There is Psilocybe in species that are not  sorry there is psilocybin in species that are not Psilocybe. There is psilocybin in general like Inocybe Gymnopilus and others. So the relationship of how a species is or a genus is propagated even if it houses these compounds does not tell the story by itself. So these compounds are found in other genera as well that have the same mechanism of propagation. So it is not that simple to talk just about that one genus housing the species. We know that some of these hallucinogenic compounds are related to reactions that have nothing to do with propagation. There is no evidence of a direct relationship to inhibit ingestion from an animal. Animals eat Psilocybe containing psilocybin and propagate them. And it does not seem to be something that deters them.  Do you think it is something that attracts them? I mean there are certain animals do seem to I mean they seem to   Homo sapiens are really attracted to them.  Yeah yeah yeah. For sure. For sure. Just for so we can cover our bases here with sort of taxonomy 101 since this is not an area I know much about. But you mentioned genera. Can you just walk us through the basics of what that stack looks like please?  So humans have convened to name species in a binomial system. So two names. And this was coined by Linnaeus by Carl Linnaeus. And we still use that system in which we call a species with a first name which is the genus and a second name which is the specific name. So the genus Psilocybe and the species Psilocybe cubensis for example. And that binomial those two names compose the way we talk about all species on Earth. And we can go back up that system that is the taxonomical system and that is how we get to a kingdom. So we talk about kingdom of the fungi kingdom of animals kingdom of plants. And we break that down based on shared characteristics and finally ultimately get to the species name composed of genera and species name.  What is between kingdom and then species?  Well let us talk about fungi. So because we have kingdom of the fungi then we have phyla. The phyla in the case of plants we talk about division not phyla but animals and fungi talk about phyla. Then class order family genus species.  I need to brush up.  It is a language. It is a language. Language matters but it is a language in itself. And it is a language that not everybody should have to speak because it is a language that you can learn.  Now when you talk about the world's largest fungarium Kew Gardens and you mentioned the holotype if I am remembering correctly. Is a holotype different from a  what is the term? It just shot out of my head. Hold on one second. Is a holotype the same as a voucher specimen for plants or is it different?  A holotype is the first voucher. It is the voucher from which the species was described. It is the physical specimen that was the first to give the name to a species.  I see. It is the first field sample.  It is the first one. It is the one that was used to give the name. And then you can voucher many more of the species and deposit them in a fungarium. So for example I am curator of the FFCL Fungarium we house over 2000 specimens vouchers but we only have I think three holotypes.  Let us talk about Jane Goodall. She is a friend and supporter of yours and she is also been on the podcast. Tremendous woman of course incredible human being. How did she come into your life?  Jane Goodall visited Chile and I was invited to a dinner. It was a small dinner that was held to welcome her. And I took her my books as a gift. I think it was actually only one book I had published at that moment. And I greeted her listening to her in awe of this tremendous force of nature. And when I gave her the books she said This is incredible the fungi you are absolutely right they are different from plants and animals and I am trying to make a point of acknowledging them as who they are. And it was a very simple conversation but the next day I went to one of her talks again and she came up to me and she said Giuliana I have been thinking and I have been looking at your work and your book and you are with fungi where I once was with the chimps. Do not stop. She said Do not stop. I will never forget her words. This feeling of being a voice for the voiceless she was at the beginning of her career a voice for chimpanzees when nobody was talking for them or about them. And what she had seen from that first encounter with me to the next day where we met again she had found out that I was working to voice for fungal justice justice for the fungi and she acknowledged that. And that was the first encounter. And about a month later I received a handwritten letter from Jane to my home in the post that said how much she had loved meeting me how much she would been thinking about it and for me to please excuse her because she had just written a book and she had not been in time to deliberately include the fungi so it still only referred to plants and animals and that she was sorry and that she would make sure in her next book to acknowledge the fungi. Of course I have that letter very well kept. That was my story with her. And then over time because of her support and her encouragement to not stop on my mission there was something very acute in that bonding and that looking at each other. We are both field scientists both mothers and being a mother field scientist takes some extra energy let us put it that way. In her case she had put her son in a cage to protect him from harm. I have had to leave my son for long times to go on expeditions. And it takes that a higher understanding of your determination. And we saw that in each other. She saw it in me and she acknowledged that and so she is been fundamental. And from then on has supported with reviews for books I have published afterwards and with endorsing the proposal to include fungi in language in conservation frameworks. She is amazing.  She is amazing. And I am going to ask you in a moment about the Chilean constitution which is going to seem like a non-sequitur to people who do not know what I am talking about. We will get there. Before we do get there I have only met Jane via Zoom or via teleconference and she has a uniquely powerful presence even on a screen. What is it like? Could you describe what it is like to spend time with her or to meet her in person?  Okay so I am Italian right? So she is like a mother. She is sensorial. She hugs you. She will touch you. She will greet you. And because I am also British it is uncharacteristic of Brits. She is very physical which is amazing. And she is very easy to reach. I think what Jane has that is of course something to admire and something I strive to achieve is really really leaving yourself out of the picture and focusing on what your mission is for these organisms that you dedicate your life to.  So how did you get fungi recognized in the Chilean constitution? And why is that meaningful? Why is that a mission worth dedicating yourself to?  They are recognized in a constitutional law. So it is not the actual text of the constitution. It is the law that is called the General Law for the Basis of the Environment. So it is the highest legislative level. And really there is an MO there is a modus operandi on how to work for policy change. I learned that way of working while I worked in Oceana a Chilean office of the US organization Oceana. And I worked in a Chilean foundation called Terram Foundation. And I was working around issues related to the negative environmental impacts of salmon farming. And so I learned a way of getting environmental issues recognized in regulation and legislation. And in 2010 there was an opening to modify the Chilean law. And when a law is open to comment anything can happen. And that is why legislators are so reticent to even modifying a small word in legislation or regulation because it opens the opportunity for a lot more to change. And when that happened in 2010 I started driving the issue that fungi needed to be recognized on par as plants and animals. Really we cannot talk about an ecosystem if we do not acknowledge the fungi. A lot of international agencies had been pushing the world to adopt an ecosystemic view of nature. Now what is an ecosystemic view of nature? It basically is the fact that nothing is independent from another that everything is connected. The organisms that connect everything are the fungi. If we look at a forest the plants the animals they do not connect unless the fungi are there. The fungi are like the egg in a cake. If you are going to make a cake and you have flour and you have sugar and you have butter if you do not put egg in it those ingredients do not stick together and you cannot make the cake. And the fungi are like that egg if they are not in the mix all these ingredients and components do not stick together. So we went forward to Congress with a group of NGOs and made the case using the fungi's astonishing attributes and charismatic data and said Chile is a country that has a poor environmental performance. There is international recommendation from different agencies to adopt an ecosystemic view of nature. The only way to do that is to recognize the fungi. We are a country that houses the first NGO on Earth the first nonprofit on Earth that works for the fungi. So there was somebody pushing with the know-how of the environmental sector. And after two years Tim of talking to senators talking to members of parliament producing briefs that really made the case of why this was important how it would be done Chile became the first country in the world to recognize fungi in its law and then its regulation. So honestly the country has an ecosystemic view of nature. It does not look at plants and animals as separate from each other. It considers the organisms that unites it all.  What are your hopes for the implications or consequences of that? Where do you hope it to go? Might be a better way to put it.  I am happy to see that it is going towards global recognition of fungi in policy on an international level today. I am very proud to say that large conservation bodies have adopted mycologically inclusive language in how they communicate nature. wild the organization that was co-founded by Leo DiCaprio in a rebrand it had from Global Wildlife Conservation has adopted the use of fungi in its language acknowledgement of fungi in its language. The IUCN the International Union for Conservation of Nature is talking about plants animals and fungi and flora fauna and fungus. They are acknowledging the existence of the kingdom of the fungi in policy and regulations and legislation recommendations. And so my hope is that we leave the obsolete term of fauna and flora behind that we start talking about fauna flora and funga. Funga is the word that delimits fungal diversity of a given place that we stop talking about animals and plants as microscopic life on Earth only that we talk about animals fungi and plants. Because language creates reality and if we are still constantly discarding their existence through language or not acknowledging their existence and their role in language we will never be able to create funding streams for their research. We will never be able to create policy for their inclusion in education. We will never be able to really create the pipelines and the systems by which the nature-based solutions that fungi hold can be brought to light. So my hope for the future is that in at least my lifetime's effort people will acknowledge in language their importance and their existence and that they will be considered in policy for education and conservation everywhere.  It is so important to underscore what you said about language creating reality. If you want to effect change in policy or regulation the language that is used is so important and the labels we use determine what we see and do not see. I cannot remember I think it was either Wittgenstein or Goethe who said The limits of my language are the limits of my world. And I think that is very true. Let me ask you if we step back for a second to come back to an earlier comment if fungi and animals have this common ancestor this fork in the road that might be represented by this posterior flagellum and so on what are if there are any implications of that? Or if we think about fungi being closer to animals or humans than to plants if that is a defensible statement what does that mean? Does it mean more than just the academic understanding or agreement that there is this common ancestor? What does that represent or mean to you? For people listening I would imagine that is a question that comes to mind.  It means a lot. First of all it is a fact we are more closely related to fungi than fungi are to plants. So fungi really are more closely related to animals. It is hugely important because if we look at I am going to use an example penicillin. Penicillin is an antibiotic that has changed the fate of humanity because let us convene that before the first World War you could have died from an infection from a paper cut and it is thanks to penicillin and these antibiotics especially penicillin that we can cure infection. Now penicillin is an antibiotic produced by fungi to protect themselves from bacteria. Now the fact that we are so closely related to fungi implies that it works for us too.  That is wild. I have never heard anyone put it that way.  It works for us too. We have the sensitivity to be able to use it because we defend ourselves from infection the same way that fungi do. And it is because we are related.  Wow.  So that is a huge implication and that is probably the best way the most graphic way to say it.  So if we were to make a list of reasons or give a few reasons why it is important to protect fungi I would love to hear your take. I mean one that comes to mind which you alluded to earlier with a comment about touching the mushroom or picking up the mushroom and seeing if any animals come out. So you could have worms insects come out of a mushroom. In which case this is your wording so I do not want to make any claim to this wording but if you lose a species you are not just losing an individual you are losing an ecosystem. So there is that. There is the fact that given our shared origins or biological overlap something like penicillin and future discoveries could be made that could have enormous medical or therapeutic implications for humans. What are some other reasons why it is important to pay attention to this? And part of the reason I bring it up is that with deforestation or replacement of bio-diverse forests with say pine farms and things of this type you can dramatically reduce whatever it is  50- 100-fold reduce the biodiversity of fungi in a given area. Why is it important to preserve fungi and to really pay attention to this? What are some other reasons?  Plants cannot live out of water without fungi that live on or in their roots. So we can go as essential as the fact that without the fungi life on Earth would not be as we know it. Plants trees are incapable of living in soil without their symbiotic fungi. They cannot synthesize the nutrients of the soil by themselves. Herbivores cannot break down the cellulose cell wall of the grass they eat or the plants they eat without the fungi in their gut that do it for them. So we know that energy is not lost energy is transformed. The organisms that transform energy in nature are the decomposers the fungi the bacteria. Without the fungi nothing would decompose nothing would regenerate because nothing would degenerate. And so fungi are essential to life on Earth as we know it in terms of symbiosis and helping plants and animals live and in terms of decomposing which is really the start of the life cycle. It is arguable here depending on where you stand in the cycle is where that cycle begins. For mycologists the cycle begins when things start to rot. The death of a life form is not the end of life it is the beginning of other life forms. And that is what fungi teach you that the process of decomposition and rotting is the start of a cycle and the start of the creation of the conditions for life to compose. So ultimately without the fungi plants could not live out of water nothing would decompose animals would not be able to nourish themselves from plants. And in terms of humanity nothing would ferment and therefore we would not be able to preserve anything. And so many fundamental food and medicine functions would not be available without the fungi. Fungi are essential to life as we know it. We cannot live without them. There is no life without them on Earth.  So why do not you tell us more about the Fungi Foundation? What is the charter the objective or the mission or all the above of the Fungi Foundation?  The Fungi Foundation is the mycological platform that I founded to ensure that anybody who wants to know more about fungi wants to work for the fungi has a place to go to and find an answer. Which is what I did not have when I started. It is an organization that was born in Chile founded here in Chile that has had important policy success that has now opened in the US. We are a global organization we are a 501 in the United States of America. We are an organization that enables people to understand the wonder and the awe of kingdom of the fungi. And we are extremely ambitious in what we want to achieve as durable change. We have five overarching programs. One is the expeditions program in which we go to places where nobody's ever been before to see what fungi there are. The last wild places on Earth those habitats you were talking about that are being destroyed at rates that we have never seen before on Earth because fungi have so many of these nature-based solutions like medicine food textiles we want to document those species before they are lost forever. And tied to that we have a conservation program that takes action for them not to be lost forever. So we work in the proposal of public policy for their protection. We work to assess their threat of extinction through red listing.  What is red listing?  Red listing is estimating the probability of extinction of a fungus or a species. So not only animals and plants can go extinct fungi can too. And the process of red listing determines how close or how far we are to extinction for a species. So through the tool of red listing we can make the case of policies and management plans to protect those species in those last wild places. We also have an elders program it is a line of work that is very dear to me as is expeditions. And what we have taken on is to map every known ancestral and traditional use of fungi by humanity. And that map is very well advanced. We have collected both published information and oral history from different parts of the world that talk of how humanity has culturally co-evolved with fungi to weave baskets to make sunblock to dye fibers to be used as symbols of power to treat infertility to treat wounds. And so that program really is a reservoir. It is like the Noah's Ark of fungal solutions for the world. And it is a huge responsibility we have. It is never been done before. And last but not least I would say our work in education. We believe that in schools around the world children should be taught as much about fungi as they are taught about plants and animals. And to do that fungi have to be included in school curriculum. We have developed a curriculum and we have co-created part of that curriculum with Fantastic Fungi. And I am happy to say that the Fungi Foundation will be implementing a school curriculum paired to US standards. We will be implementing in the US and in other parts of the world so that children can learn about fungi in school. Now that is a huge task but if you think about it Tim 50 years ago when people studied in school and they studied the cell nobody knew the cell had a mitochondria. A mitochondria which is this structure inside a cell that has its own DNA it has its own information. My mother did not study the cell with the mitochondria. Today you would not think about teaching the cell without teaching about the mitochondria. My hope is that in 30 years 40 years you would never dare teach about nature without fungi having their own explicit modules and curriculum. So we are building that. So those are some of the things we are doing. The organization is blessed to have Paul Stamets on its board to have Nathalie Kelley on its board Joanna Foster who is a winemaker in Argentina and other places with amazing natural wines and Antonio Bacigalupo and Jos Mingo Marinetti who are founding members. So we are a pioneering organization and we have been faced with the challenge of bringing justice to fungi through formal inclusion and everything I have mentioned but at the same time of being trailblazers and trying to find a way for this to happen for the fungi.  And people can learn more at ffungi.org. Is that right?  Yes.  All right. Wonderful. And we will mention that again. I will mention that again and we will also include it in the show notes. What other sources of inspiration and knowledge have greatly influenced you? Let us start with books. Are there any particular books that have greatly influenced you with respect to mushrooms mycology fungi nature? And are there any books that you would most recommend to others? Perhaps they are the same perhaps they are different.  So books that have greatly inspired me recently is Merlin Sheldrake's book Entangled Life. I love it. I have read it several times. Entangled Life is a must read. And if I look back there are different titles of Chilean authors that have really inspired me  Luis Seplveda has written some amazing books that  short stories but that really talk about the complexity of life and the simplicity also with which you can face complexity.  I love that.  Yeah. I have drawn inspiration from authors like Luis Seplveda who  and even if you read deep into complex authors like Milan Kundera or others you can always from these huge complexities find simplicity. What has inspired me from everything I read is finding simplicity from complexities. I would say that authors like Gabriela Mistral have been important. Eduardo Galeano also very important author. So a lot of Latin American books I really enjoy that.  I just pulled up Luis Seplveda and it seems like quite a bit of his work has also been translated. And in addition to Spanish he speaks English French and Italian. Or spoke I should say he passed away in 2020. And in the late '80s he conquered the literary scene. This is from Wikipedia. I am impressed with the wording. With his first novel The Old Man Who Read Love Stories. So very well known.  And I would definitely recommend one of his titles which I will translate directly from the Spanish but it is The Story of a Seagull and the Cat Who Taught Her to Fly.  Yeah there it is.  I highly recommend that book. It is very short. And then another one of his titles that is extraordinary is The World at the End of the World and it talks about the Southern Cone. There is a lot of beauty and a lot of life learning in his novels that can take complexities and show you sometimes how simple something complex can be.  The World at the End of the World that is from 1989. Mundo del fin del mundo. Sounds so good in Spanish. And then The Story of a Seagull and the Cat Who Taught Her to Fly in 1996   That is a fantastic book.   which seems like it was originally published in Portuguese. I am not going to hazard to try to pronounce that! I will get 40 percent of it right.  Yeah.  In your own life  or looking forward it could be related to your mission it could be in life in general. Can you think of any examples of facing complexity with simplicity or finding the elegant or simple way to look at or contend with something that appears complex?  Absolutely. I mean positioning yourself as a 19-year-old 20-year-old faced with an overwhelming fungal passion fungal duty an ineludible responsibility towards the kingdom of the fungi in a world where they are associated to rot to death to paganism  founding the world's first NGO in a world where absolutely no funding existed at all and still hardly exists for anything fungal in terms of policy. No we are talking about before the film Fantastic Fungi before Psilocybe was recognized as medicine in the Western world. That is the most complex scenario I have ever been faced with. In that huge complexity and adversity I found the simplicity of belief in yourself first thing. I mean it could not be that this thing that just would not stop and would only grow inside me and this vision that I could see possible it could not be that it did not exist. As complex and as adverse as the environment was the simple looking inside and giving yourself permission to try and to do it has been the most fundamental thing. And it still is that way. When you talk to people and you say I work for mushrooms and I work looking for mushrooms protecting mushrooms making sure that everybody knows about mushrooms. Most people look at you and think What are you doing? Why? Why would you do that? How can you live like that? How can you feed your son from doing that? And the answer is inside and the answer is in hard work. So that is what I have learned from complexity. Simplicity of looking in.  Well I certainly hope you are right. That in maybe not 30 maybe 20 maybe 10 years that people will look back and the answer will be very obvious as to why you would dedicate yourself to fungi in the same way that if someone were to say today I dedicate myself to plants in X Y and Z capacity. Or I dedicate myself to preservation and conservation of animals in X Y and Z capacity. They would not have that surprised response.  Yeah.  And if you look at the importance of fungi mycelium mushrooms as not just the egg in the cake I think as you put it the connective tissue that binds plants and animals together but also as close cousins of ours from which so many discoveries are waiting to be found or within which so many discoveries are waiting to be found. I think it is a real imperative to study but you can only study that which you preserve in a sense and it is incredibly important. It is incredibly important.  I think also Tim in this hyperconnected world I have learned  and I am very grateful to be of a generation that was not as hyperconnected in our teens. I have learned that it is important to be more with yourself than with others all day. I mean I see people today constantly looking at what others are doing and constantly looking and trying to reflect themselves in what others choose to share. And how important it is when you believe in something when you have an idea to take the time with yourself to develop it to investigate what you are thinking about. We all can make a contribution if we give ourselves the time and space to develop our contribution. And not be constantly looking for everybody else's contribution in a way. So this hyperconnectivity I think is not helping us to be able to take on these paths of in-depth study. Results are not always immediate. It takes a long time and it is okay for it to take a long time. You do not present an idea and then the next day have a result. It takes a long time. It takes hard work and you cannot do that if you are constantly looking at everybody else's life.  Yeah. Agreed. I cannot remember the attribution but if music is the space between the notes in some respects thinking and discovery are the spaces between the interactions sometimes.  Yeah.  And if the density is such that you are saturated with communication saturated with stimulation there just is not the space for that germination. I am going to make an awkward segue but I have to ask you before we go because I have heard so much about the Telluride Mushroom Festival and I have never been. I have friends who have spent lots of time in Telluride and love Telluride quite in and of itself. I have also never been to Telluride and you will be going there very soon. I think in mid August or mid to late August August 19th something like that?  Yes. I will be giving a keynote on August 19th. Yeah.  So can you describe the Telluride Mushroom Festival? What it is why it is interesting and also what you will be presenting on what you will be doing your keynote about.  Telluride Mushroom Festival is a must. Tim you have to go to the Telluride Mushroom Festival. It is a safe place to express fungal love and adoration. That is one thing I have to say. It is the oldest festival in the US dedicated to fungi. It is in its 41st edition. It was founded by four extraordinary men. Paul Stamets Andy Weil Emanuel Salzman and Gary Lincoff. Now this festival was the first place in the US where people could get together and talk about psychedelics and entheogens. It has had some of the world's most renowned mycologists talking about the science of these species. It has the world's most renowned psychiatrists talking about the psychedelic renaissance. And even before the renaissance let us face it it is been a house to talk about to research to think about and to celebrate psychedelic mushrooms and anything mushroom in general. I have had the honor of participating for about six years now so a very small portion of its existence. And my first feeling there was There are more of us. That was the first thing.  I am not the only one.  I am not the only one. I found my tribe there. And for the last five years I have had the honor of moderating the final panel with important people talking and thinking about fungi and psychedelic fungi. Like Dennis McKenna Dave Nichols and many others where we can sit down and have a candid conversation and talk about things nobody really wants to talk about in a scientific paper and that maybe they will not say in the press. So it is a very safe and candid space to talk and to ask about psychedelics and really anything fungal. There is a lot of cooking with fungi a lot of information about foraging. There is a lot of practical workshops on how to cultivate or decompose toxic substances with fungi. So it is an extraordinary space. This year Paul Stamets will also be going and giving a keynote. It is a great year just saying. My keynote will be on our global policy work for conservation frameworks. The Fungi Foundation is known for making political change in Chile but we have now taken that to the world and we have had some important international policy wins that I will be presenting and showing at the festival.  That is very exciting. Congratulations.  Thank you.  Just a few more questions. Dame of the Order of the Star. I did not look this up deliberately because I wanted to ask you about it. That is the coolest title I think I have ever heard in my life. What does it mean to be a Dame of the Order of the Star?  Okay. So the Order of the Star  first of all I was  how does one say? I was honored with the title of being Dame of Italy. And there are different orders of Damehood. The Order of the Star is a house of celebrated Italian citizens that were not born on Italian soil. So if I were born on Italian soil I would not be part of the Order of the Star. So the Order of the Star is exclusive to Italians who have made a contribution to the country from somewhere else. And I was named Dame of the Order of the Star of Italy because of my work in mycology and for the fungi. Yeah.  Man I am so sad that business cards are no longer really a thing because if you print new business cards  if that ever happens maybe there is still a thing in some places. I really hope that that is somewhere on that business card. It was just spectacular. Giuliana. Giuliana Furci. Furci with a trill.  Yeah.  F-U-R-C-I. I am so impressed by you and the work that you do and I would like to heavily encourage people to go to ffungi.org. And I would like to also contribute to your work in a small way. I would like to donate 50000 from my foundation to your foundation to the Fungi Foundation. And I would like to encourage other people to take a close look at the work that you do and consider supporting it. I think what you are doing is very important and I will say the website one more time because I would really encourage people to take a look. You have been very dedicated. You have taken the true and the hard path. You have made a lot of sacrifices. I know it has not been easy. You have been incredibly strong. And like you said you have had wins and the Fungi Foundation is pursuing an important mission. I am very excited to support with my own foundation and I encourage people to take a look and consider doing the same.  Thank you very much Tim. Thank you very much on behalf of the team and the board. That is emotion coming through the microphone which is not  thank you very much. We have never had support like that before. Thank you very very much.  It is my pleasure.  I hope to make you proud and we will make durable change for the fungi.  Someday we will have to share some mate together.  Hopefully in Telluride we are in a forest.  That is right that is right. So if I make it to Telluride and I also would encourage people to check out the festival and to hear your keynote in person. I have heard tremendous things about the festival. I mean tremendous 10 out of 10 recommendations from multiple people I deeply respect. And also multiple friends who know me really well. It is really just a matter of time before I get there myself.  I have to say that this year for those listening Paul Stamets is also known as Pablo. Pablo does not go every year. He does not go every year. He is going this year and it is going to be an extraordinary festival. He is going to be giving a keynote as well. And I encourage you to consider popping in. It is not very long it is a few days. And the community that exists there is extraordinary. And the opportunity to talk to people who are trailblazing thinking and debating and creation around access to use of psychedelic medicine through access to cultivating your own foods and medicines through access to foraging and access to talking to people who are dedicating their lives to bringing justice to the fungi. I highly recommend it. No year is better than this year.  All right. Well I am going to have to take a close look at my calendar in that case. Giuliana is there anything else you would like to say? Any call to action?   That was off site. I am just calming myself down. Thank you very much. We are not used to any help like this so thank you. I am just saying give me a moment. I cannot continue as if nothing's happened.  Take a minute. No problem.  Thank you so much. It is only been 10 years. I am trying to recover! Our work is  thank you. There is nothing to say. I do not want to explain anything I just want to say thank you. And I wish I could give you a hug and give you  I would not give you this mate lavado I would make you a new mate. Okay. Let me gather myself. Oh gosh. Can I just add  also when I received your email saying that you had seen some of the videos I was like Oh shit. I wonder what he is seen. And then I actually misleadingly thought Oh let me think of what is been done in English. And now I know that you might have seen what was in Spanish. Now I am feeling even worse. Like Oh no. What is he seeing?  Well I was impressed and not turned away. I was not discouraged in any way. And I am so happy that we were able to connect and to do this and I have really learned so much. I have tons of notes tons of things to follow up on. I am going to check out Luis Seplveda.  Okay so your question!  No my question is not a mandatory question. It is very simple. Is there anything else you would like to say before we wrap up any requests of the audience? Anything you would like to share? Anything at all really before we close this conversation.  I would really like to invite people to think about how important it is to let things rot. It is really not about rock and roll anymore it is about rotten mold and we have to let things rot. Rotten mold baby all the time. If we do not let things rot then cycles do not start do not flow. We cannot fix carbon. We cannot decompose to be able to recompose. We cannot degenerate to be able to regenerate. I would really like to invite people to think about how even the most glorious moment of an old tree's life is when that tree falls to the ground and starts decomposing and turns back into soil. Let us not be afraid about decomposition. There is a lot of hype around regeneration and that cannot happen if things do not rot. You have got to let it rot.  Got to let it rot.  Let it rot.  I am going to cheat and ask one more question. We gave a few or you give a few book recommendations. Entangled Life and other novels and so on. If someone wanted to take their first steps into learning more about fungi about  could be mushrooms. I mean pick your term. Are there one or two books that you might suggest people take a look at?  I suggest a film and then a book. So watch Fantastic Fungi and then read Entangled Life. Another fun really fun way is to read The Triumph of the Fungi by Nicholas P. Money. Now Nik Money has several books about fungi. There is a book called The Rise of the Yeast as well and it is about the story of how yeast has shaped humanity. Nicholas P. Money is a must-read to learn in a lighter way in a less scientific way but in a really well-informed and referenced and real way about how fungi have shaped the planet.  Beautiful. And may they continue to   Forever.   to support and shape the planet and hopefully with our help and in part vis-a-vis the Fungi Foundation. And people can find the Fungi Foundation at ffungi.org. You can find Giuliana Furci  I love just  I am trying to get it right. giulifungi. G-I-U-L-I-F-U-N-G-I. Also fungifoundation on Instagram. And we will include links to everything we discussed in addition to all of that at tim.blogpodcast. What a tremendous pleasure and hope to meet you in person very soon indeed. Thank you for taking the time.  Thank you very much. And thank you very much for the space.  Absolutely. My pleasure. And to everyone listening let things rot learn more about fungi your close cousins. And until next time thank you for tuning in. Interview with Giuliana Furci on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Photo by Vincent Calmel The greatest danger to our future is apathy.- Dr. Jane Goodall Dr. Jane Goodall  was born on April 3rd 1934 in London England. At the young age of 26 she followed her passion for animals and Africa to Gombe Tanzania where she began her landmark The war against nature is a war against your own biology.  Paul Stamets Paul Stamets  is an intellectual and industry leader in the habitat medicinal use and production of fungi. Part of his mission is to deepen our understanding and respect for the organisms that literally exist under   