 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs this is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show. I am going to keep my preamble short. My guest today is Jerry Colonna. C-O-L-O-N-N-A on Twitter at Jerry Colonna. He is the CEO and co-founder of Reboot.io an executive coaching and leadership development firm dedicated to the notion that better humans make better leaders. Now for those of you who do not know Jerry has already been on the show. It was an excellent episode and it was named the coach with the spider tattoo. We are not going to have time to get into why we chose that title necessarily but suffice to say very very detailed very very tactical. And I wanted to have him back on for reasons that will be clear shortly. For nearly 20 years he has used the knowledge gained as an investor one hell of an investor an executive and a board member for more than 100 organizations to help entrepreneurs and others lead with humanity resilience and equanimity. Prior to his career as a coach he was a partner with JP Morgan Partners the private equity arm of JP Morgan Chase. Previously he led New York based Flatiron Partners which he co-founded in 1996 with partner Fred Wilson. Flatiron became one of the nation's most successful early stage investment programs. Jerry's first leadership position at age 25 a young whippersnapper was editor in chief of InformationWeek magazine. He is the author of Reboot subtitle Leadership and the Art of Growing Up. As I mentioned this is his second appearance on the podcast definitely also check out his first which goes deep into his bio and all sorts of topics. You can find that at tim.blogjerrycolonna. Again one more time C-O-L-O-N-N-A. You can find on Twitter as mentioned Jerry Colonna on LinkedIn of course. Reboot's Twitter is at RebootHQ. And the website for all things Jerry and Reboot is Reboot.io. Jerry welcome back to the show.  Thanks for having me Tim. It is a bizarre experience hearing your life played back at you like that. I am sitting there listening and I am going Damn I am old. You are referencing something from 1996 and I know that is in my bio.  Oh man. Yeah. When I ever hear my bio read back which I have usually crafted carefully in third person I am like Wow. Well that is the highlight reel it is all downhill from here. So a very terrible way of setting expectations. So Jerry I want to explain for folks how we came to be here today talking again. And we are actually recording this episode about five feet from where we recorded the first. I am in Austin. And I remember it very very clearly. And we reconnected I want to say a month six weeks ago   Yeah. Something like that.   maybe something like that. And we were covering a number of different things but it quickly came up that you had just finished a two-month sabbatical and then you have casually mentioned that you had done that for how long roughly would you say?  Well I interrupted it last year because of the disruption that was 2020. But previously it was nine straight years so that was my 10th two-month sabbatical.  Okay. So 10th two-month sabbatical. And I wanted to hear all about this I wanted to dig into this. And thought it might be a great bridge and launchpad for discussing all sorts of things. So since we covered so much of your bio and background and trajectory the ups and the downs. Let us just jump right into it. Can you perhaps begin at the beginning with the first sabbatical that you took and how that came about?  And if we were a TV show the image would get all wavery as he flashes back in time. I think that I came  okay. So I have been a coach now for about 17 years and I came to coaching on the one hand very much having been trained and gone through methodologies that are known as coaching. But it would be dishonest or not completely honest if I did not also say that I modeled myself after my psychoanalyst. And as every good New Yorker who is in therapy knows August is when all the therapists go on vacation. And so you do not want to be in New York in August because not only does it stink to high Heaven it is also when all of our therapists are gone.  Home alone in New York City.  Exactly. For more on this watch the movie What About Bob which is a very good  anybody who watches the movie will get the reference.  Is this corn hand-shucked? It is all right. Continue.  Indeed.  Excellent excellent movie. Continue please.  Excellent movie. Bill Murray in search of his therapists. So when I started doing this work one of the things that I found myself doing was feeling the repercussions if you will of being fully emotionally present. More fully and emotionally present than most folks are in a given conversation. And I also found myself terribly depleted terribly exhausted on a regular basis. And I remember talking to my therapist with the idea of at first taking four weeks off. And what I started to do though was I started to realize that I needed longer than that because I know this is going to sound really indulgent but I also wanted to take a vacation during the middle of sabbatical. I know that is a bit of a controversial statement. But I would do things like go to Tibet for two weeks and help build an orphanage or I would take these monumental trips. I rafted the Grand Canyon for the third time in 2014 with my son. And so what began as Well maybe I will take a month and then take two weeks of vacation. Started to morph very very quickly into modeling myself after my therapist morphed very very quickly into No. I actually need to take a pause. I need to take a break. And a funny thing happened on the way to the forum a funny thing happened on the way back. I found myself being a better therapist. Oh did I say that out loud? A better   Freudian slip there. Is in one.  A much better coach. A much better coach because I was rested and I could be there more fully for my clients.  What did the very first sabbatical look like? Did you have any internal conflict or pushback?  Oh yes I laugh   It does not have to be the very first it could be one of the first but one that comes to mind.  The first one that comes to mind is Can I afford this? Which is crazy but it is the thing that we are programmed to think about. The second is If I go away will everybody leave me? Which is a variation on a theme which is Will I become irrelevant? What if it turns out that all my clients decide Hey that was great. Thanks very much. We will see you buddy. So there were those feelings and those feelings can still arise for me which is why I think when we were talking on email I was like Yeah. Of course Tim is interested in this. So we can get to that what prompted you. And then that the other thing that happens and I think a lot of folks can relate to this based on what I hear from clients even just about taking a long weekend in our vacation. There is the hot and cold boredom that can set in. We often live with a forward momentum an inertia if you will. This pushing forward pushing forward. And when you suddenly stop here's a mixed metaphor it can feel like musical chairs and the music has just stopped and you are standing there and you do not have a chair. And that is really disconcerting. Because part of what we do which I think leads to a significant amount of burnout and existential struggle is we take meaning from motion. We take meaning from performance. And then when I take away the motion what happens to my meaning? So like a good Buddhist there is a piece of me that goes Oh very good. That is perfect. That is exactly what we want to have happen. But it is challenging.  I want to touch upon something that you mentioned briefly for folks and that is Can I afford it? And this question. Because on one hand depending on your expenses one could argue that a sabbatical is a very indulgent one percent activity. But you can also take a different perspective. And it makes me think of a book called Vagabonding by a now friend after I read the book and gave it to many many many many many many people I later became friends with the author Rolf Potts. But Vagabonding was one of the books I took with me when I took my sabbatical of sorts in 2004 I want to say. 2004 2005 that 18 months and did work at points throughout that period but it was largely a walkabout. And one of the points that he makes in his book with a story is recounting part of the movie Wall Street with Gordon Gekko with the brick-sized cellular phone walking on the beach. This iconic film Greed is good et cetera. And the Charlie Sheen character at one point is asked by I want to say his girlfriend or his love interest What are you doing this all for? And he is like Well someday I will have enough where I can just pack it all in and ride across China on a motorcycle. And Rolf who is done a lot of traveling said You could work as a toilet cleaner for six months and save enough to ride across China on a motorcycle for a year particularly if you put a pause on some of your other expenses. And I think about a lot of people over the pandemic including family members of mine who packed everything up or put it into storage canceled their leases and ended up traveling around the country trying different cities and it costs a lot less than their previous fixed expenses. So depending on how you approach it and depending on how you organize the rest of your life hit pause or do not hit pause on certain expenses a sabbatical can be something that is very very expensive but it does not have to be. It can also be something that is very very achievable. And I just wanted to mention that.  Yeah. I think that is a really really important conversation. We are too relatively well-off white men yakking away on a podcast. I mean it is almost a trope at this point. And so we have to be very very conscious and mindful of the fact that we often have choices that are not available to everyone. And whether it is a two-month sabbatical or an 18-month sabbatical or it is two months sabbatical every year for 10 years those are choices that are afforded us sometimes by external forces sometimes a combination of what we ourselves the choices that we make. We choose to spend less money. But I think what we are also talking about Tim is something really important which is behind all that which is a mindset. And the mindset I think not to be too playful with my own work a mindset is the mindset behind rebooting and resetting. Let us go back and think about that word sabbatical for a moment. In swapping notes with the producer I was saying To recall the fact that sabbatical is a term actually is related to the same root word of Sabbath. And this is why I am playful as well when I talk about sabbatical taking a vacation in the middle of my sabbatical. Sabbatical is also a time of thinking differently of considering things differently. I think it was Bill Gates who popularized the term think week. It is the same impulse which is I am not not working I am just working on something other than what I have been compelled to work on for the rest of the time. And for many of our friends who are in the startup land the thought of taking a weekend off is as terrifying as my thought of taking two months off. And that is a problem. That is a problem that not only affects them physically it is a problem that affects them mentally. It is a problem that actually I would argue undermines their leadership capabilities and creates toxic environments. And so what we are really talking about in this way is this notion of can I afford myself a moment to pause stand still and think a little bit differently and see the world a little bit differently?  Do you mind if I ask you some mundane questions? I would like to look at the plumbing inside the cathedral for a moment. And by that I mean we have a rare opportunity. We I am using the royal we I mean Tim Ferriss has a rare opportunity.  King Tim.  King Tim who has deep pockets and short arms so he gets his therapy for free on the podcast would like to ask you tactically and practically what you have learned about making sabbaticals work? What do you set up in advance? What are some of the mistakes you made early on? What are some of the things you have learned? Because we are going to get into much more of the deeper first principles philosophies. But I want to front load some tactical stuff to lure people in as a honeypot. So let us if you do not mind focus on some of the tactical practical. Anything that comes to mind in terms of what you have learned about making sabbaticals work for yourself?  Well you raise a really good point which is to think about it in advance. And I would argue that a corollary to that is to set expectations. And so a good example of this from my own life was that when my three co-founders and I set up Reboot in 2014 two of my co-founders had previously been clients of mine so they were aware of this. But I said to them Whatever budget we model for this enterprise if it cannot afford to have me not working not bringing in revenue for two months a year then I do not want to do it. And so if you think about it you think about me not as a coach but as a CEO stepping into the launch of a business. And from the beginning we modeled in the notion of taking time off. Now as soon as I said that my co-founders were like Yeah. I like that idea. I would like to take December off. I would like to take this time off. And so we built a financial model presuming not two weeks' vacation but sabbatical time. And I think that that is really critical because that was me being in conversation with my co-founders. Now they could have said We cannot afford to do that. And I would have said Okay. That is great. But that is how important that is for me so we have to do something else. That is that setting expectation. And if someone out there listening is privileged enough to be able to say in stepping into a new position  We have this funny notion especially in the tech community of unlimited paid time off unlimited PTO. And studies have shown that the more unlimited it is the less time people take because there is no sensibility around it. But I think that if we start to build into our companies and many companies do this we say After one year you get a week of sabbatical in addition to your vacation time. After two years you get a month of sabbatical. Something along those lines. Excuse me. If we build that into our models we start to change the perspective about profitability. And if we start thinking about this as simply a cost of doing business it builds into the structure of the business a humane work environment. By law  sick time vacation time parental leave all sorts of policies. And then periodically something awful happens and we say Okay. Let us build in some mental health time. But it is always after some sort of horrible event.  Jerry may I double click and zoom in a little bit?  Sure.  To look at the sealant on the plumbing. Just to come back to your personal experience what were some early mistakes if any come to mind that you made or cases where you back slid to default behaviors and how you perhaps counteracted those when you were when you were kicking the tires and first taking sabbaticals?  Yeah. So first taking sabbatical. So I would not say that there was a mistake that I encountered as much but there was a heck of a lot of backsliding. And there still can be a heck of a lot of backsliding. So I guess one mistake is I said to myself I was going to be completely off the grid and not answer any email and that is just not possible. I just do not do that. And so what I did early on was  the first thing I did which did not work was create all sorts of rules. I am only going to answer email this time or this time. And you are smiling because you know your rules. And you create all these structures around the rules and I am going to do this. And for me that just does not work. All it did was engender a sense of self-criticism. All right. Because I would quote unquote backslide. I remember I always do in away message and I always try to do in away message that in some way or another inspires other people to think about these things. So I remember one away message I did on sabbatical where I talked about my plan to go to Italy for a couple of weeks and I did that and I said My plan is to eat more gelato than to read email and so if you are actually getting an email from me I have failed. And that tends to make people laugh but what it does is it also helped me in managing expectations. So a mistake a lesson I learned was to not turn the sabbatical into another source of self-criticism.  So how did you decide to then handle say email? Because it is easy to get pulled into the vortex and time dilates and you realize four hours later Holy shit I have been looking at my inbox for four hours and I am supposed to be eating gelato.  Yeah. It is so funny when I was thinking about our conversation today I was thinking about it yesterday. And if I remember correctly in our first conversation you also asked me about email. How do you handle email Jerry? Or at some point in our life you asked me this question. And I gave you the perplexing answer of Just do not respond. And you were like No. That is internet. And so   We will come back to that. I was slightly   It is complicated.  Like Rashomon perhaps slightly different remembrance but we can dig into that but   To go back to your question for a moment I think the way I handle email is I will scan it and I feel super liberated if I decide not to respond. Because I have already given them a response that says I am not going to respond. And yet there are times where it could be really important to respond. And so for example this past summer I think I did probably six or seven sessions while I was on sabbatical.  When you say sessions what do you mean?  A session is a coaching conversation.  Mm-hmm .  And there was genuine crises that my clients needed some help with. And I consciously said Yes I can do that two oclock on such and such afternoon. Kind of thing.  Boring process question. How did news get to you that that was a crisis and important to handle?  I will allow people to text me and I allow people to email me. So as I said I scan things and I do not have anybody answering my notes and stuff like that. I need to have a direct relationship with people.  So does that mean that you are scanning each day   Yeah.   as the spirit moves you or as   Well I think you know that I have a fairly healthy morning ritual where I do not really for the most part check email. I will scan   Why do not you remind people? I do recall us discussing this in episode one but just for people who do not have that context.  I am a really early riser. Pretty much regardless of time zone I'00 00  a.m. every day. My morning consists of a little caffeine and a lot of journaling and meditation. And when I am at my healthiest I do not really glance at the phone until my brain is ready. And so generally speaking it is usually the third or fourth thing that I am doing and it is a glance. And then if there are things that I can respond to quickly that just clear it out then I clear it out. I am a zero-inbox kind of guy anyway. And I suppose that all sounds quite disciplined it does not feel disciplined it just feels normal to me. And the people I am most responsive to are the people I love. So my partner Ali or my children. And they always get responded to even if officially I am off the grid. But the other thing I will do is I will say to people I will be unavailable next week. And then I am really unavailable.  When you look back at the sabbaticals you have taken so nine or 10 two-month sabbaticals now. When you look at the sabbaticals that have recharged you the most versus the sabbaticals that have recharged you the least do you see any patterns or do you see any characteristics that have some explanatory power for you?  This past sabbatical was incredibly recharging. It came after the year that time forgot 2020. And in 2020 I got into cycling. And as I said in my away message during this past sabbatical. I said something like May your summer be filled with fireflies and s'mores. For me I hope to have it filled with weeding in my garden and cycling in the mountains and writing and working. I am working on a new book and working on my new book. And I slept well I ate well and I rested well and I exercised my mind with a new book. And I traveled. I saw a family that I had not seen in 18 months. I spent two weeks on the coast of California in a lovely beach house and my kids each came to visit and cycled through which was lovely. So if I would say there is a pattern of sabbaticals that are done right it is a focus on mind and body and it is resting both and taking care of both. For sabbaticals that did not go so well I would say the pattern is to load it up with expectations like I am going to finish a book. Or I am going to read these 10 books. Or I am going to write a new business plan. Or I am going to travel to Europe and see all these friends and then travel back. I mean these are all examples that my clients have given me. And the number one rule in sabbatical is Sabbath. Rest. Rest. The body needs rest the mind and heart need rest. That is the simplest way I can put it for you.  Do you have or could you tell us if there are any examples of epiphanies or breakthroughs ahas of any type that resulted from being fully rested when you came back to quote unquote normal life?  Oh man.  The epiphany could happen during the sabbatical but let us just say something  and what I am trying to do here is to speak to people who have disallowed themselves from taking breaks to try to sell and this might be the wrong way to approach it but some of the payoff of resting does that make sense to me?  It does. It does. And I am looking away and I am getting uncomfortable in my body because what I am feeling is the impulse which I think you are giving voice to which is to make sabbatical productive. And if that at all feels resonant that is the problem. When I was saying before let go of those expectations that is part of what I am talking about here. Okay. So there is an image that I write about in my first book something that occurred to me in 2001 when I was lying on the ground at the bottom of the Grand Canyon which by the way if you really want to disconnect go to the bottom of the Grand Canyon you are four billion years into the past and it is an extraordinary experience. And I am lying on the beach there may or may not have been some alcohol involved and I am staring up at the sky and someone lying next to me says Oh a shooting star. And I begin trying to stare at the shooting stars. And I am looking and I am looking and I am looking and it is driving me crazy because I cannot see them. And then finally someone says Stop looking for them. And I rest my eyes and with peripheral vision this is a true fact all of a sudden I can start catching the motion. And that is an image I would give you for sabbatical. People who go into sabbatical with the plan to A I am going to lose 10 pounds. B I am going to get into really good shape. C I am going to finish that book. Typically after farting around for a week not getting anything done start to feel terrible and then it becomes this voice of You are wasting time I cannot believe you did this what is the matter with you you are failing at sabbatical. Which is insane. But if we go back to that notion of Sabbath which is in the Jewish tradition disavow or disconnect from anything that is electrical. Put your keys down put your money down rest. There is something very very profoundly holy in rest. Now I know I am swimming upstream everybody wants to be productive.  I could also just if you do not mind me playing stand-in for the listener I could also say Well you spoke about this hot cold boredom. And even if you do not say I am going to finish the book the fact of the matter is you are writing working on a book and likely on some level feeling productive. So if we removed that would you have needed an alternate activity which I do not make wrong by the way. But one could say Hey you are a writer you are working on books. You are saying we do not need to be productive but I bet you feel productive after a good day of writing what if I am not a writer? There may be people who would say something like that.  Sure. And I get that. When I felt good working on the new book this summer it was when I let go of the production goals. Some writers like to say 1000 words a day 500 words a morning something like that. And I went into this past sabbatical with a little bit of that mindset. I am going to get part one. It is all mapped out. I am going to get part one done this summer. And I did hand in 15000 words of what will eventually be a 70000-word manuscript due next summer and they were a mess. As Annie Lamott would say the shitty first draft. But my editor was able to pull it apart break it up into two chapters which is a more appropriate status. So it was productive. But I was at my most productive when I stopped trying to be productive. Man I hate to sound zenlike here but it is all of the emotional load that we put into that notion of productivity that actually exacerbates the stress and tension that causes us to need to take the rest in the first place.  Let us if I may we can make this personal on my side and we can explore those muddy waters for a minute. So I have been able over the years to take many trips and disconnect. Particularly since I am in an intimate relationship with my lovely long-term girlfriend we do not like to be apart for long periods of time. She has a job that does not totally disallow but largely disallows her to take the type of time off that I might want to take off for a sabbatical let us say. Nonetheless we are able to take trips. We took our first trip post- few months ago. And I was effectively offline for three weeks which was wonderful. And I will take shorter trips and be typically completely in the wilderness or the jungle or somewhere with nothing. No electronics for a period of time. I do that generally at least once or twice a year. Nonetheless what I have found for myself and some people may resonate with this. Actually I am going to give a few examples of friends and then I will give my personal example. So there are friends who have been in zero sum games for so long that that lens has become their default. And so I would argue that in some startups at certain stages if you are the CEO and you took a week off things would blow apart. I do think there are certain scenarios in which that is the case. However let us say you ride that 100-foot wave you have some wonderful exit in the case of a founder. They think they will just be able to turn off that script. And I have seen close to zero examples of them being able to. It is very common. Or I have a friend I shall not name but very good friend. And we have known each other a very long time. And I have watched as his magical number this number Once I hit X then I am going to build a workshop in my garage and make artisanal rocking chairs. Or whatever the hell. And I have seen that number move and move and move. So every time he gives me some new number I am like Yeah. I have heard that before. Great. I was talking to a friend who said I am never starting X type of podcast again. He is done this twice now. And I am like Yep. I have heard that before. And he said something to me which I thought was interesting it is not totally germane here but maybe we will tie into it. We were texting and he said I suppose that I need a target for my free-floating anxiety.  Yes.  And I identified with that quite a bit. I said You are right. I mean it is a lot. It is reassuring in some perverse way to have an external object or circumstance you can point that and say That explains why I have this really uncomfortable feeling inside. So I am going to park that for a second because this is all a way of me backing into my own personal experience. So when we last spoke and I thought Hot damn this is something we should talk about on the podcast. What I had realized for myself is not that I cannot take time off or that I cannot ignore the inbox or refuse to reply on the vast majority of things that come in. What I simultaneously have realized is that over the last say 10 or 15 years there has been a creep of complexity. So when you have dozens of different entities like LLCs and so on. When you have hundreds or at least 100 different investments and funds and capital calls and this that and the other thing and you have added people to your organizations so you have more headcount there is a certain amount of complexity that comes with that. So while there are a million emails I feel like I can safely ignore there are certain others from whether it is a tax authority or some registered agent or an employee that I do feel like I should keep track of or there will ultimately be some consequences to ignoring those things.  how you have seen people either reframe the complexities so that it has less of a fearful impact on them andor reduce complexity in a way that lessens this internal drama that they experienced going along with it?  I love the way you frame that question. And there are tips and tricks and hacks that you can do to reduce the complexity. But the complexity will creep back. And I think you know this because you have experienced this and we have had conversations over the years about that tension between those two spaces. I hire an assistant and then all of a sudden I need two and then I need five and now they need to be responded to and it goes. And so let us take us all the way back to one of Jerry's very very famous questions which is How have I been complicit in creating the conditions I say I do not want?  I like that you just referred to yourself like the Hulk uses the third person.  Hulk mad.  Hulk smash. Jerry ask.  Jerry ask question that cause fear.  How am I complicit in creating the conditions I say I do not want?  Right. And so I am going to alter that just slightly. What benefit do I get from the conditions I say I do not want? What benefit do I get from the conditions I say I do not want? And so let us turn it back to the question. So you create these really complex structures and you probably spend an enormous amount of energy sorting them out responding them maybe even use autoresponders tax person go here kind of thing. So if you want to alter that behavior you have to understand what the benefit is to you.  Right. The payoff or the secondary payoff.  That is it. What is the secondary payoff? What is the secondary benefit? And for you what does it make you feel like living a very complex life with hundreds of investments and lots of fingers in multiple pies and doing all sorts of things. What does it do for you?  I have thought about this and I would say that I think the complex structures are a side effect of something else. I do not think that I actually get much payoff from the complicated structures but I think they are a symptom. And I would say that for much of my life I had competitive athletics and other things that consumed in a very good way I think a lot of my focus and provided a lot of excitement. Just as important excitement. And I have not had that in a very long time after a shoulder reconstruction and an elbow surgery and a twisted SI joint and all these things. I am like You know what maybe I do not need to get heel hooked today. Maybe I do not need to get thrown on my head in judo class this week. And I have stopped a lot of that. And I think in lieu of that I enjoy competition I enjoy it. And I do not think there is anything inherently wrong with that. I actually really really enjoy competition. And I think I am a good competitor in a lot of ways. So I have shifted the arena from sports and all these other things art although I have not treated art competitively but these activities and I have substituted in investing. And I have substituted in different types of projects that often have some creative component almost always they do. Whether it is deal structuring or a podcast episode or a pre-loading podcast that I can do A B and C elsewhere. But very often I would say the investing side in particular is related to excitement. I would say that is what I get from it. And the side effect of having lots of investments and lots of things that come along with that is this complication the complexity and the systems.  That makes sense to me. What is the opposite of excitement?  The opposite of excitement would be boredom which is why I wrote down this hot and cold boredom for you that you mentioned earlier. I think it is boredom. And I used to be more maybe optimistic about this. I mean I am sure fundamentally it comes down to not wanting to be alone with my own thoughts and certain feelings that might come up. So the question of what is it that you are unwilling to feel? I think it was Tara Brach who said One sage said There' what are you unwilling to feel?' And I have spent a lot of time thinking about that and I have spent a lot of time working on that. And I have also arrived at a point where I have looked at my family  I went to a family wedding recently and I am like Okay. This could all be nurture. Maybe it is just behaviors that have been passed down the bloodline. That is one explanation. It could also be that our code our DNA just leads us to have a certain baseline of anxiety or depression or any number of other things. And maybe I am exerting a lot of calories trying to prove to myself that that is not the case.  Tim the thing that occurs to me every time we talk is how much self-work you have done. And I am going to make you feel really uncomfortable because I am really fucking proud of you.  Thank you Jerry.  You go there so we are going to go there. The proclivity towards anxiety could have a genetic component here but the proclivity to be uncomfortable with what the Buddhists would call hot boredom is not DNA. It is to use the term from my first book it is a subroutine. It is programming. It is nurture. And you said offhand but really with a self-awareness. Okay. So I am uncomfortable perhaps with boredom because I do not like to necessarily be afraid to be alone with my own thoughts or to face those things. And God bless you you have done a fantastic job of learning to deal with your own thoughts. So let us imagine if you will that this learned behavior was boredom bad. Hulk boredom bad. Well the learned behavior may just as equally have been the family saying we do not want to actually be with these questions. We do not want to be alone with our thoughts collectively. Because when we are alone with our thoughts bad things happen. So let us get busy and let us make sure that we are competitive and complicated and busy with lots and lots of different things so that we do not have to feel those things over here. To go back to Tara Brach family systems can reject feelings not just individuals. It reminds me about I remember sitting with a group of executives at a company and they asked me to just observe their executive team and I was watching and something came up and it happened once it happened twice it happened the third time. And what it was any time that there was a real moment of tension somebody would make a joke and the whole energy would dissipate. And when I called it out the CEO said That is just like my Sunday afternoon family dinners. And sometimes we get really complicated and busy because we do not actually want to feel what those thoughts bring up. And there again is a reason why sabbatical can feel really challenging. Because if I pause I am going to feel really uncomfortable I am going to feel hot boredom.  Can you expand on hot boredom? And then I am going to come back to what we are talking about. But could you just explain the difference between hot boredom and cold boredom I mean the spectrum of boredom?  Yeah. So hot boredom and cold boredom is a really great framing to think about. We do not really do this so much anymore. But imagine you are on line at the post office or on line at the DMV. And it is just an interminably long line and you have got to be someplace else and there is nothing to distract you. And that discomfort that is hot boredom. That is like literally my body starts to feel achy and all that stuff. But contrast it to cold boredom. And I know you have done meditation retreats. Imagine not the first three or four days of meditation retreat which often provokes hot boredom. What the hell am I doing here? I cannot even sleep. But by day four day five day seven day 10 you are sitting there and literally there is nothing dramatic going on in your mind. There is no drama and you are okay. And all of a sudden you catch a glimpse of a bird that is really interesting that is cold boredom. And I would argue that the mind needs cold boredom. It needs those days of simple  my therapist calls it just simple stirring the oatmeal kind of morning. Here I am just stirring the oatmeal. Because that is a moment of rest from which we can then go about the rest of our time the rest of our day.  I have many questions as one would expect to find but I am doing the podcast to talk about this. Let us start with a hypothetical situation. And I will tell you something that I have not talked about much maybe not at all publicly. But I have spent the last I would say a year sitting with a lot of void. Very deliberately not committing to any big projects. And it has been one of the most difficult painful experiences of my life and I threw every tool in my toolkit at it meditating. Do it twice a day do it three times a day take two weeks in the wilderness. I threw everything I had at it and ultimately decided sitting with this void for this long is actually not good for my mental health. And still have not prematurely committed to something huge just to commit but I got to a point where sitting with that void felt unhealthy. And so my question to you and I am not at the point of total burnout. But if you are talking to a client who like it or not is not going to get to a place of comfortable cold boredom before they burn out and you jointly decide or he or she decides they are going to take a sabbatical. So they have yet to become comfortable stirring the oatmeal but they are going to take a sabbatical. What advice do you give to that person?  Start small. Start with tiny steps. When you were talking   Baby steps out of office.  Baby steps. Yeah. How about starting with a weekend? How about starting with one evening? I mean literally you asked me before about when I started sabbaticalizing. And it feels so long ago and it feels so natural to me that I actually forgot what really began this. And it was something that you said where you talked about going off into a jungle going into a forest. For the 10 years previous to me taking two months sabbatical I would take monumental off the grid trips. Why were they monumental? Because that was the only way I could really break being attached to the grid. Because if you go to as I did across the polar ice cap and Greenland for some reason you do not get a good cell signal. It is amazing. You are forced or  I went rafting the Futaleuf River in the Chilean Patagonian area and there really is not a good Wi-Fi signal. And it is beautiful. And so those small little steps. I have a client I just started with in September and he is taking his first vacation two weeks in Namibia. First vacation in 10 years. First vacation in 10 years. And it was only because his life partner recently sold her business and they feel like they have the time. That is not healthy. So practical advice start small. Start where you are start with a day. Our mutual friend Brad Feld was the first person I know who used the notion of digital Sabbath. I am going to turn off the devices from Friday till Sunday night and I am just not available. And train the people in my life to know that that is happening. Just start there. Just start there.  So let us say you have taken some baby steps and I will tell you what I have run into when I try. And I have I have taken time off of my or away from my normal routines in say a city like Austin. Here's what happens to me. Let us just say so I am sitting downtown in Austin right now. I decide I am going to take a couple of weeks away from my normal routines but I am going to stay here in so-called civilization. My girlfriend meanwhile is going to continue with her normal routines. Most of my friends at least here are not going to be coincidentally taking a sabbatical the same time that I do. And so I go about my day and ultimately A it is very lonely. B I end up feeling unemployed insane. Because if you go to the Starbucks or you go to the library or you go to any number of other places you end up surrounded in fact by a lot of unemployed andor crazy people. I realized this in San Francisco actually. When I was like I am going to take a break and I am going to go to the library and read and I was like Wow. This is actually very disturbing because this is the halfway house during business hours for a lot of unstable people. And I found that pull towards the river edge of chaos not good for me.  Well what I also hear you doing was then deciding that you were one of those people.  I mean there is that.  I mean you know you are not unemployed if you are not   I know I am not that but it is  I think we are all affected on some level by the people we spend time around. If somebody were  and this is an extreme example but just to play out the point. If somebody actually were sitting inside an insane asylum I know it is probably not the politically correct term these days but One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest. And you were not working behind the desk you are actually sitting in there playing chess with these people all day or whatever it might be. I think that would affect just about   Sure.    if they were exposed to that. So when you go into some of these public spaces or semi public spaces during business hours in a place like Austin that is also the case. And it is not limited to Austin I mean if you want it times 10 go to San Francisco.  Sure.  So I do not automatically assume I am one of those people but my instrumentation is very sensitive so I do feel impacted by being in those settings. And I think we could treat these two things almost separately. There is being in those settings and being affected by those settings. And there is also just a genuine sense of loneliness. And I know a lot of people who are quote unquote free who can work wherever they want whenever they want on some level even if they are still paying the bills by working consistently but they are working from a laptop somewhere without people around them who are in a similar situation. That it can be agonizing how lonesome that feels. So that is a big mouthful. I do not know if you have any thoughts.  Yeah. I am glad you circle back to the word lonely because you went lonely unemployed insane and I zipped it on insane. But I think the lonely is   We do not have to rule out that I am insane. We can leave that on the table.  But I think the lonely is really important. And what you are helping me see is that my lens is very much affected by the fact that on the spectrum I tilt towards introversion. And so I do not quite have the same reaction to the word lonely or alone as say my daughter who is very much an extrovert. And during the lockdowns she would really yearn to be outside with other folks.  May interject for one second Jerry?  Yeah.  So I would actually consider myself very introverted but I would also recognize myself as someone who almost killed himself had a date on the calendar to do so in college I think in part as a byproduct of certainly lots of factors. But one of them being I was all alone and isolated way way way too much. So I would consider myself an introvert and yet at the same time I have a lot of fear around feeling alone which is actually very different from being alone. If I do one of those extreme trips which I do not consider that extreme I actually consider it a real return to fundamentals. But where I am in nature by myself I do not feel alone in the same way that I feel alone if I am sitting in a Starbucks with a bunch of unstable people sitting around me with no friends who are following any routine that is similar to mine.  And I appreciate that distinction I think that that is really helpful. And what I am feeling my way to and I can relate to this is there are certain mental states that are reminiscent of the past states. As we have talked about before I too I actually attempted suicide at 18. And in an odd way I make my bed every day. And I make my bed every day because that is what I learned when I was in the mental hospital was that you make your bed every day even if you do nothing else. Even if you do not shower you make your bed every day. And so I make my bed still to this day. Because if I do not it starts to bring up those feelings that I might end up back emotionally in that place. And so what I am hearing you say is the fear is not about being alone so much it is about feeling lonely because that is the association back to the depression. And that is suicidal impulses. And that is a really good observation about yourself. And so I applaud you being able to say to yourself Okay. I am going to As an alcoholic might say I am going to stay out of a bar. You are going to stay out of those situations that can be triggering for you and bring you back to some of those states. And I like where we are right now because what we are seeing is that perhaps there is a little fear of cold boredom because it might remind one of feeling lonely.  Maybe. I think that there could be some overlap. But for instance if I go on a  I will tell you one of my happy places and maybe that will be a contrast. So one of my happy places would be I go into the wilderness with a handful of close guy friends and we have the shared privation of sleeping in a freezing fucking cold tent waking up and having shitty instant coffee in the morning which is the best hot liquid   Best feeling in the world.   in the world. And then hiking at altitude and feeling like I am just getting punched in the lungs for 12 hours taking a nap on a mountaintop and having a fire at night to thaw out your feet then going to bed. And the majority of the day there is no talking. That is great for me. And I do not   And you are not lonely.  I am not lonely I am also not hyperactive. So it is like left right left right left right march. So I would consider that maybe I am just not understanding the terminology correctly but that would seem to me to be a form of cold boredom.  That is definitely a form of cold boredom.  And I love that. I find after four or five days of doing that even if I am getting the shittiest sleep you might imagine. Three hours a night. Just a side note   Sleeping on a rock.   can I tell a funny story just for a diversion? So I went on one of these first outings with a couple of guys who are very experienced outdoorsmen. Also a number of them were former professional level sponsored athletes so I was already intimidated. And I was a sea level San Francisco resident at that point going up to high elevation. And I asked about bears because they were all eating the candy bars and all this garbage inside the tent. I said Should we be concerned about bears? And they said No. And one of them said They are just black bears   Just.   they are more likely to lick you to death than hurt you. Relax. And I was like Okay. And shamed into silence. So we go to bed and we are sleeping all around the perimeter of this large tent. And I wake up and it is close to a full moon and I wake up and the tent is about four inches from the side of my face. And there is literally a huge nose pressed to the tent four inches from my fucking face. And it is this gigantic bear. I am not kidding. First night. And I do not know any of these guys except for one one and a half let us call it. And so I think to myself more likely to lick me to death? if I wake these guys up on the first night I will be shamed to death for the rest of this trip. And so I do not say anything I am in full prey mode. Every single quarter of my psyche just lit up on fire cannot sleep not surprisingly. It comes back a few hours later. And then in the morning we are having our coffee and I mentioned this and the same guy who told me I would lick me to death is like Jesus Christ man you have got to let us know when that kind of shit happens. And nonetheless after that trip felt like I had taken a six-month vacation.  I mean you just said it. I mean the experience of resetting for you was not something that is time delimited. There were some core components of it off the grid is a really key component of it being with people that you can physically be with for several hours but not have to entertain with dramatic thoughts and talk that nourishes you. Being in the land nourishes you being physically in your body nourishes you. That is a sabbatical dude.  Yeah. So should I just keep it at that or should I be able to do this in Austin despite the fears of sitting in these third non-home locations? Because I can convince some friends to go into the mountains for a week it is harder for me to convince friends inside a city to be like Hey let us just not do our usual stuff for a few weeks.  I totally get that. And changing physical location is really important. I just put a reservation down on a Sprinter van from Winnebago the Revel. I cannot wait to be able to climb into that. And I live in a 40-acre farm with the woman I love and three horses and an 18-year-old cat. Coyotes running across the pastures and hawks and eagles and stuff. But sometimes you need to change the venue sometimes you need to change it up. And I get that. I pause and hesitated Tim because you said Should I? And you know me well enough to say I am not so sure I can answer a should. Should you yes. Should you no. I think you have to design it for yourself you have to tune in to what you know and collect the information as you have been doing and design your own retreat. I find it enormously helpful to be able to periodically even within the envelope of my normal days to be able to cut that chatter. I often say that I sit on the meditation cushion during the morning because I need to be able to meditate throughout the day. I need to be able to return to that state of mind. So go to the mountaintop for a week at a time so that in an afternoon while stuck in the middle of Austin you can go for a bike ride you can go for a hike you can go to a park you can take a dog for a walk. You can do the things that nourish you. If you cannot be off the grid for two months at a time and very very few people can then go off the grid for hours at a time. That is all. I think ultimately take the sabbatical with you. Take that mindset with you into and live it into your days.  Are there any resources  thank you Jerry. That resonates with me. And I meditated this morning 20 minutes nothing fancy just TM   No drama.   repeating some sound in my head so that my monkey mind has something to do climb up and down the pole for 20 minutes. That is it. And it is so that I can remember for the rest of the day ideally what it feels like not to rush.  That is it.  That is it for me largely. Are there any resources that you might suggest to folks who are considering the possibility of a sabbatical? I remember there is a book that I read. I want to say this was around 2004 2005 called Six Months Off. And I am sure a lot of it is dated but it was focused on different approaches to taking sabbaticals. Are there any other resources? And these could be non-obvious resources. Could be a story a poem a book a movie it does not matter? Are there any resources that you might recommend?  Well one of my little mental tricks that I do when I do a public talk is I often open up the talk simply by asking people How are you? And that is the question by the way that typically gets people crying.  excited scared and almost always I land on the word exhausted. And everybody just resonates with it. Your shoulders just dropped as soon as I said the word exhausted because you know what I am talking about. It is just this constant sense. And there is a blessing and I am not going to recall the fullness of it. But John O'Donohue the great Irish poet the late Irish poet has a book of blessings called To Bless the Space Between Us. And in it he has a blessing for those who are exhausted. And in that blessing among the things he says is steer clear of those vexed in spirit. So think about those folks in the Starbucks they are vexed in spirit. And become inclined to watch the rain. And it is a guidepost. If we think about sabbatical as a Sabbath time as a holy time it is a holy time for those of us who are exhausted. And that is the time to rest. I mean whether you follow Judaism or Christianity in the story from the Old Testament and on the seventh day even God Himself rested. Easy gentle. Now there is another line from that poem in which O'Donohue says Be excessively gentle with yourself. So I do not have 10 tips and tricks to make your sabbatical as productive as possible. You know me that is not the way my brain is organized.  And you saw the draft of my next blog post. Damn you.  Tools of Titans for Sabbatical.  Yes. Sabbatical edition. Volume one. Yeah.  But I think that there is a really profound wisdom in O'Donohue's poem which is easy easy this is a better time to take a breath. I love the image of you hiking and camping and being out in the land with your friends. That is what you are doing. Rest is not zonking out on the couch to Netflix latest binge-watching streams Squid Game something. Rest is turning the brain off. It is getting the heart rate down. It is taking care of yourself. And to me that is what sabbatical is all about.  Yeah. I suppose it could take different forms. Like in my case that high elevation I am actually really physically taxing myself but for me it is a pure exhaustion. It is not a paper cut exhaustion. It is a pure focused holistic deliberate exhaustion. And that is a straightening through fire of sorts.  Yeah. Listen I am all for the physical exhaustion as long as the mental turn off is happening. As long as the mental the chatter you called it the monkey mind. As long as the chatter is quieted. Because I will bet you when you guys are hiking and you are going from one camping spot to another your minds are quieted   Oh yeah.   even as your body is physically tasked.  Yeah. It is a different experience. Well Jerry we are coming up on time for both of us for different reasons.  Mm-hmm .  And I would like to read a name and you can tell me the pronunciation. And if you have this in front of you I would love for you to read this but if not I can read it. And that is Lost by David Wagoner. Is that correct?  That is correct. And   W-A-G-O-N-E-R. And I am happy to read but if you have it since you sent it to me I feel like it make sense for you to read this because I think it encapsulates a lot of what we are talking about and could be a good place to bookmark us for this conversation.  Sure.  Our conversation one on sabbaticals but moreover all of the questions and queries and introspection that can surround the idea of a sabbatical.  I can read it. I am just bringing it up right now. Here we go.Lost by David Wagner. Stand still. The trees ahead and bushes beside youAre not lost. Wherever you are is called HereAnd you must treat it as a powerful strangerMust ask permission to know it and be known.The forest breathes. Listen. It answersI have made this place around you.If you leave it you may come back again saying Here.No two trees are the same to Raven.No two branches are the same to Wren.If what a tree or a bush does is lost on youYou are surely lost. Stand still. The forest knowsWhere you are. You must let it find you.  So good. So so good. I am so glad you sent this to me. This is basically the North Star for me something along these lines for the last few years. And it is funny how easy it is for me anyway to lose sight of that North Star but how corrective it is as soon as I realign and spend time recognizing it again.  Yeah. Well I appreciate your giving me the opportunity to read it and I would not have missed that opportunity because I think as you can tell reading poetry is one of the ways that I reach a Sabbath state.  So many things to talk about Jerry but it is great to see you my friend.  You too.  And we will catch up again separate from the recording. And I will just let everybody know for people listening you can find Jerry's book Reboot subtitle Leadership and the Art of Growing Up wherever books are sold. He is been on this podcast before. You can find more of Jerry at tim.blogjerrycolonna. On twitter Jerry Colonna. C-O-L-O-N-N-A. Reboot at RebootHQ on Twitter and the website Reboot.io. Jerry is there anything else you would like to say before we hit pause on this conversation?  Just that I hope that folks take a little bit of time off and take a little bit of rest. And to remember the words from John O' Be excessively gentle on yourself.  Good advice for me also to hear and remember. So thank you Jerry. I really appreciate you.  Thanks for having me on Tim. It is always a delight to hang out with you. Be well.  You too. And to everybody listening we will have show notes and links to everything at Tim.blogpodcast. And until next time be gentle with yourself.   