 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show. I am going to keep my preamble short by popular request. My guest today is Jessica Lahey. That is L-A-H-E-Y. You can find her on Twitter jesslahey. She is the author of the New York Times bestselling book The Gift of Failure  one of my favorite titles of all time  subtitle How the Best Parents Learn To Let Go So Their Children Can Succeed and The Addiction Inoculation subtitle Raising Healthy Kids in a Culture of Dependence. Over 20 years Jess has taught every grade from sixth to 12th in both public and private schools and spent five years teaching in a drug and alcohol rehab for adolescents in Vermont. She currently serves as a recovery coach at Sana at Stowe a medical detox and recovery center in Stowe Vermont where 100 percent of her salary goes to a scholarship fund for young adults. She writes about education parenting and child welfare for the Washington Post New York Times and The Atlantic is a book critic for Air Mail and wrote the educational curriculum for Amazon Kids' award-winning The Stinky and Dirty Show. Great name. Also she co-hosts the AmWriting podcast with bestselling authors KJ Dell'Antonia and Sarina Bowen from her house in Vermont where she lives with her husband two sons and a lot of dogs. You can find her on social jesslahey on Twitter Instagram teacherlahey Facebook Jessica Potts P-O-T-T-S Lahey and online on her website jessicalahey.com. Jessica welcome to the show.  I just had flashbacks to doing the audio recordings for my audio books and getting into those tongue twister moments when it is just a lot of stuff. It is a lot of stuff.  It is just a lot of stuff for the brain. It is just a lot of stuff for the brain. So sometimes we need shorthand and I want to talk about shorthand by visiting someone who I had to look up although the name sounded vaguely familiar  Albert Schweitzer who has one of the most incredible Wikipedia introductions. Ludwig Phillip Albert Schweitzer was an Alsatian polymath. He was a theologian organist musicologist writer humanitarian philosopher and physician. He received the 1952 Nobel Peace Prize. And I ask or I should say introduce him because I believe you are fond of a quote attributed to dear Albert and that his quote I decided to make my life my argument and I am not sure what that means but it sounds promising. Could you please expand?  Albert Schweitzer there is some problematic stuff with all white guys from Europe who feel like they are going to go out and save people in Africa which is essentially what he tried to do. There is a hospital  the Albert Schweitzer Hospital is in Africa. And he had been a composer. He would done some really cool stuff. And then he went to medical school late in life and established this hospital in Africa where he essentially was just trying to do good for the rest of his life. Again some problematic elements there but when my husband was in med school and I was in law school we actually both became Albert Schweitzer fellows. And the idea there was that you do not need to go to Africa and save these people across the planet. His hospital was in a place called Lambarene. You can find your own Lambarene. And for me that was working with kids in juvenile court and with my husband that was working with underserved populations and doing HIV work. And I have just always loved that quote because people say a lot of crap. People are out there talking about how great they are on Twitter and the things they are doing on Twitter and being really loud about their intentions. But I just think it is easier to make your life your argument and just do  as a teacher I have to model things for kids. I am a mom. I work as a recovery coach. So a big part of what I do is stay sober. I think it is a lot simpler if we just shut up for a little while and make our life our argument.  I love that. Decided to make my life my argument. It reminds me of another quote that I think of a lot because I sadly have a Tasmanian Devil tendency to get very upset at points. I have not quite mastered that whole stoicism thing yet. And the quote is I think it is George Herbert but I think that I am probably mixing that up because I am thinking of Dune and Frank Herbert but nonetheless the quote is The best revenge is living well and I also find that to be very actionable. So making your life your argument. We are going to double click on that in a little bit but first I have to go back to your bio. Every grade from sixth to 12th in both public and private schools  is there reliably for you and your experience a most difficult cohort of students?  Well most difficult to teach mainly because it is difficult for them to be who they are I think and that is ninth grade for easy. So I love  sixth grade is interesting because that is usually a new year in middle school. Seventh and eighth grade I adore. I love 10th and 11th grade. Seniors can be tough because they have got one foot out the door. Freshmen are just deer in headlights. They are scared and they are freaked and it is too much. And their frontal lobes are not fully developed. And it is just so hard. I think freshmen are  if I had to black out one  and it is not that I do not adore freshmen it is just it is hard to teach them. There is too much else going on for them to be able to cope with the world and learn stuff. It is just a problematic year.  Does it and this is leading question but does it mean that good ninth grade teachers are able to intervene or exert an effect that has a disproportionate influence on someone's trajectory at the same time? Or is that not so much true?  Oh no. Absolutely. And there was this one quote I hated  it was actually on  I am pretty sure it was Radiolab. Yeah. It was Radiolab. And a middle school teacher was talking about the fact that you should just stick middle school students away somewhere and then bring them back when they are out of that middle school age and ready to be educated. And the problem with thinking that way is that  number one it is just wrong. Number two I think there are people that gravitate towards certain age groups. When I speak to other middle school teachers  middle school is my jam. I love them. If I was to go back to teaching tomorrow it would be middle school. I adore them. But of course there are lots of people who are  Oh my God what is your problem? That sounds horrible. But I look at kindergarten teachers and I am  I do not know how you do that all day long. There are people who just think ninth grade is an incredible year. And the reason it is an incredible year is there is a ton of potential because I think in general schools tend to overlook ninth grade as so transitional that not a lot of effort is put into the curriculum or into connecting with the students. So in a lot of schools especially in schools where I have taught there is no effort to do differentiated learning. They do not know who these kids are yet. So they just slap a lot of intro level without making it very interesting. And schools that do freshman year right are really setting kids up to do great things. The other thing I love and I have to shout out there is a hoity toity  wonderful but hoity toity  private school outside of Boston called Belmont Hill School for Boys. Belmont Hill School is a  there are some teachers there I just adore. They do the coolest thing. Middle school is seventh eighth and ninth grade. So ninth graders who are at this really important moment in their development in terms of their cognitive development their physical development get to be leaders for just that one extra year and the pressure of high school does not quite land squarely on their shoulders quite yet. So then they get to do that 10th 11th and 12th. I love that model. And I think that there is potential in that model.  That is super interesting. So then they would transfer or graduate to a high school but enter in the 10th grade as opposed to in the ninth grade.  Right. And there especially it is all mashed together. But middle school is a really problematic area simply because we throw more at these kids than they are cognitively able to do. We have these kids they are  the last part of the brain to hookup is the frontal lobe. That does not happen until we are in our early to mid twenties. Middle school we say here is lockers changing schedules different languages. I used to teach Latin class right after French class and there is the same word in both languages pronounced completely differently. There is hormones. There is all the different things that middle school kids are asked to do without the capacity in their frontal lobes to juggle it all. So the fun part of being a middle school teacher is sitting back and watching that unfold and having patience with that and waiting for those learning moments when everything is just like a kid is ready to hear it and you are ready to teach it to them and you have a meeting of the minds. That is why middle school has so much incredible potential but at the same time there is so much potential to screw it up in a major way like to take the Radiolab approach and say in that one interview anyway and say Well those are a throwaway couple of years because they suck. But I think there is a ton of potential.  Not many of my listeners will know this but I actually thought for a very long time that at some point I would go back and teach ninth grade specifically ninth grade.  Really? So what is it you like about ninth grade?  Well I might reframe that or answer a question you did not ask since I am practicing to become a politician. That is not true. But the reason behind it it is not so much that I liked ninth grade because I cannot say that was the case but I saw people who received good inputs go one direction and people who received bad inputs go another direction. And it seemed like a great point at which you could influence direction because by the time it was the end of 10th grade or 11th grade at least from the perspective of college or anything like that it was I do not want to say too late but it was much harder to write the ship. And so I had two friends who one ended up dying in a drunk driving accident later one who overdosed on fentanyl and died that was my best friend growing up who did not really receive the inputs that I did just by chance really. It was not by design. I just had better luck. And so that always stuck with me. And I am going to come back to students. We are going to talk a lot about students and kids but I want to look at maybe some overlap and that is your personal story and when you were younger. What was taking a nap code for in your extended family?  Taking a nap meant either that you just needed a break from life and you were going to  because there were some stuff in my family growing up that was really challenging for the grownups  well for everybody to deal with and so taking a nap meant just I need some space. But I came to learn later on that napping was not just about napping. It was about being drunk. And the problem with euphemisms which by the way I hate I hate euphemisms  is that it makes it really easy to gaslight kids when they figure out what is really going on and yet the language of adults is not matching their experience of what they really truly are starting to understand. And there is nothing worse coming back to middle school in ninth grade there is nothing worse than taking a kid who is just figuring the world out and then telling them at every turn that their perceptions are inaccurate. That what they are seeing is not really what they are seeing or what they are perceiving. And what it does is it slowly erodes a kid's feeling of sanity. I mean gaslighting is really problematic that way but also their feelings of self-efficacy. A feeling like if I can just nail this down then maybe I can do something to change it. You cannot even get to the place of nailing something down because the grownups in your life are telling you that what you are seeing is not really what you are seeing. And that is a massive  that is a really horrible thing to do to kids. If a kid comes to you and says Here's something I am perceiving telling them that that is not what they are perceiving or that they are wrong to perceive it that way is a problem is really tough for kids.  So one example of that being I need a nap or taking a nap as code for sleeping off being drunk or   Yeah. Or I cannot deal with what is happening in my world so I am just going to escape from it. And more and more I began to understand that what escape really was was being drunk. That whatever it was that was happening in the real world was too difficult and so therefore you drink to escape it.  What happened in 2013 at your mother's birthday party?  You really go there do not you? You just go right for the jugular.  I am sorry.  No no no it is good.  Skipping the niceties.  So I had known that I was an alcoholic for a pretty good long time. I really was scared to death of alcohol because of what I saw. I was raised by an alcoholic. One of my parents was raised by an alcoholic and so on and so on. And so I did everything I could to escape it and it just snuck up on me in my 40s. And I met someone the other day actually who had almost exact same story I did. Went to the sober end of the spectrum became one of those holier than thou really annoying high school and college students who was always  I was always the designated driver. I was always the good girl. So it slowly in my 40s it got worse and worse. And by 2013 I was on a bit of a roll professionally. I was teaching full-time and I had just started writing on the national level. This was huge for me. My first article at The Atlantic went viral and it led to this massive auction. I think it was somewhere between '11 and '14 I am going to get the number wrong so it is somewhere in there. Editors were in a round robin auction for my first book The Gift of Failure because of this viral article that was in The Atlantic called Why Parents Need to Let Their Children Fail. Huge pivotal moment in my life and book sold in May. And then June 7th I went to my parents' house for my mom's birthday party and tons of people were there that had known me my whole life including my oldest friend that I have known since I was three. And I got so drunk. I have no idea what happened. I think that is a blessing and a curse that I cannot remember anything that happened. But what happened the next  I was just I was so drunk. And the next morning my dad who had been a really great enabler his whole life because he would been raised by an alcoholic and taught by his mother who was an incredible enabler for alcoholism. He came up to the guest bedroom and he sat on the floor put his elbows on the bed. My husband was out running. And he said I know what an alcoholic looks like and you are an alcoholic and you need help. And at that point I was so ready. I was so exhausted that I just said You are right. And that night I went to my first recovery meeting. But I think the fact that it was my dad who had been one of the people who had told us No what you are seeing is not what you are seeing. And he is so conflict avoidant. And he adores me so much. And the fact that he hates fighting with me he came up to that room he just swallowed down his enabling. He swallowed down his avoidance of conflict and what he led with was his love for me even though he was scared to death to say those words he did. And that was it for me. So my sobriety date is June 7th 2013.  Wow. Well congratulations.  Thanks.  And I have many more questions.  Okay.  So I have had someone named Gabor Mat on the podcast before   I know.   and he talks a lot about asking not why the addiction but why the pain.  Right.  And you have also mentioned and perhaps we will chat more about Chris but Chris Herren. And he talks a lot about not paying so much attention to stories from or about people when they hit rock bottom but paying attention to what caused them to drink in the first place or start using drugs.  The quote is and you can see it if you watch the documentary about him called First Day. The quote is We spend a lot of time talking about the last day but what we really need to be talking about is the first day. And the first day is massively important.  And in your case it is a little harder for me to say with confidence that I should ask about the origin because I do not know how much of it was internally generated right? Was the alcohol a salve or an escape or was it simply inherited environmentally by watching behavior and you were genetically predisposed?  That is a fantastic question. And so number one huge fan of Gabor Mat. In the Realm of Hungry Ghosts is fantastic. He has a book about ADHD or ADD and substance use. Really respect his work. And he is full-on in the trauma camp. He is full-on in the  all of this comes from our trauma. And the nice thing about writing about a subject area where I do not really have a foot  I am not really in any one camp 100 percent. So I am able to say Well I agree with a lot of this and some of this I do not. I am a huge fan. I do not think 100 percent of this is about trauma. I think we have a situation where according to Marc Schuckit at USC about 50 to 60 percent of the risk picture comes down to genetics. And then we have the in between the genetics and the environmental stuff something called epigenetics which is how the stresses in our life cause our genetics to either turn on not turn on all that stuff. And then we have the environmental stuff including trauma. Thank goodness for people who are now talking about adverse childhood experiences. For me I drank because of my anxiety. I have had anxiety disorder my entire life. My grandmother had OCD. My father has a mix  I am lucky in that it goes down by generation but we definitely all are  we are an anxious people and alcohol helped. Alcohol works great in the short term for anxiety. The problem is it exacerbates it over time makes it worse blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. So I drank to deal with anxiety. I drank to deal with some stuff I just did not want to deal with. So I had the genetics. I also had the thing I just did not want to deal with and alcohol made it easier.  Yeah. Alcohol does a good job of temporarily turning down the volume. But as you mentioned a lot of long-term risks. And ketamine similarly is seductive in being used for that subtractive purpose. It has its place. It has an application and it has many applications but it is also  can be an escape.  I am fascinated by the practical applications. It so happens that my son  I have two sons one's 17 one's 22. The 17-year-old is a huge fan of someone else you have had on the show  of Hamilton Morris and of Michael Pollan. And we both have read How to Change your Mind. We both have watched Hamilton Morris' Hamilton's Pharmacopeia together. I think there is some really interesting research coming out about especially psychedelics anything that allows people especially at end of life care to disassociate. To step away from their physical being and have less fear around dying in particular. There is some really cool stuff out there. And I think it is really important to put that work in the context of an adult brain and not let it bleed on over into anyone under the age of  ideally 25 because that is when your brain is done. But let us say just for giggles 21 or 18.  For sure. Those are very different things. And right now I simply mentioned that because we are still exploring the personal story and I am curious if we look at the timing of the Atlantic article Why Parents Need to Let Their Children Fail this goes viral and that was in was it May you said?  The article published in January. It went viral and next thing I knew I was on national television trial by fire media training. And then it takes a while to put together a book proposal and so the book sold somewhere around AprilMay.  AprilMay. And then the birthday party conversation with your dad was the next month a month later.  Yeah.  Do you think you would have been as open to hearing what your dad said had you not been on the hook to write a book? And for those who do not know with non-fiction generally you sell the book with a proposal. It is almost like a business plan and then you have to write the book.  Yeah. I still think I would have gotten there maybe not that day but I was so close. There is a metaphor I use both having to do with prevention and people figuring out when it is time that they need help and that is this  I think of getting there is like this hundred piece puzzle. And my dad was piece 100 and I have been piece 100 once for someone else. And I talked to a lot of people about substance use and I have been piece God knows 18 32 19 26. You have to have pieces one through 99 in place before piece 100 drops. So I cannot say for sure that it would have worked on that day. I was going to get awfully close though. I also knew I was right at that moment. I was right there at that moment where I had not been driving drunk. I was not drinking at school. There were a lot of things I had not done yet. But oh my Lord I was so close. It was right there. It was just about to happen and I would have lost everything. And I knew that. My husband was raised in a family with substance use disorder. We had talked about this even before he knew I had a problem that that was not something we would allow our children to be raised with. So if he ever had a problem he knew that I would not allow our children to be around that. And if I ever had a problem he would not allow our children to be around that either. So I would end up divorced. That was easy. That was going to happen. I believed him. So I think I was right at that cliff. It was right there. And I could see what was coming.  What did you find most helpful? And what did people try to offer that you did not find helpful?  What I found helpful was a woman  there was a woman that  I was scared to death to go to my first meeting. And actually my first meeting I ever went to I went far away from my house so I would not know anyone because I lived in a small town in New Hampshire. So I did this long not that long but I did a drive to get to a meeting that I thought would be different enough because I was scared to death to run into one of my students' parents because of course I was not in the frame of mind to think about the fact that if one of my student's parents was at a 12-step meeting they probably had similar issues. In fact I did run into one of the parents of my students a few years later and she took one look at me and she said You are my worst nightmare. And I said No you are my worst nightmare! And then we had a good laugh and it was fine. But I walked into that first meeting. I knew no one. I sat down at a table with other women and I just started to cry. This had never happened to me before. I just  snot and tears and stuff. And this woman next to me without really looking at me too much excessively just kept pulling tissues out of her bag. I do not know where they kept coming from but she just kept handing them to me. And I went up and I got my 24-hour chip. I was still  just snot and just tears. And it was that 100 percent acceptance of the fact that this was okay and normal and to be expected and hard. And that hard was part of it. And that that was okay. What has not been helpful is rigidity within a view of what it means to recover from something. I myself could never be a moderate drinker. I myself could not use alcohol and be safe ever. If I was addicted to opiates I do not know what would have worked for me in terms of medication-assisted treatment. But the problem is I see a lot of people who really need help who are for example in my book The Addiction Inoculation is a woman named Georgia who is  Georgia by the way and Brian figure into my book in a big way. And those are their real names. And they felt again like the Albert Schweitzer quote that it was really important to make their disaster of their young adult life worth something to other people. So they asked me to use their real names. And when Georgia was pregnant she was on and addicted to opiates. She was on methadone and she was shunned in recovery circles. And at the time she needed people in recovery more than ever to help her through this. They said No this is not the way to be sober. And that is just so bogus to me. And I think it is because we are so in love with black and white as a species  this is the way you do it not that way. And the nice thing is recovery looks different for different people. Getting to recovery looks different for different people. And if someone disagrees with the fact that I can safely drink non-alcoholic beer because boy I love beer I miss beer. I used to brew my own beer. And so I drink non-alcoholic beer and that works for me. But I have had plenty of people tell me that I am wrecking my own recovery path because I drink non-alcoholic beer. And I just wish people would be less rigid. Rigidity is the answer there Tim. Rigidity is the bane of my existence.  So she was shunned because she was using a replacement therapy.  Yeah.  She was using methadone.  We are going to come back to substance use and abuse in kids. I want to touch on The Gift of Failure for a few minutes at least. And for those who are not familiar with the book of course I think the subtitle does a good job of describing it but what was the catalyst for The Atlantic article and then the book?  I had wanted to write about this for a long time but the problem the way I write is I write about data I write about research I translate the science but I do it through narrative. And as a teacher the only narratives I had around me were my students and I cannot write about my students. That is just unacceptable. So I had wanted to write about this stuff. I wanted to write about both how overparenting affects kids' motivation. Thank you so much Dan Pink Edward Deci all the people who write about extrinsic motivators and motivation long-term motivation. I wanted to talk about how it affects our ability to do the whole Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi Flow state all that sort of stuff. But I also wanted to know how over-parenting affected learning and that was a big question mark for me. And a study came out of Australia out of Queensland about that very topic. And they had talked to school counselors who provided the stories. So for the first time I was finally able to write this thing. And at that point I had really just been blogging for a couple of education outlets that would maybe been read by there were sort of a couple hundred people who are loyal readers of mine. And I wrote this thing and I said I think I need to try to put this somewhere and I had. I pitched it to The Atlantic to my first editor Jennie Gritz who is now at Smithsonian Magazine. I pitched it to her on a Friday and it was published on Tuesday morning. Yeah. Welcome to the digital media. Yeah. And it was really cool. In fact one of the people at my school read it and said Are you sure this is not about our students? Because those stories were universal enough that it was easy for me to tell that story through using some of the quotes from the research.  Hm. And for those people who are not familiar I mean what are some of the main theses of The Gift of Failure?  So there are two ways of looking at this sort of what we do to kids when we overparent them and we and by overparenting I mean by being directive overly directive by telling kids what to do how to do it giving them every step along the way. When we do that we not only undermine kids' feelings of self-efficacy. When my kids were little the way I stay on top of my own thinking around this is when my kids were really little and they wanted to be able to do something independently they would tell me they wanted to self it. So that is my internal language for  that I want to self it. So I try to think of teenagers as bigger version of toddlers which actually is pretty accurate and help them self it. So when we do too much for kids whether it is taking away the consequences of something like if I am trying to teach a kid about being more organized because today he is forgotten his homework and then the parent swoops in the door and has brought the homework to school that learning opportunity is lost obviously. Helping that kid become a more competent capable self-efficacious person that is not happening. Self-efficacy is one of the most important things we help build up in kids. So it turns out that when we do too much for kids we undermine their long-term motivation to stay involved in the things we want them to do. We also tend to give them extrinsic motivators whether it is money for grades or the grades themselves which means I am kind of screwed as a teacher right? Extrinsic motivators undermine long-term motivation to do the stuff we want kids to do like practice piano and do their homework. Yet if we want our kids to not want to learn math the quickest way to do that is to pay them for their math grades. We know that through Edward Deci's work. So there is that motivation issue. But then the other problem is this. There is this woman who has done work on impact of overparenting and being overly directive not just on motivation but if you think about some of the most effective teaching tools I have one of them is this really cool thing called desirable difficulties. It is talked about  it is been around for a while but it is really beautifully written about in a book called Make It Stick from Harvard University Press. When I give kids tasks that require them to do a little more parsing to think about stuff that is just a little bit beyond their ability level stuff that makes them have to sort of integrate two topics or two concepts in order to figure out how to do this thing. It bypasses their short-term memory and it goes into their long-term memory and they know it more deeply in the short-term and they know it for longer like 20 years from now they probably would be able to tell me a little bit about that concept. The kids that cannot benefit from desirable difficulties are kids who get frustrated and give up. And the kids who get frustrated and give up are kids who have really directive parents. Because if you have a parent who is been like Okay sweetie here's exactly how you do it. I am going to give you every single step and oh no no not that way. No no no. Do it this way those kids have less comfort with frustration. And if a kid cannot go on to complete a task  there is this woman named Wendy Grolnick who is done beautiful research on this. Kids who had highly directive parents were a lot less likely to be able to complete a task that required a kid to kind of get frustrated and sit with that frustration and push through whereas kids who had what are called autonomy supportive parents parents who let the kid kind of struggle a little bit come at it another way and get comfortable with that feeling of frustration those were the kids who were able to complete tasks that were difficult for them. So overparented kids tend to learn less in my classroom using the tools that work best for learning. This is the shortest way to put that.  So I have all sorts of follow-ups. And just to put my cards on the table it is in part because I am soon hoping to begin building a family with my significant other. I have no kids currently that I am aware of. And so I am looking to take as many notes in advance as possible. One aspect of I suppose overparenting or maybe that is not the right label but distinctive styles of parenting I would love to talk about and these may not be the right terms but real confidence or fostering the development of real confidence versus the shell of confidence. And I have heard you speak on this very eloquently and it was very compelling so I was hoping perhaps you could elaborate on that.  Unfortunately the self-esteem movement had parents in like the late '60s '70s early '80s believing and now still actually I think believing that if we tell our kids over and over and over again how great they are how smart they are how talented they are all those sort of fixed You just fell out of the womb good at math that kind of thing that we can somehow create like a Star Wars force field of self-esteem around them. So that when they go out into the world and someone dings it because they are mean to them or a teacher said something that was a little difficult to hear or whatever that somehow our kid would come home with perfect self-esteem still intact around them but that is not how self-esteem works. There is some really interesting research specifically on kids with low self-esteem that the more we praise them for these inherent qualities of that You are so gifted you are so talented you are so perfect all these sorts of things that we do not raise their self-esteem. We actually lower it. What raises kids' self-esteem is not confidence that empty sort of optimistic My mom says I am the best reader in the class but competence which is competence with a P which is confidence based on actual experience.  On the confidence side it is fun to hear you frame it this way because just the other day actually those two words sort of came to mind in the same sentence that is confidence and competence because I have lots of readers and listeners ask me how to develop confidence. And the answer is you have to go out and do things that you are at the edge or right outside of your sphere of comfort so that you develop that sort of increased confidence not without any context but confidence in your ability to execute something with competence. There is no way around it. And then if you are being told I imagined as a kid You are the best at math A B and C as opposed to You worked really hard and you figured this out. If you cannot do something there is no fix right? You are just a broken toy.  Right. There is actually an added layer to that which is my MO for a long time was to advocate my way into jobs that I was not qualified for but I usually  I became a political speech writer I had no experience doing that and I got into it the worst possible way. I read that politician's speeches the ones he would published online because these are the ones he was most proud of and I fixed them for him. That was my audition for him. I fixed his favorite speeches for him  I mean it was like the most stupid thing ever but I think that there is a certain level of not just I can do this specific thing but I am resourceful enough to figure it out if I cannot do that specific thing. And that resourcefulness only comes from having tried something and screwed it up and tried it again and all that and had support throughout that process with someone who actually believes in your ability to be resourceful.  How did writing The Gift of Failure and then being on the road metaphorically speaking or otherwise sharing the findings and stories and takeaways from the book affect your parenting style if at all or perhaps you are already applying the tenets and principles from that book in your own family? I am just curious how your parenting was reflective before during or after of things that were emphasized in the book?  The Gift of Failure actually came out of me being just pissed off at the parents of my students for stealing away so many really cool learning opportunities moments like where their kids were just ready to learn. And then the parent would swoop in and fix it and then the kid did not have to come up with his own strategy. And I was on a very very high horse about that I really was especially because I am in this noble teaching profession and you are ruining it for me but I realized at the same time actually one of my students wrote an essay about the fact that she was so obsessed with being perfect that not only was she paralyzed when she had to write things like rough drafts or do something where she may not look perfect she did not care about learning anymore. All she cared about was what grade she was going to get for the learning. And this was a kid that I taught in sixth grade seventh grade and eighth grade. And somewhere we wrecked her. I mean this was not her fault. We did something to wreck this because we had this great sixth grade girl who would come into my classroom and say Ms. Lahey Ms. Lahey what are we going to learn today? or Ms. Lahey Ms. Lahey guess what I learned today? And then by the time she gets to eighth grade she is telling me that she does not care about learning anymore. That is beside the point. What is the point for her is the grade she is going to get when she regurgitates whatever it is I want her to regurgitate in whatever fashion and how high should I jump. That was devastating to me. And at that exact same moment that same week it might have even been the same day I found out that my nine-year-old could not tie his own shoes because I would been doing it for him.  Oh.  Yeah. And not only could he not tie his shoes he was so humiliated by the fact that he could not tie his shoes that he had not told me. I had not figured it out. He was having to sit out PE class not play with his friends because he was wearing his brother's boots to school because he did not have shoes without laces and he was so humiliated and that was 100 percent my fault. I did that to him. Because every single time it came time to tie the shoes it was just easier for me to do it. I was faster tying shoes is hard. Thank you very much manual dexterity. Tying shoes is one of the more challenging tasks for a young kid and yet we sort of use it as this benchmark of like Yo you are getting big. And so I just kept doing it and then Velcro slip-on shoes that kind of thing. And essentially what I was saying to him every time I said Oh I will just do that for you. It will be faster if I do it for you was I do not think you are competent enough to do this yourself. And so that my lack of faith in his ability to do it became our norm. And at that point I then had  it was like a big bucket of cold water over my head and I was like Oh man I cannot come at this from You parents of my students suck because you are ruining this whole learning thing.' I was essentially doing the exact same thing to my own kids. A lot of what I write about is We are not doing this right. Oh look I am not doing this right. How can I do better and learn from it? which is super fun and a little humiliating.  Well better late than never right? Okay. Let us   No. Right. And then we can model that for our kids right? I mean if we change what we do as parents we do not have to just pull the rug out from under our kids. We can say Look I thought I was doing the best possible thing. I learned some stuff and I did not give you enough credit and now I am changing because I have information. And that is what I try to model for my kids all the time back to Albert Schweitzer's quote.  Yeah. I have a friend who has  he is just assumed. I think this is probably fair for all parents to assume that he is just screwing his kids up in all sorts of ways he is unaware of. And so he is like Look I know I am fucking them all up but I am going to pay for the Hoffman Process. I am going to pay for this other thing. When they are 18 they are going to go through these following three things to sort of unfuck themselves and I have already committed to doing that. Speaking of a separate friend I can actually name a friend named Mike Maples a really sweet guy. And he on a walk with me at one point shared the two things that he would emphasize as a new parent because I asked him. This was some time ago. And one of the things that he said was optimism.  Mm-hmm . Oh yeah. I love it.  And I believe you have pointed out research related to kids with high ACE scores that is adverse childhood experiences scores showing that one of the most important things that people can do for these kids is teach them hope and I would love to hear you expand on that. And if there are any particular ways of teaching or fostering hope that you think work how does one do that?  Hope is this really cool thing that I think people tend to in their heads think of something fuzzy like Oh oh balloons bunnies unicorn. Is not that nice? It is not. It is essential. There are whole books about how  the solution  one of the big solutions to intergenerational poverty is giving making sure kids have one adult who teaches them to have the ability to not only see that their life can be different. And then there is part two which has to do with self-efficacy which is that they have the power to make it be so and there is this  in fact that definition of hope comes from a guy named Shane Lopez a guy I love. He has died unfortunately and I miss him so so much but his Twitter handle is it might even still be out there. It was hopemonger a seller of hope. He is just  really cool guy.  That is right.  So according to him hope is your ability to envision that your life can be better different. Better is I guess the way to think about it and that you have the power to make it so. That is incredibly powerful that when we talk sometimes about kids having that one person who if you say Who is that one person who really made you believe in yourself? And it is whatever a teacher a coach or whatever it is usually because they helped them believe that their life can be better and they had the power to make it so. Those are the two elements there that are really really important. And there is  I have a whole shelf. I am looking across the way at an entire shelf on books on hope and optimism. And they are intertwined in incredible ways. And it is really really important that kids have someone one person who lets them know what their life could look like and gives them that vision and helps them sort of really start to believe that it could be so. And that is at the center of hope and optimism I think. And something that was consistently missing when I taught kids in an inpatient drug and alcohol rehab there were a lot of kids in my classroom the vast majority of the kids in my classroom did not have any belief that their lives could be different or that they had the power to make it so.  So we are going there next or   Yeah sorry.   next after  no no you are good. You are good. No no you do not have to apologize. We are going there next but I should say next after next because you mentioned the bookshelf full of books on hope and optimism. When you need a dose of hope or optimism do you have one or two books that are your go-to inoculations or I should say booster shots so to speak?  Yeah. But they are actually sort of specific to whatever it is I am thinking about or doing for writing. It is Stephen King's On Writing. My kids use it too. Actually my 17-year-old son and I have listened to this book in the car more times than I know because it makes me want to write and it makes me find the joy again in writing. It is an incredibly joyful book it is an incredibly useful book and it is a book that makes me want to and I know this sounds a little weird but turn it off and go write. And that is my go-to book for that sort of thing. And I owe him a debt of gratitude for that book.  And you had a chance to interview him if I am not mistaken.  I did.  You are lucky for that.  Highlight. One of the highlights   I am so jealous so jealous so jealous.  I think the key to catching Stephen King's attention and getting him to want to talk to you is to come at something from an angle. This is something you do really well. Come at it from an angle that he had  and he is been asked everything right? So my angle was  we were both English teachers and I happen to know that he loved teaching grammar so my interview was 100 percent about how one teaches grammar or as he calls it business English. And it was a dream come true. Really it was. It was huge for me.  So any other books that pop out when it is anything outside the scope of writing? Although I realized that also On Writing it includes and covers a lot more than just writing.  Oh yeah. Absolutely.  But are there any other books that come to mind?  I think of them as comfort books but they are also kind of hope and optimism and jab-in-the-arm kind of books. I am a huge non-fiction reader especially about the natural world. So the past year for me has been just such an overwhelming buffet of good books about like everything from The Book of Eels to  of course the minute someone asks you about books you start to blank out. But for me the thing that has brought me the most joy especially during the pandemic has been being outside. I live in Vermont. I live in the woods. So anything  there is this guy named Bernd Heinrich who writes a lot about  he has a book called The Winter World The Summer World. He wrote a book about crows and ravens and how smart they are. For me I get a lot of my hope and power and happiness from thinking about the things I can discover out there in the world and so they make me want to get out of the house which is a really really good place for my head to be when I am in a bad place.  Yeah. Take the focus off the self for a little bit.  Yup. Yep. Yup yup. Crows are a good thing to think about I suppose.  Crows you said?  Yeah crows are cool crows are amazing. Eels are cool. Owls of the Eastern Ice. They are pretty cool. But lately that is my thing has been that sort of natural world stuff.  So hope and optimism. You can listen to your new podcast Prose and Crows. I am kidding. That is a joke.  That would be good. No I like it.  Vermont is spectacular. I have actually spent a lot of time in Vermont. I went to Middlebury College to their language school and have spent a lot of time up at Vermont. It is a beautiful beautiful place. Let us jump to substance use and abuse in kids. What surprised you most in your research or what just surprised you? Because most is always the pole position number one answer and sometimes that is hard to sort for. What did you find surprising in your research about preventing substance use and abuse in kids?  The amount of parenting and education we do by the seat of the pants without even thinking about the research about what works and what does not. In education there is a lot of this too like This is how I was taught and so therefore that is how I am going to teach it or This is what we have always done kind of thing. So there is a lot I screwed up frankly in parenting my 22-year-old. I let him have sips. I let him have his own glass of wine at dinner. Research is really really clear. Parents who have a clear and consistent message of No not until you are  it is legal which by the way when I say it is legal I do not care about the legal part. What I care about is the brain development part 21 and finishing up brain development happen to happen in proximity. So things like the myth of Oh but those Europeans they raise those children who just are moderate drinkers because it is not special to them. They have grown up with alcohol. And so they totally know how to be moderate drinkers. That is not how it works. A you cannot teach moderation B the European Union has the highest rate of alcohol consumption in the entire world. And while there are countries that sort of beat that that sort of do have a culture of it is not cool to be out in public and be drunk. A lot of the countries you think of that we are trying to model our kids on are not those countries. So just a lot of stuff that I did because I thought it was the right thing to do. When my oldest son was born a friend of ours who really knows wine sent us a spectacular bottle of wine. And so I put some on my kid's tongue because I wanted my infant his first taste of wine to be a really nice bottle of wine. I did some stupid stuff and a lot of the stuff that I did was because I just did not know any better. And so all of the writing I do is very much from the perspective of Well yeah. We screwed this stuff up because we did not know any better. But that is not something to be ashamed of. This is us learning to be better. And P.S. I have made most of these mistakes. So let us take this information about our kids' risks. Let us take this information about what the research shows that really works for prevention. And let us actually not feel embarrassed or ashamed about what we did wrong and just move forward from a place of knowing what works and trying to use that.  So we are going to jump around temporarily here a little bit but what does it mean  what are your responsibilities? What does it look like to be a recovery coach at Sana?  I think it is really similar to what I did at my rehab classroom which is essentially being a sober person who for better or for worse when I used to tell my students that I am still in recovery my students would say You do not look like an alcoholic because people tend to have some image in their mind whether that is of someone in the gutter or someone who is homeless or someone who has mental illness or whatever. Being a role model of someone who has been in long-term recovery and still struggles but still makes it work that is sort of at its core what being a recovery coach is. It is to be someone who is been there and done it and has come out the other end at least eight years on and is able to just give people hope. I mean we are back to that hope thing. I am modeling hope I am modeling optimism and I am modeling  I am also giving them some of the tools I have learned. For me it is really important for me if I am going to a dinner party to know that A I cannot worry about offending the host if I have to leave that I always have an exit strategy and that my husband and I have a signal for when it is time to go and that I just have to put my ability to stay safe and sober first above worrying about offending my host. So little things little learned things you figure out over eight years of sobriety and that is part of what I am there for.  Sharing the playbook. What is the format? Is it a group class? Is it one-on-one? How do you impart these lessons and model?  It is both. We are still shaping this. Sana is fairly new. The cool thing about Sana is that it is the first medically assisted recovery and treatment center in Vermont. There just has not been one. And so we are still figuring out what Sana is going to look like but the cool thing about my job is I get to do one-on-one and I get to do group stuff. If the people that are getting treatment are parents and they want to talk about prevention in their kids I get to do that too because that happens to be my wheelhouse but I am just available both on a regular basis in a group setting. And then as needed individually to just talk them through stuff that is scary and talk them through Oh my gosh what is going to happen? In fact I did a talk recently to parents of people who work in the alcohol industry parents who work in the big alcohol companies. That is a really scary place to be because where their money comes from and often their social lives and the lives they have around their social life and their work life is often really entangled and a lot of that is around alcohol. So how do you talk to your kids? So there are a lot of people who just sort of say things like What if I need to go to that Christmas party and I just get weak? Or what if my kid comes to me and says You are a hypocrite. You cannot tell me about the fact that I cannot drink because you are an alcoholic. So how am I going to manage that and keep safe myself? That is my job.  What does medically assisted mean? Is it sort of like a medical triage where they can provide saline drips for rehydration or interventions that involve   Yeah it means a couple of things. So medically assisted detox means that it alleviates the symptoms of  when you are used to seeing  if you watch I do not know some recovery show or a movie a depiction of someone who is going through withdrawal or DTs or whatever. It is like the pain and the sweat and all that stuff. It does not have to be that way. Some people believe that you have to go through that so you will be so scared of having to do it again that you will not go back on drugs but that is just not the way it works. So medically assisted especially for alcohol you can die going through withdrawal from alcohol. It is really really dangerous. So having a physician around and actually the head of addiction medicine at University of Vermont is the chief medical officer of Sana. So you have someone there actually monitoring you medically and alleviating the symptoms of withdrawal so that you can get to the place where you can even think straight about what comes next which is the recovery process.  DT stands for delirium tremens? Is that it?  An old term yeah. It does. It means delirium tremens yeah. Seeing spiders and the classic things that happen to people to the point where they need alcohol in their system to stay alive essentially because you can have seizures and die if you are at that point in your alcoholism.  Why did you decide to write a book about this and all of these things? Addiction Inoculation.  As soon as I got sober the very next thing that happened was Okay. What about my kids? Because this has to stop with me. I mean I am the product of generations of alcoholism. My husband also has the genetic so my kids have it loaded up double barrel. What do I do? If you look at the experts out there they say substance abuse is a preventable public health concern but what does that word preventable mean? What does that actually mean? What can I practically realistically do to prevent substance use in my kids and the eventuality or the possibility of substance use disorder in my kids? Can we control everything? Absolutely not. But we do know a lot about what contributes to a person's risk of developing substance use disorder. So what does the research say? What works? What does not work?  Now if Just say no does not work if the assumption is on some level that kids are going to experiment with sex with drugs prior to full brain maturity are there any scripts or approaches from a parenting perspective that can help mitigate the risk or mitigate the possible damage?  One of the things we hear a lot about is that Oh everybody's doing it kind of thing that script. What we know works for kids what the research shows works for kids to prevent them using drugs and alcohol is actually having real data. I think like the sex conversation a lot of parents are really worried about talking about it will make them do it kind of thing. Or maybe if we talk about pot they are going to suddenly realize that pot exists and they are going to start using it or something like that. That is not how it works. Giving kids real data on actual prevalence  for example if a kid in eighth grade is offered alcohol and the kid says to them Well everybody does it. It is no big deal and that kid happens to know that less than a quarter of kids have a sip of alcohol by the end of eighth grade that is useful information. That is powerful self-empowerment information information that helps kids feel more like they have what is called self-efficacy. Helping kids understand before they go off to college. Here are the kids who drink. Here's how much alcohol is consumed by kids in college. Here's this vast majority of kids who either drink minimally or not at all in college. A bunch of years ago I asked my students In your most lucid and trusting and open moment what could an adult have said to you that would have made you think differently about your use or made you possibly reassess your use? All of them said Be honest with me. Saying things like Drugs are bad is clearly a lie because people would not do drugs if they were all bad. If there was no upside why would anyone ever do drugs? So that is a lie and right off the bat they know that we are lying to them. So why should they trust our information? Giving them real information about what it does to their brains at certain stages of their development how helping them focus on  so for example if you have a kid who really wants to be an architect or a policeman or whatever it is your kid really wants to be and you know that they are going to have to finish high school or finish college or get to a certain level of achievement in order to be that thing you can say Look here's the deal. We know that the hippocampus is smaller in kids who use pot on a regular basis. The hippocampus is where memory formation happens and that old joke about people who smoke a lot of pot having no short term memory that is because those receptors are right there on and around the hippocampus and that is a very real thing. In grownups sometimes that can be temporary loss but in kids it is more likely to be a permanent sort of situation. It can be temporary but we also know that there is permanent changes to the hippocampus over time. So these goals that you have for your life are going to be less likely for you to be able to achieve if you are messing with your ability to remember stuff. Bringing the data the information that dry data about what it actually does and how it does it and what it is doing to your brain when you attach it to your child's actual goals and hopes and dreams we are back to that hope and optimism stuff that is how you get real leverage with kids. Being more honest with them about all of that who uses how much when what it does to them that is the stuff that actually works to keep kids making better decisions. Actually one last thing if I could add on there is this really cool thing called inoculation theory. It is a school in sociology and psychology. Inoculation theory around helping kids manage risky behaviors like having sex before they are ready or using drugs and alcohol or whatever getting in the car with a drunk driver. When we give kids scripts or help them practice refusal skills or give them a rebuttal just knowing that they have a rebuttal to Everyone's doing it or It is no big deal or whatever that thing is just knowing they have a rebuttable will make them more likely to use the rebuttal and here's the coolest part it generalizes. So when we use inoculation theory to help kids not get in a car with a drunk driver or not have sex before they are ready or not use drugs and alcohol it will generalize to all those other things which is really cool. So not only does it make it more likely that they will use those refusal skills they will generalize to other risky behaviors. So that is why inoculation is in the title of the book and why I am so excited about inoculation theory.  I dig it. Question on the sort of triage side of managing non-ideal circumstances. So let us say a parent gets a call from a nurse or a supervisor at an infirmary at a given school let us just say at college and turns out their son or daughter has not necessarily alcohol poisoning but has ended up there from drinking too much alcohol. What advice would you have for that parent? What should they do or say or not do or not say? Do you have any thoughts?  Yeah. So the first most important thing is this is not about you. Number one parents this is not about you. This is not your failure as a parent. This is not about you. So just take a deep breath and just sort of chill about that for just a second. Number two whether it is a kid who starts having sex or a kid who gets drunk for the first time this is not an all or nothing sort of thing. It is not like my kid is ruined because they have gone over this black and white border that culture has set up for them. So it is going to be really really important for your kid to know that they have not transgressed to the point of no return. You have not lost faith in them. You have to listen from a place without judgment especially early on because the kid is going to feel definitely like they failed you and all this other stuff. You want to avoid going to a place of really high emotion because you doing that is just going to make your kid do that and then nobody's listening to each other. A lot of this actually goes back to The Gift of Failure stuff which is helping your kid figure out number one what was this experience like? What was positive? What was negative. Taking what they have learned from this situation and carrying it forward with them to the next time talking to them about and making sure that they do suffer whatever consequences are. So if the nurse calls and says Your kid is clearly feeling hung over because they drank the night before you going to pick them up is not going to help the situation. That is you saving them from feeling crappy at school. I mean the worst drunk I ever had that my husband knew about I had to go to school and teach the next day. I am so glad I did because it was one of those pieces in that puzzle for me. It was like probably piece 97. I cannot teach and be hung over was a really important lesson for me to learn. I feel like crap and I still have to manage school is a really important thing for you to expose your kid to. Same thing with like if your kid decides to go nocturnal and not sleep. Make them go to school they have to feel  because you cannot teach them cause and effect if you are saving them from the effect. That is just not how that stuff works. So those are going to be really important. Listen without judgment get your emotions out of the equation. This is not about you and this is not an absolutist sort of situation. We can start again tomorrow. Frankly for me that is a really important part of recovery. If I were to screw up tomorrow and I very well could I do not know the next day comes and then I start all over again the day after that. On a tangent that is why I think Dax Shepherd's episode called Seven Days where he admitted to the fact that he had relapsed after 17 years I think Dax has done a ton for recovery for being open and out about recovery. I think everything he has done in terms of being a role model in recovery pales in comparison to what he did in that episode when he admitted to the fact that he had relapsed and he was starting again at day one and that he had seven days and that he was starting over. Because in an alternate universe he could have very easily given up. I think a lot of kids right now the anxiety we are seeing in a lot of kids is that the world is absolutist and you either suck and you might as well just go off yourself or you are perfect. We need to help kids see that realizing that tomorrow is a new day and we need to take what we learned from yesterday into tomorrow. I think that is one of the most important things we can do for kids.  So you have mentioned or we have spoken about the 100 pieces at the birthday party but even outside of the realm of anything alcohol or alcoholism or addiction related do you have a favorite failure? Meaning do you have a failure that in retrospect is something that really set the stage for an incredibly important lesson or learning or set up success later. I suppose a lot of those 100 pieces like having to teach hung over could be examples of that. But does anything come to mind for you?  Yeah. It is not recovery related. It has to do with my writing. So I wrote The Gift of Failure it was my first book. I did not know how to write a book. I mean knowing how to write a book is a learned skill right? So the idea that a journalist who is used to writing 1200 words because suddenly write 70000 and do it perfectly the first time around I had it in my head  my fantasy was I would hand my first draft in and my editor would come back to me and she would say Well there is no edits here. I mean this is it. We can publish early. This is perfect. What happened instead was this. I turned my book in on time on October 31st and on November 1st I went on a horseback ride with my husband. My friend of mine has horses that she lets me borrow sometimes. I was thrown from the horse and I landed on my head and I lost my memory and lost my ability to read for a little while. It was bad. It was really bad. Did not remember that I would finished a book the day before all that sort of stuff. So I had some post-concussion syndrome that was really depression and stuff. Then I got a call from my editor. Actually I got an email from my editor asking me to come to New York for a talk. No yeah that is not good. My editor is like  oh I just idolized her. She is like a grande dame in publishing. She is amazing. So this was not going to be good. I went and what she said was this. Oh God it still makes me want to throw up. She said This book is unpublishable. Then she said the worst part. That was not the worst part. What she said was We need to think about bringing in a ghost. Now a ghost means a ghost writer. I am a professional writer and she wants to bring in a writer to help me write my book. So I did not throw up. I was actually very proud of myself for that. But I said Look and I did not cry which was also a huge thing. I said Before we do that I needed some extra time anyway because of the head injury. That really got in my way for a while so we had some extra time to play with. I said Give me two chapters give me a probationary two chapters and tell me everything I did wrong and what you want this to look like. I filled a notebook. I sat in her office for  I was in there for over an hour listening to how bad I was to how much I stank as a writer essentially. Luckily she was also lovely and she said things like This happens with a lot of journalists. You are used to writing in short bursts and so you end up writing this very fragmented large thing that does not hold together as a whole. Your writing is fine. It is your organization that sucks and that is what you need help with. So she gave me those two chapters and I went home and I read over a notebook full of how badly I suck as a writer and I digested it and I turned it into essentially a checklist of what not to do again. Those two chapters turned into four which turned into six which turned into the whole book no ghost writer which turned into a New York Times bestselling book. That is not the best part of the story. The best part of the story for me was that when she bought my second book I turned that book in on time. My agent was a little nervous because she knew I would been a lot to handle the first time right? My editor's having to line edit an entire book because I am a ton of work. But I had run my second book through the what not to do again to-do list filter and the book was so clean that she wanted to move up my publication date.  Oh wow.  So it is not that I am a great writer. It is that I was humble enough to say Teach me how to be better. I will take it to heart and I will be able to be objective about it and I will use it and I will not make the same mistakes again. So when I handed in not only Gift of Failure but then the next book I was able to show my editor that I learned from my mistakes. And what was really sweet is she referred to me in a recent email as a dream author because I learned from my mistakes.  Whatever you lacked in writing a book or organizing a book you made up for with negotiating prowess. I am impressed that you had the presence of mind to negotiate for the probationary chapters. Do you remember anything from your not-to-do checklist? Does anything come to mind that you can share? I would love to hear some of it.  It gets really specific. I used to like the word particularly and that is stupid. Do not use that word. Also if you are ever going to record your own audio book really do not use the word particularly because it is a really hard word to say. I mean for your audience they might be kind of boring things. They are about organization. They are like if you are going to write a book   No. My listeners are into that kind of stuff.  If you are going to write a book like the two books that I have written that is about parenting kids from preschool to college make sure that everything is organized in the same way. So if you set up an organizational scheme for your book whether it is by age range whether it is by grade then replicate that over and over and over. It is helped me become a lot more organized in my writing. It is really simple stuff that I used to teach my students. Like if your topic paragraph says you are going to address points one two three and four you do not address points three four two and one. You go in the order that you said you were going to address them. So come up with your own sort of style guide for your  it is not really a style guide. Your own organizational guide for your book and then make sure that every single time you talk about whether it is scripts for helping kids get out of tough conversations or whether it is I do not know how a kid's brain develops that you are always going by the same organizational schemata or whatever that thing is. So just be organized and stick with  if you are going to call something  and this was tough actually. In my last book we are supposed to be using the term substance use disorder not addiction not substance abuse. But you cannot say the same words over and over and over again. So you have to come up with other ways to say those things and just keep track of what you are doing.  That is tricky when you .  Make everything look the same over a whole book.  Yeah. That has been sort of politically removed from the lexicon that you can run into a repetition issue. I could see that. Hard to just pull out the thesaurus.  And call yourself on it. So if I am going to use the word addiction on the front of my book and I as a journalist am not supposed to be using the word addiction in my book I better explain why I am using the word addiction which I do. I get very specific. Rather than hope no one will notice address it and put it out there. That makes things a lot easier for you over the long run.  So with the not-to-do list I can imagine particularly you are like Okay got it. Right. Check. Maybe not loaded not an emotionally wrought thing to accept. Were there any that kind of stung or that took a second to kind of nod and accept? Were there any stingers? Yeah if you could share I would be curious. I have got plenty.  You are not an organized thinker. I knew this. I have always been a seat of my pants  in 1200 words you can go blah blah blah and make it all come together. But you cannot do that with 70000 to 90000 words. It is unwieldy. Certain tools have really helped me also. By the way when it comes to things like the particularly thing I use Scrivener to write and Scrivener will let you   Oh me too. I love Scrivener.  Scrivener has a word frequency counter and you can look to see what words you are using too much. Actually there is a fantastic book that came out last year called Dreyer's English and Benjamin Dreyer gives people  I think it is right at the beginning of the book asks people to excise these particular phrases from their language. You can search on those phrases. I actually occasionally will do an audit of the language I am using in a book just to see what words am I using a lot. Just give me the word frequency. Scrivener will give you the word frequency for every single word you have used in an entire document and you can find out if you are using the word particularly. If you have used it 462 times maybe you need to reduce that. The other cool thing is Stephen King talks about this is reduction of adverbs. I am writing fiction but I have not released any fiction. And that is been a really helpful tool for me as well. Is just checking for adverbs and clearing out the adverbs. Checking for dumb things that I tend to use in my language that do not need to be there.  Yeah. One of my current afflictions. It is like some food allergy that will not go away is That said Like statement statement statement That said comma   Actually the word that. The word that is an Achilles heel for me. If you look through your document or whatever it is you are writing you could probably remove 95 percent of the word that. Just try the sentence without the word. The other big thing that I learned as a journalist that I learned from my editor and it is one of the smartest things I have ever heard and I now give other people this advice all the time is if you are writing like an op-ed piece or a short essay your last paragraph is probably your better first paragraph. Because people tend to take a long time to get to the point. And then it is really clearly and beautifully elucidated in their  articulated in the end. So I work with a group called The OpEd Project which is helping elevate diverse voices to getting people to own their expertise and write op-eds because of that. A while ago we figured out that op-eds were being written by white men. So how can we get other voices in there? And that is almost always the first piece of advice I give my mentees at The OpEd Project which is look at your last paragraph move it up to the top and just see. I bet you your piece works better.  That is great advice. Are there any writers who immediately come to mind non-fiction? They could be fiction also but outside of Stephen King for structure or other characteristics where you are like Wow okay. This is someone to pay attention to. Or This is someone who really impresses the hell out of me.  Yeah. So there was a woman named Julie Lythcott-Haims. She has a great TED talk about her first book which is called How to Raise an Adult. Tricky thing is about Julie Lythcott-Haims a little backstory is that Julie and I wrote basically the same books at the same time. Mine was supposed to come out first and hers was supposed to come out second. And then I had my head injury and it flip-flopped. Julie and I also shared a student. I taught a girl in high school who went on to Stanford and Julie was the freshman Dean at Stanford. And so we were introduced through our student. Julie and I decided early on that the worst thing we could do was compete with each other. And the best thing we could do was be each other's biggest cheerleader. That people who can afford one book can probably afford two. And so that is been our MO ever since. Her second her second book was a book called Real American. And I expected Julie to write a straight up memoir. And I was super excited because I am like I am all in. Tell me Julie I will read anything you write. And she wrote it in the most  some of it was like  it was like prose poetry. She taught me to be brave with that book. So now every once in a while when I am writing something I think Just think about Real American. Think about what Julie did there. A her publisher let her do it because it was so good they had to admit that she was doing something kind of magic and be brave and do not think Oh my editor is just not going to go for this because it is different. And there was another book actually called Half a Life by  oh shoot. This is why you should never mention books until you are positive you have the author in the head. Half a Life. It came out a long time ago. I do not know 15 years ago. And it came out and it has a lot of empty space in the book because it has to because that is part of the   Darin Strauss. Half a Life by Darin Strauss D-A-R-I-N.  Yeah. And he did some really cool things narratively and with empty space in that book. And you say Well what do you mean with empty space in that book? And he allowed for room because he had  it was about the fact that he hit and killed a girl when she was riding her bicycle. And he was in a car when he was 17. And so Half a Life is about that and there needed to be empty space in the book because there was empty space. And anyway so I look to people like that. I also have authors that I look to as my   Quick question. As empty space do you mean   Actual empty space on the page?  I see so the actual visual layout of the prose.  So there was a chapter where it was like two or three lines and then empty space for a page and then the back of a page. And it was just little things that make me think Oh it does not always have to look the same. Julie they allowed her to use an interesting and different font that freaked me out at first and then realized Oh no wait this is perfect. Prose poetry memoir. No but it totally worked. And it was great. And Darin's use of space. This does require that you have an editor who can get on that place with you. But I also have authors that I need as an expert voice. I talk about this on the podcast that I host is that I am big into dissecting other people's work to figure out what works and what does not. And sometimes especially when I am first searching for my expert voice I will keep copies of books on my desk that are written by people who are not afraid to tell the truth. Not afraid of people coming after them not afraid of being the expert. And when I am feeling weak on a given writing day I will pick those books up and read them so that I can feel strong.  You know who does a great job of that for me is Mary Karr.  Oh my God yes.  Mary Karr.  Yeah.  She is so good and so funny. And so zero fucks given. She is a real artist. She is an artist and a craftswoman if that makes any sense. She combines the two. She knows how to put in motion the carpentry of writing just like Stephen King. And I believe they know each other I think. But Stephen King has a mastery of grammar and yet she is also very good at experimentation. And especially good at telling the truth. I think she is just fantastic.  Yeah. I think it is really really important to have people like that that you look at and you either say  and actually Stephen King talks about this in On Writing. You either look at that and you go Shit I could never be that good. How does that person even do this? How do they make me feel these things? And that could be aspirational. But again I also as he says in his book I think it is important also to read bad books. Because for someone who  especially because I think it is been really important for me especially when I was writing Gift of Failure. And I was having a crisis of confidence. It was really important for me to go out there and look at these books that are on the shelf that are crap. And I know I can do better than that. And that also pushes me to put the best work I can put out there because I can do better than this. And this book that published how did that book get published? And my author and my editor is saying that my book is unpublishable. I can do better than this.  Yeah. You can even go down the New York Times bestseller list and find some stuff that is very very  I do not want to say poorly written but that is not going to  it is going to inspire confidence as opposed to intimidate. And I think maybe I have been reading too many good books because I have been feeling terrible about myself. I read Little Big by I want to say the author's name is John Crowley. This is from memory. It is this incredible fantastical novel. That is one of those tourists  it is a tour de force. This just displays a virtuosity that left me just wanting to forget I ever saw a writing implement. So maybe it is time to read some very mediocre bad books. When you read big books is there a genre that you like where you are like Even if this is shitty I am going to enjoy it?  Yeah. If someone can just carry me along in the story and I just want to find  I will stick with a lot I will be fairly quick to give something up. If I feel like it is a waste of my time. Because there is just too many good books out there to read but a good thriller where there is some clunky dialogue or there is some clunky descriptive language if there is a really really good plot going I will stick with it. Plus I do a lot of my listening. Since my head injury I have a few lasting things from that. My time reading on a screen or a page is somewhat limited. So I reserve that for work and I listen to most of my recreational stuff. And also I cannot sit still I am really hyper. So it allows me to listen to something and do something at the same time. So it can be like clearing brush in the woods and listening to an amazing book that has me off in another world. And I was just listening to just this past weekend. I really loved Jodi Picoult's book The Book of Two Ways. It took me to Egypt and it took me to academia and it took me to all these places and I am clearing brush and there is no greater delight than that I think to be transported.  Do you have enough time for me to ask you one or two more questions?  Of course.  And then we will wrap up. Does that work for you?  Yeah sure.  Okay. So we talked a lot about favorite failure and failures which led into this discussion of writing which was great. Best investments. This could be an investment of time of money of energy where you look back outside of things we have already talked about. Where you were like Wow okay. That really was a formative or disproportionately important thing that I allocated X to or decided to commit to in whatever way. Does anything come to mind for you?  Yeah. I mean they are the easy answers to this which is if my kids want to buy a book they can always buy the book or I am fortunate enough that we can do that. But what I have come to realize in the past couple of years that investing in the things that my kids are interested in investing personally in the things that my kids are interested in whether or not they actually interest me has been an incredible learning experience. So even stuff that  for a while there my kid when he was little  my younger kid he was really into crystals. And I think it came out of crystal skulls and aliens and stuff but then it morphed into just crystals generally and healing crystals. And I am like my husband is a physician. An infectious diseases physician and a medical ethicist. I am an academic too. Way too much education. So my first instinct was to be like Well that is kind of woo woo for me. But instead I said Will you teach me about that? Because I do not know anything about that. And that led to him going on trips with me and finding all of the crystal stores we could find within a 100-mile radius or now my younger son produces digital music. The music he produces is not music that I would ever listen to on my own but asking him to teach me about how you use FL Studio how you are using those Serum patches that you are putting into your thing. And then we started watching YouTube videos. We watched this guy named Adam Neely who does music theory videos on YouTube. He is fantastic. So we watch him again.  What was the name again?  His name is Adam Neely. N-E-E-L-Y. Just watch a couple of his videos. In fact even if I am going to  I am going to say this and you are going to not believe me. He has one on and this is going to  most of it is really academic stuff but he does one and his mom happens to be in it too because she is a voice teacher. Her name is Kate. On this one song that Celine Dion sings and why this one key change is at the heart of what makes people feel in music. First of all I am like Celine Dion. No thank you. But I watched this with my son. I was rapt. And Adam Neely has a band called Sungazer. And as you well know no music has been live for the past  people just have not been doing live music for the past year and a half. And so I found out that Sungazer was going back on a very limited tour run just to get in front of a few audiences. And so we pooled some funds and we flew to Washington DC just to watch Sungazer play. This person that we have been watching someone that my son really admired. He plays jazz EDM. So jazz but also electronic. Not my bag but we would been learning about it for the past 18 months and so I could appreciate it. I could understand what Adam was doing what the musicians were doing with their music and more than anything else my kid knows that I respect him enough to put myself out there for things that are important to him. That investment has been one of the most important things. My oldest son is an economist. Do I want to learn about economics? No. I do not want to learn about economics. But letting him teach me about economic theory has been one of the best investments of my time and effort I could ever give.  That is a great answer and a great inspiration too. Plus bonus I have been looking for a good way to learn about music theory that will not make me want to dive headfirst through a stained glass window. So if Adam Neely makes music theory interesting I am into it.  Also listen to another YouTube producer called Polyphonic. I do not actually know his real name. Polyphonic and Adam Neely but Adam Neely is really cool. He is a bass player. He went to Berklee School of Music. He does another  his videos are fascinating because they take one concept and explain how that concept makes music as special as it is. And he is just really cool. He is really fascinating to watch.  I will check it out. All right. I am going to ask a question that is sometimes a dead end and I will take all the blame for that but I will try it nonetheless. And that is the metaphorical book. Excuse me. Let me try that again. That is the billboard question. So metaphorically speaking if you had a billboard it could be a push notification to phones. If there is some environmental visual objective to  or objection to billboards to get a message a quote a question an image anything out to many many people. Everyone in the US let us say A political what might you put on that billboard?  Two things. Number one not two answers two things. Number one did you know that billboards are not allowed in Vermont? So it is really striking the minute you leave Vermont. If I take the ferry over to Plattsburgh from Burlington oh my God billboards are ugly. They are so ugly. They are horrifying. The thing that I would put on the billboard is essentially what I do. As a teacher as a writer as someone who works with kids and adults in recovery. And that' Did you make someone feel seen or heard today? That is our job. I mean I think as human beings there is no more important thing we do  make someone else feel seen or heard. Especially when it is most needed.  I love that. And I also love that Vermont has no billboards. I did not know that.  Signage. Even if you look at like fast food restaurant signage is incredibly tightly regulated here. It cannot be ugly. So it is awfully nice.  Go Vermont good for you. If you had A and you may already have a reminder. A sticky note on your computer or on your refrigerator or on your mirror. If it could not include your answer if it could not be your answer for the billboard. What might it be?  Actually they are behind me. One of them is behind me and it says  hold on let me grab it. All right. Okay. One is from a researcher named Laurence Steinberg. He wrote a book called Age of Opportunity about parenting. About adolescents. And this one is protect when you must but permit when you can. And that is my parenting mantra. But then this is when I was teaching 10th grade. One of my students wrote this quote on a piece of paper because she thought I might like it. She was correct. She is now a mother of two anyway. It is the Heraclitus You could not step twice into the same rivers for other waters are ever flowing onto you. And it just helps me remember that no matter what I screw up no matter how I screw up no matter what there are different waters tomorrow. I mean it comes back to this. If I screw up my recovery if someone else screws up their recovery if my kid screws up tomorrow new waters are going to be flowing over us. And so it is going to be really important for us to walk into those waters from a place of newness and acceptance and learning. So those are my two.  You have pulled my attention to the wall behind you. I have been focusing on your face and I cannot miss Absolutely not. With not underlined. What is the background? What is the backstory on that?  I do not know. I think I asked my husband a question or a kid asked my husband a question. And the answer was Absolutely not. I just thought it was funny. And so I put it up there. I am not a sentimental person. And so the fact that I have a wall full of things that mean something to me these are the things that mean a lot to me. And it is because  and I have to tip it slightly this way. So you can see there is a picture right here. And this is my father's office. When I was little he was an industrial designer and he had a 20 foot high wall in his office that had just stuff from all over the world that he had collected that people had given him. Things that meant a lot to him. And when I was little I said someday when I have an office I want a wall like that. I want important things on my wall. And these are the important things in my wall. And every single thing on this wall for the most part anyway has a story.  It is amazing. I mean it looks like just for people who do not have the visual. If you imagine you had and hopefully this description does not offend you in any way. Wow it is tall too. So if you imagined you went into your childhood desk your grandparents' desk and also went on like a scavenger hunt outside and stole a few things and you took everything and put it on the floor so that you could take a photograph from the top but then you turned it and it was on a wall behind you. That is what this looks like. Are there any other items here that you would like to explain that are particularly meaningful?  Yeah. I made that.  Particularly.  I know I made that in second grade so I have carried that around with me my whole life. That is my dad.  What is that?  This is a cherry pie duh.  Obviously.  Obviously. Someone gave me this that is Power Girl. Because someone said I remind them of Power Girl. And I am like Well that is bad-ass. So she needs to be up there. When I first started writing for the New York Times there was no budget for our art. So we used to have to make pictures. If you go back to my earliest columns at the New York Times the pictures are with literary action figures Playmobil figures and LEGO figures for the most part. And so a bunch of my literary figures are up here. Because they are from my New York Times articles. My kids' Harry Potter ones are on here because when people ask me questions about parenting my answer is often I wish I had a magic wand to wave to say Let me just fix that for you. But I cannot. This picture right here behind me. This is my law school graduation. And this was my best friend Mary Moore Parham. And she died by suicide in 1999. And the scholarship fund at Sana the reason my entire salary goes 100 percent into a scholarship fund for young people is because of her. It is named for her. She worked with people who had mental health issues and just needed help and did not know where else to get it. And so that is where that comes from for her. But there is one thing I am embarrassed about up here. There is a  there is this ring up here there is a carousel on Martha's Vineyard in Edgartown and as you go around you grab and you know the saying of grabbing the brass ring there is a brass ring. And if you get that then you win something. My dad a long time ago took a couple of the rings from that carousel and has felt guilty about it his entire life and returned them all to  sent them in an envelope back to Edgartown back to the carousel back to the town actually I think. Except for this one he found when they moved. And so at some point I am going to have to take it. I want to take it in person to Edgartown to return it.  To its rightful owner. Brass ring. I am sorry to hear about the   It is not one of the brass ones though. It is actually I think one of the steel ones. If it was a brass one I would have already returned it.  Yeah. Well I am sorry to hear about your friend.  It is cool. It was just the 20th anniversary obviously of her death but she is the reason that I make my life my argument honestly. She is one of the main reasons I do that because that is what she did.  Well thank you for sharing all of that.  Of course.  And Jessica this has been a lot of fun. We are recording this pretty late for those who are unaware. We are doing this in the evening and I appreciate you rallying to spend the time. Is there anything else you would like to mention? Anything else you would like to share ask of listeners before we wrap up. The latest book is The Addiction Inoculation subtitle Raising Healthy Kids in a Culture of Dependence. People can find you at Jessica Lahey L-A-H-E-Y dot com and on Twitter at jesslahey Instagram at teacherlahey and we will include links to all the other social on the podcast and Sana at Stowe as well in the show notes. But is there anything else that you would like to add before we wrap up?  Yeah I think this year has been  this past year and a half I was one of those unlucky people who had to try to release a book during a  I had to try to release a book during a pandemic. And I am very lucky that I get to release a book but I had to release a book during a pandemic and especially on a topic that is really scary. I mean talking about failure and kids talking about addiction in kids is really really scary. And I just want to reassure parents that not avoiding these conversations is not how they get better and they do not go away just because we avoid having them. And so I promise if you do choose to pick up either one of my books I try to be as  I come at this stuff from a place of compassion and love. I do not want anyone to feel any shame but for our kids' benefit I hope that people consider thinking about whether it is picking up one of my books or picking up Peggy Orenstein books. Girls and Sex and Boys and Sex and thinking about how we actually have these conversations that scare us because they are really important conversations to have and they do not just go away when we avoid them.  Not only do they not go away things can get a lot worse. And I really thank you for bringing attention to raising awareness around these conversations but then also providing people with the tools to have these conversations.  I also feel a huge debt of gratitude by the way I need to thank in The Addiction Innoculation this guy Brian and this woman Georgia play huge parts in those books. And they told me all of the horrifying joyful scary parts of their stories. And then as I said gave me their real names to use because they said  both of them said this in various iterations. These experiences were so horrifying. I mean Georgia lost a child and was homeless and was in prison. And these experiences are only worth something if we learn something from them and if their stories can help someone else then they were going to be worth it. And so I owe so much to Brian and Georgia for sharing their stories for this book.  Well thank you very much Jessica for taking the time.  Thank you. And by the way you would be a fantastic ninth grade teacher because you are curious. And that is what makes you a great interviewer what also is what would make you a great ninth grade teacher.  Oh thank you. I am thinking about hatching some plans. Yeah we will see where it goes.  You know what my dream is?  What is your dream?  My dream is to open a recovery high school  if you ever get a chance to watch a show on MTV it was only like four episodes called 16 and in Recovery. And it was based on a school on the north shore of Massachusetts of recovery high school. So a school for kids who are struggling with their sobriety and addiction issues. But we need one in Burlington Vermont. And one of the things I would really like to do is open one someday. So that is something that is out there as a thing. So maybe you could come be a ninth-grade teacher and teach kids in recovery. There you go.  Never say never.  I am writing it down Tim. Ninth grade.  Never say never. I might get fatigued at this podcasting game. And they could coexist also. Well thank you very much.  You are so welcome.  And to everybody listening we will have show notes linking to everything including Gift of Failure The Addiction Inoculation all of the websites and social and all the resources also and people we referred to in this podcast. At tim.blogpodcast. And until next time thank you for tuning in.   