 Joyce welcome to the show. I wanted to start with a name that will be familiar and that is Jonathan Safran Foer former student of yours now a colleague of yours who also happened to be in my same class I believe the class of '99 at Princeton as an undergrad. And you wrote him a letter perhaps his parents at some point. But the way that he recalls it there is a specific line that I wanted to ask you about and we can take it any direction you would like. And the line is this.  You appear to have very strong and promising talent coupled with that most important of writerly qualities comma energy. And he then later has come to strongly agree with that. And man is she right. Energy is the most important writerly quality. Could you expand on what you mean by that?  I think it is sort of self-evident. We need a good deal of energy to be creative. We need a good deal of spirit and optimism. I think of it as kind of positive delusions or illusions about the worth of what we are doing. I was reading a biography of Walker Evans this very distinguished early 20th century photographer. He would be asked why is he doing this or who is his audience. He said that he was not thinking of that. He was thinking of the pleasure of the camera and seeing where it led him. And I think that is true of all creative effort that is there a spirit or a flame that leads us somewhere to tell a story. It could be an entire novel to paint a painting of something extraordinary that is never been done before. And beyond that is just the feel. That is the sheer pleasure in creativity which is energy. And the opposite of that I think is being interrupted many times in situations professional or familial where one is interrupted and one's energy is drained off in different directions so that we do not have the concentration that we need. That is really the great enemy of creativity.  If we are looking at  maybe enemies would not be the right label in the way that I am going to use it but obstacles as some would-be writers perceive them. I would like to speak to getting started. So a writer friend of yours I think with the initials LM you describe as having remarked that she would like to be married and not get married. In other words and I will take some liberty here but not to find the perimeter the parameters go through the growing pains of those first few years but to be settled in the existence of being married. And you likened that to creative projects and writing. How do you overcome the difficulties or advise that students overcome the difficulties in starting a given writing project? You could choose the genre.  Well I think we are all very different. Some people have a good deal of energy and excitement in the beginning. And they can stay up all night long working on a novel writing a complete short story. I think as we get older we guard our energy differently. We do not stay up all night working but parcel it out in a more reasonable way. So it does depend upon who the person is. I have writing students who have a good deal of energy but I have others who have been working on one project for some time. And so they are focusing their energy. But as I said the great adversary is being interrupted and distracted. So distraction is our main adversary right now I think in contemporary America in the world of the Internet and cellphones. At the moment we have a kind of toxic political situation that is very draining of goodwill. So all these distractions make it difficult to concentrate.  When you look back at your own creative process I have read  I do not know if it was in The Paris Review. It could have been or elsewhere. A series called The Art of Fiction that you need the title and I want to say last line before you begin writing. Was that true? Or is there any truth to that? Was there at some point?  Oh yes. I need to see the ending of the novel. I need to see it in a cinematic way to envision it. And then I usually have some words to go with that. I really need a beginning and an end and I need a title. The title is what brings it all together. It is like a triangular shape. So the title will give you a sense of what the totality is. The beginning obviously is  the precipitating factor of the story should be in the first line and then everything is a consequence of that. And then the ending is the ending. You are moving toward that ending from page 19 or 99 or 199. You are moving toward that inexorable ending. So you have a destination. That is an ideal way of writing. It may not be possible for everybody. Some people like E.L. Doctorow my friend Ed Doctorow he said that he never knew how his novels were going to end. He thought it was like a car trip. He was driving along a road. He did not really know where he was going. But I am not like that.  How much do you think about structure? So if you have the beginning and the end and the title even if it is a placeholder  I guess two questions. Do the titles often change after you have decided upon what you think it might be? And then the second is how do you think about or how much do you think about the structure once you have those initial points in place?  The title could definitely be changed. It would probably be an equivalent title something that was the same tone and the same symbolism but maybe a completely different word. I have changed titles a few times. Ideally if you have the title first then you have a vision. So until you work out the structure of a long work it is not a good idea to begin it. However I have begun and I have made mistakes that I had to correct as I went on. Much of writing like all art I think is exploratory. We do not always know what we are going to do. But ideally if you have an outline and a sense of where you are going it is much easier. I spend a lot of time running and walking. Every day I go walking or I love to run. And when I am running I think of my writing in structural terms have a spatial sense. So if I do not go running every day my writing does not work as well. It really depends upon this kinetic release of energy.  Could you speak more to that? Is it an active thinking about or considering of the writing? Or is it moving the body and letting thematically loosely let us just say in the case of structure pointed consciousness just bubble up in the process of moving? Could you just speak to running and walking? Because I know it seems to have been a huge part of your life.  What about you? Are you a runner?  I used to run. I used to run. I do a lot of walking. So I walk and swim and bike. I try to walk at least a few hours a day. So I walk a lot.  That is the same. I live in a semi-rural area. There is a hill near where I live a country road. At the top of the hill I have gotten so many ideas. I run over there. That is about a mile or maybe mile and half. So it is like up waiting for me on top of that hill will be some idea. Now that is obviously a mystical superstitious notion on my part. Yet it seems to happen quite often. So if I am stuck trying to work out a plot at my desk  I am sitting right now at my desk. I really cannot work it out here. I have to go somewhere else preferably up the big hill. And I need to be alone with my thoughts.  Let us talk about once you have set foot into this exploratory process of writing. Even if you have some landmarks laid out ahead of time let us just say the beginning and the end  actually before I hop to that I am going to ask you about revision. But when you say you have an idea of where it ends or you know the ending is it just a concept? Is it finished prose? Is it a finished page? Is it a paragraph? What does knowing the end look like concretely?  It is pretty definite. It is like knowing you get in your car and you are going to drive to San Francisco. And you want to go to San Francisco. You do not want to wind up in Salt Lake City or somewhere in Montana. You are aiming your vehicle for a destination. So it is just sensible to plan it ahead of time.  If we look at then charting this path and going from point A beginning to ultimately Z the end  San Francisco like you said. When you have an initial draft I have read that you are strongly in favor  strongly in favor of intelligent even fastidious revision which is or certainly should be an art in itself. How do you describe the revision process to students?  Well I think of revision as so much fun. It is so exciting. To me the first draft is like material. And then the second draft the revision is my use of that material.  Mm-hmm .  So subsequent revision I revise all the time. I am revising a novel now. I do not even know how many times I have gone through it. I tend to write the first chapters over and over and over again and the second chapters over again. Then as I go on in the novel I get more momentum so I am going forward a little more fluently. But yet when I come to my desk in the morning I definitely always revise what I did the day before and then I get a little momentum moving forward again. But the revision is really like 99 percent of art I think. There've been very few artists who do not revise. Visual artists may make sketches. They may do several variants of the same scene. And apart from a real very small number of composers just could compose in their heads like Mozart and I guess Chopin sometimes  but then Chopin would work on what he had. He would work on it anyway and revise it but I think Mozart was probably the most spontaneous creator. But almost nobody's like that. I mean Beethoven worked very hard revising. Just about everybody that I ever heard of.  Let us speak to the revision process. I would love to hear in more specifics if you are able what you are looking for what you are looking to take out when you are revising. And it is I am sure second nature at this point to the extent that maybe it is hard to describe. But I will give an example. Some authors or writers look to say first and foremost remove anything that is confusing that could be confusing right or that is unclear. Or they ask proofreaders to help them and ask them to indicate if they had to cut 10 percent or 20 percent what they would cut. That is involving other people. But in your case when you sit down to revise could you walk us through any of the lenses you use to look at that draft or the questions you ask yourself as you are going through? Is there any level of specifics that you might be able to offer?  It does depend upon the manuscript. For instance if I am working in a gothic mode or a surreal mode it is a different voice from sociological realism. Sometimes my writing is social realism and everything in the novel is authentic. It really happened in some way. If you go to that city you can walk around and see those streets. There is a certain pleasure in the verisimilitude of the actual world. James Joyce who was in many ways a surrealist writer nonetheless he believed in the beauty and sanctity of the actual so that one can walk in Dublin and walk through the day of Ulysses. And that is one way of writing. There is a poetry in realism. There is a beauty just in things as they are. However maybe more than half of our lives are spent in dreams and the unconscious so that is a surreal landscape. Every night we sleep and the perimeters of realism are dissolved with great extravagant energy I think. All sorts of images and improbable things sweep into our minds when we are dreaming. So I like to write in a surreal mode too. And if I am revising a work of fiction that is surreal I consider that so very exciting. Because each time I sit down to write or to revise I will get some goading some nudging some hints something surfacing from the unconscious so that a sentence that may be relatively simple by the time I revise it might be a full page long because something else is pushing at it or pulling at it. It is like an octopus with many legs or limbs or arms. Anyway the pull of the unconscious I think is very powerful. And the more we can let that fuel what we are doing the more potent it is. Also the more enjoyable for the writer.  Jumping back to Jonathan Safran Foer for a moment in  it is on a website called Identity Theory. It probably appears elsewhere. He mentioned that you gave him a reading list. And I do not expect you to be able to remember necessarily the exact books or pieces of work that you recommended that he read but do you have any recollection of how you chose what you did?  Well as I remember when Jonathan was very young  he may have just have been a freshman at Princeton. He was already an experimental writer and artist. As you probably know his first book was his Joseph Cornell compendium which he brought together which is most unusual for a young person to bring together work by older people. Most young writers write their first novel which is very autobiographical. But Jonathan did not do that. He went in a slightly different way. So I saw in him an experimental personality. And I am like that myself. But most young writers should not be experimenting. They should just write what they want to write. They may want to write about their parents. They may want to write about their girlfriend or boyfriend something in the first person that is funny that is droll or witty. They may want to write some satire. But by no means should they try to be experimental because they are not ready for it. Whereas Jonathan I think was never really that interested in replicating the actual world. He was more interested in experimenting with the medium of writing which is words. Now I know that later on he has written much more realistic even  he is done autobiographical work. He is written pretty transparently I think about his own life and about his marriage and family life. He has done different kinds of writing. But because he had an experimental personality I probably gave him Kafka to read. I do not remember exactly what it would have been.  I want to stick with Jonathan just one more question and then move into some different areas. Jonathan also mentioned and I am paraphrasing here that you were the first person to take him seriously and that you recognized there was such a thing as his writing his work so to speak right? That he had a work a body of work in development. That had never occurred to him. When did you personally first have that feeling about your own writing?  Oh about my own writing?  About your own writing.  No. I probably never had that feeling. I did have teachers who singled me out and said very nice things to me. And I had a professor at Syracuse who even wrote a letter to my parents. And because he did that I did that for Jonathan also. I always remembered that. It was a very short beautiful letter. It just said Joyce is a born writer and she should be encouraged. I cannot remember the details of it and I do not know if the letter even exists anymore. I hope it is somewhere. So I thought that I would do that. When Jonathan came along I wrote to his parents. Now I do not remember exactly what I said but mimicked that original letter. So maybe Jonathan will write a letter or has written. Maybe it is a tradition we should carry on but not overdo. I have not actually done it since. Just once.  That is quite an honor to bestow upon Jonathan. He is a very skilled writer. As I understand it and please correct me if I am getting the details here wrong but your first book was published in 1963. By the North Gate which is a collection of short stories. Was that impactful or important to you? Or was just the act of writing and the fact that you are so continuously writing more engaging more important than that type of milestone would be for many writers? How did that affect you if at all?  Oh of course it was very profound. I was just a very young writer. I had had a number of stories in the Best American Short Stories and the O. Henry Awards. So I had been published in magazines and then some of the stories were anthologized. So the next step would be a book. And it came when I was about  I do not know. I was about 22 years old I think when I received notice that my manuscript had been accepted. So I called my husband at the time Ray Smith and told him about this. He was at a university and I was at home. And I was absolutely disbelieving. I mean I was so happy. I was overwhelmed. I could not hardly believe it. It was of course a milestone. It is tremendously encouraging. I had been encouraged earlier in preceding years by various publications or winning an award or something. So I had been encouraged. I try to encourage younger writers too. I have endowed a number of awards fiction awards at different universities for young writers.  How do you encourage young writers in your classroom? And that might sound like a strange question but you have had a lot of trial and error or maybe just lots of trial. I do not know. Maybe it is mostly success. You have certainly been able to I am sure test a lot of things in the classroom. You have been able to see what students go on to do or how they gravitate to the craft of writing or not. What have you found most important or impactful in terms of cultivating and encouraging young writers?  Most writers who are in my workshop have already been writing for a while. Especially at NYU they are graduate writers graduate students. So they know what they are doing and they have a project and they have their own stories based on their own lives experience imagination. I am a good reader. I mean I am a sympathetic reader and editor for what they are writing. I do not tell them what to write. We have a workshop situation where everybody critiques a submission for the day. Everyone has an opinion. We have a conversation. So it really is not just a professor. I have opinions and everybody else does too. So that a writer a young writer might feel Well they liked what I wrote but they did not quite understand it. Or They thought it should be longer. Or They thought it was too long. So kind of consensus of editorial suggestions in a typical writing workshop. I mainly see my role as being a very sympathetic and careful reader.  What does it mean to be a sympathetic reader?  I am not critical or judgmental. I am on the side of the writer. I want to see what they have done. In other years in decades past there were male professors who told women writers that their subject matter was not literary. I mean even well-known women writers who went on to become famous and win a Pulitzer Prize they were discouraged by some of these remarks. Now I would never make it. I would never think it and I would never say those things. I do not consider anything not a subject for fiction if it is treated well. I try to get writers to write about what they really care about.  I read a beautiful line from you describing a certain aspect of your creative process. This is from the Paris Review The Art of Fiction Number 72. One must be pitiless about this matter of mood.' In a sense the writing will create the mood. And you continue to say later in that same paragraph I have forced myself to begin writing when I have been utterly exhausted when I have felt my soul as thin as a playing card when nothing has seemed worth enduring for another five minutes  and somehow the activity of writing changes everything. Could you expand on any of this? I mean I think it is pretty well put. But I know that there are a lot of people who feel they need to get themselves into the mood to write. Is there anything else you could add to this?  No. I definitely feel that you create your mood by working. And I have a work ethic. I come from a part of the world where people did work rather than just talk about it. And so if you feel that you just cannot write or you are too tired or this that and the other just stop thinking about it and go and work. Life does not have to be so overthought. You do not have to wait to be inspired. Just start working. Particularly I think first go for a long run and a nice walk and think about what you are going to do come home and start working. But try not to be interrupted. That is the problem. Most people are living in families or they are living with a partner and the other person has a schedule and expectations. And while you may love your family they can be the ones who drain you of energy. For women that is always been a problem. Women are nurturing. There is nothing wrong with that. But women find it very hard to say no. Women writers are always being asked to do things pro bono to volunteer their time to do different things to read manuscripts to be on committees and so forth. And the instinct is really to say yes. I say yes on lots of these things. If you are a careful custodian of your own time like Philip Roth for instance or Flaubert you would never give away a whole lot of your time. Philip Roth would never  he would not do one 100th of the things that I do. He was too smart. He knew how to guard his own privacy.  Do you tend to work on multiple projects at a time? I have heard you describe being immersed in a project and as soon as you finish a novel you get assaulted by all of these new ideas. Do you ever work on multiple projects at the same time?  No. I usually focus all my energy on one project. But I have been working on a novel right now. But I am taking a little time off to write a review of a biography for The TLS and I am also writing an introduction to a new edition of Dostoevsky's short stories. So I am taking time off from the novel. And then if I am doing copyediting for  I mean going through a copyedited manuscript for another book that is coming out I will take a week off from my novel to work on that.  Part of the reason I ask is I came across a comment in The Guardian. And this is not only in The Guardian. This is certainly something I have come across a few different times when doing homework for this conversation. And that is something along the lines in different places the quote I do not have any anxiety about writing. Not really. It is such a pleasure and our lives are so relatively easy compared to people who are really out there in the world working hard and suffering. That is from The Guardian. Could you speak more to that? Again I know it is self-evident on one hand but also an uncommon contrast to a lot of lamentations and descriptions of anxiety around writing by other people. Difficulties writing writer's block et cetera. Could you expand on not having anxiety around writing?  Well I just do not have it. If I did I do not think I would want to be a writer. I would have tremendous anxiety if I were a performing artist like a pianist and I had to give a recital. I would be overwhelmed with anxiety or at least I think I would be. I suppose by practicing every day by playing three or four hours every day you get to a point where the technique is just totally totally internalized and you do not have to think about it. And I would be anxious if I were an athlete competing with other athletes right in real time with people watching you. I would find that immensely anxiety-provoking. But writing or painting and drawing these arts are done on our own time. You can take as long as you want. Nobody's watching you. Nobody cares either. And it is a very different medium. As I said I find it anxiety-producing to even imagine playing piano in front of an audience. I did that once. I took piano lessons for quite a while for about 11 years. I would be the student who played the piano when the students marched into the assembly in my middle school. And so I actually did this and it was not too bad. But being on a stage performing in front of people who know the music I would just find that overwhelmingly terrifying.  Is it the real time? That is my dog barking in the background if you can hear that. But is it the real-time nature of that the necessity to deliver in front of an audience in real time versus being able to take your time without people really necessarily paying attention or caring? Is that the largest distinction between those two?  Oh yes. But some pages in my novels I have rewritten so many times. So there would not be any one time that anyone could watch anything like that. I think when really good professional musicians are playing they will probably replicate what they have done before. I know actors almost exactly and precisely do the same performance night after night. It is internalized in their brains and they just have to go through it another time. But with writing every time I look at a page I can revise it. There has to come an end to this. Eventually you just have to stop doing it. But in theory James Joyce could still be working on Ulysses and Finnegans Wake because he was like that. He was experimental. And every morning you wake up with some new ideas. You could write another novel. A whole different novel would come out of your mood that morning. But we cannot allow ourselves to do that. That is just too fantastical.  How do you decide when something is done or when you need to stop? Because you could just continue otherwise indefinitely.  I try to use common sense. I am going through a novel now that I have gone through probably 10 times. It is in the computer so I go through I scroll through it and I am still changing it and changing sentences. I am taking out paragraphs. I am moving things around. But this has got to be the last time because the novel's coming out in August. I have been working on it for a year off and on. And it has metamorphosed quite a bit from the beginning. The main structure was always there and the main characters but the sentences always change. But I will be done with that by Monday so then I will send that to my editor. And I am not going to change that anymore.  Looking at 10 tips of yours for writing  I believe these were originally tweets at one point. And it is I mentioned a list of 10. I want to ask about a few of these. And if any of these are incorrect please correct me. Number one is Write your heart out. Number four is Keep in mind Oscar Wilde quote A little sincerity is a dangerous thing and a great deal of it is absolutely fatal. And then it goes on. But could you explain why the Oscar Wilde quote?  About sincerity? Well he   Yes.  He is being funny. I think he is recoiling against the kind of deadpan overwhelming boring rectitude that one encountered in the Victorian world where literature was seen as a vessel for ethics and for morality. So a lot of preaching. There used to be a good deal of preaching and didacticism in prose fiction. And he was probably relating to that. So that kind of sincerity is just  it is just very boring. I mean one does not want to hear much of that. Literature should be interesting. I think it should be dramatic and characters should be colorful and unusual and each sentence should be as original as possible. And then Write your heart out is something that Bernard Malamud said. I am really quoting him. It is just write. Write and write and write. Do not hold back. So Joyce I would love to ask you about a few more of these and then we can move on. The number three in this top 10 list is You are writing for your contemporaries not for posterity. If you are lucky your contemporaries will become posterity. Could you expand on that please?  This is probably aimed for people who were English majors and who were reading the great classics. If you are reading Paradise Lost or the great plays of Shakespeare or Middlemarch or Ulysses you are overwhelmed. And those audiences also no longer exist. So you are writing for your own time. You are writing for your own generation usually maybe people a little older than you are and then people younger than you are. But basically the audience that revered Paradise Lost is long gone. So this probably does not even have to be told to people in the year 2021. That is mainly it that you are writing for your own time. Sometimes people are writing to impress a parent. Sometimes people are trying to be outstanding and distinguished to impress someone who is not even living any longer. Could be your parent. People have many unconscious motives but those can be impediments. And I think there is a natural voice.  If you think back on your own experience as a writer are there any impediments short-lived or long-lived that come to mind for you?  Well I think I was a little self-conscious in the beginning to write very freely and openly because my parents would read what I wrote. So I may have been a little inhibited but I definitely tried to overcome that or to ignore it. Otherwise I would not have been able to be a writer. But I did begin writing under different names. One name was J.C. Smith. I had married Raymond Smith so I used J.C. Smith as a name for a while and then was J.C. Oates which not necessarily a woman kind of androgynous person. And finally just settled on Joyce Carol Oates though for a while I had a couple of pseudonyms but they were women's names.  And why did you decide to use the pseudonyms? Was that to preempt any type of criticism directed at you? Was it a creative exercise? Did it give you more liberty in your own mind to push to the edges? Why did you use those pseudonyms?  The first pseudonym was Rosamond Smith. And I had probably been writing about 20 years. So I wanted to embark upon a new voice with a different focus. These were more suspense novels rather like movies cinematic in movement and structure without much exposition or background not as much description. Each chapter was like a scene in a movie moving forward. These were tonally different. And so I just wanted to have an outlet for a sort of imaginative writing that was not so much in the mainstream or my usual writing my conventional or whatever my own writing is. It is a little more maybe mainstream and this was more like suspense psychological suspense novels.  Number eight on this top 10 list. This'ill be the last one on the list I would love to hear you expand on and it is Do not try to anticipate an ideal reader or any reader. Heshe might exist but is reading someone else. What does Do not try to anticipate an ideal reader mean to you?  Well I think it is pretty self-evident. Just there is an integrity to the work. You have to express the work and you should not be curtailing it or shaping it to impress some person.  So when you write you do not have any reader in mind. It is a creative process for you and you alone?  The work itself has its own integrity. You have to express the work. Each work is different. I mean if you think of one novel of mine they are really quite different from one another. They are tonally different and the voices tend to be different. But they are different in each novel so there would be no way that I could be writing for one audience. I am not really thinking of an audience. Can you suggest any one novel of mine that you have read that you might have a particular question about the tone or the voice? Because I cannot think so much in abstract terms.  Sure. Yeah. No it is more a question of when you work on any given piece if you ever think of who it is targeted towards. Not to necessarily curtail your creative boundaries so to speak. I think of it in contrast to something I know I am much more familiar with which is nonfiction. Fiction I really have no experience with whatsoever. But in the world of fiction thinking about just as an example what levels of expertise you assume in your audience right as a way of determining how much terminology you need to explain or omit or include to make it compelling. This I guess just makes me think of say John McPhee writing about geology. Right? It would be very easy to lose the reader depending on how close you zoom in on some of the details of something like that. So it was really just a broader question.  No let me talk about that. You see you have just suggested a particular work. He wrote that for The New Yorker. He was working with William Shawn who was an editor who wanted many many details. And everything had to be very authentic. And the fact-checking at The New Yorker is famous. They are very very careful. So John McPhee writing for The New Yorker he would write a certain kind of work. If he were writing for TV Guide or Time Magazine or The New York Times Book Review would have been very different. That is a good example in nonfiction of aiming for a particular market. So John McPhee would be given the whole issue of The New Yorker for one of his long nonfiction pieces. And it was tailored for that magazine. And then they all became books and some of John McPhee's essays are really classics. I mean they are wonderful. So writing for The New Yorker for him was perfect. Somebody else may be writing for a pulp magazine and one is criticized for having a complex sentence structure. But when John McPhee was writing for The New Yorker and other people write for The New Yorker nonfiction  and I have written for The New Yorker reviews and essays. You definitely are aiming for a certain kind of reader. But that is a little different from fiction. Fiction is in its own world and has its own voice. And I do not usually think of there being a particular audience for fiction.  How do you give assignments or think about giving assignments to students?  Well I can reach in my drawer and look at some of these assignments. I have always given assignments to introductory writers. I teach on different levels. I am teaching advanced fiction at Rutgers this semester. And I taught in the graduate writing program at NYU and they are all older students. But at Princeton sometimes I have taught introductory writers. So I give them assignments. They want assignments. They are very happy to have assignments. And the assignments really work very well. I will see if I can find some and just read some.  Perfect.  We have a textbook. And so I assign stories for them to read. And for instance one assignment is to introduce a character to read a number of stories which I have assigned in an anthology might be a story by Margaret Atwood a story by James Joyce William Faulkner and then to write just a page where they are introducing a character. And then at the end of the introduction I have the character say something. So that is not really a story. They do not have to worry. They do not have to worry about writing a story. They are just doing something very basic. And then in another assignment I have them write a piece that is like a memoir very short. It does not have to be a literal memoir. But it is like a memoir like something that happened. When I was six years old when I was 10 years old or Last week. Then another assignment which is very difficult for the students and I often do not give it unless I think the students are up to it. It is a mimicry of prose style. First example is to write a few pages in the style of Hemingway and then write the same story again the same material again in the style of Jack Kerouac and then finally in the style of H.P. Lovecraft. Now that is an assignment as I said I do not always give because it is demoralizing for some students. They just cannot do it. I did not give it recently. I probably gave it a couple years ago. When I have good students that assignment's terrific. They really enjoy mimicking Hemingway and writing a little Hemingway short story. And they really enjoy Jack Kerouac. And they find Lovecraft very challenging. But it is sort of like with music. If you have gifted pianists you could give them assignments and they will do well. Others are just hopeless and demoralized. I try to measure the assignments according to the aptitude of the students. But then one assignment that I always give the last assignment in the course will be to write a short story that turns upon moral decision some ethical or moral decision in somebody's life. And they do very well with that. Young people have a natural moral instinct and they are interested in morality. And they want to know what is right and what is wrong. And I have other assignments too. I mean many. I have many different assignments. One of them I did recently at UC Berkeley we read Shirley Jackson's The Lottery. And instead of writing a critique of the story I said If you want to you can write a little story from the point of view of one of the characters in The Lottery a minor character. And so they did wonderfully with that.  How much of your writing have you for lack of better term thrown away? Finished writing. Could be a short story. Could be a poem. Could be anything. Or never looked at once you finished it. Unpublished. I come across mention of I believe you tucking away or getting rid of a fair amount of at least your early work. Do you have any guess on or commentary on how much of your finished work never gets shown to anyone else?  Well now I probably publish everything that I do. When I was younger and had more material sometimes I just did not like something and I would take it out of circulation. Now in the other room I could show you a huge stack of short stories. And those are stories that were published in magazines but I never gathered them into a book. Those go back for years. And maybe one or two of them even won some award like an O. Henry Award. But I never felt that I really wanted to put them into a hardcover collection for one reason or another. I am not sure why. But there they are. There are many of them there. Probably about 300 400 pages that have never been published.  This is also a segue. And really I just have a handful of additional questions. I could keep going but I think just a few more would be really fun for me. This leads to a question about productivity. Or it is really a question about a comment that I have read of yours on productivity. And that is quote Productivity is a relative matter and it is really insignificant. What is ultimately important is a writer's strongest books. It may be the case that we all must write many books in order to achieve a few lasting ones just as the young writer or poet may have to write hundreds of poems before writing his first significant one. Do you have any additional comments on the relationship between volume of writing and enduring quality? Or if you want to take that question in a different direction you could as well. But do you have any thoughts thoughts to add to that?  Well it is inevitable. If a number of books some books have come to seem traditionally more important than others. That is inevitable. D.H. Lawrence who wrote a good deal  he is a brilliant short story writer. But probably only a few of his short stories tend to be anthologized over and over. Same with Faulkner. And with Hemingway too. Hemingway wrote many many short stories. But you will see the same two or three or four stories reprinted quite a bit. There are probably Jane Austen novels that are  Pride and Prejudice and Emma and then you get to Mansfield Park. Not as many people would read that. Same with Shakespeare. Measure for Measure just not as popular as Hamlet. It is not as important a play. But it has wonderful things in it. Troilus and Cressida is a fascinating play of Shakespeare. But if you are only going to teach two or three plays of Shakespeare you would not be teaching Troilus and Cressida. You would be teaching Macbeth and Lear and Hamlet and maybe Othello. Those are the ones that come to the surface. But the other plays of Shakespeare I mean every one of them even Titus Andronicus they have much to them. He is always a very remarkable playwright. So if I have written 50 novels not all 50 novels are going to be admired by everyone or by anyone. That is just not the way it is. So some things just seem to come to the surface. And maybe there is a perversity. Somebody might prefer Faulkner's The Hamlet to Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury. They might prefer Sanctuary to Light in August. But again with Faulkner he wrote a lot and some of it is considered the most important writing in American literature in the 20th century. But usually just two or three or four titles.  You have an incredible body of work. Novels short story collections poetry volumes plays essays criticism. I mean the list is extensive the number of publications even more so. For someone listening if they have no familiarity with your work do you have any recommended starting points? I know that you could probably just as easily pick any number of different pieces of your work but are there any that come to mind offhand as places if people wanted to get an idea an appreciation for the range of your work?  Well of course that depends upon what they are looking for. I have a long novel called Blonde which is about the private life really the interior life of Marilyn Monroe Norma Jean Baker the person who became Marilyn Monroe. But that novel is about 800 pages long and so some people might feel that is just too long. That is one of my favorite novels of my own. But then I have novellas that are only like 180 pages long. Pursuit is a new novel that came out last year. It is really almost like a novella. It is a short novel. It is probably only about 200 pages. That is a novel that is more like a psychological suspense novel so that it is a mystery and you are not really sure what has happened until the very end. So if somebody might prefer a much shorter novel that is driven by a plot Blonde which is about Marilyn Monroe is not really driven by a plot. It is her life her complete life. I have selected details from her life but the main parts of Marilyn Monroe's life are treated in great detail in that novel. And then I have Them which is based on my own experience living through the civil disturbance or riot of Detroit in July 1967. So if you read Them you are plunged into Detroit in that era. And it is a family novel. Some people like family novels. And I love family novels myself and I write them too. Many of my novels are family novels. They are about families and usually starting with the older generation and then ending with the focus on the younger just kind of shift in the novel from one generation to the next generation. And often my novels will end  the very final page or paragraph is in the province of a younger member of a family. We Were the Mulvaneys was an Oprah selection. So that is the novel that more people have read We Were the Mulvaneys than any other novel of mine because it was an Oprah selection. That sort of guaranteed I think like a million copies will sell in the past. It may not be quite like that now with Oprah's Book Club. And I have a novel that is sort of about the Vietnam War. I mean they are different subjects. And I have many short stories that are gothic like the Haunted short stories Tales of the Grotesque. The Corn Maiden. These are collections of short stories that are surreal or gothic. Horror literary horror. Some of them have won awards like the Bram Stoker Award for literary horror.  There is so many elements that go into the publication and release of a book. Sometimes things get just overwhelmed by the news cycle. There could be any number of things happening at any given point in time. Are there any pieces of work that you have published that you are particularly proud of that you wish had received the same or a higher degree of attention? Right? So you have We Were the Mulvaneys like you mentioned. That was an Oprah pick and boom all of a sudden you have got a dozen reprints of this particular work. Are there any others that you are particularly proud of and wish had slightly greater visibility when people are citing the better-known works of yours?  Well that is hard to answer. My novel  A Romance came out the week of 911. So that was a disaster. But there was so much in the world that was really a disaster and a tragedy that somehow books of fiction did not seem that important at the time. But writing has a way of making its own  it makes its own way somehow I think. There is a sort of consensus.  For you what remains in your mind to be done when you have done so much? Many people would argue and have argued many lifetimes of other writers you have compressed into your own in terms of work. For you what are the items that remain to be done if any? Or does that just simply not enter your mind as a question? Is it really just continuing with the craft as you have?  No. I guess I do not really think in those terms. It is sort of like dreams. We may have had thousands of dreams but yet when we fall asleep tonight a succession of dreams tonight are waiting. So it somehow does not matter that you have had dreams in the past. It is the kind of novelty and originality and the intensity and urgency of the new story the new dream the new novel. And we always have stories to tell. And we are evolving all the time. And we are discovering things. As we get older our perspective starts to change. We start losing many people. When you start losing people in your own family and people who have been close to you  your parents help to define you so when your parents pass away you start to be a slightly different person. And many people who are older are thinking back over their lives and they have a new perspective so they may want to write a memoir. Women who lose their husbands are so traumatized by that that they are sometimes led to write memoirs. I wrote A Widow's Story which I would never have thought I would never have wanted to think I would be writing but I did write that. So you were asking if somebody wanted to read my writing where would they begin? Well some people like memoirs. So I have written two memoirs Widow's Story which is very raw and immediate based on my journal of the first three months of being a widow which is the most painful grief. It starts to diminish a little bit after that but it never really goes away. And then more of a full lifetime memoirs  A Writer's Story looking at my life from the perspective of being a writer but looking at my parents and the farm that I lived on. Many people have read that memoir and they can identify with it.  Well Joyce this has been so much fun for me. Thank you for writing your heart out certainly. I think you exemplify that. And I would love to just ask if there is anything else that you would like to say to those people listening any closing comments or any requests of my audience? Anything at all.  If anyone is listening is a writer I think you basically just have to do a lot of reading and read what you like to read and read for pleasure. Often it is a good idea to read a number of books by the same writer. When I was in high school I just fell in love with Faulkner and I read virtually everything of Faulkner. So I was like the only person in my age group who was reading Faulkner. But that really helped me immeasurably. Later on I went through a D.H. Lawrence phase a Nabokov phase. I read a lot of Hemingway. I read a lot of Virginia Woolf. The sort of phases that you go through. And if you are a writer that is very natural and very good. Just go out and buy all the paperbacks of Virginia Woolf and just spend a few months reading Virginia Woolf. It will change your life completely.  I love that. That is excellent advice. I am doing that with Barry Lopez right now who   Oh he is wonderful.  Just incredible. Yeah. Just recently passed away but what an   I know.  What an amazing amazing amazing human being and amazing writer. Joyce I really   ?  I did not have the opportunity to interview him. I actually read Of Wolves and Men which so impressed me and I then started to look into reaching out to him and I found out he was in hospice. And he passed away just a week into my reading Of Wolves and Men just a few weeks ago.  Yeah. That is so sad. How old was he?  He was  I am not going to hazard a guess. I mean he was not extraordinarily young because I know that  I am just imagining that he was probably my age when he published Of Wolves and Men in I want to say 1978. I am 43 now. I think he would have been older but I believe believe it was cancer. I cannot recall the cause. But just getting acquainted with Barry and reading  I am about to start his memoir or what you might consider a memoir and it is really wonderful. I mean I do feel like reading his collected works could really change not just how I view the craft of writing but how I look at life just the lens through which I look at life. And your work has done that for many people as well. So I want to thank you for that.  Thank you. Yeah that is what we all hope for. Yeah. Okay well goodbye.  Yeah. Thanks so much Joyce.  Thank you.   