 I am so thrilled and excited and would not have it any other way.  I appreciate that.  So I am stoked to be reunited. We have some wine I have this kind of like Magnum bottle of white wine.  Yes.  Kevin worried that I had already polished off seven eighths of it but I had  I am in the jungle with an Italian. There is more to that. But the table wine is courtesy of his house and he gave me just enough to  it looks kind of like horse urine in this   That is smart.  But just enough to have fun without getting sloppy.  Yes.  Because we have a history with wine.  You know what is funny I told Darya I was like Okay here's the deal. I am going to pour two glasses into my glass. And I do not care if I am texting you do not bring the bottle back down. Like do not do it. So I actually  but I totally screwed up and I brought the bottle and it is sitting next to me now.  Nice.  But it was a good plan for as long as it lasted.  Yeah.  Dude so you know it is funny. I remember you came to me and you said I think I want to do a podcast and you have done podcasts before. Because I had done like 300 episodes of Diggnation prior to you starting yours. And I remember this is horrible but it is true. I remember just being like Tim do not do a podcast. It is stupid. I was trying to talk to you out of it. I feel so bad for that now because you went and you did it and obviously it is a massive success. So what do I know? But dude 500.  Well you know you must have given me some type of good advice. Or the bad advice was not compelling enough.  Yeah.  And here we are. And I remember recording that first episode. We were in San Francisco. My first apartment I would rented in San Francisco and this huge wooden table. And I remember being really nervous. We had all sorts of gear. We had all sorts of fancy you know mixers and everything else. We had somebody helping. My hands are sweaty and I had a list of questions a printout. And I remember in that first episode number one it was per your description TimTim TalkTalk.  Right.  Because we did not have a name. And then I remember asking you a question which was If you could be a breakfast cereal what would you be and why? And you went Oh it is one of those interviews. And I was like Never again will I ask that question.  You had to test them out though. You know not every question works. So you were new to the game.  Yeah. It was good training. All right. So I saw you take a sip. So you have got your wine.  Yeah.  This is just   But you are drinking the table wine.  I am drinking grocery table wine Famiglia Cielo C-I-E-L-O from 1908 Pinot Grigio.  Out of your fancy water glass.  And this is what this Italian family has been drinking. Out of my fancy yeah like 12-ounce water glass since I do not have any wine glasses.  I am doing the 2016 Napa Valley Reserve. It is a fantastic white wine just a little Chardonnay. Good stuff.  Congrats on being guest number 500 and congrats to a longstanding friendship honestly.  Yeah cheers to that brother.  It is been lots of adventures. So cheers.  Yeah. Cheers.  Really nice to have continued to deepen and stay in touch over all these years.  Absolutely.  And I feel like that is probably as sentimental as it is going to get. And you seem to have lots of arrows in the quiver for questions.  Yeah I warned you.  You gave me a lot of warnings via text message. And I have not reviewed anything. So.  Well so this is the cool thing is I was putting together a Google Doc and I was like Okay Tim we will share the Google Doc I will put some questions in there and tell me what you think. And he is like Actually I would rather do this just sight unseen. Let us just roll with it. So I went out you know did a little Twitter post you retweeted it. We have got a few hundred questions there. Also some of your good friends like Mr. Chris Sacca who is a mutual friend of ours reached out and sent me some very colorful questions if you will.  Oh fantastic.  So I am kind of saving those for a little bit  well actually I am going to start with a Sacca one but some of the more juicier ones are going to be peppered in a little bit later in the show. So this is fun. This is a good mix of serious and crazy. And yeah it is a smorgasbord of questions if you will. Are you ready?  A grab bag of podcasting delights. I am ready.  Okay. So here we go. I am actually going to lead off with a Sacca question because he sent so many good ones. He said What one thing do you eat that you have never wanted to admit to the 4-Hour Body tribe?  Oh boy. Well I will say the first thing that comes to mind because it is a recent example is if I have had two or more glasses of wine and there is pizza within 30 feet of me it is game over. It is completely game over. So I was having a bunch of pizza and by a bunch I mean like six to 10 slices just a few days ago. And this was at the tail end of a bottle of wine. And my friend one of my friends I was with here said What would all of your readers of The 4-Hour Body say while you are prohibiting them from eating carbs? Look at yourself!  Nice.  And so that is the first thing that comes to mind. If there are any Tim Tams nearby Tim Tams are this   Yes.   cookie treat that I just think are delicious. They are amazing. And there is the Tim-Tam slam which is when you dunk it into something like milk or any number of other things. Tim Tams are also dangerous territory. So those are the  pizza and Tim Tams.  You say 30 feet away. Do you mean that like your phone is 30 feet away and you order pizza and have it delivered to your house? Because that is what I do. That is my downfall.  I am eliminating the phone from this. If I walk let us just say pre-COVID times.  Yeah.  Had a few drinks. I am walking down a street to get to wherever I am going and we pass a pizza joint. Or if it is within like excusable rationalizing distance like Oh let us just go over and take a look at the menu. Right if it is a right turn and you have to go a quarter mile I am not going to do it. Because I will try to preserve some dignity. But if it is within wandering distance say there is a place called Home Slice on South Congress in Austin and it is dangerously dangerously close to the main kind of pedestrian area. So I would succumb.  Yeah. Yeah. We are in the same camp. If anything is within a couple of blocks of my house it is like game over. Like that is just going to happen all the time. All right. So next question. Love the show. However it seems that you are constantly searching for the next big life hack next product that will satisfy etc. That would be exhausting and would lead to constant anxiety. My question Tim have you found peace outside of having things or knowing things?  That is a damn fine question. Is this from the interwebs?  It is.  Yeah. My relationship to self-improvement or thinking about hacks and so on has changed over time. And you know the word hack used to not have as much baggage as it now does. So I use that term effectively never these days because it is just established such a or taken on such a kind of a nasty negative overtone. But I will tell a story. I think this illustrates how I am reorienting quite easily and that is I was spending time with an incredible I want to say psychiatrist. He is also I want to say an ordained minister. I may be getting some of the details wrong here. Maybe it is a masters of divinity I do not know. Named Bill Richards. And Bill Richards is well known also for being one of the most experienced let us call it guides or facilitators above ground in the psychedelic world. So he is facilitated hundreds of sessions along with a woman named Mary Cosimano who is equally impressive in so many ways and just an incredible human being. And I spent time with Bill. He supervised years and years of sessions both pre-prohibition meaning pre the Controlled Substances Act and post. So he is done all sorts of trainings all over the world. And there were two things that stood out from that conversation immediately. Number one I asked him what books he could recommend for learning more about the process of guiding the protocols they used dah-dah-dah-dah-dah-dah-dah. And he said Well he said You know the problem with books. And I was like What is the problem with books? And he said Too many words. So that kind of gives you an idea of his personality. And then the second thing he said was related to doing the work. Because I said I am not afraid to do the work. And he said Well you know what is so tricky about doing the work? And I asked him what it was that was so tricky. And he said Well there is a very thin line between doing the work and just picking on yourself. So I think that you know self-improvement and how much it affects you positively or negatively for me personally depends a lot on the motivation behind it right? Like are you running away from something or are you running towards something? Are you finding problems with yourself or problems in your life just because you have been rewarded throughout your life as a problem solver? I think that is true for me. It is true for a lot of people. You are just good at solving problems so you get really good at finding problems. Or are you doing it because there is some joy in doing it? Right? So for instance right now I am trying to pick up a couple of different games. Like board games chess there are a number of things. And I find those really fun. So I am improving my thinking and so on looking at a game of complete information like chess learning about classical games and all this stuff. Legal's mate I think is one that I learned yesterday which is just gorgeous with two knights. And I am a novice but I am having so much fun doing it. Versus let us just say a contrast with that would be a therapy session that I had yesterday where we got into all this childhood stuff and revisited a bunch of trauma. And I came out of the session feeling much worse than when I went into it. And it occurred to me that I think that we can feel like we are doing a good thing sometimes when we are suffering and grinding but that does not by default mean that we are doing something worthwhile or improving. And so after that session I sort of committed to myself not to dredge up all of the pain from the past in the name of doing the work just because I can. So I feel like I have a very good relationship to hacks and all that stuff now. It does not cause me stress. And in fact it never really has. But I think for a very long time I looked for problems to solve because I was good at solving problems. And not all of those problems were worthwhile. And many of those problems were just masochistic. If that makes any sense.  It does. How do you apply this though to actual products? Like for example you know you do the 5-Bullet Friday your really famous newsletter. You are finding all kinds of stuff. I imagine people are they just send you free stuff. Like if you have any kind of following it is very common on the internet. People want to try and send you things to check out.  Yeah.  Like how do you not just accumulate a bunch of crap? Like I find that every little object you own is some type of subconscious burden. You know it is just like just storing it is a burden.  Totally. It is just psychic drag. It is like imagine dragging all shit that around behind you in like a net. Right?  So what do you do? What do you do there? Because you must see and get so much stuff. Like how do you clear that out? How do you not try out the latest project? Or product?  Yeah. Number one is I really do not encourage people to send things to me. I mean you know this because for better or for worse you have turned into my unpaid executive assistant. So you people try to go through you. And I am just like Nah I am good. I am good for now. And what I will very often do number one I have policies. So I try to make one decision that removes a thousand decisions. Right? So even in 2009 I was getting 30 to 40 books sent to me by publishers or authors per week. That is impossible. Right? You cannot even begin to read those let alone have your own life with your own priorities if you bend to that type of incoming. So I initially just said No no no no no no no. And they were all  but even saying no was exhausting and took a lot of time when you start to have not 30 40 a week but several hundred a week. And I then posted for instance a blog post which is a general policy of not reading any new books in 2020 meaning any books published in 2020. I have extended that to 2021. I am not reading any books published in 2021. So when someone asks me or asks someone on my team they can say Ah sorry Tim's just not doing that. Check out tim.blognewbooks. And it depersonalizes it.  Yeah. You have got to just backdate your book basically.  Yeah. It depersonalizes it. So it makes it easier to say no. And it makes it easier for other people to receive no. The other thing it is like if someone's like Hey let me send you blah blah blah blah blah free product free fill-in-the-blank the first thing you have got to remember is like I remember somebody said once and I cannot remember the attribution but like free sex is the most expensive sex you will ever have. Right? That is true for free books. That is true for free product. It is not free. There is going to be if you have an audience there is going to be a follow up. And sometimes it is like Oh my God 10 years later I have had 73 emails from this person. Do not open that door. So if someone says Hey I would love for you to try X if it is a really close friend and I know they are putting their reputation on the line and putting some skin in the game right they are risking something then maybe. But very rarely. If it is a book or something else I am like You know what I will buy it myself. I will   So how do you around the purchasing side of it like how do you make a decision to actually buy something? Like how do you prevent yourself from overspending on items? Like is there anything that you use to be more minimal?  Well I know you have you have had this snooze function right where you won'00 a.m. Amazon purchase. You have to hit snooze for 24 hours.  Yeah.  So this brings up questions related to some level of what people might consider success right? So you end up in situations and this is a very rarefied situation so I want to acknowledge that up front. Like you and I are in very fortunate positions. But let us say I get sent a bunch of shit. Somehow it gets sent to me. And it is not useful to me I am not interested in it but it could be very useful to someone else. Let us take an easy example. Someone sends me a bunch of schwag right? Like sweatshirts and hats and so on. It is like I have more  I have enough clothing to last me forever. I do not need any more t-shirts. None of it. The cheapest thing for me to do is to throw that out. Right? To literally throw it in the trash. Okay. Then there are karmically better things to do like taking it to Goodwill which is what I usually do. And then I am paying an assistant 20 30 40 an hour to do that. Right? I could return something. This is another consideration right? Like am I actually going to return something if I do not want it? The answer is likely no. So I really try to measure twice and cut once in those cases. And I think I am disinclined to buy too many things right now. Although if you looked at my Amazon order history that might sound ridiculous. But compared to say even a few years ago I buy far fewer things. Because for me the visual punishment of having a disordered kitchen table of having a disordered house is so irritating. I am very visually sensitive. I am kind of like Monk from the TV show in that way. I dislike that so much. And I dislike waste so much. This is particularly true of food. I am very sensitive to food waste. That it is sort of a self-correcting system in that way. I have become much more sensitive to clutter in the last few years.  Yeah. That makes sense. All right. Let us move on to the next question. Is there any advice you used given to you or that you have given in the past that was not the best? Not trying to be a troublemaker I am just wondering how high performers know when to course correct. e.g. abandon faulty notions. Does that make sense?  That is a very good  yeah it does make sense. That is a very good and it is a very important question right? Because you always get advice from people who have done well. Or you see advice from people who have done well. And there is a survivorship bias. Right? It is like the Warren Buffett parable of sorts. Maybe it is not a parable maybe it is a metaphor. I always mix up metaphor and analogy. In any case. Maybe it is a simile. I could never keep those straight. But he talks about if you take like 10000 orangutans and they are flipping quarters eventually you are going to end up with one orangutan who has flipped heads a hundred times. And then that orangutan is going to write books about how to flip quarters and beat the stock market. So there is so much chance involved and there is such a survivorship bias. Meaning you only see the advertisements for the mutual funds that survive in a magazine like Barron's or whatever. It is important to ask that question. And I am saying all of that to buy myself some time because I know those must exist. I will give one. I will give one. I had an incredible aversion to any type of investment in publicly traded equities in stocks until just a few years ago. You know this. You have watched this right?  Yeah. Were you telling people not to invest in stocks? Or was this something someone told you? So was it advice that you gave or advice that you received? Because that was   It was advice that I received from a few people I respect who were very uncomfortable in investing in publicly traded equities because they felt like they could not directly impact the value of those companies. And these were startup investors. And that made a lot of sense to me at the time. And that logic still makes sense right? Like what am I going to do to increase the market cap and the price per share of Tesla? Right? Like very very little. I mean I suppose my audience is large enough that maybe for a day I could register a blip maybe but really not much. And my thinking has become more nuanced. Right? Because the argument that I cannot have a substantial impact on the price per share therefore I should not invest it is kind of two parts. Right? So the assumption that I cannot have a substantial impact on price per share that is valid. But does that there therefore lead to the conclusion I should not invest? I think there are other considerations. So thinking about timeline right? So if I am trying to invest in a company over six months I have zero confidence or very little confidence unless there is a huge drop for some reason that I think is unwarranted. But if it is over a two three year time horizon and I do not feel any pressure to trade then I have become much more comfortable investing in a hand excuse me a handful I have got the wine burps already after one glass. I feel much more comfortable investing in a handful of companies that I feel are kind of inevitable unless they are grossly mismanaged like from a tech trend perspective they are kind of inevitably going to do decently well over a two to three year period.  How did you know when to course correct though? That was actually a really interesting part of the guy's question. It is like as a high performer it is easy to get really kind of into someone's advice especially if it comes from someone that is like super vetted and you really believe in. When did you decide like this is bad advice I need to change this?  Yeah. You are good at this. You should interview people. So I think it was forced upon me in a way by s particular instance. Because I was sitting in almost a well I should not say entirely cash but largely in cash like let us call it just for the sake of argument 50 percent cash.  Yeah. It was so dumb.  Well maybe. Maybe.  Well I mean when you are in all cash you are losing just by inflation you are losing money. Just letting it sit there.  Well well we could debate   Okay.  We could fight over this one for a long time. I slept well at night for several years.  On a bed of cash.  Because I had a huge  because I had a bed of cash. And I do not think that should be underestimated. I do not think a good investment is a good investment if it has really high returns but you are like sweating bullets with insomnia.  Sure.  Right? And that is a very personal thing. So for me having a lot of reserves in cash helped me sleep. I do not regret it. But when COVID hit and right before COVID hit and there was the gigantic plummet I knew there was going to be a plummet or I suspected with high conviction there was going to be a gigantic plummet. I was not savvy with options or credit default swaps. That was just not on the menu for me. But I thought there were going to be buying opportunities in many places. And so then the question was well I have been sitting on the sidelines. I said I would be back even in 2015 right? Now we have to be aware of the sunk cost fallacy  not the sunk cost fallacy but the confirmation bias and all of these various things where it is like if I publicly stated like when there is blood in the streets I will be back and I will invest. I said that in 2015 when I quote unquote retired from startup investing. But I deeply believed it. I was like I do not as Tim Ferriss as the person who really understands very few aspects of investing with any competence I do not get a lot of fat pitches like this. And I was like where am I going to put money? Like I have all this money that I have claimed I have been waiting to do deploy. What the fuck am I going to do with it? And I spoke with dozens of investors not just two people I respected. And ultimately came to believe very deeply in a few positions. Whether or not COVID  whether the consequences severe and also extended of COVID on both the economy on technology on behavior were acute or two three years long companies I felt would really benefit in either scenario. So I  and the liquidity profile of equities. Right? Like you want to get out you can get out. You might get kicked in the balls from a tax perspective etc. but you have liquidity. Unlike a lot of the stuff that we do. Right? Like you put money in and like you are in. Like your chips are on the table for five to 10 years. We both have examples that are way past 10 years.  Yeah.  And so that would be an example. But the example I think the example is interesting not because equities not because the stock market not because blah-blah-blah. It is the process. Right? And I was lucky to have a forcing function. I will say  here's another one. I have really relied on dietary interventions and exercise and so on for manipulating my blood markers. Right? My blood tests. For a long time. And if you look at my lipid profile so my let us just say my cardiac and lipid profile genetically speaking I have terrible terrible terrible software for a few things. It does not matter if I am vegan. I have tried that for a period of time just to see what it did for my blood. Does not matter if I am fasting I have done tons of fasting pure keto. Does not matter if I eat all meat. I have tried all of these things and I have looked at the blood tests and my Apo B count and various other things are terrible. They are so bad.  You and me both man. Sucks.  Yeah. Yeah. And it is just like look my dad's had a heart attack. My uncles have had strokes and cardiac issues. This is a  like we just got dealt a really shitty hand from a cardiac perspective and I have never considered going on medication like ezetimibe is the one I am considering long-term or indefinitely. But after doing a cardiac calcium scoring which is zero currently but also angiograms and all of these things that are more nuanced and provide more detail I have kind of changed my tune. I think there is a point where the risk benefit ratio leads one to the conclusion that it makes sense. Right. And this is true with also like the vaccines right? I think theater COVID vaccines make overwhelming sense for a very high percentage of the population. So those would be two examples.  Yeah. That is great. Awesome. All right. Another question. I will let you try and guess who this one is from ends with ACCA. When was the last time a blood or urine sample was stored in your fridge?  That is a good one.  Was a time when you would open up your fridge and it is like a six pack of beer. There is just urine everywhere.  Yes. Urine blood. Stool samples were the best with the biohazard marker on it. Yeah. You have to be very careful in the Ferriss household but also you also really do not want to take any supplements until you confirm that the label corresponds to what is actually in the bottle.  Dude I remember when I went to your bathroom I was in your house I went to the bathroom one time and I do not know if you had the cupboard open or some shit and I look up it is like a freaking Walgreens dude. You have thousands of supplements. I was like How does he take all this stuff? I mean it is you just were accumulating over time.  Yeah. It is been accumulated over time. I also have dramatically reduced the number of supplements that I take but  all right. So as far as blood and urine samples go I have not stored any of that in the refrigerator for a long time. Now does not mean that I have not taken samples. So the last time I took let us see blood and urine samples I mean within the last two weeks or three weeks. Within the last three weeks. But I have realized during COVID that there is such a thing called mobile phlebotomy. So you can rather than going into Quest or one of these labs to have a draw performed or into your doctor's office there are in fact services or people who provide mobile blood draws. So you can set an appointment. You could even meet them outside. And literally it is like you wake up you probably do not eat breakfast but you wake up you are fasting and you have a blood draw within five to 10 minutes.  They are actually not that expensive either. I had one happen here in Oregon and it was like 50 bucks to have it done and it is fantastic. Like especially during COVID dude you do not want to be around like 15 other people in a room.  Yeah. It is amazing. I have found it to be a godsend and really really convenient mobile phlebotomist for people who are wondering how it is spelled a phlebotomist is P-H-L  phlebotomist with a bunch of Es and Os and other Wheel of Fortune ingredients. All right.  All right. I will say though that people wanted us to get  a lot of the comments was they get personal like get into it. I will tell one little story when I was leaving your house that one time remember this is a long time ago? It is like a decade ago or something. Like most friends they say goodbye give you a hug or whatever fist bump whatever. You are like Have a good one and you hand me a bottle of beef liver pills. Do you remember this? I am like  Oh those are great. Yeah.  I am like Okay cool friend thanks for the beef liver. You did not even tell me what to do with them. It is like Hey take some beef liver on your way out.  Yeah. That is desiccated beef liver from grass fed cows in Argentina. I remember that. Yeah I had a friend who was deficient in all sorts of things. I gave him those and he took them and he was like I feel like I am on crack. Like I have so much energy that I cannot even begin to understand how tired I was for so long. So yes the desiccated beef liver.  Do you remember what brand that was?  Off-hand I do not.  I do not either.  It is on Amazon. I know that I ordered it on Amazon.  Nice. All right.  Caveat emptor. Beware. Not all beef liver pills are created equal.  Yeah. You do not want nasty hormone-injected beef liver pills. Like do not   No. No.  All right. So going a little bit more sensitive. I wish we had some background music that we could play when this kicks in.  I bet we can figure out some background music.  Yeah that is like a nice little   We will make it happen.  Sweet. You have the resources. How did you meet and fall in love with your girlfriend?  Just a quick note from the editor in postproduction. This is Tim. I had to cut part of this one for privacy reasons. But I love you all very much. Now back to our show  That is amazing.  Which is a strong hand. Like that is a good move. And I was very interested. So texted her. We had a drink. We met up and the rest is history.  That is amazing.  That was quite a few years ago.  So let me ask you a question though because I got to your fans are going to want this. I have to do it. And I apologize Tim. It says in the actual question fall in love. So when was the  like for me we talked about when I met Darya at the bar we talked about Zelda and she was a big Zelda fan. I was like Oh my God I could love this girl. Was there something that jumped out during that first couple of dates where you are just like This girl could be an amazing match for me?  Oh it was  and again   What were the traits? Was there anything that jumped out like a common movie? Something she said that was funny? What was it that started to check those boxes for you?  You know it was none of that. It was none of the data points or things she said. Like Oh we have that in common. Oh our values are aligned. It was more of a feeling. I felt very at ease with her. I felt like I did not need to have my defenses up. I felt like there were  I was very confident there were no ulterior motives.  That is the hugest thing for you dude. That is awesome.  Yeah. I just felt very comfortable and she was so playful and funny and light basically all the things I am not most of the time and she also gave me so much energy. You know what I am talking about. That is a big deal right? There are people who drain your energy and there are people who give you energy and some people are maybe neutral but I think over time as you interact with more people as you get older certainly as you develop an audience of any type you become much more sensitive to that because you are much more exposed to it. And she just gave me so much energy. I mean it was such a net positive for my state of being and I think that drove it. And yes we ended up having all of these values in common. Yes we ended up having lots of priorities and interests in common but that was secondary to the feeling.  Yeah. That is so cool. One of the things that you and I have talked about privately a lot that I think is worth mentioning you can always cut it out like you do. By the way just so people know you have cut out some shit out of previous podcasts. Do not cut this out. I want to tell people   There are now for some very good legal reasons in some cases but yes continue.  So I was just going to say that I love that she brought the anxiety level down for you because one of the things that I know is is tough for almost probably anybody that has some fame and fortune as you have it is like there are so many people that would date you because you are quote-unquote Tim Ferriss and there is money and fame that goes along with that. Right. So you could go to L.A. and there is any number of people I am sure that you could date because of those reasons and because of that I know you have had a pretty big wall. You put up a wall to protect yourself because that is not what you want. You want someone long-term. You do not want just like some rando. And it is cool that she brought that down though. Like that is a huge thing for you to find. I am happy about that.  Yeah. I am happy about it too. Thrilled about it. It is fucking weird. You know having  meeting people who let us just say eight times out of 10 have Googled your name beforehand. That is fucking weird. It is really really strange. And you have to be very careful because let us not kid ourselves there are a lot of sharks out there. So yeah it is been really nice and her parents are amazing. I have spent a lot of time with her parents and she is very down to earth. And by down to earth I say that in the most complimentary way possible right? By down to earth it makes me think of I think his name is Donald Knuth K-N-U-T-H. But at some point he disavowed email. I think he was at IBM. I might be making that up. And he said Email is great for keeping on top of things. He is like But I do not want to keep on top of things. I want to get to the bottom of things. I am paraphrasing here. The people who are down to earth from my perspective are like getting to the bottom of things. They are aware of the tectonic plate level of things moving and their awareness is much more grounded I use that word again in what I would consider a truer reality than a lot of the people who are higher up in the stack of abstraction. So there is a computer science analogy here but I will not belabor that because I will just embarrass myself. The point being I felt like she really had her feet on the ground and was paying attention to the important things. She had an awareness including a self-awareness perhaps principle among all of those that led me to feel very comfortable right? But when people are surfing the chop when they are on the surface and it is like whatever's trending on Twitter is directing their attention for hours a day even if they are on some level at their core really good people it makes them a liability. Does that make sense? Because they are so easily swayed to one channel or direction or meme or hashtag or movement or crisis. Like that is a very unpredictable person. That was on cue. That was good. I like that.  Phone's ringing. I do not know why  he called me twice. Sorry. You can push through. Keep going.  No problem. Who was that? Was that your bail bonds?  It was Tony Conrad just freaking calling multiple times.  Fucking Tony Conrad.  I know. Ruining the podcast.  God damn it. Tony's a good friend. So feel free to give him shit. If you guys actually want to just as a side note research a really good early stage investor who is a good dude and really likes his coffee and he will tell you about Blue Bottle so be prepared you should check out Tony Conrad.  He is a good guy.  Also a partner at your firm. So it is a colleague a coworker.  He is done some good deals. He is got a great eye. Cool. So let us move on to the next question. Name a mistake you made in one of your books that you wish you could take back. There has to be something. Do not say Oh I do not know.  There is got to be something. I mean there are probably hundreds of them. My books are fucking long. I mean you have so many opportunities.  I mean The 4-Hour Body there had to be something like the consumption of horse urine or there was something in there that you had   Well I mean there was one mistake that I pulled out. So in the first addition to The 4-Hour Body there was a whole chapter on extended breath holds and I realized that is just too dangerous. People do not understand the safety precautions you need to take for breath holds and it was yanked. So that chapter   Did it actually make it to press?  Yeah it made it to press for one printing. That was a David Blaine chapter talking about how he trained me to hold my breath for like five minutes and I realized that you just have to assume that 90 percent of the people out there are not going to read any of the safety cautionary tales right? They are not going to read the caveats. They are not going to read the preamble. They are going to skip straight to the how-to and it is very dangerous. So that was one that I definitely got rid of.  How about any of the science because the science changes so fast. Is there anything you look back on and you are like Oh gosh that is just not accurate anymore?  Well I will say there was a weight loss stack of supplements called PAGG which was policosanol probably mispronouncing that but I have only read it never heard it said in fact alpha-lipoic acid garlic extract like  the most suspect or questionable of those is the first policosanol. And there are some studies that came out of Cuba but I am like how much can you trust that if they are exporting sugar cane and blah-blah-blah. So I would say if I were to put anything on the chopping block it would probably be policosanol and really the evidence for that from an N of one perspective was my own personal experience. There seemed to be some effect on cholesterol or lipid metabolism with policosanol that increased fat loss above and beyond that which I was able to achieve with AGG. But that is not doubly blinded. That is not randomized. That is not placebo-controlled. So .  The ALA is in there for fat loss right?  Yeah. So yeah so alpha-lipoic acid is insulinomimetic as I understand it. It imitates and produces some analogous effect to insulin to a lesser degree. So alpha-lipoic acid is interesting. If you overconsume it it can cause all sorts of issues which is true of a lot of things. Like if you overconsumed zinc it can inhibit copper absorption. You have to be very careful with supplements which is part of the reason why I have really reduced the number of supplements that I consume.  This is a great segue into that question actually. What do you consume these days in terms of supplements?  Not much. I take zinc occasionally. I do find it to help sleep. I do find it to help lucid dream induction which we have talked about before. I find zinc interesting also from an immune perspective but if you overtake it or you take it too consistently it can cause all sorts of issues. I take right now B12 and L-methylfolate Jarrow specifically that is   Your homocysteine levels or is that why?  Yeah related to homocysteine. So that is dependent on my personal blood profile. So that does not mean everyone listening to this should take that. And I also am taking right now cissus quadrangularis which kind of has a funny tie into us actually and also methylsulfonylmethane or MSM. I am taking both of those because I am nursing a wrist injury and I found them to be very helpful with joint injuries or connective tissue ligament tendon issues. So cissus quadrangularis is what I took during our trip to China. I took alpha-lipoic acid and cissus C-I-S-S-U-S quadrangularis you will figure it out. I took those two together before every meal because we were eating pounds of fucking rice every day and I would be doing workouts in my skivvies with my backpack. You remember that? I would be doing   Once you see Tim Ferriss in his underwear doing air squats in front of your bed you cannot unsee that shit.  And you said something to the effect of like    I said Quit doing air squats in your fucking underwear.  Well there was that for sure and then there was also like We are just getting fatter and fatter and you are getting more and more ripped. What the fuck is going on?  That is right. That was the most confusing part because we were a week into the trip and Glenn and I are just fat as shit from all that rice and your six packs are popping out. It was crazy.  Yeah. So I am taking that stuff again but not for the fat loss for the potential joint assistance. Wrists are a huge pain in the ass. I jacked my wrist really badly and I want to get back into handstand practice. So I am eager to get it figured out.  All right. Actually leading  I want to stay on that for one more quick topic. Someone was asking how is your body these days? You talked about your wrist but these are three questions real quick. Do you still practice 4-Hour Body? And what is your approach to longevity? So are there any practices that you are doing now on the longevity side kind of transitioning out of I just need to put mass on but more on the want to live longer?  Yeah. I would say those are probably inversely proportionate right? The more you try to put mass on the shorter you are probably making your life if you are doing it over an extended period of time at least. But I would say body like I am not in great shape right now. I have had a bunch of injuries which just goes to show I think it is better to have a few extra percentage points of body fat and more strength than to be lean and sacrifice strength. I think right now I have sacrificed strength for a bunch of reasons. I am in the jungle I am eating pretty poorly and not getting much in terms of resistance training in. And so I would say body overall right now is pretty achy and I will fix that. I have a high degree of confidence that I can fix it so I am not worried about it which leads to the 4-Hour Body piece. I still follow a surprising amount of what was in The 4-Hour Body. If anything the vast majority of The 4-Hour Body that was viewed very skeptically was received very poorly has accrued an incredible amount of scientific support in the last 10 years because I was published in 2010. So I am very proud of The 4-Hour Body. That was kind of the tip of the spear with a bunch of areas that has only received more support in the last 10 years. So I am very happy with that. And I would say the general tenets still hold for sure. So from the perspective of slow cadence weightlifting a la Occam's protocol I probably would not be eating the same food because I am not trying to gain mass but using that type of slow cadence or super slow protocol to add muscle mass while minimizing injury potential. Absolutely. I will be doing a bunch of that. And then there is a bunch of stuff from Tools of Titans. So let us not forget that Tools of Titans was basically my update to 4-Hour Workweek 4-Hour Body and 4-Hour Chef simultaneously. And there is a bunch of stuff in Tools of Titans related to say glute medius training related to gymnastic strength training and so on AcroYoga that I view as really important component of what I do these days for physical longevity meaning how old you feel I think is how old your joints feel very often. And aside from that though like with the longevity stuff am I using Metformin? No. Am I using rapamycin? No. Would I consider it? Maybe at some point but the most likely thing to kill me is heart disease. So really I can focus on so-called longevity drugs but for me personally those longevity drugs might take the form of something like an ezetimibe probably not a statin due to the fact that I am a hyper absorber of cholesterol not necessarily a hyper producer. So you need to get really deliberate and surgical about how you approach medication. And none of this is medical advice should not be construed as medical advice since who the fuck am I? But so talk to your GP. But I think the obsession  this is going to upset some people but the obsession over longevity is often very misplaced. I looked at one point at the average lifespans of males in my family on both the paternal and maternal lines and if they did not die really really early which they clearly did not 'ecause they lasted long enough to procreate but if they did not get wiped out by like typhoid fever at age 35 or something in the 1800s pretty much all of them died at 85. They die around 85. Fucking everybody. And it does not matter if it is 20 years ago or 300 years ago.  85 is a good run dude. That is not that bad.  It is not that bad. So as far as   .  Yeah. So as far as pulling straws like I did not get the short straw. I did not get the short test straw. But in this striving for immortality I am glad there are people who are preoccupied by it and are spending time on it. All things equal which is never the case by the way but all things equal would I prefer to live to 120 versus 85? Yeah. Why not? Sure. But am I going to do caloric restriction every day so my testosterone falls to the floor and I lose all my muscle mass and I look like a fucking prisoner of war? No I am not going to do that.  Yeah.  Yeah. So I do not spend a lot of time thinking about longevity per se or ultra-long lifespan. I do spend time thinking about what stupid mistakes I can prevent easily or what medications or supplements or interventions I can implement easily that will prevent me from dying earlier than I should based on my genetic average.  Yeah. That makes a lot of sense. I mean that is the whole Peter Attia thing which I think is beautiful. Just really digs into the family history and says what are the things you are going to die from? And let us prevent those from happening.  Yeah. Yeah totally. It is like the focus on the fundamentals. Focus on the basics.  Next question. Best movie to watch on mushrooms?  That is a good one. It depends a lot on the dose. It depends a lot on the dose. If you are microdosing you can handle one type of movie. If you are on three grams of mushrooms it is very   Just look at the wall.  Yeah. Just fucking chill out and look at a flower because it is going to  three grams is actually navigable for a pretty decent percent of the population but five six grams just lay down. Lay down. Just lay down and listen to some really cheesy spa music and fucking relax because it is going to be an interesting six hours. But let us just say hypothetically that someone has taken 600 milligrams three to 600 milligrams of psilocybin mushrooms dried. I would say Spirited Away.  Oh awesome.  My favorite movie of all time. The animated movie Spirited Away will fucking blow your mind. And if that is not interesting I think soundtrack is important to pay attention to. Do not watch something  even if it is beautiful like Baraka  if it has a weird moody soundtrack. That may not be good for you. So I would say my predisposition would be something animated like Lilo And Stitch or How To Train Your Dragon something like that. If you try to get too fancy if you are like I am going to watch a moody black and white French film you are just asking to get fucking kicked in the nuts .  Yeah. When I was a kid  The Wall. That was not mushrooms. That was weed. So I think that would be a little too intense for mushrooms.  Different.  Yeah.  Different. Yeah. I would say pay attention to soundtrack. When in doubt pay attention to soundtrack.  All right. Next question. What is something you have failed at but have not spoken of? People just want to know about your failures.  Yeah. They want all the lowlights.  Show us how you failed.  Episode number 500 the lowlight reel. Let us see something I failed at but have not talked about.  You did this series where you went and did a bunch of episodes and you hacked things really quickly and you are so good at consuming books and getting to the meat of what something is and figuring it out. There has to be something where you were just like I am going to figure this out and you just fucking suck at it. Right?  Well I mean honestly episode one of The Tim Ferriss Experiment when I did parkour which was my insistence. I was like We are going to do parkour first episode one and I fucked myself up so badly. I mean I had so many injuries like elbow wrist knee. I tore three of my four quadriceps. These are your thigh muscles front of the leg.  Oh Jesus.  Quadriceps four. Right? I tore severely tore three of them from impact from jumping off of stuff. It was a fucking disaster an unmitigated disaster. And I do not think I have talked about that much. And so I insisted with in retrospect the most idiotic reasoning ever that we would do parkour first. And what that meant was we had 13 episodes to film. We were filming every fucking week without a vacation for 13 weeks straight and the first week I basically became a cripple. I fucking ruined myself. It was so bad. And so for weeks afterwards I am wearing medical grade compression pants which take an hour to get on. It is like if you imagine I am not a 300-pound guy but just imagine you are like a 300-pound guy and you have elastic Gap Kids' fucking long underwear that you have to get on. It takes forever. It takes so long. And there are points  I have definitely not talked about this  where I was so fucked up after that parkour episode and I would be wearing these compression pants just to function to hobble around like a pirate for whatever I was filming episode two three four and I would get so tired. And they took 45 minutes to get off. That may be an exaggeration but they took fucking forever to get off. It would be like an extra small wetsuit that you have to get off your legs. And I would be so tired that I would be like I would get it down to my mid-calf and I would be like Fuck it and I would just lay down on the bed with these compression pants around my ankles or my shins unable to get them off. And I would just sleep. I would just sleep with these things around my ankles. So that is one that comes to mind.  That is a good one.  There are many. Yeah. There are many. There are many but that is a colorful one.  That is amazing. Okay. When it happens what type of dad do you want to be?  Oh that is a big one. When it happens what kind of dad do I want to be?  You have got to leave this space gap in here when we have the episode.  Yeah. I will leave it.  He is thinking everybody! I am watching.  It is like watching a dog trying to figure out a maze. I think I will go with the first two that come to mind. I just want to be really present and really engaged and loving obviously. But I just want to really fucking pay attention and be engaged because I know so many guys including good friends of mine who are just like Yeah man I fucking missed it. They grew up so quickly and you miss two years it is like missing 20 years. So I want to be really present and really engaged. And I think it is yeah if I pay attention to that I feel like all the tactical sleep training versus the attachment versus whatever I can figure that all out. But if you do not have the prerequisite attention and awareness and engagement then none of that I mean all that stuff is window dressing I feel like.  When I think about being a father I think about some of the attributes that my own dad had that were amazing. And I would certainly want to continue those on and then other little tweaks I want to do because that is what we are doing. We are kind of pushing things forward. What attributes would you say did you really enjoy from your father? And are there any little tweaks that you would make?  I think my parents did a great job considering the circumstances that we found ourselves in. Right? I mean I think a lot like you. We did not have very much money. There was not a budget for new bikes and stuff like that. We made everything go a long way. Lots of TV dinners.  Lots of TV dinners. I was there too.  Yeah man. Yeah. God. There was the good the bad and the ugly with the TV dinners. Like those shitty brownies were so delicious. Those shitty shitty brownies in the middle square at the top. Those were so good. And the fried chicken was good but some of the TV dinners not so great.  We did a lot of Dinty Moore beef stew in my house. That was very good.  Oh nice.  I love Dinty Moore.  Nice. You know and there were all these special moments like some of the celebratory like if something big happened and we had a celebratory dinner. We would go to Red Lobster. I remember Red Lobster.  Yes.  We would have virgin daiquiris and immediately get brain freeze and then eat those fried mozzarella sticks and they were so fucking good. So yeah I feel like my parents did a really good job on a lot of levels. I will have the benefit of more time. So if I in any way say I do not have time or I feel like I do not have time I just want to plant the seed now that that is utter horse shit. Right? We make time for the things that matter. And I am in a much better position than my parents were financially.  Did your dad work a lot? Did he travel a lot or work a lot or what was   He did not travel a lot. My mom and dad worked a lot and I am good at working. You and I are both good at playing certain games and it is very challenging for me at least to sit on the sidelines or switch games when you have spent so much time getting good at certain games.  Yeah.  So yeah that is part of the reason I am in the middle of nowhere right now is to just create a little bit of space and prevent myself from overcommitting to a bunch of new projects just because I have a void or a vacuum. I am excited about fatherhood about being a parent.  I am excited for you.  Yeah.  It is going to be a fun chapter.  A long chapter long chapter.  Yeah.  The longest chapter.  Especially at our age man. I just think the thing I think about is just like when our kids are 21 we are going to be so old. It is like going to be .  Yeah we are going to be really old. You and I can go to the park with walkers together.  Exactly. All right. Next question from  I had to say the name because this was a tweet from Han's Conduit. So some guy's using his business account to tweet us. This guy runs conduit which is great. Tim famously asks his guests about a message they would hypothetically plaster on a billboard. Will you ask him about his current message? What would your current billboard message be?  My message is still the same. It has not changed much and that is and I have borrowed this from other people  you are the average of the five people you associate with most.  Yeah. That is a good one.  Whoever you spend a lot of time with you are going to absorb and vice versa. They are going to absorb you. So really be aware of that. Physically emotionally psychologically financially it is so true. I have just seen it confirmed over and over and over and over again for me and for other people.  Yeah. That is a great one. I do not think you can get better than that one. That is great. Next question from Ryan. Hair transplant question Mark. Would you do a hair transplant?  No not at this point. I think   The technology has come a long way. Do not knock that right away because it looks really good. I have a couple of friends that have done it. They are not going to be named here but it can look amazing.  Look I mean here's my perspective. There is one reason for me to get a hair transplant.  By the way if this is financial I will pay for your hair transplant. I am going to say that right now. I am serious. I am serious. I will pay for it right now. Go on the record.  Do I need KevKev etched in the side like Kid n Play style? No?  Exactly.  Number one I am very fortunate to have a reasonably regular dome. So I do not have a whole lot of moguls on my skull and I do not mind being bald. I really do not mind it. And I think I led into it easily by starting to shave my head when I was 12 13 and wrestling. So I am accustomed to it. The second thing is I would get so much shit from people forever if I had some weave. I do not know if you have ever seen Hellboy but there is that one guy who has hair implants and it just looks like Ken doll. I would get so much more shit than I currently do.  Yeah. It is too late. You cannot go back.  I would be disinclined. And then third and I think I was saying this earlier and I cut myself off. It is like why do guys care? I think 99 times out of 100 it is because they want to be more attractive to women or get laid more often by having hair period full stop. I do not care. I do not care about that. I am very very happy with my girlfriend. We are planning on having a family together. And if I could not be with someone because I did not have hair I do not want to be with them in the first place. That is a very charitable easy layup yellow or red flag for any guy.  Oh by the way also   That is   You did the right thing. The wrong thing is leaving the sides on and just kind of going with the bald top.  The power donut.  Right exactly.  Yeah. Look there are a few people who can pull that off like if you are what is his name Commander Picard or whatever of Star Trek. If you are somebody that bad-ass you can pull off the power donut. If you are a hedge fund manager who just gives zero fucks and is a master of the universe and you are just like Look I can move global markets and decimate currencies with one twitch of my pinky finger great. Then keep the power donut. I do not have the confidence or the wherewithal or the skill set or the power to make that work for me.  It looks great. It is nice and shiny right now. The light's hitting in the right direction.  Thank you.  It is beautiful.  Has a healthy sheen to it like a dog coat.  It does. All right. Moving on to the next question. Your favorite episode and why. And I will say with the caveat that you can mention the one that you talked about that was really really dear to you that you did a few episodes back. But I think outside of that particular episode around the abuse.  Yeah. I mean favorite episode is I get this question quite a bit. It is hard to give a favorite episode because almost all of my episodes have some personal driver behind them. So the reason I do episodes varies so widely that there is objectively no one best. Even subjectively there is no one best. It has everything to do with what my goals or challenges might be at any given point in time. I think I am just going to riff.  Let me ask you two questions.  I am going to   Hold on. Let me ask you two questions. I think we can hone this in a little bit. Favorite fan boy episode meaning Oh my God. I cannot believe I had this person in my podcast. And then I would also love to know  I know who it is. It is Hugh Jackman is not it? Am I right?  Hugh Jackman is super high up. That was definitely a huge one. Arnold Schwarzenegger was the first gigantic fan boy episode. Jamie Foxx another one. I mean those three episodes are all so killer. They were not just fanboy encounters but they were really strong episodes. Really really strong episodes. So fanboy moments there are a ton of them. I mean I have spoken with so many people I never thought I would ever have any interaction with. Jerry Seinfeld. I mean it is a long list. It is a long long list but certainly Hugh Jackman is way up there. Arnold Schwarzenegger way up there. Jamie Fox and Jerry and so many others. Those are a few.  How about someone that just really surprised you where you are like Oh I should have this person on. And then you had them on you are like God damn that was a good episode.  There are so many honestly.  It can be a couple of them. It does not have to be one.  Yeah. I love family episodes but those are names that people automatically know. I mean they are household names right? BJ Miller who is a hospice care physician. And I think the episode was titled something like BJ Miller the man who is helped a thousand plus people to die. Something like that. That episode had a huge impact on me. Still does. Then you have people like Mary Karr who is an author and very well-known memoir writer and teacher who is just incredible. That episode is pretty recent. Karr K-A-RR. She was incredible. Let us see here. Honestly I mean I have to mention again but just there are certain episodes like Jamie Foxx or Hugh Jackman where you are like Holy shit. I hope my equipment is working.  Yeah exactly.  It is so fucking good and you are like Oh my God. If this fails I will just have to throw myself out a window.  I mean when I interviewed Elon Musk on my show I was like Please do not fail hard drive because we were recording it.  Oh yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. Totally totally.  It was great.  Yeah. There are those moments for sure. What was it like for you to interview Elon?  He was   We have never talked about it.  I mean he is a really cool guy. He was super friendly and I have met him a couple of times at various parties and stuff and he is always been really nice to me. I think he knew me from back in the Digg days when I created Digg. It was clear to me that it was not just some like he had heard of some stuff I had created which was nice because that gives you a little bit of an in and way to have a conversation. I loved it. I thought it was a lot of fun. I mean I tried to ask him some questions that were just a little bit like not the ones that a standard reporter would ask. And so he had a good time.  Like what?  We just talked about like I always like to go really really back to his childhood and some of the entrepreneurial kind of moments he had growing up and some of the things he was a fan of and some of the comic books he was into. Nobody talks about that but he talks about his favorite comic books on my show. Stuff like that. So yeah it was a really  we talked about SpaceX and some of the stuff that he was doing with Hyperloop before it was announced. Yeah it was awesome.  Nice.  Obviously he is quite the icon these days. This was a couple of years ago.  Yeah yeah. Tony Stark.  Totally in the flesh. All right. Moving on to the next question. What do you think about all the recent government UFO footage? Is it real?  Well I do not   Do you believe in UFOs?  I do not know if it is real in the sense  I do not know if the footage is real. I have read way too much about well-documented programs like MKUltra with the CIA. And so I mean it is very hard to know what is propaganda and what is not.  What is the MKUltra? What is that?  This is the deliberate and non-consensual administration of LSD by the CIA as a possible truth serum or destabilizing agent and all sorts of craziness. And I have also looked very closely at the Stargate program which was utilizing remote viewers or those considered to be remote viewers remote perception and all this craziness. So are UFOs real? Fuck I do not know. I will say this. That is a big question above my pay grade. I will say this though that there are a few places on Long Island that are fairly well-known by locals for having what some people consider UFO sightings. And when I was a kid on Long Island I and a whole car full of people including a babysitter and some other people all saw some weird object fly across the sky hover for a period of time bounce around and then shoot off at speeds that made no sense. So was that an illusion? Was it caused by some type of weather pattern? Like the lights of Marfa in Texas are supposedly created by some type of phenomenon that can be explained meteorologically. Was it that? Was it test flights with some type of aircraft being performed by the government which are unknown unannounced? Was it some type of aircraft from elsewhere? I mean either way it is an unidentified flying object. So do I believe in UFOs? Yeah I believe in UFOs. Are they aliens? Fucked if I know. I have no idea but I remain open to the possibility.  Yeah. All right. Let us move on to the next question. This one's a little bit harder than the last.  All right.  Have you ever tried Viagra? If so thoughts? I told you these were going to get intimate here.  Yeah this is great. Yeah this is great. So I have tried Viagra. I have tried everything. I mean I have tried just about everything minus heroin. And I actually had a really scary response to a small amount of Viagra which was I got a shooting pain like an ax pick in the brain pain from taking it which has made me contra-indicated from taking  I do not know if Viagra is a  What is it? A phosphodiesterase inhibitor of some type. But I have to be very careful with that stuff because in a small percentage of the population you can have these massively powerful adverse events.  Does that apply to all like Cialis and stuff like that? Or is that just Viagra?  I do not know. I am not sure. The fact of the matter is   Did it work?  Oh. Oh the Viagra. Well yeah I mean not to get too graphic here but yeah it was fucking fantastic. That stuff why the hell do you think it is so popular? It works as advertised. It is like why do athletes use anabolic steroids? Because they fucking work right? I mean look there are certain drugs that really deliver as advertised. You just have to be aware of the possible side effects.  I had a really weird experience with that stuff. That stuff is strange.  Oh well hold on. You cannot let that hang. So what?  You know what? Well I just feel like it is well we are a couple of glasses of wine in trying to ride that fine line. So I am going to say this in a very PC way the best I can at this moment in time.  Do not say it in a PC way. That is so lame.  Here's the deal. Okay. So when you take it 30 minutes later it kicks in and you can tell by like you feel a flushness in your face. Did you get that? That kind of like tingly flushes in your face?  I got a flushness in my schwanz. I do not know. Yeah.  Okay. So what happens next is things elevate. And when they do so it is like blowing a blue balloon to 12 when it should be at a 10. And you reach down  no no. When you reach down it feels like it is another dude's thing because it is like it is way bigger than you are used to. Right? Because the knob has gone to a 12 so it is just confusing. That is all. But it does make you  you are a dragon slayer for a couple of hours at least. There is no  you would agree with that though right?  Yeah. I would. I think dragon slaying on Viagra is definitely going to have to make it into the headline of this episode.  It is a weird thing. It is definitely a weird thing. I bought mine in Mexico of all places. This is like   Yeah you have got to be careful.  Yeah. You have got to be careful. Who knows if it was like an amplified dose or something but yeah kind of insane.  It could have been Clorox. Who knows?  Yeah exactly. All right. Any other 4-Hour books in the future?  None planned. I have retired.  Are you done? You are done with the 4-Hour?  Yeah I think so.  That is fair. That is fair. Rest in peace 4-Hour. The 4-Hour thing was it was fun for me.  Yeah. Oh it was great fun for you.  Remember I sent you texts of like there was a 4-Hour laundry cleaner in SF and I would always   I do. I do 4-Hour laundry.  I would walk by and take photos of it and send it to Tim. So good.  That was like Van Ness or something.  That is right.  I remember that. Yeah. Yeah definitely. Yeah no thank you for your service 4-Hour I think I am done. It is retired as a jersey framed on the wall.  Nice.  What a beautiful chapter. And it was a chapter.  That was a good chapter. Good couple of chapters.  It was.  All right. So what will you be doing at age 50 and 60? What was the actual question?  Yeah. .  Of just retirement. I do not know why they pick those years but let us just say later in life what does Tim-Tim look like 20 30 years from now?  Yeah. You know retirement I do not think that is a thing.  Yeah.  I just sort of enjoy getting amongst it too much. I cannot imagine just sitting around doing sudoku all day watching Wheel of Fortune or something I just do not think that is going to be me. So 50 or 60 I mean let us see it is not that far off 50. I am 43. How old are you right now?  43.  Fucking amen.  44 this month.  It is seven years away.  I know it is crazy.  One turning of the locusts and we are 50. So 50 I mean let us just say I have a six- or seven-year-old kid at that point I will probably be increasingly cantankerous and salty. I will be increasingly uninterested in social consensus or social media or  .  I mean I feel like that is you to an A.  Popularity.  I do not think that is  .  Yeah I think it will just be like Tim plus. It will be like Tim-Tim plus.  Love it.  I think there is a good chance that I will be spending more months of the year with the family in and surrounded by nature less time in urban environments. From an athletic perspective I would anticipate to still be doing things like AcroYoga skiing probably weight training at least once per week I think that will become more and more and more important. Still I will be paying deep attention to and supporting psychedelic research and other aspects of that type of medicine work. It is hard for me to envision a huge change aside from focus on family which I think will be a gigantic shift but I would hope not to have to contend with any major medical emergencies or crises in my family but TBD I mean 60 if I am 60 that could be at the point where my parents one or both pass which will be a huge transition. I do not know how that'ill affect me. It is impossible to predict for me I just do not know. I do not even have a point of reference.  Yeah let us move on to the next question. We have got a couple more left and then we can wrap things up. And I do have some extra bonus ones if you want to keep going but  .  Bonus. Let us do it. I am all for bonus.  Let us just do the last sake or a quick sake one. What is your Holy shit today sucked drink or drug of choice? That is some sake.  That is a great one. Well it depends on at what time of the day I determine that the day has already sucked  .  00 p.m.  If it is  well hold on. So if I wake up and I am just getting fucking haymakers for the first two hours of the day and I am like Wow today is already sucking donkey dick this is terrible then I might just fucking call it and have a day of mushrooms and walk through the forest and just be like I am done tap I am complete. So that is one I would say otherwise the one that is ill-advised for me is drinking copious amounts of caffeine right? And having just four five six cups of coffee which on the way up feels so good and you get so manic and you forget all your worries and then the coin flips and you just feel like an anxious down. So that is a mixed blessing for sure. I would say a gin and soda like a Hendrick's and soda or a Casa Dragones like a tequila and soda at dusk. So these days I'30 kind of happy hour like You know what? I am not going to try to squeak this out and grind for another hour hour and a half. Nope I'30 00 if it is really brutal. If you are just like Why? If I am still in the game I am just limping along with the ball getting crushed by 500-pound linebackers what am I doing this for? This is pointless. Then I would say gin and soda or tequila and soda.   What was the gin that you gifted me? The Botanist? I think you were giving those out of one year for around the holidays. Was it Botanist?  Oh it could have been Botanist yeah I love gin. .  You were into one gin gin's the best. It is so much more interesting than vodka right? The botanicals in there and it is a fantastic beverage.  Yeah. I love clean tequila. I love interesting gin. And there is something called sotol S-O-T-O-L which is found in Texas which is also quite interesting. It is for people who need maybe a comparison it might be somewhere between tequila and mezcal.  Oh so a little more smokey then?  Yeah. Yeah. There is a  .  But not as hardcore?  Yeah exactly. There is a brand I think called Desert Door which makes some really nice sotol it is pretty hard to get. I also find that quite interesting but if you drink enough of that to get plastered you are going to feel it for sure the next day.  Yeah. Oh bad hangover type? Is that what is going on?  It is got that smoky element right? Same with mezcal. I mean I feel like a donkey's kicked me in the forehead if I have too much  .  Like ashtray mouth the next morning like you are just like Ugh.  Yeah. Like oh who had a campfire in my mouth?  Right.  That one.  So you mentioned Dragones I think it is important not to skip over that one a fantastic tequila.  Yeah. And also fantastically expensive tequila.  They actually make a less expensive version now. A couple of them.  Oh they do? Nice. Okay.  Which is great.  Yeah Casa Dragones the house of the dragon makes some really nice stuff. And I was introduced to that a pretty funny story so I was first exposed that am I making you seasick with this camera? This camera keeps going out of focus. .  A little bit.  I think I am going out of focus. It is zooming in and out.  I am like if I drink that much like you just keep going.  Right. It is like the cinematographer imitation of being drunk. Oh my God it is making me seasick just looking at my own image go in and out of focus. But in any case Casa Dragones I was first exposed to when I spent time with a friend of mine who is a former Navy SEAL and he and a bunch of guys were doing weapons training and shooting range practice with all sorts of like AR platform handgun sidearm you name it all sorts of stuff. And their ritual was to then go back to the house disassemble all the guns and clean all the guns while they are all sipping Casa Dragones.  Oh my God. Do you mean just disassemble all the way down to bare metal or what are you talking about? Just cleaning them  .  Yeah cleaning them. But in some cases disassembling the hand guns and so on. And they are doing this very safely but we were just sitting around with a bunch of hyper masculine dudes who are real professionals I do not know what I am doing but cleaning guns drinking sipping tequila right? No mixes no cocktails just drinking sipping tequila and it was amazing. It was a great experience and a really great group of guys. And I had that and I had always had the association with tequila that it gave you a nasty hangover. And I drank so much of this tequila woke up the next day and I felt like a million bucks. I was like how is that even possible? So  .  Did you read about it? Do you know what the deal is? It is been filtered 12 times the Dragones.  Well there you go. You know more than I do.  No it is a super ultra filtered it is the cleanest of the clean that is why it is so expensive. It is fantastic.  Yeah. So if you feel like getting a nice gift for somebody or for yourself that is one option.  All right. Two more questions. Does anything make you feel old or does anything make you feel young?  What makes me feel old would be aching joints. So elbow that I have had elbow surgery on the wrist that I have jacked up. I injured my lower back recently in a stupid accident. Joint pain makes me feel old.  Same dude. It sucks.  For sure. For sure. Muscular pain I can deal with but joint pain makes me feel old. Makes me feel young. Riding bicycles and riding my girlfriend those two.  Jesus that is going to get aired. This question is not going to make it in.  It will make it. It will make it. Oh it was great. Yeah.  Those two things keep me young.  All right. This is the last question. And it is more serious when I wanted to end with this one because I do want you to take it seriously. We do not know how much time we have left and I am curious when you die what do you ultimately want to be remembered for? 4-Hour Chef or?  The stupid meme videos that I text Kevin twice a week. Let me think about that. I do not think any of us are remembered for that long. I think that kind of over focusing on legacy can warp and contort a lot of thinking about life and what you pursue. I think it can lead you to pursue things for prestige. And I think prestige approval guilt shame are all really bad reasons for doing things oftentimes. And as we were talking earlier about parenting and what kind of father I want to be and I was talking about awareness and engagement being these prerequisites for other things. You can try the tactical stuff but if you lack that base level that foundation the rest of it does not really matter. I think that in the last 10 years especially five years especially last five months in particular I have realized that without hope the rest of it just does not really matter right? So you can give someone the prescription the how to you should do this you should do that but without some level of hope and hope to me has a slightly different feeling to it than optimism I think optimism can be a part of hope but that hope is broader without some element of hope a lot of that other stuff just does not matter and gets washed away. So I would like to be I used to say when people would ask me what would you want to be remembered for on your gravestone? I was like well as a sort of creator of master students who are better than himself right? That was an answer that I had. And I think now it would be as a purveyor and provider of hope someone who is providing hope to people who feel hopeless and not in a misleading not in a Pollyanna-ish not in a naive way. I am providing hope because I am a test subject right? I am a guinea pig. I am someone who is suffered from severe extended repeated bouts of depression who is on the front lines trying to encourage the testing and research of things like psilocybin and others that show incredible promise for these so-called intractable untreatable psychiatric conditions whether that is depression or MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for complex treatment resistant PTSD right? Post traumatic stress disorder or opioid use disorder anorexia these things that have really found no home from which they can be treated effectively. That would be one example one dimension to it. So I would say as a seeker as a fellow needer and hopefully spreader of hope that is what I would want.  I got to tell you I think that a lot of people would agree with this statement and that everything that you have done I mean when I first met you was that your book launch party for The 4-Hour Workweek and then later The 4-Hour Body those have all been about hope. They have been about how can I improve myself? And how can I live and do things on my own time and by my own design? And you would live a healthier lifestyle and then now taking it to the more philanthropic side of things and working on mental health this is the easy thing for you to accomplish because you have already done it. Your career has been all about hope so I think you inspire a lot of people for that reason so that is great.  Thanks man.  No it is something to look up to. I know you and I talk about this and we have a slightly different take on philanthropy in that I have done bits and pieces of it my take and it could be the wrong one but I am in the prime of my earning career and I think that I want to get a little bit more resources so that I can do bigger impact things long term but you are definitely an inspiration for me on that front. And certainly something that I want to eventually imitate and figure out how to do is have a bigger impact in that way. So thank you for all that you have done on that and dude it is been awesome that you would even share this space with me for episode 500. So thank you for that as well.  Yeah. Thanks Kev-Kev. Yeah. I want to give some additional thanks to my girlfriend so that I do not have my last mention of her in the same answer with the bicycle which is when I was considering what to do about sharing my experiences with abuse as a kid I told her about the plans for the book the possible book which would be years off in the future and the possibility of then doing a podcast maybe as a stop-gap measure or even a replacement for doing the book because it would be sooner. And she just made the point that if you looked at the discrepancy between those two let us say a podcast coming out in a few months and a book coming out four or five years later that there would be and there are many people who would die by natural causes take their own lives be it suicide or otherwise not ever have access to the book who would benefit from the podcast. And I think that there is compounding wealth and resources and you can make many compelling arguments for if and when to jump into the fray to try to address problems based on compound interest and so on. I would just offer to people who are thinking about this for themselves that there are certain problems that compound also and there are certain problems certain subsets of populations and so on who are more easily reached more easily addressed more easily helped now than they will be in a year or two years because the problems compound at a faster rate than your capital. So that is one perspective that I would offer not to say that everybody should immediately jump into the fray and use as much as they can afford to affect change in the world. I do not think that is true for everyone. I think that is absolutely not the case for everyone but for me at least with some of these mental health conditions and having the ability to set precedent right. To create the first center in the world dedicated to psychedelic research to create the first center in the US dedicated to psychedelic research and consciousness research offered me a rare window and opportunity to tip the first domino in a way that I knew would then trigger and unlock all sorts of other developments right? So I was able to put in say a million dollars with the expectation that it would generate 10 or a hundred million dollars in impact. So I do think that you got to pick your time you got to pick your target you really want to be surgical with this stuff and very thoughtful. And there are some times just like with startups right? There are some times when you are like Oh damn there is that one window right? That door opens a crack and that is your shot. You have a real opportunity to make an impact and for me I just felt that way in the last few years but I am excited to see what you do too man.  Yeah. It makes a lot of sense if you think about it because there was this little tipping point that happened where all of a sudden there was a window to create some research around psychedelic use because if the government had totally locked this thing down like let us say we were in some country that was just clamped down on both the federal and state level it would be probably pissing away money at that point right? Because you would not even be able to fund research but you found a window the momentum was going in the right direction and now we are seeing benefits from that in terms of it being legalized like in Oregon and other places where this could be real therapy is going into people in the next year or so which is really cool.  Yeah. Yeah it is moved a lot faster than I ever could have hoped. And there are going to be challenges there are going to be setbacks there are going to be messes there are going to be players in the arena with less than pure motives which is to be expected and that is all part of the game. So  .  Yeah. Well the last thing I want to say is and I would be curious to know how you were able to do this in yourself is that one of the things that I want to push more forward especially given that I have a couple daughters and I think that more men should be vulnerable people able to talk about like you have talked about suicide and depression and child abuse and all these really tough sensitive topics. And I have certainly talked about couples therapy and the abuse my father gave my mom and things like that. We need to encourage more of that. And I just want to say thanks to you you have helped me be more open with myself and my audience about those things and I think starting that conversation oh if Tim can talk about it I can too. It is such an important thing that we all needed to do.  Oh thanks Kevin. Thanks man. That really means a lot.  It is the truth though dude it really is. It helps me when you talk about this stuff I can talk about it. And I know that is the same with so many other people. So anyway. B.  Thanks brother.  Cheers to you brother. Congratulations on 500 wishing you to 500 more or a thousand more. When do you hang it up by the way how many of you think you got left in you?  I have no plans to hang it up at this point. This is joyful for me it is fun for me and if it stops being fun it is either time to hang it up or more likely it is time for me to change something. And I have just succumbed to some temptation that I need to fix right? Like for this episode let us take this episode as an example number 500 right? I could have done like lessons learned over 500 episodes and done like a monologue right?  Instead you get Viagra questions.  Which is more fun. It is more fun for me. It is more fun. It gives me more energy. It gives me more pleasure this is a good time. And like you said you do not know how much time you have left. Nobody does. And so it is if you are not having fun at least in my life chances are it is my fault. Fucking fix it you know? And if the choices you are making your default choices or the way things are set up are not working change it experiment try something else. So for me the way that I used to do six episodes a month with the podcast I cut back to four on average. And I used to handle say sponsorships and this that and the other thing a certain way and then I changed it because it was starting to feel like an obligation and I was starting to procrastinate and not look forward to it. So this is I think a game of iteration and what might give me joy today might not give me joy tomorrow and things change they evolve over time but I love doing the podcast. So yeah would not surprise me if I do another 500 another 1000 And then take a look and reassess   I think that really it does not really matter where you are in life because I remember when I was not being in VC and doing these things I left Olive Garden which had good tips and unlimited breadsticks to work at Computer City for less pay. But you know what? I was a hell of a lot happier when I was working in a Computer City than I was at Olive Garden. So it is like you have just got to do it. You have got to change it up if it is not working.  Switch it up. You have got to switch it up man. And it is so good to see you. I miss you brother would love to see you in person sometime soon.  Me too. Let us get these shots in the arms and make it happen.  That is exactly right. And to everybody listening I love you guys. I really so deeply appreciate everybody listening. It gives me the opportunity to play gives me the opportunity to push to challenge myself also to try to do things I do not think I can do with respect to this podcast to wrangle people I think cannot be wrangled and also just as important to shoot the shit and talk about Viagra with people like Kevin. So I really really appreciate everyone who tunes into this podcast. And I know this has been a loosey goosey banter filled episode but this is what I wanted to do. And ultimately the only way I will keep doing this is if I have some fun along the way.  Thanks for having me Tim. That was awesome.  Yeah brother I will see you soon.    