 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs just a quick preface. There is a delicious section of the interview that we moved to the end of the episode about how Marco taught me and my girlfriend how to make world-class gnocchi. If you want to learn the secrets behind perfect gnocchi be sure to listen to the whole thing   Hello boys and  oh my God. What am I? 12? My voice is cracking people. This is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of The Tim Ferriss Show. That is how excited I am today to bring to you my guest for this conversation chef Marco Canora. Let me get into this. After years working with and training under Danny Meyer and Tom Colicchio you may know those names at Gramercy Tavern and Craft chef Marco Canora old friend of mine on Instagram you can find him marcocanora opened Hearth that is H-E-A-R-T-H in the East Village in 2003 before the neighborhood was a culinary destination. In 2014 Marco helped kick off America's embrace of bone broth with Brodo B-R-O-D-O serving bone broth in coffee cups out of a side window at Hearth. Over the years Brodo's been recognized consistently as a bone broth pioneer in outlets such as the New York Times Time and Good Morning America. You can visit brodo.com to try some of their famous bone broth for yourself. I have had many gallons of it of every possible variety or visit one of their several locations in New York City. Marco's first cookbook Salt to Taste subtitled The Key to Confident Delicious Cooking was nominated for a James Beard Award. That is like the Oscars of the cooking and culinary world. He is also the author of A Good Food Day and Brodo subtitle A Bone Broth Cookbook. Marco has been profiled in the New York Times Serious Eats and Food  Wine. He was a finalist on The Next Iron Chef a judge on Chopped and Top Chef and he has appeared on Today The Chew Good Morning America Martha Stewart and Nightline. In May 2017 Marco won the James Beard Award for best chef in New York City. He lives cooks and gardens with his wife and two children in Yonkers New York. You can find him as I mentioned on Instagram marcocanora online restauranthearth.com and brodo.com. I will warn people in advance I know that this is family programming we will likely have a font of obscenities from both of us in this conversation. So just strap in and be prepared for that. Marco welcome to the show my friend.  Tim it is so great to be here. I am absolutely thrilled to be a part of this amazing cast that you have done and a little nervous but more excited than nervous.  Well you sexy son of a bitch let us just get right into it. I had an opportunity to go and look back at some of our early interactions as documented in The 4-Hour Chef because we had a lot of adventures and misadventures related to all things in that and one of the first conversations or I should say the beginning of one of the very first conversations we had went like this. It is really assy right? Grassy? I asked. No assy Marco repeated loudly over the bustle of the bar. So could you provide some context for what we were talking about? And if you cannot remember I can certainly refresh the memory.  I cannot remember the producer of the bottle of wine that we were referring to but at Hearth Restaurant there is what we call the kitchen pass. So you could sit right in our kitchen and watch everything going on and it is very loud and the restaurant was full so there was a lot of noise and I poured you a sip of a red wine. I do not remember the grape variety maybe you do but   It was a Cabernet Franc.  Cab Franc. And we were just talking about the wine and I was smelling it and tasting it as were you. And it is one of my favorite wine descriptors because there is this barnyard horse's ass thing in some wines that I really love. So I used assy and your eyebrows went up and I do not know if you have ever heard that as the wine descriptor before.  I had not. So the sentence that I put in the book was  this excited me for three reasons. Now you are going to have to correct my French. I am not going to get this right. But the Chinon which is a Bernard Baudry 2010 Loire Valley was the best Cabernet Franc I would ever had. I would found a wine descriptor I could understand and I am very fond of ass in general. Now my writing style may have changed a little bit since but suffice to say in this conversation I just want to say this upfront for folks we are not going to be talking just about cooking. We are going to be talking about living. We are going to be talking about senses. We are going to be talking about eating and for most of you out there regardless of how trendy fasting is and I am a big fan of fasting you cannot do it forever. And you likely eat at least a few times a day or a few times a week. So we are going to be covering a lot of texture around the art of living and nourishment and that can take a lot of forms. So I just want to say that because part of the reason I enjoy spending so much time with you is that I feel like a lot of the philosophies and principles that you have formed to guide your life overlap a lot with some of mine. And that is in part because I have adopted quite a few of yours. So I am going to jump to a section right after this introduction to Hearth and The 4-Hour Chef in The Professional section. There is The Domestic The Wild The Scientist and The Professional. And this section is called The Mantra  Cooking is not hard. Cooking is not hard.  I feel like I have pulled the wool over everyone's eyes as a successful chef in New York City. Anyone could do this. Come on I said as I pointed to my vegetable salad which was ethereal and juicy not an adjective I use for salads parenthetical easily one of the best salads in my life. He laughed and waved a hand dismissively. People say Oh my God this is amazing. Just dress it while the vegetables are warm it all soaks in. Pour the oil on after the red wine vinegar and add salt and pepper anyone could do this. Oil after the vinegar why? Marco explained if you put on the oil first it deflects the vinegar into the bottom of the dish where it pulls. So this is as best as I could recall it. And I am sure I passed this by you. An example of simplicity but powerful simplicity. And we are going to get to more crazy stories and hilarious stories because I have to bring our friend JZ not not the media and hip hop icon but Jeffrey Zurofsky. Easily mix up. He goes by the initials. So he will have to make an appearance at some point since he   Sure. He introduced us.  You never went to culinary school. Is that right?  That is correct.  Okay. Now I have heard you  well I have read rather you say in interviews Yeah. I am not that impressed by culinary school grads. I would rather take someone who is done a year of staging or something along those lines. Could you elaborate on that?  Cooking is such a trade and to think that you can get good at butchering a salmon by taking a semester of fish butchery courses is just absurd. As you know of course there is basic techniques that you could learn but it is like playing a musical instrument. Being adept in the kitchen and being efficient with a knife and being able to filet or butcher meat or fish or cut vegetables it is an act of engaging with your senses. In my opinion it is just one of those things that cannot be taught and it is through repetition you get great. And my first job at Dean  DeLuca in New York City in the early '90s I made soup for them at their big shop on Broadway and Prince and they would go through 50 gallons of soup a day and like I had to cut all the vegetables for that soup. And you know how I got my knife skills? From cutting those vegetables every day for a couple years. I mean it is incredible. So I do not want to put down places like The Culinary Institute of America. They do great work. And I think the kids that come out of there are prepared and they have a good foundation but ultimately I just think it is a better proposition to get paid for school and that is what going to work young is. It is like you work really hard and you might not make a ton of money but you are getting paid for the knowledge that you are acquiring. And that just seems like a better ROI to me than going in debt for 100 grand and coming out and then starting that process.  What does it mean to stage? People may not recognize that term.  Look I am not sure you could even do that anymore in the current world. I mean certainly not in New York and probably this country at large. Maybe in Europe it still goes on but it is this idea of okay I do not have a lot of experience you are a great restaurant I am super into cooking and I want to devote my life to it so I want to stage at your restaurant. I am going to go there and I am going to watch at first and then little by little maybe I will help with menial tasks and then maybe that will grow. But it is basically allow me to be present in your kitchen so I could learn and maybe you will allow me to help too for free.  So it is apprenticing of a sort. The S-T-A-G-E I am imagining that is French. So that is basically a lost practice at this point. How did you first get into cooking? When did you know This is what I want to do?  It was from growing up in a household with a mom who cared about cooking and was a great cook. And we had a garden in upstate New York. One of my earliest memories is my mom picking zucchini flowers out of the garden and then dipping them in a simple pastello which is just a flour and water batter and pan frying them in olive oil and then putting a little bit of salt on them and eating them while they are hot. So it was from the earth to the pan to the plate to my mouth in a matter of an hour and a half. And that shit resonated with me and it is still with me today. So the very quick and simple answer is from growing up in a home with a mom who cared and knew how to cook and believed in the power of cooking.  So for those you have worked with what would they say your superpowers are? What are you good at?  I am good at being demanding without being an asshole about it. Everybody wants to respect a chef or a leader who is demanding and hold you accountable. And I think the tricky part for anybody trying to drive a kitchen or drive any project is to be disciplined and to be demanding but to be able to do it in a way that garners support instead of the opposite of support. Which is like I have worked for some really demanding guys and I respected the fact that they wanted it to be great but they were total assholes about it and it did not motivate me to want to be part of their success. And I think a nugget of what has helped me through my career is I have been able to find that balance of being a total obsessive perfectionist demanding hard knocks guy but at the same time balance that out with making sure they understand it is from a good place and from a kind place and for the common good of being really proud of the hard work that we are doing.  How do you do that? You do not have to name names but how might the language look? And it is like every day you are going to have a chance to correct.  Yeah that is what I wanted to say. Tim it is not so much about language it is about actions and that is the beauty of work. And that is the beauty of kitchens in my opinion is that happens through being alongside and showing everybody that there is not really a hierarchy and that you are willing to do whatever it takes. And you are willing to bend over backwards to support and help people achieve things and have successes on their stations. And there is been many many kitchens and times and days that I was running the kitchen and a cook would have a really bad night and they would go down and it would not be pretty.  Go down you mean like go down in flames?  Yeah go down in flames. And it is high pressure. And I am sure at the time I freaked out and screamed probably too much. But the thing that I made sure I did was that at the end of the night we would talk about it. And the next day I would show up early so that when that person showed up I was right there with that person. We would go over the prep list and we together would make sure that we would not have a night like that again because it is not good for anybody. And it is like I was invested in their success. And I think that that is one nugget of what I would say to answer your question.  What were or are some of the most common reasons for someone crumbling under pressure? When they have a bad night and they just collapse psychologically or otherwise what are the most common reasons for that?  Mostly it is like their inability to control their thinking like this notion of getting flustered. I think it'00 00. And then you are like Okay I got through the first part of the day. And then it is like 00 30 really shit starts happening. And I think people lose their composure and they get flustered and then it is just like a landslide and then you just go down. And that is the most common thing I think in my opinion. Obviously sometimes people just are not ready and they do not have the skills required but more often it is a mind game I think.  So it is just panic basically.  Yeah.  They panic and then they lose the ability to execute on the skills they actually do have.  Yes exactly. It is an exercise in focus.  So maybe you could tell me a story from your experience. You cannot control the whole kitchen. Or I should say rather let us say you are a line cook. So you are not top dog. And you are in a situation where Oh shit.  It is going down.  Sarah and Tony called in sick last minute. This is a Tuesday night it is not supposed to be big. We have got 50 menus up at the same time. Ah fuck and everybody ordered the roast chicken or whatever. And you are like This is going to be a fucking 12-car pile up and things start going sideways. Can you tell a story of pulling out of a tailspin or what you do in a situation like that. What you do in your own head what your self-talk is when that stuff is starting to unfold.  You know what is wild Tim that scenario that you paint it is kind of like an every single night scenario when you are running a busy restaurant in New York City. It is not like an outlier of a situation because every night in a really busy restaurant I mean I will speak to my experience in New York City. It is like you get punched in the face every single night because you serve 220. 30 45 and 00. And that happens every single night. So it is not much of an outlying experience but I will tell you you have heard the word mise en place right?  Yes.  So half of the battle to win the battle more than half of it is to make sure you are listed out early you get in and you win the prep half of the game. The world of cooks and kitchens it is like two halves of the game. There is the first half which is up to   I was just going to say for people who do not. So mise en place or mise correct me if I am wrong it is basically having everything prepped and in its proper place so that you can execute when it comes time to actually cook. Is that accurate?  Correct. Yeah. Every bit of everything that you need needs to be in the right place. And that is not just the food ingredients but it is the pots and the pans and the plates and the spoons. It is the tools in addition to all the foodstuffs. So it is like a holistic picture of everything. I mean one could even say your cup of water that you need as part of your mise en place.  Yeah. And I interrupted you though. You were saying the first half of the game is   Yeah there is two halves. And look in the restaurant world there is two halves of the game. There is the prep half that you have to get ready for when the curtain goes up. And then guests start coming through the door and that is the beginning of the second half. And inevitably because people have their habits and you cannot change it. I mean I'00 for 15 years of my life but they do not. So yeah. And the second half is service and inevitably you get pummeled in the middle and you need to be able to get to the other side of that and not get overwhelmed by the stacking up of tickets. And it might sound basic and you will probably squeeze some more detail out of me but it is just like there is no better time than in the shit to step back and take this approach of one ticket at a time because you will get to the other side of it. I kind of always love those moments because it is like the focus you go into this state of focus and I do not want to overdramatize it but it really does become a dance. You are in your head and you are just doing this stuff and you are putting up this beautiful food and it always resonated with me. I love it. And you have got to get into the zone.  What type of mentorship or boss have you most flourished under? It does not have to be a specific name. It could certainly. But one thing I certainly wonder about and this may be a whole separate topic but if the demanding chef culture can exist today in some form it just seems like there must be so many landmines. And I am not saying there is also a lot of bad behavior all over the place so we do not have to get into that. But it makes me think of like for instance Jeffrey our friend. Jeffrey Zurowski told me a story. I do not think he would mind me telling it where he was working for some French chef and very demanding guy but very gifted very good at teaching. And Jeffrey he was always in the way. He just could not figure out where to put himself where he was not fucking everything up. So this guy would say to him he would go Jeffrey you are like my dick always between my legs. And I thought that was the funniest thing I would ever heard. They probably cannot really do that now. I am not saying you should but it is pretty funny. So I am curious though for you personally because different people thrive under different styles what type of styles have you thrived under would you say?  It is interesting in my case Tim because I spent most of my career as the kind of chef in charge if you will. There was very few years at Gramercy Tavern where I was under people. And Tom Colicchio who is a mentor of mine he was very hands-off. He gave me all the space I needed and carte blanche to do whatever I want. And the way he infused himself was very in the shadows and it was not aggressive. So I think for me I respond best to people that show me confidence and faith. So I did as well as I did at Gramercy Tavern because the highers-up there allowed me the room to grow and shine.  So in the process of doing some homework for this conversation which I always enjoy doing with friends because it would be super creepy and weird if I was like Hey I spent five hours doing internet research on you but I have the excuse when we have these conversations. So I read that when you were starting out now I do not know if starting out is quite the right way to put it but you made a list of say five restaurants in New York City that you wanted to work for or at. And you started knocking on doors with a suit and the whole nine yards and then you ended up at Gramercy Tavern. So how did you end up not only at Gramercy Tavern? So I want to hear the story of selection how did you choose those restaurants? And then this can wait until later but separately once you landed there how did you have free reign? Why would anyone give you free reign in such a situation? So there you go.  I started as a line cook in Gramercy Tavern with no free reign but I got to a sous chef position in a year. So the first year I had to prove my merit and I was very nervous because I had not worked in any great kitchens but I was very determined. And so it took me a year to get to that place where I got some freedom.  Is that fast?  Yes.  Okay. So we are going to come back to the restaurant selection but let us focus on this for a second. Now I will accept hard work but the fact of the matter is a lot of people work hard. A lot of people put in a lot of time that cannot be the only explanation. Why were you able to do that within a year? How did you approach it differently? Or what did you do that other people did not do?  I think it was like this. It was like every waking hour I was thinking about it. And I tell cooks this today it is like part of your success is not only during the hours you walk through this door. I was obsessed and I was determined to not fail and that drove me to read and think and make lists outside of the restaurant. So that when I walked into the restaurant I had not only a list of what to do but I had it plotted on a timeline so that I would be really efficient with the four or five hours I had leading up into showtime.  You never showed up and then figured out what you were going to do. You showed up with a schedule and agenda for prep time.  Yeah. A timeline schedule and yeah. And it is like downstairs is where you prep and where the walk-in boxes are and upstairs where the kitchen is. And I would watch cooks go up and down the stairs because they forgot this and that and the other thing. And I was like poor time management buddy. You are failing because you are not doing the work pre and you are going up and down the stairs all fucking day and that is why you'00. So this attention to detail around not only the list of things but also plotted on a timeline really serves me well.  I feel like that going up and down the stairs all fucking day is a great metaphor for people to use. I wrote it down for myself. I am thinking to myself where am I running up and down the stairs all day?  Exactly.  Am I going between six tabs constantly all the fucking time? If so why am I doing that? What am I doing? Am I opening and closing my laptop 17 times a day? If so what is happening there? It adds up. Yeah it is a very good question. Okay. So you said lists you said you read does reading mean and I imagine a part of it is getting familiar obviously with the menu for that evening so that you have everything that you need. Any other types of reading when you say reading?  It was just immersing myself in food culture and food magazines at the time. And I mean it was before the crazy digital world we live in today. I was so in love with the dining scene the restaurant scene the food scene plating food seasonal ingredients. It was deeply embedded in my soul and it was singularly focused. I was singularly focused. To this day  I am the opposite of a Renaissance man Tim. I have been embedded in the world of restaurants and food and cooking for my entirety of my adult life. And it has not really afforded me the ability to dive into other especially deeply dive into other pursuits. And that is fine with me. I am not begrudging it. It is just like I think one of the keys to success in the world of restaurants and cooking and chefing is this all-in type attitude.  One thing that is always impressed me about you and honestly there is part of me that is really envious of this covet sounds too weird but I do have this kind of pang of envy when we are texting or talking. Because God it is got to be coming up on 10 years if not just past 10 years now that we have first met which is fucking bonkers to think about.  Yeah it is more than 10 for sure.  It is definitely more than 10.  Yeah.  And when I ask you what you are up to what you are excited about very often I mean there are other things of course but very often you are like Yeah I am super stoked about cooking this and I am doing this and have this garden. And you are as excited as I have ever seen you about good food and making good food when you are home. I mean it is so refreshing to see in a sense because what I am used to very often is someone who is this includes many people who are successful in whatever given field is they have their thing they do for work. And when they are not working the last thing they would ever want to do is more of what they consider their work. But that is not you. That definitely does not seem to be you.  No. In my later years it is like I am on this mission to spread the gospel of cooking. I think that it is one of the most valuable things one can teach themselves. And I do more cooking at home today than I do in the restaurant. And yeah the wonderful thing about food and cooking and the reason why it could become all encompassing is because it is that act that we all do. So it is like my daughters need to eat every day I need to eat every day everyone needs to eat. Well not every day some people have fasting practices but you get the idea. And it is ever changing and it is constantly dynamic and it never ceases to feed my soul. It never does.  Yeah. It is incredible. So bookmark coming back to bookmark I promised I would cover this with people. And I want to know selecting those five or so restaurants where you put on your God knows what. I would love to see a photo of that suit back in the day.  Oh my God.  So you put on your suit and you go to knock on some doors and smile.  For the record I also had hair to my ass and I did not know what to do with it. Because I was like what am I going to do with my hair going into these interviews? So my girlfriend at the time convinced me that the best approach would just do a single braid down the back of my head. So I was in a suit with a single braid to my waist. So yeah it was quite something. And the list was formed in my apartment in San Francisco because I was living in San Francisco at the time and my girlfriend had gotten accepted to NYU Film School. So we both decided to come back together. And it was one of these trends  I was in my late 20s and I was like Okay well up until now cooking has just been a means to like for I loved it and I was good at it but I never thought seriously about what a career would look like. So that was a big moment like moving back to New York and deciding that this was going to be my career. And the list was really  at the time Gourmet magazine did restaurant reviews and I had a stack of them because I subscribed to it. And so basically I looked at the restaurant reviews over the last nine months and took notes looked at the New York Times reviews took some notes and then based on what I was excited about that drove the list. So I wanted it to be Italian-ish. I was not super interested in the old school French restaurants I was interested in fresher vegetable types. So Diane Forley had a restaurant called Verbena and she got a lot of play for working with botanicals and vegetables and that was her big schtick and I was really turned on by that. And Lidia Bastianich had her fancy Italian restaurant Felidia and that spoke to me and I was excited about that. And then Danny Meyer and Tom Colicchio partnered and Danny just did Union Square and Tom had an Italian bent so that appealed to me. So yeah I got to the city with this list and hit the streets old school style with my resume and my suit and my single braid to my ass.  So what was your pitch?  Yeah. It was tough because I did not have a whole lot to go on. I had worked at a few restaurants here and there but I had a business degree from Pace University and I worked in a handful of restaurants that nobody ever heard of. So my pitch was I am ready to commit to this as my life and I want to find the right place that I could really learn and really dive into. And the pitch was this idea of selling these folks on the level of commitment I would have if they were to hire me.  Okay. That is super interesting because I am imagining you are going through these reviews in Gourmet magazine and at the time this is probably 20102011 and I know COVID may have affected things but I wrote I am just saying this to provide some context for folks right?  Sure.  So in The 4-Hour Chef wrote all about my first real inebriated five and a half hour orgy of gastronomical delights. And at the end of that section I said By the end of the evening I concluded what many others had Hearth is the most underrated restaurant in all of New York City. This is saying a lot in a city of 24000 restaurants. So there are no matter how you slice it we could debate the number but there are a lot of restaurants in New York City. And you have just picked a couple of the hottest restaurants. You cannot be the only person knocking on doors right?  Oh yeah.  And so I am thinking to myself Well wait a second now you are going to if we are thinking of it almost like college admissions you are going to Harvard Yale Princeton and you are like Hey let me in. Okay. The percentage of the time they say Yes. Has got to be pretty low because surely they are going to have 70 people working as line cooks.  Yeah.  And so if I were in their shoes and you offered that I would have to out think I would have to have a high degree of confidence that you could at least handle the work that I would be throwing at you right?  Mm-hmm   But I understand the commitment was first and foremost. This is the commitment that I plan to give if you were to hire me. What else was there to the pitch that would help them say yes?  The beauty about that world at that time is you come in and you do what they call a trail. So it was very easy for   A trail T-R-A-I-L?  Yeah. Trail. So they say and this happened pretty much everywhere. They were like Well They did not say this but like Your resume is not that impressive why do not you come in and suit up and just hang out and watch and And that is common practice. I mean not so much today. You come in and you spend a full day in the kitchen you suit up and they get the people the cooks and the sous-chefs and the chefs they get a sense of your vibe and your energy and your ability to just navigate the kitchen. It is like when you said Jeffrey Zurofsky was always in the way of the chef right?  Yeah.  Part of what you need to do on your trail is you need to be adept to the movements of a kitchen and show them that you are not a deer in headlights not knowing where to fucking stand. You know what I mean?  Are you just playing tag where you are avoiding anyone touching you? Or do you have responsibilities? Are you just the ghost they are like Here we do not want to hear you we do not want to see you be a ninja.  That is the thing. You need to have a good EQ and you need to go in there and you need to figure out when it is okay to poke and try to work and can I lend a hand. Or when it is time to be quiet and be in the corner. And so a lot of it is nuance and you need to be able to read the situations because maybe the first two hours of the prep day is very different than the first hour of when the shit hits the fan right?  Yeah.  So you need to have sense about you and that helps guide whether they are going to make a decision to hire you or not right?  Yeah.  So I have had trails who were absolutely useless and they did not know where to stand they did not know when it was the right time to help or not help and at the end of that the cooks are like Who was that freakazoid? Please do not hire him. Or all the cooks and the sous-chefs are like Wow that guy was really helpful. Or That girl that was really helpful and he really helped out. So that is what it is about during a trail. And I did well during my trail because I was offered a job.  Do they give you any direction beforehand? Or they just like Hey come trail wink wink. And the understanding is like I want to see if you can figure out when and how to help.  It is unsaid but of course there is a little bit of guidance. They have got to show you where the chef whites are and change in there and like We will start your day here. So there is some guide rails for sure but generally I mean I know my approach is to like Say less because it is a better test.  What do you mean? Oh say less to the person who asks you for a trail?  Yeah. When the trail comes into our kitchen it is like I try to not set up too much of a framework because I think it speaks to their level of ability.  Adaptability.  Yeah. Adaptability and ability and just to follow cues if you will.   As I think about my future Tim and the fact that through  I am in my early 50s and through my 60s I really want to figure out a way to teach people to cook because I believe in the power of cooking so much and it is the thing that I know how to do best and I love the process of teaching I love what it does for somebody when they learn how to cook because there is implications to being a good cook that is wide implication. So like to one's own health and to one's ability to connect with the people under their roof or the people they love and there is just so much to be gained from devoting some time and energy into learning how to cook. And I want that to be my next-phase mission in life.  I endorse that. I endorse that wholeheartedly. And you think a lot about nutrition I mean this is I think in part how Jeffrey initially connected us is because of The 4-Hour Body slow-carb diet and so on. I see a bullet here in front of me and my prep notes that I want to ask you about and we are going to move all over the place obviously but that is the way my brain functions or malfunctions recent 45-day CGM tha t's continuous glucose monitor experience why did you decide to use a continuous glucose monitor? And what did you learn from that experience?  Why? Because I am a bit obsessed over the physiology of my own body and what are the things that drive that physiology whether it be sleep or cold plunging or fasting or diet and having the ability to test and learn around my dietary choices was so intriguing to me. And once it was available and I knew it was out there I reached out to Frank Lipman who is a friend and a doctor that I go to see in New York and he figured out a way to get a CGM on my arm. And so I did it just at a sheer curiosity and a desire to just it is so cliche to say this but just optimize my diet a bit and understanding blood sugar I totally buy into keeping blood sugar levels steady I think is hugely critical to all kinds of health.  So what did you learn? What were the biggest takeaways?  I will tell you the craziest biggest takeaway that I feel like should be on that billboard you might ask me about it will not but it is like Take a walk after you eat. It is astonishing. And how can it be that I have never heard that in my whole life. That should be taught in first grade because the effect of it is insane. And I saw it firsthand. And I think that the folks at Levels are seeing it more and more and more because this message is getting out as they accumulate data but the power of a 14-minute walk to reduce the spike of your blood sugar regardless of what you eat is extraordinary.  Wow. No kidding. And so you use Levels in this experiment?  I did.  That is incredible. Why 14 minutes? Is that the length of your favorite Guns N' Roses?  Oh no no no no. Did I say 14 or 15? Just a little walk.  Okay.  10 minutes maybe five minutes. I did not really test the length of the walk but it was nothing severe. It was just like  I would walk around the   So it is not exercise? It is not go to the gym or doing pushups? Just going for a walk around the block a few times.  Yes. Totally chill walk around the block and I could not believe it. It is amazing to me. So highly highly recommend that it should be taught everywhere because it is incredibly effective.  That is wild man. I have not thought you just prompted something to come to my mind which I have not thought of in a few decades. And I am going to apologize to anyone who hears this and understands what I am saying because I am going to probably butcher it because my tones are off these days but there is a I want to say well maybe it is not so much a proverb it is an expression in Mandarin Chinese which is something like  which is If you walk a hundred steps after you eat you will live to be 99. That is literally the expression.  That is amazing.  Yeah. And it is just like huh. It turns out a few thousand years of trial and error   How did you find that expression?  I mean I was living in China and this is a long time ago. I mean this is 1996. So this is back when Beijing was like people's liberation green army jackets in the winter these green jackets and bicycles right? So Beijing is a different city now. And I was there for six months at two universities and I mean that was the last time I studied Chinese was around that time. But you just saying that prompted that to pop up in my brain which is wild. So   There is a lot there for sure. I mean that was my experience and many others and I find it fascinating and sitting here in 2021 and like I have been embedding myself and trying to learn about nutrition and health and we have some mutual friends and people we follow and it is just amazing to me that I have never come across that.  Yeah. How wild. Any other insights that ?  Yeah for sure. Yep. The other big one was to combine the macronutrients. If you just eat a carb a complex carb or a simple carb by itself as opposed to eating it alongside fat and protein so this idea of a well-rounded plate that made a huge difference as well. And one night in particular it was a fun game too having this thing on my arm by the way. So one night I went and I had a business dinner at Hearth and I approached it with this idea of like you know what I am going to do? I am going to eat everything and I am going to eat a lot of it. So I went nuts and I just ate all the things. Like garlic breads and wine and cocktails and desserts and I probably consumed 3000 calories. And I was like I want to see if I could make my Levels app blow up. And the astounding thing was because it was a lot of fiber and a lot of protein and a lot of fat in addition to all the bad simple carbs and sugars and wines and all that the blood spiking  I did not spike that high and I think it is because having fiber and having fat and having protein alongside these bad players of simple carbs and sugar helps mitigate that spike.  Did you exercise earlier in the day by any chance? Do you?  Yeah my exercise is always  I am an exercise first thing kind of guy.  Yeah.  Although my lifestyle is active because I live in New York I am always on my feet and I am walking a lot right?  Yeah.  So that must play into things as well.  Mm-hmm . Fascinating.  I loved having that thing on my arm. I want to do it again because there is so much cool testing and learning you can do.  Yeah. You can do some cool stuff. I am going to do another CGM experiment soon because the last time I did a continuous glucose monitor experiment was in 20089 for The 4-Hour Body with the version one Dexcom which you had to implant in your abdomen which I had to basically get off the back of a truck meaning through gray area means because it was only intended for type one diabetics and you could not get it otherwise. And there was an external screendevice that you would hang on your belt like a beeper. There was no iPhone. And it was very much   Different experience.  Gen one. And it will be much more interesting to do now with the vastly improved technology. And I am so curious to see my takeaways because the tools are just so much better. And I have more tools. Because I have the Oura Ring which I wear for sleep. I have Eight Sleep which I use to cool my bed typically. And I noticed something just in this last week and I was like Wow that is really wild. I still need to replicate it. But A I have noticed and I knew this already but that the most obvious takeaway from the Oura Ring is if you drink certain types of booze past a certain point your sleep is just garbage. It is so clear.  Totally.  Especially deep sleep. However what I noticed when looking at my recovery and sleep scores on the Oura as an experiment recently I had two large glasses of wine Rosa in this case. And that is usually enough to completely destroy my sleep. But what I decided to do was to decrease the temperature of my bed more than usual to turn down the temperature because one of the symptoms of drinking too much alcohol is my resting body temperature goes up at night.  Yep.  And so I did that for those who have an Eight Sleep I went from like a -3 in the beginning to a -4. And that would usually ascend up to waking. So I lowered it let us just call it 33 percent an additional 33 percent. And what I found was I woke up feeling much more refreshed and my numbers on the Oura Ring look totally different. So I need to replicate it.  That is incredible.  It is super interesting as a hypothesis to be like Okay. If I suppress some of the symptoms of alcohol consumption which would  so some of the symptoms would include lower heart rate variability. So normally I would be like 33 to 40 I guess it is milliseconds I think it is ms is this increment I am not sure actually what the unit is. So the 33-40 on the Oura Ring if I drink it drops down low to mid 20s. So that would be one symptom. Another symptom would be the lowered sorry the higher temperature higher resting heart rate. And it is hard to know if all of these symptoms happen simultaneously or if some of those phenomena caused the others right?  Yeah.  So for instance does the elevated temperature then result in the lower heart rate variability right? And so what at the very least I mean it is an interesting idea because I do not drink a lot these days because I feel it much more as I have grown older but I enjoy it. I am not going to lie. I know it is very out of vogue and all the hip kids are like Oh I will just do ketamine. And I am like Well I do not know. And maybe a time and a place but I still like my wine with friends. You know I do not want to be a truffle pig snorting ketamine at the dinner table. So the idea that you have these tools and if you are able to form a hypothesis and then try to replicate it which is super important because it is easy to fool yourself is super exciting. And the take a walk after you eat. Because I could look at it Okay. Because I have noticed that if I am going to drink if I give my body four or five hours to metabolize before I go to bed my sleep is much improved. So if I am going to have three glasses of wine 30 I am going to be much better off all my markers than if I have it at eight oclock dinner right?  Sure.  There is a question of Well what happens if I still have the eight oclock dinner but then I go for 30 minu  Let us say I make it it could be a 10-minute walk. It could be a 30-minute walk right?  Yep.  See how that affects things. And it is super tricky because you are an amateur obviously we are all amateur if we are doing it this way scientists in a sense. And there are a million variables but you can start to play with these things. You know?  Absolutely. One of the other things I noticed that I found intriguing was this idea of metabolizing alcohol. And every time I drank 30 in the morning. And you hear about the fact that it takes a while for your liver to metabolize liquor and the reason why you wake up you spoke about overheating and stuff but it is also because that is when your liver finally metabolizes it and you have a blood sugar spike. And it happens like five hours later. So yeah all kinds of cool stuff around that Levels app or any CGM app. And yeah I am dying to do it again. And funny I know that you are into sauna. I actually bought a barrel sauna after I saw yours in Austin. But I had to figure out a way to not stop my sauna so I had a huge wool felt thing that I would put over my sensor and then I would wrap it with string so that'ill protect the sensor because it does not like 208 degrees.  So you put a Russian banya wool hat on your arm to protect   That is exactly what it was. Yeah. And then I wrapped it. And then I wrapped it.  That is pretty gangster. You looked like some kind of I do not know.  Yeah. Badass.  Yeah badass warrior from Last of the Mohicans or something. That is amazing. Great book by the way I have recently read but very dated for those people who are sensitive to such things but beautifully written. So let us jump into some nutrition stuff. And this is going to be a segue into talking about Brodo which I want to ask you about. So one thing we chatted about in your kitchen when we were bullshitting over tea and waiting for the oven to heat up was I think you actually brought it up this book Metabolical  it is not what is in the food it is what is been done to the food. And I think the example you gave was some snack food made out of chickpeas. And I would love for you to sort of replay or just speak to that because it   Sure.   highlights something that is super super important that I also need to think more about honestly which is that the ingredient panels and nutrition facts panels are just not enough if you are trying to assess the health value of your food.  Totally. Yeah.  Could you speak to that? And maybe you could just use an example right?  Sure. So this has been on my mind for a while especially since I have been trying to build and grow the broth business because the more I learned about the consumer packaged goods space the more this came obvious. And chickpeas are a good example because through the years I have spoken to a lot of people trying to commercialize a packaged food product and the perfect kind of metaphor is hummus because you could read an ingredient panel and it could say organic chickpeas and organic lemon juice and organic whatever whatever and it has all the buttons and the nutritional facts panels has what it has but there is no way of a consumer to know whether the person who made that hummus boiled beans or just got powdered chickpea and added water. So there is no transparency around process in so much of the foods that we consume. Another easy one is seed oils. The process you have to put rapeseed through to get the oil out it is like they are washing it with chemicals hexane and then they are putting it through a high heat process that oxidizes the fats. And what comes out the other end is an oil that has residue of chemicals and that has been oxidized by the heat but there is nowhere  where do you know that as a consumer if you are in the aisle reading the back label of the organic canola oil or the organic chickpea that has all the right buttons and all the right marketing on it? What is been driving me for six years is I want to get a traditionally made broth out to the masses. And that is really hard to do. The food system we live in today there is a lot of room for improvement and it is going to be a long hard battle but I am not afraid of long hard anything so I am willing to go after it.  Well I was just going to say   But yeah transparency. I guess to put it in a little bullet it is like there is no transparency around the process and that is a big problem as we navigate the food world.  Yeah. And to build on that there are cases where you can sort of deduce that A does not equal A in quotation marks in the sense that if you buy hummus from the farmer's market with a certain set of ingredients and then you go to the hipster grocery store and you find chickpea crisps that are completely different texture completely different form factor are shelf stable for 175 years  not to say that is true for all crisps. I am just making up a kind of arbitrary example. You can safely assume that something has been done to the ingredients that was not done at the farmer's market.  Correct.  And it is just unclear what has been done but there has been some level of manipulation for it to take a different form. Right? That is just how it has to has to be. Now in notes here I was not aware of this but apparently there is a NOVA classification? Do you want to describe what this is the N-O-V-A classification system developed by researchers at University of Sao Paulo?  Yeah. And I would like to believe that this is the future for us as well because I think consumers we are getting smarter and smarter and we are caring more and more about the things that really drive health. I mean I think it is unquestionable that the choices we make daily about what we eat and drink is the biggest driver of health. And so I would like to believe there will be a time where the big food companies will have to be more transparent around the process. And the NOVA system is happening in South America and it basically sets four categories of ultra-processed processed  Oh I cannot remember the other two names but basically it provides a framework to define what foods are ultra-processed as opposed to processed as opposed to culinary ingredients that are minimally processed.  Yeah. It looks like so to summarize that the NOVA classification system which was developed in Brazil by researchers separates out food into four groups based on the level of processing. So the first level is unprocessed the second is processed culinary ingredients.  Right.  Do you say culinary or culinary? What do you say?  I say culinary.  God damn it. All right. So processed culinary ingredients. The third is processed and then the fourth is ultra-processed. And this is so important and there are a lot of questions that you unfortunately seem to add a lot of complexity to the lives of end consumers because they are like Good God cannot I just know that a fucking banana is a banana for God's sake? You know?  . Yeah. Yeah right.  But there are certain questions that I think are worth asking. How processed if you had to put it  I am not totally clear on unprocessed and then processed culinary ingredients versus processed. Maybe you can tell me what the difference is between processed culinary ingredients and processed. I do not know. Do you have any idea what that means?  Well culinary ingredients are things that you would find in a kitchen pantry as opposed to a food scientist's pantry in a food manufacturing plant. When I cook at home I do not have a pantry full of emulsifiers or stabilizers so I think this notion of culinary ingredients is the things that you would imagine like spices and herbs and dried tomato and   Flour.   things like that. Yeah. Yeah.  Got it. Okay.  And look I just want to say there is a lot of ambiguity around a word like processed right?  Yeah for sure.  Because everything is somewhat processed and I think that is what NOVA's trying to parse out a bit.  Codify it. Yeah to define it. Right. Well if people say Our food is all natural it is like okay let us take a look at what that means.  Right. And I am by no means an expert in the NOVA system. I just wanted to bring it up because I believe it is where we are going in the space and I believe it is needed. And I have not really vetted or done a lot of reading around NOVA but I like it conceptually because it is a huge gap.  Yeah. Yeah for sure. I mean I think the processing question is a huge blind spot for people. Another blind spot which we do not have to dwell on but it is something I think about a lot is thinking about what you eat ate if that makes any sense. So people say   Oh yeah.   You are what you eat and it is like well you have got to go a step further. The food   You are what you eat .  Yeah. Your food that you are eating what nourished that? Because if you are like Hey I am eating fish and that is so much healthier than beef you have got to double-click on that and take a look because if it is some really disgusting industrial level farming operation where they are just dumping food and antibiotics and so on into the water they have basically taken the worst practices of terrestrial agriculture and just poured it into the water. So you have to look a lot. And then if you compare that to just say grass-fed grass-finished beef putting aside environmental concerns for the moment because I think both can be degrading but if we are just looking at individual health those are very different from say industrial level cattle farming versus a different source of salmon. And by the way this is not just limited to animals. It is also true of plant matter.  Yeah fertilizers and yeah the nutrient density of the soil that the vegetables were grown in right?  Yeah yeah exactly. Right. I mean are we dealing with a few inches of topsoil with tons of fertilizer poured on top of it or are we talking about something else? I happen to be fascinated by this stuff so I do not mind digging into it but it is really unfortunate that it is so complex in part because there are so many incentives to hide this kind of shit. You know what I mean?  Exactly. Yeah.  There are so many incentives because if a company can get you something bigger faster cheaper and leave the details off of the packaging of course a lot of people that are going to take that. So let us talk about Brodo. Unlike many restaurants you were open throughout the entire pandemic is my understanding. And I did not know that until we just recently spent time together. I was kind of afraid to ask honestly because of so many horror stories that I have heard and love you love the restaurant and I am ashamed of that so I am sorry that I did not ask but I was just like oh God I can only imagine how hard it must be and I was afraid to ask. But the fact of the matter is you kept the Brodo window open. You sold frozen foods. You also I do not want to say liquidated maybe you did but you realized that you had all of this valuable inventory of wine and so sold wine and you were able to kind of figure it out. So I think it is just incredible and inspiring. I do not know if you would like to add anything to that. I just wanted to sort of preface the discussion of Brodo with that that it is sort of a great metaphor in a way also that that window ended up being like the portal and the lifeline.  Yeah. Yeah. It is what allowed us to stay open because we were mandated by the city that if you were a sit-down restaurant you could not stay open if you wanted. You had to close. And that is what Hearth was. And it was the fact that I had a Brodo window selling these hot cups of broth out of a little window it was like a little lifeline that allowed the entire restaurant to stay open. And d as it was Tim it was an incredible 16  I mean we are still in it but it was an incredible time for the restaurant and the team because the small group of us that came together to keep that place alive it was like everybody thought outside of the box. Everybody did things and learned things that they did not know before. And the fact that we all came together and did all of these fun creative things to stay relevant and to find some revenue we all thrived on it. So as hard as it was it really engaged us all in a way that we had not been after  because the restaurant's 17 years old so it was like a really nice swift kick in the that got us thinking in a way that we would not have because as you know something that is 16 years old you are in the groove. And then COVID came and turned everything upside down and it was kind of thrilling.  Long and hard. You are not afraid of long and hard.  Yeah.  Yeah. You are surfing. You are very accustomed to surfing paddling out and serving 100 foot waves which is just wild. And why do not we take a step back and I would love for you to tell the story of how Brodo came to be.  Sure.  Brodo's turned into one of those things I look forward to when I visit New York City. And I remember some very early super early taste tests.  Just FYI you are one of the first people I called when I realized that the launch of the Brodo window out of the side door of Hearth  I got a sense after about two months that I was kind of onto something. And I poked at you and I do not know seeking advice or something and I think you said something to the effect of Well Marco it is more about you needing to ask yourself what you want. Which I thought was great advice. But yeah you have been part of this since the beginning. And you were at our first shop in the West Village. I hosted you and that is when I gave you the full broth tasting of that whole world of hot beverages around broth.  Yes. Yeah.  So yeah. Yeah you have been right there alongside me and I really appreciate that.  It is been fun to see its evolution. I mean I think that on one level the experiment with the window is a beautiful case study of low-risk entrepreneurial experimentation right?  Totally.  It is not like you found another retail shop. It is not like you pushed all your chips in on broth. You are like Hey correct me if I am wrong but you are like What can we do with these amazing ingredients that we already have?  Totally.  I understand broth. We have this location. Open a window see how it does. And you are like If we cover our costs or maybe make a little bit of money we are in great shape. So the downside risk was super low and you have got to test it. You have got to test it   Totally.   and then develop it and start with the basics but with really really good ingredients. Again for people listening I think of the gnocchi. There is yes okay flour and potato. Okay. Anybody can go out and get flour and potato but many different types of flour.  .  Many different types of potatoes. Many different types of preparation. And then when we did the taste test in the West Village I still remember that because I love bone broth and even I got to a point where I was like maybe I need to slow down on today's intake of bone broth because I had like a gallon of bone broth.  .  And it was amazing. I could not stop myself. But what were the flavors that we tested that day? Do you remember? We had tom kha. That was one.  Look I probably forced the entire menu down your gullet so some of the top five are the Deeply Rooted which is fresh turmeric and ginger inside of  we have four different broths so I probably gave you these combos in a variety of different base broths but definitely you got the Deeply Rooted. You got the Spicy Nonna which is some Calabrian chili and roasted garlic puree buzzed in. The Tom Yum which is coconut and lime and chili and a little bit of curry powder. You definitely got that. You got my favorite one which is the Oishi Oishi which you know better than I do what that means but it is tasty right? Oishi Oishi?  Yeah. Yeah Oishi Oishi. Yeah.  Oishi. And that is a little bit of shiitake tea and grass-fed butter and garlic buzzed into broth. And yeah so you had them all. I probably made you at the time what I called the Flu Fighter because I am a bit obsessed with mortar and pestles and the Flu Fighter is basically fresh ginger fresh turmeric peppercorns some fresh oregano all pounded to a paste and then I add a little grass-fed butter pound it into the butter and then you take that mixture and you burr mix it into really hot broth. Also some chili in there for heat and a big squeeze of lemon. But anyway it is an incredibly restorative beverage that Flu Fighter and just broth in general. The thing about Brodo for me Tim is it is the perfect distillation of the simplicity that I have been seeking my whole life. And I felt like Brodo is the perfect thing to try to bring to the masses because it really in a way is the simplicity I have been grasping for throughout my whole career.  So to that point and I am excited about this. Obviously I got a preview when we were making the gnocchi or before we started making the gnocchi when I was having more coffee I got to see a preview because you cannot serve the world through a window in New York City. So what is the latest and greatest? I know this is a big big step so what is going on with Brodo?  Well Brodo is what they call right now much to the chagrin of many people I get in front of as I try to raise money but we are an omni-channel business. So we have shops that I really love and I am really proud of. COVID kind of pressed pause on the shops for a bit but I do believe that we could have a shop for every 50 Starbucks in the world because broth as a hot beverage is incredible. There is a lot to it and I would put it up against coffee any day of the week. So I am very excited at pursuing shops. That is one piece of our business. And then Brodo.com is another big piece of our business where we sell our base broths. And then the other part of the business which I think is what you are alluding to is our new product launch that we are really excited about which is we finally figured out a way to get these shop drinks i.e. the Deeply Rooted the Spicy Nonna the Tuscan Sun Tom Yum et cetera into a single-serve format full strength and frozen. So you are going to be able to get eight ounces of these combo drinks that we have been serving in New York City on the shelves of 456 Whole Foods. And certainly it is been a beast to get into Whole Foods and get the manufacturing and I will not bore people with that stuff unless you want more. But anyway we finally after six years are getting these combo broth beverages out into the world in a real way and we are super stoked.  Yeah. I saw the packaging which is gorgeous. And what can people find on Brodo.com currently? So if they are more inclined to go to a website what are their options on Brodo.com?  Well at the moment of this recording we have 22 ounce tubs of four base broths and we have a grass-fed beef broth. We have a chicken broth. We have a vegan shiitake and seaweed broth. And then we have my favorite which is what I call Hearth broth and that is made with turkey beef and chicken. It is a combo broth. So up until now that is what we have been  we have been selling those four SKUs on Brodo.com. But hopefully by the time this drops to the world we have been working on our website and we are going to have the new format which is the eight ounce single-serve available in these super flavorful combo drinks.  And when you get the single-serve how many single serves are in a case or a box?  Yeah we do eight to a box but in grocery you will be able to buy them individually.  Nice.  Yeah.  Let me ask a couple of those closing questions and see where we go.  Okay.  So I will start with one that I know you have heard before which is the billboard question. So if you could put anything on a billboard metaphorically speaking to get a quote comment question image anything out to billions of people what might that be?  I think it would be Cook your own food. I think our obsession with convenience and our beliefs that we can outsource something as important as cooking has been one of the main drivers in the ill health of this country.  Cook your own food.  Yep.  Dig it. One more thing which is most or frequently given books. So what books have you gifted often to other people? Besides your own.  Yeah. At work every year I kind of give my line cooks and my management team books as gifts around the holidays. So This is Water by David Foster Wallace is one I commonly give because it is so short and the message is so perfect in my opinion. So I have given that a lot. And then for cookbooks I got to say the Marcella Hazan Essentials is just I adore that woman. I adore her simple approach. It is like she is the OG of Italian grandma cooking. And so those are the two books.  Yeah. Marcella Hazan. I remember the roast chicken. I think she has I mean she has gotten a lot obviously but   Oh my God. A ton.  Yeah. Yeah. I remember just being so impressed with her roasted chicken.  Especially for young cooks that come through my kitchen. I always ask them I am like Do you have this book? And if they say no then I get them that book.  Favorite failures. Any favorite failures come to mind? Things that set you up for later success or that you would not trade in?  Yeah. Favorite's a tough way to frame it but the failure of my you know when I opened Hearth in 2003 I had a partner a business partner and at year 10 that thing got dissolved. So I would say that first business partnership failure I do not know if I would call it a favorite thing. It was not a fun process but it was a very valuable one.  What did you take away from that? What did you learn from that?  Just to do a little bit more inquiry and vetting around common  you know we were so caught up in the romantic vision and dream of what it would mean to open our own restaurant that we forgot to step back and do some work around defining things that we should have. And it got in the way and it ended poorly but now I know better. So what else what more can you ask for from learning?  When you said define things certain things that were not defined are there certain things that you would encourage people to define that you did not that they could consider if they are looking at a potential partnership?  One of the pet peeves I had like a minor thing but I think I will mention it just for the hell of it. My partner was obsessed with Riesling wine and I was obsessed with simple Italian cooking. And so my food and his wine did not really go well together because he was obsessed with Riesling and I wanted Aussie Chiantis on the menu and it sounds minor but that is the thing to learn about these kinds of partnerships whether it is romantic partnerships or business partnerships do not underestimate those little minor nags because over time they become big things.  Yeah. That is super super important. Well Mr. Marco I think we are coming to a close.  We are not going to talk about our sauna?  We can talk about sauna.  I am kidding.  We could what have you learned about your sauna experiments? What is your best practices now and why?  So you know I got a   Because you are a hard charger when it comes to saunas. I mean I do sauna as well. I just did one yesterday. I am impressed by how much of a hard charger you are.  I am super obsessed with sauna lately. I love this idea of pushing the boundaries of what you think you are capable of and hot and cold is a great way to do that. And I think it just builds immense mental capacity to deal with hardship. And I feel like being resilient is something that I love the idea that I could do something that helps me practice resilience. And maybe some people get that through exercise or whatever but the fact that I could sit in my sauna at 210 degrees for 20 minutes is something that I get excited about. And then plunging into 48 degree water after that. And sitting in that water for four minutes it is just a good mind fuck of a game. And I have been obsessed with it lately and what do I get out of it? Other than the mental exercise of overcoming the cold and the hot I do not know this because I do not have an Oura ring but it really helps my sleep. And it really helps me calm down at the end of a stressful day.  What time do you usually do the hot cold?  I usually do it after an early dinner.  Yeah. Too late and it is tough. Too late it is tough. But exactly. On the earlier side I usually do it before dinner because I have tossed my cookies from too much heat before. So number one for everyone listening we are not giving medical advice. These are two wackadoodle guys talking about what they do. So get proper medical clearance before you do any extremes in hot or cold. However I will note just for people who cannot put it in context those are hot and cold temperatures. Also I have a cold plunge about a hundred feet from where I am sitting which is just   How cold does it get?  I am not really sure. I mean it is a chest freezer full of water and ice. And that is unplugged at the moment. My guess is that it is   High 30s.  Yeah high 30s low 40s. And I will say to anyone wondering at least in my experience and the experience of many friends on the cold side and I would be curious to hear your thoughts Marco but there is not a linear incremental perception to cold. In other words it is not like going from 65 to 55 is the same as going from 55 to 45. Once you get into the 40s it is a different game. It is like the perception of cold is so different. And just be aware of that before you get in. It is chilly. And I am a fan. I am also a fan of both. And I know that you like pushing the edges and that you like experimentation. And you also like preserving the essence right? I mean I think that from my exposure to you like one thing you are not a fan of is faddish new ingredients or the quest for kind of magic bullet P.T. Barnum components of food but you are all about experimentation with whole food ingredients. I see you conducting experiments constantly right? So it is not as though you are saying like Hey this is the way spaghetti is made. This is the only way spaghetti should ever be made. You are constantly running experiments but it is with the integrity of whole food as the base of your elements that you are allowing yourself to work with which I admire. Because I think the conceit that we would possibly understand everything that is going on a multifactorial when you eat foods in combinations is just at this point given our technology and ability to assess these things pretty ridiculous.  Yeah. We need some humility around that for sure. I mean it is like there is so much we do not know in that space and yeah I could not agree more Tim. It is like we are learning every day and we all have to acknowledge that there is a lot left to learn. And one of the reasons why I love Peter Attia is because that is a fundamental point that he launches off of is this idea of I might believe this today but I might not believe it next week. And we all need to get comfortable with that.  Yeah for sure. It makes me think of this story. Coming back to that Chinese proverb and who knows it very easily could just be coincidence. And maybe it is just some bored Chinese guy came up with a saying that rhymed really nicely but it does coincide very well with your experience as validated through the latest and greatest continuous glucose monitor. Maybe a few thousand years separated. That is interesting. Right? At least it raises questions like is that just chance or have humans figured out a lot by trial and error. And in fact even our primate predecessors figured out right? Because we are not the only animals who use plants as medicine. And I was reading this book recently called Medicine Quest by an ethnobotanist named Mark Plotkin. And I am hoping to excerpt some of it on the blog because there are a few chapters that are really just incredible. And he tells this story of a number of I suppose it would be ethnobotanists who were they might have actually been at a research institution. They were not doing this for commercial development but there was some type of concoction that a medicine man in this case some type of healer which is much more than psychedelics and psychotropics which bothers me when the assumption is like all these people whose dose people with hallucinogens. And they are they are basically pharmacists who use the in this case the jungle to treat ailments of all different types including fungal infections parasites et cetera. And if I remember correctly these researchers were able to observe with glucose measurements that this concoction which included three plants reliably lowered blood glucose in type two diabetics. And they would never seen these plants never IDed this type of concoction. So they asked this medicine man which plants he used. And he said No problem. You are welcome to take them back and analyze them. He gave them these three plants. They took them back. They looked for what could be active molecules ran all sorts of tests on these three plants negative negative negative nothing all three together negative. And they went back and because they discarded one step and they forgot they discarded one step. And they are like We need to watch you prepare this. Oh they said your concoction does not work. And he goes What do you mean my concoction does not work? You measured the results in patients taking it. How do you conclude it does not work? And they go Well we tested them all separately. We need to watch you make it again. And so they are watching him make it and he is doing what he is doing with the three plants. And then at the very end he drops a crab in. And they were like What was that? And he is like It is the crab. And they go What? And they go We asked you what was in your concoction. And he goes No you did not. You asked me which plants were in my concoction.  Oh my God. That is amazing.  And for some bizarre reason.  It changed everything.  It is like plant plant plant crab and all of it together somehow that was figured out to have this effect. Now putting aside this is not randomized controlled trials. I understand that. Could a huge part of it be placebo effect? Maybe. Could it be contextual based on the culture? Yes. But there are so many phenomena that we cannot explain at this point in time. It is just the pinnacle of hubris to think that we have a full understanding of food when we have demonstrated throughout our history including recent history how piss poor we are at deconstructing these things. So that is I will get off my soap box but I really   Thank you for saying that because I could not have said it better myself. And it is so at the core it is really at the core of my belief system too. I look backwards to help guide my nutritional path forward because I believe that as well. The best trial is looking through the history of man not the current state of research science in this world because it is like a mess.  Yeah. And you can look at both but make sure to look at both. There is another story I think this was actually told to me if you do not mind now I am like on a roll just cause I get so   I love this stuff.  I get so spun up about this stuff. There is   Me too.  So like look yes there is a lot of superstition and bullshit and there is a lot of nonsense and dross that humankind has accumulated. Yes. And right now like the scientific method is the best way we have consistently of asking questions of nature and trying to sort answers out without fooling ourselves. I mean I fund a lot of science so I believe that but   A lot of their funding is bogus. I am sorry to interrupt you Tim. Because you are on a thing but it is worth noting that it is important to follow the money of the funding. And one of the things I respect and admire about you and the things that you fund and Peter Attia and the way he goes through the world and life around research is you have to ask those really hard questions. And you read the studies but it is hard to follow and analyze and understand who did the studies and where the money's coming from. And it is a big red flag a lot of times.  Oh yeah. Yeah. And so hundred percent agree with that. And you know for-profit companies will establish foundations and institutes and all sorts of weird stuff to hide sources of funding for sponsored research or studies. So yes there is a lot of bad behavior. You will have people fund 20 studies and 18 of them will say this stuff is terrible for you. Two will say it is good for you. They will be like great. We will take those two. Thanks very much. There is a lot of bad behavior. You should always look at the conflict of interest section and so on.  Yeah.  With all of those warts science and the scientific method is still very important. However we assume we know more than we do. This is true of humans for as long as we have called ourselves humans. And one story that I remember a friend told me we did a lot of work in I believe it was South America but it may have been Africa. And he said We went with this NGO to help this local group. And they had really low yield or like moderate yield on a crop. And they always put it way up on the hillside. And we asked them why they put it way up on the hillside. I am paraphrasing this but it is something like this. And they said Well that is because that is the way our grandparents did it. And then Why did they do it that way? Well that is the way their grandparents did it. And so these bright-eyed bushy-tailed like 20 and 30 somethings in this NGO are like Oh well we have some news for you. You would have much better yield if you did it down in the valley and did it this way and that way based on modern agriculture and what we know about A B C D and E and let us show you how this is done. And you know these villagers are like Fantastic. We will try it. And so they put them all down in the valley. First winter storms it must have been more central maybe probably not Africa or it was at altitude I think. And there was this frost that came through and like wiped out everything in the valley. And they are like Yep.  should not plant shit there. So do not assume the past is the path forward but I think it is safe to assume that hidden amongst the false positives and false negatives there is also a lot of signal in the past. And that is been made clear in my adventures and conversations with you. That is been made also super clear in reading about and experiencing firsthand a lot of the traditions in Italy which it is a great cuisine to study because there is complexity or there are nuances. But you are not dealing with dishes. At least in the central and south that have 27 ingredients generally. Right? Like you are   Absolutely not.  You are able to actually look at the variables and it is so much fun. Well we could go for hours I am getting all spun up. So I am going to try to land this plane.  Okay.  So Marco people can go and should go to brodo.com B R O D O.com. I recommend everyone try it. They can find the restaurant at restauranthearth.com certainly in New York City. If you are in NYC give a visit they can find you on Instagram marcocanora that is M A R C O C A N O R A. Is there anything else you would like to say? Any closing comments requests of the audience anything at all that you would like to add before we wrap this up?  Well two things and I will be quick cause we have been going on and on but one is I want to just thank you for the incredible work that you do. And I found you many years ago and I have been following you ever since and you are incredibly generous and so thoughtful in your work. And I am one of many who really really appreciates it. So I want to say thank you to you.  Thank you.  Yeah. And then no again I just want to put a point on the cooking thing. It is like cooking is an incredible process that engages all of your senses. That gives you a high reward from health to flavor to community to connectivity to other people. And it is really a path to so many of the things that I think we need to be better humans. So I just want to encourage anybody who is fearful of cooking or is like I do not know if I want to do it or not please please do it. And you will grow to love it. And it will reward you forever.  Hear hear brother. You know as you are saying that I am like I need to go thaw out some venison go to the farmer's stand and get some food. I am going to cook dinner.  There you go.  I am going to cook dinner on Sunday night. I am so fired up it is fucking great man. Marco you are a mensch. I look forward to spending more time together. It is so nice to see you.  You too. I cannot wait to visit you wherever the hell you are.  Yeah. Wherever I will be wherever I am for sure. Cannot wait and keep going man keep going. And I recommend everybody check out again Brodo.com B R O D O.com. Check it out. Do a taste test. You will thank me later. And to everybody listening we will have show notes links to everything as per usual at tim.blogpodcast. And until next time thank you for tuning in.   And now we bring to you The affair of the oven that was not on and how to make delicious gnocchi. Enjoy!  So let us talk about the affair of the oven that was not on.  You are jumping ahead. I love it.  I am jumping ahead. I am jumping back. We are going to go all over the place.  I love it.  So I sent you a voice memo not too long this is a few months ago and it was a question about gnocchi G-N-O-C-C-H-I for people who do not know the spelling. And we should probably describe what gnocchi are for people who do not know. But the reason I sent you a voice memo is I was trying to think up a birthday gift for my girlfriend. My girlfriend is half Italian and she and her mom have been trying to recreate this family recipe for gnocchi for a decade something like this maybe more. And there was always something missing or something they were not getting because the gnocchi would just not turn out. And so I asked you if you might know how to make gnocchi and if so if you would be open to  I was not quite that stupid about it but I asked you if you might be open to teaching my girlfriend and her mom via Zoom how to make gnocchi properly. And I really wish I had that voice memo your response to put into this podcast. It was great but it was basically like Yes I have made 10000 plus rounds of gnocchi and it is been featured in these following outlets and actually quite famous for the gnocchi. So yes I do know how to make gnocchi. And then you very graciously offered to teach. And so I think the gnocchi is a great jumping off point because it offers some fertile ground for I think a pretty hilarious story. And it also shows how simplicity and elegance can be the by-product of trial and error if that makes any sense.  Absolutely.  And so before we get into the stories and the affair of the oven that was not on what are gnocchi? Just so people know what we are talking about.  It is a potato dumpling. It is like a version of pasta if you will but it is made with potato and some people use egg I do not. What I am really proud of about my approach is there is only two ingredients and that is potato and flour.  Okay. So just so we do not bury the punchline here what are some of the keys? Either the keys to making gnocchi that are delicious and fluffy and amazing like the ones that we made and by we I mean 90 percent you but we participated. Or what are the common mistakes? if you could just walk us through maybe a few of the things that make great gnocchi great. And why so many gnocchi are not great.  Look gnocchi has a bad reputation of being super heavy. So you eat them and they end up being gummy and they are like lead in your belly. And that is the biggest complaint I hear most about a lot of gnocchi out in the world. So getting them to be very light and airy is something anybody making gnocchi should try to get to. And then the flavor of the potato should come through. And that means not adding too much stuff to it. I think a lot of home chefs and even professional chefs they always try to infuse other things and sweet potato gnocchi or butternut squash gnocchi. And it is again back to the simplicity idea it is no gnocchi are made with potato. Sorry. So I think keeping it simple and keeping it light is the goal. And some of the pitfalls is people add a lot of egg and I do not think egg is necessary. As an amateur you might want to add egg because it will protect you a bit and keep it together but you are making a dough and that dough should not be overworked because you are using flour and you have got to think of it like a pie crust or a biscuit crust and you do not want to work the gluten too much or else they become what I said which is sticky and dense.  So there were a few things that hopped out at me and there are many things that are counterintuitive. So one of the first was do not get your hipster 10 a potato potatoes that are as fresh as possible. That is a mistake. Right?  Yep.  In fact you want the opposite. So I would love to hear you speak to why that is the case.  Sure.  And then I want to clarify and please fact check me one thing that you said which was related to I think I would imagine a common error which is people are kneading with their hands and kneading with a K the flour into the potato but by doing so you are creating this elastic gummy glutinous response. And instead what I saw you do and we did some of this too is to use a pie scraper to chop the flour into the potato. Which is very counter intuitive for someone who has not made gnocchi before. So first what types of potatoes are the ideal potatoes to use and why?  I like a classic Idaho potato because there is a high starch content and you can cook the water out of them and then there is less moisture so then you end up with a dough that has less flour and then ultimately a dough that ends up being lighter on the palate.  And should they be  You like older potatoes?  Yeah. So I often point to fresh peas. I do not know if you have ever gotten fresh peas that are in a pod. But the thing about peas is you want to pick them and you want to keep ice on them so that they keep their sugar because that is a sweet pea. But when a pea loses its sugar the pea goes to starch and that process happens with a lot of vegetables. And with an Idaho potato you do not want a fresh potato because it is holding onto the sugar and it is the starch that is going to help you create a lighter dough. So we used to literally buy cases of potatoes and put them in the cellar and I mean we kind of age the potatoes if you will because we found that a potato that is aged that almost is starting to sprout ends up being less water and less sugar and more starch and that always lent itself to a better gnocchi. I know you always reference things in the show notes but I was on The Dave Chang Show and we talked about gnocchi quite a bit on that show because he was at Kraft when I was doing all of these things. And we kind of like two old dogs talking about kitchen stories but we went on and on about the gnocchi on that podcast if anybody wants to hear more about the origins.  And you came to this it sounds like largely through trial and error. And part of what impressed me is the detail in the simplicity if that makes any sense. So for instance if you are trying to in the process of cutting the potatoes evaporate as much moisture as possible cutting them lengthwise in a particular way so that you have the maximum amount of surface area exposed. Where the inclination for anyone who has not spent a lot of time in the kitchen would be like All right let me just take the potato cut it right down the middle the way you would think of cutting a tomato down the middle where you just have the ends of the cigars so to speak exposed to air but that is not going to actually accomplish the job. So even though technically both are easy. You are making one cut the direction matters a lot to the outcome. And so I love the simplicity but the thought behind the simplicity. There is a lot that goes into it.   When my girlfriend and I were in New York City before we move on to other questions because I mentioned in somewhat cryptic phrasing The affair of the oven that was not turned on I wanted to make it sound like a Sherlock Holmes novel or something I got to see what a delivery of bad newsdiscipline looks like without yelling and s creaming which I thought was very fascinating. And I am just going to bookend this story and then I will let you tell it. So the only part that I heard that I then asked you about was you said pretty calmly you said I heard you say around the corner to a bunch of staff you were like This is not going to be fun for anyone. So we met up I want to say the plan was either 10 00 AM. And why do not you tell the story of what the plan was and then what happened?  Yeah. So first I got to say I was really thrilled when you reached out to me and were like Hey do you know how to make gnocchi? And would you do this? I love teaching. And to get a ping from you and ask that question I was overjoyed and fully invested in this notion of teaching your girlfriend and your girlfriend's mom how to make gnocchi. It made my day to get that that text. So it took us a while to schedule it and plan it but it is like oh you are going to be in New York this weekend so I had it all planned out and I thought really hard about it. And if you remember we had a lot of back and forth leading up to it because we were doing this via Zoom and her mom was going to be far away so she needed to know what equipment to have. So it was like You need a potato ricer and you need a bench scraper. And so we did a lot pre.. As I was alluding to earlier it is all in the mise en place right?  Yeah.  So we did a fair amount of work around what is required you guys showed up and I had everything laid out and we had our little food meal to pass the potatoes and it was a little mini cooking class on a Saturday morning. I had aprons and towels and here's some tea and it was so fun. I was so excited and it was plotted out because we opened for brunch at Hearth. So the kitchen is a functioning kitchen so we only had a certain window to do this our lesson and furthermore everything we were doing was happening in parallel in  or wherever?  Yeah. Exactly.  So it is like I do not want to say it was pressure but this idea of somebody else is going to do what we are doing too added on to the need for  we had to run in parallel. But that is all cool. And the potatoes take an hour and 10 minutes to cook in the oven that I have in my basement because we do it every day. So I knew how long and so you showed up on time and I had put the potatoes in because you had the time. That is the only thing you have to time is the cooking of the potato. The forming of the dough and the rolling and then the cooking of the gnocchi that is pretty easy and pretty fast but the big thing is the hour and 10 minutes. So it was great you showed up and we had our niceties and we had some coffee and our hugs and all that stuff. And then it was like Okay. Here's your apron. And we got all the tech figured out and everybody's on and it is go time. And I go downstairs and I opened the oven and the oven was not on. And the potatoes were rock hard and the oven was cold and I swear I had a mental breakdown because I did not quite register and fathom the fact that that was an hour and 10 minutes lost and we have to start over. And yeah. There was a lot of moving parts because the mom now that is all messed up. I do not know what your day is like and our brunch service starts. So that was where This is not going to be fun for anybody. Because now I am going to be teaching I was not going to not teach you how to make gnocchi now I am going to be taking up a big part of the past during brunch. So those that were responsible for brunch had to basically work in a corner of a kitchen and that is what I meant by This will not be fun.  And yet it all came together and   It did and it was fun.  It was fun. And you are an incredible teacher and the gnocchi were spectacular. And if I remember correctly sage and butter and   And Parmesan.  And Parmesan.  Reggiano-Parmesan and salt and pepper and that is it.  So good. So so good. And we went to Italy my girlfriend and I for the first time and it was .  At Umbria right?  Yeah. That is right. We went all over. We were in Rome then went to Umbria then went through a couple of smaller places like Gubbio. I wanted to go to Gubbio because there is a story of St. Francis of Assisi brokering a truce with this huge wolf.  Oh wow.  Story I am fascinated by. And supposedly it was thought a myth because how could it not be? And then there was a huge wolf skeleton discovered right next to a church at some point in history not within the last 100 years. And then that was put within the church there is this whole story.  How cool.  And I found the whole thing really interesting. And it turned out that Gubbio was going to be on the way to our next spot. And so we stopped relatively so and then we went to Pompei and then drove down and spent time on the Coast and went to a few spots there. And we had gnocchi a few times and they were good. They were really really good. They were not as good as the ones that we made in your kitchen in my opinion.  Awesome.  I got to say man that is saying a lot. Because as a friend of mine put it who is Italian he said In Italy's he is like It is all going to be good. You just have to find the excellent restaurants. It is going to be really hard to find a terrible restaurant. Your job is just to find the excellent spots. And we did find some excellent spots and took a cooking class with his grandma who was hilarious. And it was all outstanding. But those gnocchi that we made in that kitchen that day despite the circumstances were just incredible.    