 Hello ladies and germs boys and girls lemurs and squirrels all things under the sun. This is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of The Tim Ferriss Show where it is my job to deconstruct world-class performerspeople who are excellent world-class at what they doto tease out all sorts of thingsframeworks questions they ask favorite books influences you name it. Lessons learned. My guest today is Texas native Matthew McConaughey. He is one of Hollywood's most sought after leading men. A chance meeting in Austin long ago with casting director and producer Don Phillips led him to director Richard Linklater who launched the actor's career in the cult classic Dazed and Confused. Since then he has won an Academy Award for his portrayal of Ron Woodroof in Dallas Buyers Club appeared in more than 40 feature films that have grossed more than 1 billion and has become producer director and philanthropist with his Just Keep Livin' Foundation. All the while sticking to his Texas roots and JK Livin' philosophy. McConaughey also serves as creative director for Wild Turkey and has co-created his own bourbon Longbranch. He serves as minister of culture MOC for the University of Texas Athletic Department and the Austin FC Soccer Club where he is part owner. McConaughey will launch his first book Greenlights on October 20th 2020. He currently resides in Austin Texas with his wife Camila and their three kids while he is a professor at the University of Texas in Austin. You can find him on Facebook Matthew McConaughey on Instagram officiallymconaughey and on Twitter McConaughey. The book's official website is greenlights.com. Please enjoy this wide ranging extremely enjoyable and entertaining conversation with none other than Matthew McConaughey.  Matthew welcome to the show.  Good to be here Tim. How are you sir?  I am doing very well. And I have just an embarrassment of riches in front of me in terms of notes that I would love to take some stab at covering even a portion of. I thought we could begin with a little backstory for those people who know your work but perhaps not your personal story. Let us paint a picture of your parents. Now I was in preparation for this conversation doing some homework and I came across a quote of yours. Feel free to fact check this of course. This is from The Guardian but it says One of the great images I have of my father is on the phone with a cigarette at the airport on the payphone always peddlin'. What was he peddlin'?  Pipe.  What is that for those who do not know?  Piping coupling. So we were in the oil business and to drill you obviously need pipe and the couplings are what connect the pipe to drill for oil. So dad was in the pipe and coupling business and he would call it Peddlin' pipe. Peddlin' pipe no G on the end peddlin' peddlin' pipe. And that is what he did on the phone eight to six and then he would hit the road and go make personal appearances just trying to sell pipe. He started off as a truck driver then owned a Texaco station down in Uvalde. We moved to Longview Texas in the oil boom and within six months after being in Longview dad had 26 employees under him. That is how big of an oil boom it was. And then obviously that business fell through I think around '82 and he held on from there. He was always peddlin'.  Always peddlin'.  His line was great. And he never did it he never went bankrupt and that was a piece of honor for him not to go bankrupt. But he was always after the oil boom busted he was always like Boys if I could just hit a lick. Oh if I could just hit a lick. And he never did hit that lick.  What is a lick?  A lick is a big sale. A lick is a big account. A lick is Okay Mr. Jim McConaughey I want all my pipe from you and we are going to drill 200000 feet. And so it is a huge account. Oh my gosh I am going to supply all the pipe to this one large account. That would be a lick. He never quite hit it.  So we are going to jump to the other track with Mom for a second here. And I would like to have conversation about or a description maybe of mink oil. Could you tell us how mink oil entered your life please?  Yeah well I would not be here talking to you right now if it was not for the oil of mink. Yeah I think it was about how old was I? 14 15 years old ninth grade adolescence. My mom starts peddlin'. Again peddlin' my whole family was peddlin' something. My mom starts peddlin' this oil of mink product. Door to door sales Look here you put this mink oil on your face and it brings out all the impurities that you have and once those impurities all come out you then have clear glowing skin for the rest of your life. That was the sales pitch right? Well I am 15 I have got a few pimples as any 15-year-old does. And one night my mom goes Well you should use this oil of mink. I am like Great. Geez you are going to let me do that? Sure. So I started putting this oil of mink on my face every night before I would go to bed. And after about a week I wake up and I have got more pimples than I had a week before. And I check in the mirror I go to Mom I said Is this normal? She goes Oh that is exactly what is supposed to do pull out all the impurities. Keep doing it stick with it. Sure. So I just religiously keep putting it on. Well after two weeks I seemed to be running into a problem here. I have got a whole face full of pimples and it is getting pretty severe. And I go back to Mom she is like Oh wow well you have just got more impurities than I thought you would have. Just keep doing it we are going to keep bringing out those impurities. I keep it up. Three weeks go by and now I have got full-blown acne and I am really concerned. And my mom's just staying on with it going Wow nope stick with it. All your impurities are coming out. Well I sneak off to a dermatologist on my own. This was not my mom's recommendation. I sneak out there on my own and I take a bottle of this mink oil with me and I go Doc look at my face. He goes What are you putting on your face? And I show him this bottle he reads the label and he is like Oh no. No no no no no no no. This is for someone that is 40 years old not a teenage child who is got oily pores. This is blocking your pores your pores cannot breathe. You are 10 days away from having ice pick holes in your face from the acne. We have got to get you off of this. Okay. He goes We also have to get you on this stuff called Accutane. It is a year's worth of medicine. It will dry you up though it will have its complications but it will be better than the acne that you can have. So boom I get on the Accutane off the oil of mink. And around that time my dad who was always as I said peddlin' and looking how to hit a lick looks at me. He says Damn boy I think we got a lawsuit against this company. Damn oil of mink company! I mean you are a good-looking son. Look at you you are all swole up. So he takes me to see his lawyer. I remember his lawyer's name is Jerry Harris. So I am sitting down with my dad and his lawyer Jerry Harris and we think we got a case. And he asks me Hey did your confidence lower with these pimples you got this acne? And I am going Well yes sir. He goes Are you doing as good with the girls? And I said No sir. Not at all. His eyes light up and I can tell that even at my age of 15 that he is building his case. And he goes Emotional distress. You are under emotional distress. And I look at him and I am like Sure. Yeah emotional distress. And Jerry slapped the table and goes Gosh dog. We can get 35000 to 50000 off this. Emotional distress will go a long way Jim. And my dad's like Hot damn. That is it. That is right. 50000 that is way to go son. And so Dad is getting all excited about this deal. We are going to make 50000 off of my emotional distress his youngest son. So anyway meanwhile I am on Accutane. And Accutane takes a year to clear up and you get scaly you get dandruff and your knees hurt and you get slits in your mouth and everything else but much better than this acne. The Accutane starts clearing this acne up on my face. Well as lawsuits go they drag on a while. So come two years later I am back in Jerry Harris' law office sitting across the table from the defense attorney. And now my acne's cleared up okay? And this lawyer sits there and starts off the conversation with me and he goes Oh my gosh son. Must have been so emotionally distressful. And I am like he is lobbing me a softball here. I am going to knock this out of the park. Yes sir it was highly emotionally distressful. And he is like I bet your confidence was down. I was like he did it again. What is this guy doing? He is a horrible lawyer. He is teeing me up to just knock it out of the park again. I was like Yes it was so emotionally distressful. My confidence was low. I was not doing well with the girls. I mean man it was bad stuff sir. And I am sitting there thinking We have got this case. Well this ol'  boy gets this Cheshire grin on his face reaches under the desk and pulls out this green yearbook. And it is got a page marked on it. And he quickly opens it in front of me turns it around and opens it to that specific earmarked page and points to a picture. Now this was the 1988 yearbook for Longview High School which now I was a senior. And mind you this lawsuit started back when I was a sophomore. In this picture of my senior year he points to it he said Who is that? And there is a picture of Camisa Springs really beautiful lady girl 18-year-old with a sash across her chest that says Most beautiful. Well arm-in-arm with her and next to her is a young man named Matthew McConaughey with a sash across his chest that says Most handsome. As soon as I see that I squint my eyes and I am like Oh we just lost the case. I look up at him the  boy smiles and he goes So emotionally distressful. And we knew right then we had lost the case. It was over and I remember my dad hem and hawed for months Gosh damn you boy. I mean we were going to win 50000 and you got to go off and win most handsome. You screwed up the whole deal man. So oil of mink and the McConaugheys who chase litigations but never quite win them. That was another way of my dad trying to hit a lick and I screwed it up by winning most handsome.  Was it true in your familyI read this of course you cannot believe everything you read. Two things number one that your parents were divorced twice married three times so they ended up getting up one more time then they got knocked down?  True yeah.  True. Number two that saying I cannot was forbidden or highly advised against in your household.  Very heavily heavily heavily. I remember cuss words you could say shit and fuck and damn and even occasionally maybe get away with the Lord's name in vain but that was on the line. But the real words that we got either punished for or were forbidden were hate and cannot. I remember my dad I remember one Saturday morning when I was about 12 my Saturday morning chores were mow the lawn weeding shine his shoes and sweep the porches and get the cobwebs out of the corners. Well I would get up very early on a Saturday morning to do that so I could have my Saturday afternoon to play. And I went out to try and start up our push lawnmower and it would not start. Pull again would not start pull again would not start check the gas. Yeah it is got gas. What the heck is going on? Damn it will not start. And I remember going to my dad inside and I go Dad I cannot get the lawnmower started. And he kind of slowly turned his head to me and I saw his molars meet and start to grit his teeth and he goes You what? And I knew enough right then to not say the word again. And I said I And he got up and I did not finish my sentence. He slowly walked with me out of his bedroom through the kitchen through the garage around the back to the shed where this lawnmower was that I was not getting started. He without saying a word he knelt down looked at it and checked the gas. Anyway he found the little tube where the gas was not transferring and it had been disconnected. So he reconnected that pulled a few times and it started. And there over a new now-running push lawnmower and for the first time since I said I cannot get it started he put his hands on my shoulders looked at me and very sternly he goes You see son you were just having trouble starting this lawnmower and boom. And I remember from that day that lesson was like oh even if you are unable to do something on your own you can still go seek help or get assistance. So you are still only having trouble even if you on your own cannot do so. Taking those words still to this day if I let them slip I have to look over my shoulder like Uh-oh is Dad going to get me?  Let us say there are many different forms of influences. I would like to ask you about one that is not your parents it is not your siblings it is a book that I have read you came across that had an impact in your life. And that is The Greatest Salesman in the World by Og Mandino. Could you explain for people listening why that book was impactful or what impact it had or both?  Yeah. So I have never been a big reader. In growing up did not read much and never really liked even at school being told Hey you got to read this book you got to read this. Just the fact of being told I had to read something in school or by someone else sort of made it feel like it was not mine and I was not going to have a subjective view of it and plus I just do not like being told what to do. But this came to me this book. And I always say this I did not find it it found me and I will tell you how and why. It was between my sophomore and junior year in college at University of Texas at Austin. Now at this point I was always on the track to become a lawyer I was going to become that defense attorney. I was going to become that defense attorney I would get some oil of mink money. You know what I mean? Get the family some oil of mink money. I was a good major I took good stances it started off in the family. They are like Jeez man I would take the table and win arguments with the family and they would go like God damn you got to become a lawyer you got to become the family lawyer. So that was always the plan. Well between my sophomore and junior year in college which is about the time when all those general liberal arts credits that you are getting need to start having some focus or you are going to lose them you know what I mean?  Right.  So I am not sleeping well with the idea of becoming a lawyer. I am doing the math I am like I am not sure it is what I want to do. I have got to get out of here. I go to law school then I get out and I have to start maybe get an intern I am really not going to be rolling in my vocation until I am in my 30s. And I was like I do not really want to spend my 20s just learning or some of my 20s just in school. Now I had been writing a lot. I had been keeping a lot of short stories in my diaries and a lot of them which are in this book Greenlights but I did not have the confidence to think that maybe I wanted to get in the storytelling business until a good friend of mine Robb Bindler who I think at the time was in NYU film school who had been sharing some of these short stories with one night on the phone goes Hey you should think about getting in front or behind the camera you tell great stories you got good character yourself you are a good writer. Try this out. And I was always like Oh no no no I do not. I mean that is like too avant garde that is too European artsy I cannot do that. But he gave me the confidence to really consider it. Now I go to my fraternity house the Delt house at the end of that sophomore year for sophomore exams. I am a studier all right I got a 3.82 GPA. I like making my As. And any amount of time I have got to study I will use it every single minute. There is never enough time for me to study. I go to the Delt house and right behind it in a little bungalow is one of my Delt brothers and I eat lunch and I sit on his couch and I have got three hours before my exam and I open up my books to study for my psychology exam. For whatever reason for the first time of my life I shut them and I go McConaughey to myself I go You got this. You do not need to study more. First time I would done that. I got three hours to kill. I then put on the TV. I love sports ESPN I will watch cricket the strongest man competition I will watch you know two grasshoppers race. For whatever reason I am not interested. I turn off the TV. I look over to my left there is a stack of magazines there is Sports Illustrated some Playboys and I am like Jeez I like sports I like checking out naked ladies in Playboy let us check that out. I pick up a Playboy thumb through that half-assly and all of a sudden lose interest in that. And now I am sitting there going Okay what am I supposed to do here? I have got two-and-a-half three hours to kill. Well I start peeling back those magazines Playboys and Sports Illustrateds and everything else and about seven deep in that stack of magazines to the left of the couch where I was sitting I see this white paperback with this beautiful red cursive writing on it and it says The Greatest Salesman in the World. And I remember reaching for it and aloud to myself saying Who is that? And I pick up the book. And I start reading it. Again I am not a reader but I started reading this book. And all of a sudden I lose track of time and I have gotten past the whole prologue to the beginning of this first scroll in this book which is I will form good habits and become their slave. Now what this book had just told me and just taken me on a journey and said You will read each scroll. There is 10 scrolls in this piece. Each scroll three times a day for 30 days until you move on to the next scroll. So it is basically a 10-month read. And I had gotten to the first scroll and I now understood that the greatest salesman in the world was whoever's going to read that book. So I was like Oh that is me. He is talking to me. Well bam I look up Oh my exam's in 15 minutes I have got to go. I head out go to my psychology exam I ripped through that exam. I did not care if I failed it. Something in this book had told me No this book is what you need to be into right now. This book is going to give you confidence to go do what you need to do. I ripped through that psychology exam and immediately I go I am going to film school. I am calling Dad tonight. I am not going to go to law school anymore. I have got the confidence. This book found me. This is a seminal moment in my life. I do not know how or why but it is and I am going to get the courage to call my dad and go. And that night I remember thinking about it. I'30. He will have sat down maybe had his first cocktail already had dinner. He will be in a good mood for me to say Dad I want to go to film school I think. Well 36 p.m. Hey Dad. Hey what is up son? Listen I do not And I was nervous and I said I do not think I want to go to law school anymore. I want to go to film school. And that was hard for me to say because I thought he was going to go You want to do what boy? What the Hell? And I said Dad I want to go film school. And there was a long pause on the phone for about five seconds. Then he says You sure that is what you want to do son? And I said Yes sir. There was another five-second pause. And then he said three of the greatest words I have ever been told. Do not half-ass it. I remember him going All right do not half-ass it. And I remember my eyes justI lit up and I was like oh my gosh one my dad not only approved he gave me a responsibility. He gave me freedom. He gave me more than a privilege. He sent me to flight and ending it with like Not only do I agree and say that is okay son I am saying if you are going to do it you better damn well go do it well and do not half-ass it. I went down the next day changed my course schedule and my GPA got me into film school because I had a 3.82. I did not have any sort of art to show them and I started off behind the camera and then ended up as I am now in front of the camera as well. But that day that book finding me and me feeling like it was my secret and it came to me and no one told me Here you need to read this book it will be good for you. Hey you are supposed to read this. This is your for school or even a recommendation. It found me. I read that book and I did exactly what it said. Morning noon and night. I have read it three times now that way but the first time I did not miss one reading of that. I mean 00 at night and I was an hour-and-a-half from my house and the book was back at my house. And I would be hanging out and partying then going like Oh geez. And I would stop eat something get some coffee drink a bunch of water wait till whatever 30 in the morning when it was time to drive and I would drive back to my place grab that book and either read it and go to sleep in my bed or drive back to where I was hanging out with the book and read it. I did not miss one single read for 10 straight months. And that book is the most instrumental piece of literature and motivation I have ever read for me in my life.  And now you have produced Greenlights this book which as you have described it is not a traditional memoir or an advice book but rather a playbook based on adventures in my life. And I want to hop to a particular portion of this book which is also a scrapbook of sorts. It is very multimedia in that respect even though it is in 2D in book format. I want to ask you about a note. And this will segue into the practice of writing since you have kept a diary for somewhere between 35-40 years at this point I believe. There is a note towards the end of Greenlights from 9192. So 10 goals in life. This blew my mind.  Mine too.  So I want to read these 10 and then I want you to place us in your life when you wrote these 10 and then I want to zoom in on a few of them. But let me just read these 10 first. So 10 goals in life this is in 1992. One become a father. Two find and keep the woman for me. Three keep my relationship with God. Four chase my best self. Five be an egotistical utilitarianthat is going to be my first follow up question. Six take more risks. Seven stay close to Mom and family. Eight win an Oscar for Best Actor. Nine look back and enjoy the view. 10 just keep living. Where were you and when were you when you wrote these 10 goals?  I was in a top bunk in the Delta Tau Delta house. I believe my roommate was Monnie Wills. I am still friends with today from Montgomery Alabama. At the top bunk I think it was the end of the night 30 I was just nestling in for a good night's sleep. I would just started. What was the date in '93? What was the month and the day?  That was September 1st 1993.  September 1st okay. So I had just finished Dazed and Confused.  That is right. Yeah that is two days after finishing.  Yeah I would just finished it a job a summer hobby a thing that I hadthere were three lines written in a script that I got cast in because I went to the right bar at the right time met the right guy read for Richard Linklater said Come on and started throwing me in scenes. So three lines turned into three weeks' work. I loved it I was getting paid 320 a day. People would tell me I was good at it. And I was running around going like Is this legal? It is so fun. And I finished it. My father had just passed away two weeks earlier. Yeah August 17th of that year. So I had just finished a job that was a hobby that became a career. I had just finished thatthink about it if you do the math I did not think about it till now I would just finished that Og Mandino 10 months of reading that book.  Oh wow.  And my father had just passed away I was just going through what that meant to me and what I felt like that should mean to me and that is where the Just keep livin' comes from. To keep his spirit alive even though he is physically not here. Keep things alive that he taught me keep me incentivized throughout my life even though I could not rely on him personally being here to back me up with him. And so I remember writing those goals down. And the thing is when you start off this conversation going I do not know what your adjective or adverb was about it but I found that just less than a year ago in my diaries and I would never looked at it or remembered that I had written it since the day I did. That date on that list I never looked at that list again. I wrote it that night and forgot about it or at least I thought I forgot about it. I did not and that is the wild part because somewhere subconsciously I obviously did remember it because so far I have accomplished those goals. And there is some very specific ones on there that I am like What? I always thought even the acting part win an Oscar for Best Actor? This is at a time I would just finished Dazed and Confused. I did not know I was going to end up being an actor. I still thought Did not have the courage to even think I could pursue it as a career. At that time I thought it might just be a hobby. I had a hobby for a summer. But obviously when I look back I am like Oh you did want to be. You did want to be an actor and you wanted to be a damn good one. So I could admit it on my journal page but I could not admit it to myself. Hell I could not even admit it in my dreams but I could admit on my journal pages. So that is where I was. Those were three big things going on in my life. And I would say the biggest shapeshifter was father moving on. But that with finishing Dazed with finishing The Greatest Salesman that is when I wrote that.  That is quite a Venn diagram as far as a snapshot in time goes with those three momentous changes those transitions. If we zoom in on number five be an egotistical utilitarian do you recall what you meant when you wrote that?  100 percent. I later that next year maybe it was my junior year I wrote a long paper an essay  The Egotistic Utilitarian. And I guess it was me writing a story about a fictional character that I guess was based on me going west to Hollywood. But the egotistical utilitarian I am always like boy that is it. That is what the real prophets are. That is what Jesus was up to. Making decisions. That is the honey hole of when we can succeed or have satisfaction or live life the most truest. Where the decisions we make for the I for ourselves the selfish decisions are actually what is best for the most amount of people utilitarian. Are the I where the I meets the we. Where the selfish is the selfless where what I need is what I want. And what I want is the ego. What I need is the utilitarian. What I want is freedom. What I need is the responsibility and the interplay of those things. Where the I is the ego and utilitarian is the objective utilitarian we. I was already starting to work and a lot of these thematics are through the book because they are inherently how I see life and have for a long time. But I was like Oh that is the ultimate human the egotistical utilitarian where the decision one makes for themselves most selfishly happened to be the most selfless decisions as well at the same time. And where those two overlap and are one that is the ultimate human that was the pursuit. That was my belief with that.  And why take more risks? We might come back to egotistical utilitarianism. Why take more risks? Did you feel like at the time you were not taking enough risks? Was it something you had learned about risks from your parents or other people? Why take more risks?  I think I was at that time seeing risks that I would take really pay off. The risk in the bar at the top of the Hyatt that night to go down and introduce myself to Don Philips who ended up being a casting director of Dazed and Confused who four hours later at the end of the night after we get kicked out of the bar says Have you ever done any acting? You might be right for this part. Taking that risk. The risk to go and read for that part the risk for Richard Linklater to say You are not supposed to be in this scene. You are not written in this scene but you think Wooderson would be in it? The risk for me to go Oh yeah and just hop in the middle of the scene and improvise and play. Those risks were paying off. I was also beginning to feel the risk that I took reading that damn book The Greatest Salesman. It was the first book I ever read cover to cover and it is a thin paperback. Mind you it takes 10 months to read but that was a risk for me. And I was feeling very confident with who I was. I was also thrown upside down by my dad moving on. Now I do not know if you have lost a parent but as a son losing a dad you want to talk about forced into identity? My dad being this sort of crutch just because he was alive and above government and above law was now gone. I had no crutch I had no safety net all of a suddenI remember this very clearly it is coming to me. And besides the just keep livin' with keeping his spirit alive I remember one of the first lessons of him moving on was I wasand I carved this in a tree.  Less impressed more involved. And that leans into taking more risk because after Dad moved on I was like oh all of these mortal things in life that I have a reverence for even just finishing acting and maybe having dreams of fame. Wow. All these things that I revered that were mortal lowered down to eye level. And at the same time everything that I noticed that I was condescending or looking down upon or snubbing my nose at or going Oh that is crap or Oh they are no good. I was like they raised up to eye level. And I remember going Oh the world is flat. Your dad's moved on you better look the world in the eye. And by seeing the world flat I saw further I saw wider I saw more clearly I had more courage I lost reverence for mortal things that I had reverence forI still respected them but I lost reverence for them so that gave me courage. And I lost this sort of snub nosed look at things that I thought were beneath me. And I empowered them and they raised up to eye level. So all of a sudden that was a version where the I met the we for me. That was a version where what I looked up to maybe too much met what I was looking down on and it was right in front of me. And that was how I was also taking more risk. I lost a lot of fear. I still had fear but I gained a lot of courage to go meet my fears. And I did not give enough credence to things that I probably should not fear or have too much reverence for because they were mortal. And I was like What is that? Reverence for fame or not taking a chance to go get what you want that is a mortal fear. That is like putting a limit on yourself. McConaughey why would you do that? I even called it a sin at that time not to take certain risks and would feel guilty if I did not and feel like I did not do my due diligence. I did not meet my quote that day in God's eyes.  Why did you start using a diary? Or what has that helped you to do or given you over your decades of doing it? Because I have spoken to many people on this podcast who journal often they have different forms of journaling including a name we talked about very briefly before recording Josh Waitzkin. Very different approaches very different reasons. What is that you have gotten from having a diary and maybe it is changed over time yet?  It is evolved. I mean my diary started off like I think most people's diaries do. You write things down when you are not in a good place or you are lost. My early diary entries were the why what where when howsthe existential questions of What is going on? Does it matter? Who am I? Oh my God so my girlfriend broke up with me I lost it. It started off with that. So I would noticed that I started writing down when I was in times of distress or disillusion. And then I started to say Well wait a minute just like that Og Mandino book by hook or by crook you read it three times a day. I was like Well we are going to write in my diary every day McConaughey. And so when do most of us including me not write in our diary? When things are going great. Oh I got it figured out. I am not going to need to take time to go be introspective and write down my thoughts. Everything is a green light it is great. Well no I said Hang on a second. We are going to spend our lifethe original use of a diary is to dissect failure or disillusion. I think there is some prudence and let us dissect success. Let us dissect what is going on when things are going well let us write in this diary when you feel like everything's clear and you feel strong and confident and significant and you feel like yourself. So I started writing in my diary when things were going well and then started to map out certain things aboutI found that what that did is when I would get in a proverbial rut later I could go back to that diary and look at what was I writing? What was I doing when I felt like everything was lickety-split and I had everything handled? And I found consistencies. I found it from what I was eating to who I was hanging out with to how much sleep I was getting to beauties in the world that I was noticing and really were affecting me. How I approached people. How I was approaching the day. How I was approaching conflict. How I was approaching and taking in things that worked. Success. And I have found consistencies. So sometimes going back in those diaries reading what I was writing when things were going well would help get me out of a rut later on in life when I was not doing so well. And I remember this early on in college it is a reason that my buddy as I mentioned early Robb Bindler said You should go into the storytelling business as I was writing short stories but I was also writing things down idiosyncrasies of myself. I was really trying to get to know myself. When I would be in a movie theater I always laughed. I thought the funniest jokes and I would laugh I would be the only one laughing in the theater. And I would never thought the stuff that everybody laughed at was funny. The collective laugh I never even giggled at. I was like That was not very funny. But I would howl and no one else is laughing. I was like No one else sees that is funny? I would say that in the theater. I found that I cried at things that other people did not cry at. Like I have never really cried at death. I weep at birth. Beginnings have always made me cry more than proverbial ends. So I started writing these things down and at first was feeling like Are you weird McConaughey? Is this odd? Is this okay? Can you be this kind of a person? And got the confidence to go Yes you can it is okay but let us write down those things. Let us write down what makes you laugh what makes you happiest what makes you sad what makes you angry and do not worry if it is the collective choice of the majority. Just what does it mean to you? And write those things down. And so that led to character I believe. It led to my own character. It led to me being able to maybe go play different characters to understand and empathize with different people and how different people have different things that turn them on and turn them off at different times.  Why Greenlights? What is the concept or the intent behind using that word? What does it represent for you?  Well one it is just a pretty cool title. I mean went through  It is good stuff.  I mean I went through theI would call it the very earnest but not very good student independent films of a freshman or sophomore student like I was where you are trying to work out something existential or you want it to sound really cool. I went through forced winters you know what I mean? Because I have in the book what I would call a lot of forced winters mind you  a forced winter. My most creative times came in my forced winters of life. My year in Australia abroad on my own. But forced winter is kind of a double negative. I mean who wants to go open a book called Forced Winter? You know what I mean? So Greenlights was much more affirmative. And I love verbs. I love words that are verbs. Verb is the holy word as I am sure you know and that it has affirmation it is alive. And so green lights I noticed became a theme to the book because of the metaphor of the yellow and the red lights that we have in our life whatever those hard times are. I would noticed in going through my diaries of 36 years that things that were definite red lights in my life hard times yellow lights in my life interruptions interventions things that stopped my flow and gotten my way that at some point either sometimes immediately or decades down the line revealed their green light assets in my life. I would argue my dad's passing was a green light. Now his dying was a literal red light but as I mentioned earlier I would not be the man I am right now if he did not move on. I would have stayed lazy I would have stayed more impressed and less involved. I would have not put myself to task and held myself and called myself to arms to man up and be more honest with myself and look at the world more honestly and have more courage if he had not passed on because I would have had him as a crutch. I would have had this sort of subconscious reliance that Oh if I really get in a bind I still got Dad. I still got pop. He is my safety net. So his passing revealed green lights for me. So green lights became a theme and and I noticed that sometimes it is about persisting through something enduring something. Other times it is about pivoting Wait a minute I am banging my head on the wall here. I am basically living out the definition of insanity trying to change something the same way over and over again and it is not changing. So I need to reapproach this. I need to back up and maybe dance around the situation dance around the problem to get what I want. And then other times I noticed it is just you raise the white flag and go You know what? I am fighting for the wrong thing here. This is going against my grain. This is not really what I want and need so I am going to live to fight another day and go find something else to challenge to overcome. And so those are methods in which I have been able to find green lights. Sometimes I have gotten green lights and I think we all do by just sheer straight-ass denial. I mean I write that line in the great wisdom I heard from a very old man one time. I have had many crises I have had thousands of crises in my life. Hell most of them never happened. I mean that partially you can get through by just denying that there is a crisis. Not being foolish with it but some things I have just said I am not even going to give that crisis credit therefore it does not exist. That dark cannot stick to me if you throw it at me if I do not even give credit that it is a dark. You know what I mean? So Greenlights ultimately I believe that in the rear view mirror of our life every red and yellow light will turn green. And that may not even be in this life Tim. I think a lot of people that happens for people in this life tomorrow next week next month next year 10 years from now on our deathbed. But if it does not happen then I think it can happen in the next life for our kids or for our kids' kids our grandkids. A lesson maybe realize three five 10 generations from now it may become a green light for some hardship that we go through in this life now.  Well there are a million directions we can go I have eight options that'ill make sense.  That is my favorite number.  Well that would make sense as soon as you hear where I am going with it. So there are a number of themes that emerge in this book which I take to be as you have mentioned a playbook of sorts and helping you to either change your reality or change how you see that reality in the service of engineering or recognizing green lights of different types. And the eight themes that I have written down here I am going to let you take dealer's choice on. So I would like to pick one and explore.  outlaw logic.  find your frequency.  dirt roads and autobahns. Four the art of running downhill.  turn the page.  the arrow does not seek the target the target seeks the arrow.  be brave take the hill.  live your legacy now. Where should we go first?  Oh jeez these are fun. I want to get to the art of running downhill because that one I know tickled you so maybe we can start with that one and we should maybe hit dirt roads as welldirt roads and autobahns.  Let us do it.  Let us do dirt roads and autobahns real quick just because it is a simple flip on theI think it is for Robert Frost The road less taken has made all the difference. Is that Robert Frost?  You know I am sure that my listeners or my team will tell us.  Maybe if it is not forgive the malaprop but you know the quote The road less traveled has made all the difference right? Well that always has been like Take the dirt road. Do not go where the majority goes. And I remember in film school I was the frat boy buttoned-down shirt jeans and boots handshaker non-cynical loved the sunshine. And I was in a class with a bunch of all theit was the gothic group. They all wore black t-shirts they stayed in the shadows they wore their shades they huddled in the back. And I remember in one of our classes one of the things was Hey everyone go see a movie this weekend come back Monday talk about your movie. I would come back and talk about Die Hard. And as soon as I started talking about what I liked about it they would be like Ah that is stuff's shit mass corporate sellout crap. And I would be like Oh jeez. And I remember they would all gone to the Eisenstein revival that weekend and would talk about that. And I remember being really intimidated going like Wow they are artists I am not. Yeah I got to untuck my shirt here a little bit. I got to quit going outside. I got to not appreciate the sunshine. I got to quit singing out loud. I got to get more  here. And just as I was going through that mental midgetation on myself I remember coming back again another week after a weekend of seeing movies. Now I had gone to the multiplex again and seen a popular movie and brought it up. And of course the catcalls from all the other filmmakers in the class all of them in black huddled up sort of going Ah that is corporate shit nobody sees that. That is a sell out. And I remember instead of backing down this time I went Wait a minute how do you know it is corporate shit? What makes you say that? And they all stopped and started looking at each other and started stuttering and then finally one of them goes Well I mean we did not see it. I mean we do not know but I mean we just And I went Ah fuck you man. I said All this time I thought you would all been seeing it and you have not even gone to see it. So that was where it hit me. I was like Oh there I was thinking that the road less taken. My dirt road was the autobahn of the multiplex. Their dirt road would have been the same. They needed to go see a popular studio movie before just calling it off as nothing. Sometimes we are tooand I have had it in my lifesay someone's an agoraphobic. Their dirt road is getting out. Someone who is a bit of a hermit or socially uncomfortable their dirt road is being an extrovert. Go out engage practice it. So it was a flip on that that sometimes the road less taken can be a dirt road yes many times the path less taken. And other times for some people some of us in our times in our life it is an autobahn. Sometimes I used to be so extroverted I would never would spend time with myself reading a book or doing introspection. Well that was a dirt road for me to take some introspection. Now shoot sometimes I love being introspective so much I liked being in my dark room writing more than I like engaging with people. Well my dirt road sometimes now is like Put the pen down McConaughey get your ass out in the world and go engage in the daylight and get out there. So it changes for us and sometimes it is a dirt road sometimes it is an autobahn.  And it is Robert Frost I can confirm.  Thank you Robert. The other one that tickled you on the way down is at the art of running downhill.  May I actually ask a follow-up to the dirt roads and autobahn? So it seems like if I am hearing you correctly and understanding that it is a proactive approach to facing the discomforts that you may have or the hesitation that you may need to face. At least in part it seems like that is part of the lesson and the person who introduced us Ryan Holiday had encouraged me to ask you about Stoicism which seems to in some respect tie into that since many Stoics at least historically those people we have read about would take periods of time to do the things that would lead them to discomfort. As a side avenue here do you have any perspectives on Stoicism?  I mean I think I do but I am probably going to botch this up because I do not exactly know the vernacular of the Stoics near as well as you and Ryan do. I will say this as with the book The Obstacle Is The Way and I have touched on this in my book a lot in my own way look the need for resistance the need to choose the right harder challenge. The need to choose a harder decision for the right reasons. The need to choose the obstacles for which to overcome or at least attempt to overcome is very very wise engagement. The need is I talk about in my book quite a few times to get away and go off on your own and be stuck with yourself even if it is the worst fucking company you have ever had. That is a good thing to do. There is a good valuable penance. There are green lights in that forcing yourself into the red light of being stuck with the only person you cannot get rid of even though you hate him. And yes I use that word. And I have had those times. And in those times of groveling and discomfort and I cannot sleep and I am throwing up and I cannot get the monkeys off my back and I got the guilt and oh my God I am lost but I have got nowhere to go. I got no one to reach out to I do not have a phone I do not have a car I as not got a friend. We will going through that those sleepless nights and going When is this going to end? And going through Well all right McConaughey what are we going to forgive and what are we going to say? Enough's e-fucking-nough and we are changing that in our lives. And let us shake hands on this because you are the only son of a bitch I cannot get rid of.  If you do not mind I want to takeand this is just the nature of my perhaps unfocused perhaps nonlinear mind we are going to come back to the art of running downhill. I will not forget but you were talking about paying the penance of spending time with yourself. The red light of solitude that can create green lights. Why did you write this book? Because as I understand it or you went away to the desert by yourself for 52 days without electricity is this true?  The first 12 days with no electricity the other 40 were limited electricity in places. But it was five different trips I took to solitary confinement each time. So I spread them out. I had to come home and take care of some honey-dos and check in with the family and make sure everything was running again at the homestead before my wife sent me off again and said Get out of here and do not come back until you have got something.  So solitude seems to be also a throughline at least a practice of sorts. Any other commentary on solitude and in those moments when you are spending time with yourself which I guess is all the time but I want to know do you have in your inner monologue a difference between when you say your last name to yourself and your first name? Or do you ever use your first name when you are talking to yourself?  I do not know. You knowgood question! Well let me tell you what the best thing for Mike Tyson the future is what Mike Tyson wants it toI have thought about that. It is a fun thing to talk about to yourself in third person. But when you are in a Socratic dialogue you have got to give your other self a name. And I guess I always call mine McConaughey. I always call myself McConaughey. These dialogues let us talk about those. That old adage Oh do not talk to yourself. What? Bullshit! Do talk to yourself. What I think we need to remember to do is when we are asking ourselves these questions just make sure we answer. If all we are doing is asking ourselves questions but never coming up with an answer well that can lead to some very imbalanced insanity at times.  That is a really really important point. I just want to pause to let that sink in for people. So please continue. But that is so so important. Just looking back at my depressive periods that I have experienced it is when I am asking a lot of questions and not actually taking the time to sit down and write down the answers or think about answers.  Yeah. Or force yourself to remain in the discomfort of the questions instead of going I give. Where is the bottle? Or Where is some attention? Or Where is something some entertainment? Where is the TV? You know what I mean? So I can get my mind off of it. Do not abort the situation. Do not abort the times when we have got the questions. Now mind you in some of those times when I am going off and I do not know how long it is going to be till I come out the other side I am about to take a helmet and a chin strap and a mouth guard and put padding on the walls because I knew it was going to be a wrestling match with the me and the me. And I have checked the floor before I go. It is nice when you go off to do these things to go Let us check the floor and make sure there is no broken glass let us remove the sharp objects because this is going to get four-dimensional. But to stick in there with it and go through the withdrawal of the not knowing to go through withdrawal of the questions. And I do not mean withdrawl from a substance. Go through withdrawal of not getting along with yourself is I mean a great thing to do and it is hard for a reason. But again  you stay there till you answer it. Wait till you get an answer. Wait till you either figure out what you are forgiving and figure out what you have had enough of. Which you are like No I am not putting up with that part of myself anymore. We are not going to keep being a repeat offender on that McConaughey. Or Tim. You know what I mean? And we are going to change. And then all of a sudden there comes some grace. You come out the other side and like Okay now I am stuck with my buddy the one I cannot get rid of. If we are going to do this at least we shook hands and you are not perfect but we are moving forward and we have evolved a little bit because of this time that we are forced to spend with ourselves. But to answer those or stick with it or to evolve the conversation from where it was when you first went into solitude at least. So I am a fan of people talking to themselves and saying remember to answer yourself. Just do not have it one-way. It is not a Socratic dialogue unless you can respond.  The art of running downhill. What is the art of running downhill?  Okay. So I get successful. I have got major fame very quickly after A Time to Kill came out the film I did in '96. And I mean from the Friday afternoon before it came out to the Monday after the weekend it came out my whole world waswhoop! Inverted. The world all of a sudden was one big mirror. I never meet strangers since that day. It was inverted. I mean that Friday afternoon before A Time to Kill comes out there is a hundred scripts out there I want to do all of them. Are you kidding me? I will do any of them. Well 99 no you cannot one of them yes you can. Well in a matter of two days after that film opened that week and it did well that hundred scripts it was Yes you can do 99 one no. So I was like Whoa two days ago I would have done any of these and could only do one and now it is only two days later but you are telling me I can do 99 of them. Help me discernment discrimination. Can I make a choice? Who am I jeez what do I want to do? There is only 24 hours in the day last I checked. I need more. So I was a little imbalanced overwhelmed. Did not have my feet my sole on the ground and there were times that And I also remember that same lawyer I talked about the oil of mink that story Jerry Harris. I remember him telling mehe reached out I had not talked to him for years. He reached out and he goes Hey Matthew from a small town Uvalde Texas. You came through Longview Texas now you went out there now you are a famous Hollywood star and you got all these things. He goes Make sure you do not suffer too much from the non-deserving complex. That happens when some people get real successful from sort of humble beginnings. And it made a lot of sense to me because I was noticing that in the name of obstacles being the way I was creating obstacles for myself. Some of them are very unnecessary meaning here's my life I am successful I am rolling I am catching green lights I am rolling downhill. I very less-than-gracefully handled some of my success. I would become belligerent at times I did not become belligerent. At the end of that  It is okay to have a point to prove just do not always be trying to prove a point. Well I had many times where I would try to prove a point. You know what I mean? And it was my own insecurity. It was my own self trying to find some balance in this. It was me. I was seeing the mendacities of all these people in Hollywood all of a sudden saying I love you. And I am like Man I have said that to four people in my life and everyone says it out here. Ah they are full of shit because I was taking things personally even and sort of sabotaging some of the red carpet wine and caviar that was being handed to me. You know what I mean? And I was slipping to some of my more banal self at times and doing a proverbial face plant. Meaning I am running downhill and since this is all easy street I need resistance so I think I am going to trip myself and face plant right into the concrete so I can break my nose so I can be like Ah there I go. Now I am earning it. Now. I feel it. Now I have earned it. Now I deserve it. Well that can be a little foolish. There is an art to going downhill. And so what I noticed was Oh hard times are going to come. It is going to get dry. You are not going to be able to do whatever script you want to do McConaughey. And I have had those times. Or in a relationship we go through it does not go well. Or someone gets sick in the family a real uphill battle enters our life. And so the art of running downhill is about Hey enjoy it. When you are going downwind downhill do not trip yourself because that uphill is coming all right. It is going to come whether you want it to or not. So do not trip yourself and face plant right now because you are going to have to work your ass off here very shortly anyway.  Well let us talk about perhaps an uphill perhaps a pause perhaps something else which I would love for you to comment on what you did come later. And that was a decision which I would love to explore to say no to quite a lot of opportunities for a period of time. It seems like at one point you were very successful you became very famous like you said practically overnight. You are being offered opportunities you could not have imagined a week prior and you have a string of successes and then you realize Well wait a minute here I might be getting painted into a corner and you start to say no. You start to turn down say action film opportunities with big paychecks things like that. Was that hard to do? Did other people say that you were doing the right thing and encourage you? Could you walk us through and just tell a story about that experience?  Yeah love to. So this is aroundI do not remember the year I am guessing it is around 12 13 years ago. I was rolling with romantic comedies. I had taken the baton from Hugh Grant and was the male lead rom-com go-to guy. Rom-coms are mid-level budgets 30 35 million. They offer a good front-end paycheck to me. They go make 60 million. I mean the studios do not have to overspend and spend hundreds of millions of dollars to make them. You get a good female and a male lead that have good chemistry. People love to go escape to them. My rom-coms are doing well. They were my bank. They were what Hollywood banked on me to be in. At the same time I am living in Malibu learning to surf got my shirt off and the paparazzi are Discovery Channels like almost documenting this and I am like You damn right document it. This is the life I am living. I love it. I worked and earned to get this life. And those romantic comedies that I get paid so handsomely for actually pay the rent at the house on the beach that I live in in front of this water that I am surfing in. So I was full on shaking hands withI was going Yes. At the same time I did notice that any other dramas I wanted to do or even the way people sort ofwhen I said Do not meet strangers anymore. Even when the way these sort of people thought of me or approached me or would talk to me or about me there was no consideration. It was like McConaughey is the shirtless rom-com guy. And I was like Yeah I am and I am But only I could answer that second question of And I am like only I could continue that sentence. No one else could. And really Hollywood for sure was like No nothing else and so any dramas I wanted to do or other pictures no one wanted to make them with me. And I remember we had just had Levi. Camila and I just had our first son and my life was so vital. Man I had just had a newborn I have met the woman that I love and want to spend the rest of my life with. I am laughing harder. I am crying harder. I am happier than ever. Life is very vital and I am in it. My real life is but my work feels like Yeah I can do that tomorrow morning. Just give me the script tonight let me look at it. I can do it tomorrow morning. It was not really challenging me and the rom-coms were not challenging me and my lifestyle was one big green light. And to me if it is all green lights if it is all sugar and candy well that'ill make tyrants out of anybody. So I was saying Oh I wish my work could I remember saying this. I remember looking in the mirror actually and going Okay McConaughey so if your life is more vital and true to who you are than your work well if it is got to be one or the other that is a good thing because I know a lot of people that their work is more vital than their life. So I said That is a good thing. I said But jeez could I just get some work that might challenge the vitality of my life and the man I am in it? Where I can get some work where I can be more me in it? Well those roles were not being offered to me. Nothing nope not a chance. No studio will bank you in this drama role or this other role you want. I had control of Dallas Buyers Club at that time but no one wanted to make it for me nor would anyone finance it. So I decided that if I could not do what I wanted to do and what I wanted to do was not being offered to me it would be prudent for me to just stop doing what I had been doing and what was in the pipeline continually coming to me which were the romantic comedies. I called my money manager I said All right look I am going to stop doing the only work I am getting offered. And I do not know how long it is going to be till I work again. How am I doing with my money? He says You have invested well conservatively. You are fine. You can take time off. I remember calling my agent Jim Toth. I would say Hey Jim I do not want to do romantic comedies anymore. I remember this conversation he goes Great. And I go Wait woah woah woah. What do you mean great? He goes Great. And I go How do you say that so quick? What are you going to say Monday morning when you go into your superiors in the office and say McConaughey's not doing romantic comedies' and McConaughey has been bringing a nice chunk of 10 percent commission into you guys with these romantic comedies for years now. And he said the coolest thing to me he goes I do not work for them I work for you.  That is a good line.  And he meant the line right? And then it was I went to Camila my wife. And I would shed quite a few tears with her going through this. Am I feeling fraudulent in my work? Do I feel a lack of significance in my work? Do I feel likeis it okay to be feeling this? I mean remember as we said earlier I am tired of going running downhill. Why would you sabotage not doing the work you are getting offered when you can get paid so handsomely to do it? But she understood that my soul was shaken and needed some recalibration and that the work I was doing was not the true expression of who I was in my life. I told her I said I want to hold out for some work that can challenge the vitality of the life that I am living with you and our son Levi. And she repeated the lines to me. She goes Okay. You are going to get wobbly. I have been around you you have got to work Matthew and you love to accomplish. You are going to get wobbly. You might start reaching for a little sip of something to drink earlier in the day too. And I am like Yeah yeah yeah. She is like Me too. She goes Days are going to be longer. We do not know how long this will last how long we will be in thisshe called it a deserthow long this will be a desert? She goes But if we are going to do this if you are going to do this we are not going to half-ass it. She repeated my dad's line to me. And I went Yes madam. Gave her a hug put some tears on her shoulder and we said Starting today no more rom-coms. Well rom-com offers came in to my agent for about the next six months but nothing but rom-com offers. Unless it was a major offer I just said no. And they just stopped at my agent's desk Jim Toth. No. And then one of them came through that was a gargantuan offer for it. And my agent said It is a pretty damn good script too. And so I said Well send it out let me read it. I remember reading it and I remember the offer was for 8 million and the script was pretty good but it was still kind of a rom-com. And I remember reading it and going No thank you. I remember feeling sort of emboldened and strengthened by saying No thank you. Great. Sticking to my guns. No rom-coms. Six months into this drought. No I am not caving in now. Do not half-ass it McConaughey. So they come back with a 10 million offer. No thank you. They come back with a 12.5 million offer. Now I go dot dot dot ellipsis ellipsis No thank you. Now they come back with a 15 million offer.  Wow.  And I said You know what? Let me have another reread of that script. And I reread that script. And you know what? At 15 million the same script that I would been offered for 8 million the 15 million offer script which was the same exact words as the 8 million offer script the 15 million offer script was better it was funnier. It had possibilities it had angles I had ideas I could make this work. I mean this could work.  Now I am imagining at this point Jim is like Man this saying no thing is really working out!  He is in and he is over there teetering like I know what we said but 15 million and it is not likeit is a pretty good script. I know it is rom-com. It is a pretty good script. But I said No thank you. Well that got the signal across Hollywood that McConaughey was taking a serious sabbatical. And so do not even send him a rom-com. It got around.  So that was the crucible then. I mean that was the crux move in a sense.  In a way that wasI called an audible six months in and I had them thinking I might cave I might just be posturing and Come on back McConaughey. Hey we love you. And I said No. And when they had pumped the money offer up so much and people knew in the industry what that offer was it became very clear Oh shit okay. McConaughey I do not know what he is doing but he as not doing this stuff. He is not doing any more rom-coms. And it became clear. So for the next 12 14 months nothing came in nada zilch not an offer for anything. I mean I would talk to my agent every couple of weeks. It would just be like Nothing came in nothing. So now we are 20 months into this desert period. I do have my son to raise which being a father has always been the most important thing to me. So that is got my compass at least directed in a place that I go Just trust in this if it has something to do with raising your son and being here on the land with your family even if you start to wander just trust that that is always going to be in the asset section McConaughey you cannot go wrong with that. So I stuck to that. And I was now fine with not doing any work. I did not know what I was going to be I did not know if I was going to change my career if I was going to become a teacher or a coach or go back to being a lawyer I did not know I did not think so but I was writing more. Talking about forced winters I had put a forced winter on myself and I was pretty content. I was not waking up every morning going Did an offer come in? Did something new come in? I was past that. And then all of a sudden 21 months into this desert I start getting some offers that are interesting things William Friedkin Killer Joe. Lee Daniels The Paperboy. Jeff Nichols wrote Mud for me Steven Soderbergh called Magic Mike. Richard Linklater and I go do Bernie together. True Detective comes around all of a sudden Dallas Buyers Club. No one still wants to put a bunch of money up for a 1980s period drama about AIDS but all of a sudden McConaughey all the directors or no directors would do Dallas Buyers Club with me they wanted the script they loved the script they did not want to do it with McConaughey. All of a sudden we find Jean-Marc Valle who says No I would like to do it with McConaughey. So what happened was that 22 months or whatever that drought that desert I unbranded. I did not rebrand I unbranded. Me being away me being in Texas not being on a beach getting pictures of being shirtless on a beach not being in rom-coms I was out of the world's view. I was out of the industry's view I was not in your living room I was not in your theater I was not in any of the places that the world had become expectant to see me and how to see me. Where was I? I was gone. Where is McConaughey? When you are gone long enough all of a sudden I became a new good idea. Which I was not a new good idea earlier at the end of that 20-month period and then all of a sudden things came to me that I wanted to do and I remember saying You know what? Fuck the bucks I am going for the experience. If I read a role that shakes me in my boots and challenges the vitality that I feel in my own real life and challenges me the man I am in my own real life that is what I am going after. And man they came in. Camila and I looked at each other shed some more tears and we said Let us get after it. And I just started hammering them. The family came with me everywhere I went and just started laying down work that really really turned me on.  So I want to dig into a few follow-up questions here. So your wife probably with some sage foresight although I am guessing said You are going to get wobbly days are going to seem longer. You might reach for that bottle a little earlier than you would normally. What were some of your practices or some of the inputs that helped you to either stave off getting wobbly or to recover when you did get wobbly?  Good question. Look my family me and my mom my brothers supported me. They thought I was plumb crazy for turning down that 15 million offer and sitting there going like What are you doing? They thought I really was face planting while having a downhill ramp to run down. They were like Who in their right mind wouldyou are not working? Wait is itdo you like that? I was like Yeah that work's easy. I like it. And they are offering youwhat the Hell is your problem? But they knew that I was a thinker. They have known that since long before that that I took myself in those circumstances seriously and that I was doing some soul-searching and they thought I would They were like That might not make sense to us but we get it little brother you are all right. Good luck. So they did support me. I will say this this helped. We had a very real crisis in the family with someone in my family that needed all of my attention and all of my time. Meaning one of those real red lights that entered our life a real crisis a real uphill battle entered which gave me a large sense of purpose necessary purpose. It was one of those unequivocal things you do not question. It is like if I had gotten any job I wanted in Hollywood have a script to go act at that time even then I would not have done it during going through this family crisis. This was paramount it was unequivocally the thing to take care of. So as you probably know the death of someone in a family or a real family crisis that'ill sober you up. And I do not mean sober you from the bottle that'ill sober you up from missing any sort of again the scripts at that time making movies that was a mortal thing. Dealing with this family crisis was an immortal thing. So I became very involved with handling this family crisis. And that is where my identity was. That coupled with my son's being raised. It is a brand new day for him every single day he is getting to know me how awesome is this that I get to have this time because I know I will go back and do some work somewhere somehow later. And we are not going to have this time so let us lean into the assets of being forced here with your son you are building a home with the woman you love and you have got this family crisis that you are dealing with which is bringing you even closer to your blood family. So I was finding purpose in all of that. And as it usually happens as it was getting to the point where Well I do not care if anything comes in I am not even thinking about it. If any work comes in I do not really care. Of course that is about the time that the work comes in.  You have traveled a very unorthodox path in many respects. What are some of the biggest misconceptions if any what are common misconceptions about you that you hope or that you could clarify either right now or through the pages of this book? Are there any misconceptions positive or negative?  Yeah. I mean look one misconception I think which it used to concern me more so than it does now is thata lot of people think that I sort of just wake up in the morning and go roll out of bed and say All right where is my mark? What are we doing today? What is the scene about? What is life about? What is the responsibility here today? What is it? Oh yeah yeah yeah. Okay yeah. A lot of people think I just wing it. And the truth is like I was telling you earlier about me being a studier and loving my As I am a preparer. I know a lot of my success and satisfaction has come from being majorly prepared. And when I am majorly prepared I prepare so it is not work when I get in the game. I prepare so that is the work. My work is pregame. When I am in the game I am. When I am best at being in the game I am that guy that looks like I just woke up in the morning and just Hey what is up? To make it look easy comes from the preparation. So I daily prepare whether it is work or trying to be the best man I can or be the best husband or the best father I am constantly trying to work on that. I have the same withand now you are reading the story my mom and dad had a very physical and oftentimes violent loud relationship hence divorced twice married three times. Me I remember the last time I raised my voice to my wife or kids because for me if I even get to the point where I have to raise my voice or start to feel like I am going to snap I immediatelymy threshold goes to Whoa whoa whoa what did you not handle up to this point McConaughey to let it get to this? You left some crumbs somewhere in your position as a husband a father or a man to get to this point. So let us not snap. Let us go back and deconstruct how we got to this point to even feel like this because you dropped the ball somewhere along the way to even get this feeling. And I have a pretty short threshold for that feeling of Whoa whoa whoa let me recalibrate. Let me take some stock in how I got to this point because I am feeling like I am about to snap or feeling like maybe I am going to raise my voice. I mean that is some recalibration that I inherently and instinctually I do not know if I say or practice them but that is where my head and heart goes. Does that answer your question?  It does. I think that one of the sort of gestalt impressions of the book which is I mean really really fun and very delightful. I mean so congratulations on the book. It is not easy to do.  Thank you.  And the gestalt impression is that you take introspection and I admit maybe this is not the right way to phrase it but you have taken introspection seriously and you have practiced a lot of introspection. So you have been able to take these moments that otherwise might be lost in the slipstream those moments of success where things seem to be going well the lows and you have trapped them like flies in the amber so that you can look at them later and even look at them like a flip book so you can see the trends that take you in one direction or another. And that is not common. So I would like to just ask one or two more questions.  I mean what I think we are all trying to get which I actuallyand let us talk to this because I do think it is common that we all want more ROI on ourselves. And is there any less boring or vital or immediate entertaining and angering and interesting subject than us on ourselves to create? I mean I know I will never do it but I am trying to find some themes that support a science to being satisfied. And I think we can all uncover those in our lives by our habits. Like I said earlier looking at your diaries when you write in your diary when things are going well dissect success as well as failure. There will come certain themes that become like Oh it is reliable. I have more satisfaction I am more me I get more what I want. I am a better man I am a better woman when I am acting and doing these things going to these places thinking this way eating this spending time with these people thinking these thoughts. There is a science to it. I do not think I will ever get it but man it is an incredibly fun pursuit. Maddening but what a riddle to keep trying to figure out that will be never-ending.  Right. It is like keeping track of plays in the game of life right? I mean it isyou have to have the ability to look back at it. So if you were to have a billboard metaphorically speaking to get a message a question an image anything out to billions of people could have a paragraph could be a word anything non-commercial what might you put on that billboard?  Great question. And it is one I would like to say I think about all the time because I do have a marketeering mind. It would be two words with a question mark behind them. I value? Tim I do not know how to make systemic change. I am not that interested in politics it does not seem like the right I do not know category maybe for the kind of leadership that I want to listen to or in some way at some forms be myself. It seems to me that the common denominator or the bipartisan non-denominational solid stepping stones for us to evolve as a species as a nation and as individuals is based on values. The fundamental principles that we can all agree on I do not care what side of politics you are on or what religion you are but what do we value? What do we really value? We all want to be relevant. Well let us ask Relevant for what? before we say I want to be relevant. And what are those values that we can go Oh that isyeah if I act that way if I am kind in that way if I am accountable in that way if I have a sense of humor in that way how does that very selfish actbecause it is good for me good for my ego builds me up pays me back gives me mailbox money give me green lights in my future but it also gives you mailbox money it gives other people it gives others residuals and our future's a compounding asset. And I think we just need to work on and have fun understanding that. That the things we do today the choices we make are compounding assets to what where we go in the future. And if we have made more valuable choices and give more respect to the competence of values our own personal values we are buying more ROI we are creating more green lights in the future for ourselves and others.  I value? It is a very important statement right there and question. And I agree with you about the values and the also for what right? The relevant for what? That it is such an important focusing modifier to adjectives that get thrown around very commonly. And  There is another line in there that I have it is based off that jeans being pressed story is when we can ask ourselves if we want to before we do. That goes along with Yeah I want to be relevant. What? Wait relevant for what? You know what I mean? It is just because we can and maybe we are given a position of influence where you get an option put in front of us that we never had before. Like I said Time to Kill 99 scripts I could not do yesterday and now today you are telling me I can do all of them. What? Well let' Do I really want to do that? I know it is the first time I have the ability to or the first time it is been laid in front of me that I have the option to do that and I am sure I am happy about that. But before I do it let me ask myself Wait do I really want to? For me the story about having my jeans pressed I was so damn happy. I had a housekeeper for the first time and she pressed my jeans I was like Wow look at that. And then I had a friend tell me Well that is great if you like your jeans pressed. And immediately I went Oh shit. I do not like my jeans pressed! So we would then ask ourselves if we want to before we do. And yes we seek relevance but let us ask relevance for what?  Matthew you are one hell of a storyteller. You are a fun guy to talk to. At some point maybe separately I will ask you about what they put in the groundwater in Texas for this storytelling because you Mary Karr I do not know what it is but that is another conversation for another day. Your books official website is greenlights.com very easy for people to remember. On Facebook you are Matthew McConaughey Instagram official McConaughey Twitter McConaughey. And I will include links to everything in the show notes for people at tim.blogpodcast so they can find everything that we have talked about. Is there anything else that you would like to say share ask recommend with those people listening before we come to a close?  Sure. It came from a conversation Richard Linklater and I were having some years ago and it came out of just a verbal ping pong that we did. But what I think is we all could use right now and I need to remind myself of it daily especially in these times where look it is tough in ways that for ourselves that we understand. Sometimes we do not understand but it is tough in ways for everybody in ways that maybe even they do not understand and we probably do not. So everyone can use a little bit of amnesty right now. And what I mean by that is this if you are not sure how to respond to a situation can you just make sense of humor the default emotion? Can we just have a little more humor and give each other a bit of a break right now? Its tough times let us be for each other right now instead of against each other. And sense of humor does not get rid of the truth does not get rid of the problem does not get rid of the challenge it actually reveals it sometimes in the most truthful ways. But we can laugh to have some humor through the tears and humor through the pain and not laugh at someone else's expense. Laugh at our expense the human existence expense. Man we are doing the best we can. And for now let us help somebody try to.  Hear here. Well thank you so much Matthew. This was an incredibly enjoyable conversation.  Super fun for me Tim. I really enjoyed it. I would love to do it anytime.  Yeah. So I would love to do it around too some time maybe when we are in proximity in Austin we can do a 20 foot social distance so TBD. But your first book Greenlights is so unexpected it is so fun it is a romp through your mind a romp through the turns and twists and learnings of someone who has had an unorthodox path and on top of that documented so much for decades. It is a rare combination. So I encourage people to check it out. And for everybody listening we will have notes to all things we have discussed in the show notes tim.blogpodcast and until next time thank you for tuning in.   