 Michael and Grant welcome to the show.  Thank you Tim. Thanks for having us.  Thank you Tim. What is up Grant?  Thrilled to have us all together. This was the DaVinci Code of scheduling the Fermat's Last Theorem of coordination because we have people in every possible time zone and multiple countries. So I appreciate you guys being flexible with both making it happen. And I thought we would start with difficult or particularly notable races. And I would love to start with you Grant because I was confessing to both of you before we started I enjoy swimming. Actually I did not even learn to swim until I was in my 30s which is a whole separate story but I really enjoy swimming. But I know very very little about competition and the history of competitions and notable races and so on. Grant please speak to and describe for people what happened in the 2004 Olympics in the 1500 meter freestyle.  Yeah that was a particularly tough Olympics for me. That year I actually got pneumonia at the start of the year because I was just overtraining. I got a little bit sick and never missed a session. And I used to do 8k on average per session and used to flog myself. And then I got pneumonia went to hospital that turned into a chronic chest infection because I did not stop training as soon as I came out of hospital because I could not because I would miss the Olympic games. And then when I got to the Olympics in Athens in 2004 my only one objective was to win three gold medals. And I got two gold medals both by 0.1 of a second two silver medals sorry by 0.1 of a second and was not too happy about that. Then I raised the 1500 meter freestyle and I actually had to deal with a partially collapsed lung on my left side because it was blocked with mucus for so long that that race I probably pushed myself through more pain than I have ever had. And one of Michael's teammates Larsen Jensen was breaking the American record by about 12 seconds doing a personal best time. And so it pushed me to the nth degree and that was brutal. I came home I went under a CAT scan and they said Oh there is a massive lump on your lungs. We are going to have to inject you with iodine just to see what is going on. And they said Oh it is a big ball and injected me with iodine. And I had a look and they said Oh it is okay. It is okay. And I said What do you mean is it okay? And they said Well your lower left lobe has got no oxygen for so long that it is actually just deflated. And it is just sitting up in a big ball. And I have got a huge lung capacity of 12.6 liters. And apparently that took something like a quarter of it off. So that race to win that gold medal was the most painful moment that I have ever had in my career. But probably the most rewarding at the same time. But certainly after that I promised I would never never race like that again. And Michael knows how much of a sore spot that 42 freestyle relay was a few days before where we lost by 0.1. He loves it.  So I have two follow up questions related to this. The first is you mentioned lung capacity 12.6 liters. Do you have any idea just as a point of reference what average muggle heart capacity is? Like normie as one of my Olympic friends put it normies. What that is compared to a non-Olympic swimming champion lung capacity?  So when that was done because I am referring to actually the stats in 2004 it is 160 percent above what it should be for my heart and my age at the time. So yeah it was 12.63 liters my total lung capacity. So it is one of those genetic things that helps.  At that level with swimming and a lot of sports it is like at the junior high level you see all sorts of different body types. And then as you get a little bit higher you see still different body types but there is a point where they start to converge on very particular sets of physical characteristics. On the lung so partially collapsed lung. To most people listening that just seems completely baffling because so much of swimming would seem dependent on utilizing your full lung capacity. What did it feel like? You said painful but what does it feel like to swim at max capacity with a partially collapsed lung?  It is not good Tim let me tell you that. The way I described that race is like handcuffing someone to a treadmill putting it on max incline max speed and then just going for 15 minutes. That will be the intensity of the pain. Normally where I felt that intense pain at the 1000 meter mark I felt at the 500 meter mark in that race. And it is excruciating those thresholds that you have to go through. So yeah to push myself through that. The funniest thing about that race I had not lost it in eight years at that particular point in time. And I was going to the last 100 meters and it was the first time I had actually turned with someone next to me with 100 meters to go. And I actually came home faster in the last 100 meters than what I did than when I broke the world record by seven seconds three years earlier. So it actually taught me the value of competition in my worst situation that I can actually extrapolate or get more out of myself even feeling like that. But the pain was yeah I actually said I am going to retire if I cannot get better after those Olympics I am actually going to retire from the sport because I did not want to race like that again.  Were you doing lactate testing then Hackey?  Yeah. Yeah.  Do you remember what it would have been after that?  It is funny it was never that high after my 15 but I think I hit about a 12 after that where the 200 I could hit a 13 or 14 and the 1500 would normally be like a nine. But I produced a bit more there because the oxygen saturation was not going down into my blood. So yeah. So it went up. It is a good point. No one's actually ever mentioned that M.P.  That is just something I like snap think about because you know me I was always somebody who and still am just a numbers driven person. So that stuff always just sends little key messages whether it is to me or to Bob or to Keenan my trainer of things we need to improve on or fix or maybe what we need to get tested for too.  Yeah absolutely. That was excruciating. But you still want to see stats afterwards. It is like the Olympics is over that is the last day always of the Olympics. And you would have been doing the 41 medley probably that day as well. And you still want to do everything like see how quickly you remove the lactate out of your muscles after you cool down. And that is one thing that Michael and I always share is the stats. We can pull out any swimming time any split any world record split. We know it back to front.  Well I was going to continue with the tough race question and Michael you can feel free to go there first but I also have a question about that training obsession competitive drive and also just the familiarity with the numbers. Right? I do have some questions about that. But do you have a particularly tough race or competition that you would like to mention Michael?  The 200 fly I am really happy it was only 200 meters in 2016. Had it been 201 meters I would have lost. So that one sticks out. Other than that I look back at most of my races and I can say they were pretty much pain-free but that was just because I was prepared. That literally is the only reason. So I was probably 75 80 percent of the time really prepared and 2012 and like 10 to 12 are kind of my fake 65 70 percentish.  So let us talk about prep since that is where I was going to head next. I am looking at a quote from your coach Michael from 2003 and he is referring to both of you guys. And he is asked about the similarities between the two of you. And he said this is from an interview at some point They both enjoy training it is not an ordeal for them. They are both really aware of what is going on in practice in relation to their times speed where everyone is and most importantly where they are in training compared to their goals. And I am sure you guys get questions about competitive drive all the time. So I do not want to obsess on that phrasing exactly. But is that familiarity with the numbers and that awareness common across other team members or is that something that is abnormally developed in the two of you? And if so do you have any theories on why that is?  I think a lot of it really is just God given feel and ability right? For me I am somebody who is really a feel swimmer and I was taught the process of it. So I was taught to swim as efficiently as I possibly could at all times. So I think that is really what allowed me to be able to do the repeats and feel the exact times with the stroke counts or whatever we were trying to do. Training I knew I had to be perfect if I ever wanted to do something that no one had ever done. Right? I was trying to compete and do things that people had never seen before period in the Olympics and swimming. So it is like I had to from a workout standpoint I had to be as hungry as possible. And Bob says Jump and I am always saying How high? and I always wanted to break as many world records as I possibly could. So that is why I love training. And I know that you can ask Hackey and I think he would agree that you put the two of us in a pool together training it is pretty much like we are going toe to toe no matter what it is no matter what stroke it is just basically trying to rip each other's head off in just the pure love and competition of what we do. I think that is something that made us very special. But the feel  I think that is something that only one two three four percent of people five percent of people in the top of all sports probably really have any idea what we are talking about.  It is quite funny. I think just when Michael was talking I started thinking of the movie Days of Thunder when they are in the wheelchair in the hospital and they come up and then the other one pushes forward. That is exactly how Michael and I try to get up. It is just constantly pushing each other and trying to take it to the next level. And you just disregard the pain in that. The goal is always more important. The outcome is always more important than what you have to go through. I think that is the way we always approached it.  So I would love to as background for people listening provide some context on how the two of you know each other. And those in the swimming world will know the history and the similarities in trajectory and so on. But either of you could take a stab at this. So I will let maybe Grant just to describe the backstory. How did you guys get to know each other?  It is really funny. I remember hearing Michael. I mean there is a lot happening in our country right now because it is the 20-year anniversary since the Sydney Olympic games. So there is plenty going on. And that was Michael's first Olympics. And I remember when he got fourth I think in the 200 meter fly there and he was like a 15-year-old on the swim team.  Fifth.  What was it fifth?  Come on man. Fourth I would have been a little happier.  That is close to fourth though right next to it. So I remember just thinking Wow what a freak. A 15-year-old I wonder if we will ever hear of him again. And then the next year when he broke the 200 meter butterfly world record at the world championships. 52? Am I right on that?  No 54. I was 46 54.9 in spring.  And then I could not believe that a 16-year-old actually did that. And I got to know Michael from that moment moving forward. And then we got to train together and I think I just saw eye to eye on Michael on things like the approach towards swimming the approach towards competition.  How did you end up training together? Just for those who might say you both sound like you have strong New Jersey accents but I suspect you are from different places. How did you end up training together?  Back in 2003 Michael and his coach Bob just came over to Australia for a coaching conference. And so he spent a few weeks in Australia. So he ended up training then. And I think at that point in time we really got to know each other and I saw Michael's level of application towards his training and all the new things that he was trying to bring to the sport like the underwater off every single wall. Which for your listeners Tim not too many people know but when you are in the middle of a race and you are at like the 200 300 400 meter mark and then you try and push and go 15 meters off the wall it is one of the most difficult things that a person can ever do. It is like a free diver right in the last little bit of holding their breath. It is tough. And Michael started doing all these sorts of things and I thought Man I wonder if that'ill actually work. And so I saw just how creative and innovative in the sport that he was and he was just a great guy. I just enjoyed hanging out. We would go out to dinner and do things together. And I think the basis of our friendship was in 2003 springboarded from there. And every time we saw each other at meets because we would obviously be traveling all the time we just always connected and got along well. And we had a lot of mutual respect for each other and what each other was bringing to the sport. And also there was another counterpart of mine Ian Thorpe who is through that era. And I think both Michael and I had a lot of respect for Ian. So we would all spend a lot of time together and respect what each other was doing for the sport at that time too.  And you mentioned I am going to do a follow up here with you Grant then I am going to come back to you Michael to ask you what you first noticed about Grant. To you Grant when you mentioned innovation and new things being brought to the sport what else did you notice? What were some other examples that you saw in Michael or through Michael?  Michael is the sort of guy that you never ever want to say that he is not going to do something. You never want to be critical of Michael because he will stick it so far up you it is not funny. And not many competitors do that. If I actually said something about one of my competitors or tried to intimidate them a little bit not even meaning to half the time it would get under their skin. It could almost go into their performance in a negative way. Do that to Michael and it will improve his performance by about 400 percent. That was one of the things very early on. Even when we play golf today if I am betting on him on the last hole it is with this intensity of focus and athletic prowess and everything else you can imagine that makes him great just comes into play even if he is had the worst 17 holes beforehand.  I go from a 20 handicap to a zero in no time just on one hole just to stick it to him.  Yeah. And I keep testing it right because I will start jeering him up before that hole just to see if my theory about him is correct. And 100 percent of the time I am proven right. So that is probably one of the other things about Michael and that is an interesting characteristic that I have not seen in many athletes across a lot of sports that are able to have that ability to increase performance to that extent because of maybe a slight bit of criticism or questioning. So that was one of the other things I really noticed about him very very quickly.  I have some additional questions about that but I will hit snooze on those. Michael what did you notice about Grant? What were some of your first impressions?  I do not know if you guys or the listeners can pick up but I mean as a kid growing up I was a massive swimming geek. I was a nerd I was very into it. I was trying to learn anything I possibly could. But also I just respected other great athletes other great swimmers. And growing up idolizing some of the greats that walked before Hackey and I I learned so much history. So being able to understand swimming from a global level very early on through my sister in a way I just really connected with him. And as you heard with Thorpie as well. Those two guys are probably the two closest swimming friends that I have to this day. I feel like I was closer with the Aussies than I was really with the Americans. And so it was kind of strange but I do remember those 2003 days. Bob and I were going back to some of those old sets a few weeks ago Hackey and pretty good seeing some of those kicking sets some of the pulling sets the underwater stuff that we were doing with fins. I mean just everything. And that is what I mean. There are not many athletes that can really take it to that level back to back days. And that was something that I saw in Hackey And obviously I respected the hell out of him. And the chance that we got to spend together was always very special always very meaningful. And obviously he turned into more of a brother than anything else. And so yeah it is been cool to see it is been oh my gosh unbelievable. So many great stories. I am a scatterbrain so I am popping all over the place and I feel like I am going to take some of your questions away. So I will stop.  Feel free to bounce around scatterbrained. I have made an entire career out of it on this podcast. So feel free. Grant I want to ask you about intensity and I am going to do it in a somewhat sideways fashion. But both of you are known for being beasts in training and having just ungodly work capacities. And I do not know if I am getting the hours right please correct me if I am wrong but 30 to 40 hours of training a week maybe more at times. I want you to correct that in your answer if need be. But it seems like the combination of that volume plus the intensity that you are both famous for would drive anyone into the ground. And I am just curious how you prevented that from happening if maybe you could speak to that Grant?  I think first and foremost around the 30 or 40 hours that is right. We would train anywhere from five to seven hours a day six days a week. I know Michael would do seven days a week. I think he trained like 530 540 days straight into Beijing.  A little more but it is okay.  What was that?  A little more than that but it is okay. Five or six straight years.  Yeah. So yeah wow. So I mean that degree of application is one thing. But you are right you have to be doing it better farther harder than the guy on the other side of the world. And I think the goal the outcome was just so strong the desire. And I think when something is so meaningful and purposeful to you as an individual you are willing to do anything. And it is funny the body does get used to it to an extent. 45 doing that eight kilometers doing it to the intensity that you need to then going into the gym for 90 minutes doing that then going back in the afternoon and doing it all again. And it is amazing how much more you can absorb than what you give yourself credit for. But one of the things I always tried to do is whenever my coach would set something like an insanely hard set and if I finished it I would do one or two more reps. And he was known as having one of the top three intense programs in the world from a lot of the physiologists out there. So I always just try to take it to the next level every single time. I knew with my event which probably is different to some of the finesse that Michael had in his events in terms of his underwater and skills. For me it was about being tough. And he is trained with a great 1500 swimmer called Erik Vendt. So he knows the intensity and the mindset. And I was very similar to Erik in terms of if you have to pull me out of the water after this session and put me in an ambulance I do not care as long as I get every ounce out of myself. And you have got to show up with that attitude every day because that is how tough the guys are that you are racing. And it is just the way it is. And I think when you get the wins it keeps you going right? It keeps you going to the next step. It makes the bits a little bit more digestible. And I just love that feeling. I just love that feeling afterwards. And I knew when I rocked up to race day that if I would done that work that no one was ever going to touch me in my race.  And that is the thing though because it is like there are days obviously you do not want to go Grant right? Every day was not perfect for us. On those days you have to be able to find that 10 20 30 50 percent instead of zero where you could just full on pump the whole day the workout skip be lazy like do whatever the hell you wanted to. To be as consistent as we both were throughout our career literally every single session every single stroke mattered. For the listeners out there it was the smallest finest details you could possibly think about. We had to go through and fine tune daily. I almost talk to it as like you are going to college. And the top level is the 10000 level class or the 1000 level class whatever the hell you want to call it. If you skip a few of those classes you are missing key steps that are going to help you at the very top level when the lights are on when you might have had a bad night's sleep or your roommate might be sick or maybe the food and the dining hall was not very good or your air conditioning does not work. So it is like all of the things that you are doing daily are prepping you for any kind of situation that you are going to face at the Olympics at World Championships whatever your big event is.  Totally. And I suppose that is something that was not in my mind when I asked the question and that is it is not just about developing more strength. It is not just about developing the brute attributes. It is also about the smallest technical details that you have to train to be second nature for competition. Are there any particular Michael tools or techniques for recovery that you found to really pull their weight so to speak and have an impact? Because as a mirror 5'8 meat cube I am not really built for hydrodynamics. I think about training as you did for five to six years straight. And I just cannot imagine a human body withstanding that without some portfolio of recovery techniques. Was there anything that stands out?  We had to be. We had to be on top of everything. Like I was saying before trying to do something that no one's ever done before give yourself the chance it is like you really have to approach it in every single different way possible than ever has been done before. There is no blueprint for it. So for us it was one step at a time. For me to be able to swim at such a high level every single day I had to be on top of whether it is nutrition sleeping drinking water. I treated my body like I was a Ferrari. I treated my body like I am a high performance race car because I am asking it to do so many things. So I was sleeping probably eight to 10 hours a night with a two-hour nap during the day. I was eating eight to 10000 calories a day. I used to have massages. I had one PT strength conditioning guy for 15 years that did all of my massages all of my stretching all of my graston all of my cupping. I had to be super super anal about it because I needed to ask my body to do so many things every single day. So yeah I guess I am kind of old school. I never really got into cryo or anything like that. But still to this day I work out six seven days a week. And for me to be able to do everything I need to do from playing golf having enough energy with the kids and doing everything I need to do personally I have to recover. So I am stretching probably 45 minutes a day. I am probably icetubbing once maybe twice a week. I go to acupuncturist cupping twice a week. So I think LeBron said something about it earlier in the year. He spends a million dollars a year on recovery. And honestly that just makes sense to me because if he is like from what I just said he is asking his body to do so much at such a high level you have to treat it. It should be treated. Right? You have to give it everything it needs. And that is the very basic stuff. I mean I have all of my stats blood work sleep numbers lactate numbers. Anything you can possibly imagine about health or recovery I have it logged for the last 15 years 20 years of my career. So I was very anal about it because I needed to be I was selfish in a way.  Yeah. That makes all the world of sense. And I think we are going to come back to that focus and the pros and cons of it. Grant I would love to ask you about anything you have found helpful for sleep. And that comes to mind because Michael you also mentioned LeBron James who is been on this podcast and has a number of different techniques including using Calm app and other technological tools for helping with getting to sleep. Right. Did you find anything in particular I mean aside from training many many hours a day which I am sure helps for sleep during your training or post competitive career?  Yeah. I always found some of the apps are great. I actually used to put on one of these apps that used to just have the rain water coming down and falling on the leaves and those sorts of just calming type of things. It is really funny today the best way I find to fall asleep is just breathing exercises. And just focusing away from everything that kind of matters in your life around work and the things that you are responsible for that normally keep you awake at night. But it is quite funny to Michael's point just around recovery sleep is obviously the ultimate thing to rest the body. And I track everything. I am sitting here with one watch on one hand another one on the other hand I do not even know if either of them tell the time but they are tracking my heart rate variability they are tracking my sleep they are tracking my recovery. And I check these stats like there is no tomorrow like I am still a professional athlete. I think you are just hardwired to be like that. And it depends what phase you are going through in your career. There is points where I had injuries in my shoulder my shoulders would be aching at night. So I will be sitting there with bags of peas on my shoulders just to get the inflammation down. There is so many different sort of cycles throughout my career where you would have trouble sleeping. Sometimes I would feel the pressure too much coming to competitions half the time for some reason. And those are the difficult times where you need your recovery more than ever but you are finding it hard to be able to get that rest. So what is good for one person is not necessarily good for another. But what I know today is if I just did a lot more meditation a lot more things of slowing down a lot more mindfulness those are the sorts of things that would have helped me a lot more throughout my career. Because they are great techniques that I use today. And I probably sleep better today because of just the foundation of knowledge that I have been able to build over the time because we were just so anal and just so focused on recovery and trying to find ways to go okay the body is gone. How am I going to get it back. To Michael's point this is not a tractor it is a Ferrari. And if a bolt's a little bit loose this thing will not perform. So everything has got to be right. I used to  if I had to walk somewhere I would sit down as soon as I got there just so my hip flexors would not tighten up because I was not as good a kicker as what Michael was or Ian Thorpe. So I had to do everything on my legs. So I was better on the upper body. I could do that. I can pull it is called pulling. You sort of tie your legs up and swim with your arms only. That was my strength but my lower was not. So I used to just be fixated on that every minute of the day to make sure whenever I rocked up to training and particularly competition my legs were loose my hip flexors had full range and I was going to get the most out of them. So yeah it is an obsession and that is the way it needs to be.  Yeah. I was spending some time Grant with one of our mutual friends who is deep in training right now. And we were hiking. And he said This is great. I just cannot do too much hiking. And I said Why not? And he said Because I do not want my ankles to be overly stable or strengthened because I need the flexibility. I want the looseness in the ankles. And I was like Wow that is not something I hear every day.  It is really the only sport where you want loose ankles. You look at tennis players they have got all the support in place. We are doing the opposite. We will have a panel of wood where you have got a strap across the top. And you chuck your foot in there and you are leaning back to try and create more flexion and angle. And that is the thing Michael and Ian Thorpe are incredibly flexible and incredibly strong and incredibly mobile. And I did not have that last part around the mobility that these guys have because think about it your feet are like flippers in the water. So if you get that extra bit of angle and you get that flick right at the end it is going to propel you just that little bit more. I am sitting here at an Olympic games where I got two silver medals I think it is over the course of about 1200 meters of racing and thereby 0.2 of a second in total. So every little bit matters.  Michael I want to revisit a name that has come up a lot so far in this conversation and that is Ian Thorpe. And it ties into what Grant was saying about using critical or negative or doubting comments as rocket fuel for your motivation. In the course of doing homework for this conversation I came across a note on Wikipedia that said Ian Thorpe   Which quote? He has two quotes. There is two of them that I remember. Go ahead. I am interrupting to see which one you have.  So Wikipedia  feel free to correct any of this. It is not so much a direct quote it just says Thorpe initially said that it would be highly unlikely for Phelps to win eight gold medals at the 2008 summer Olympics in Beijing. Phelps used the remarks as motivation and taped the words to his locker during the games. So I just wanted to fact check that. Is that true?  A hundred percent. Without a question. Yeah.  What were the words that you put on your locker?  I think at that time Bob and I a major chunk of my career I would say we were big on highlighting different quotes or times that people had done or things that we were trying to do. So for me every morning I got out of bed and I saw my goal sheet of the times I wanted to do that year or at the Olympics or whatever written down. So when I was getting out of bed I was getting out of bed with a purpose. So then when I got to the pool that is where that quote was. Just honestly if I was kind of having an off day I would use that as Hackey said it a little extra fuel. That was something that if somebody did say it was impossible I was going to make them eat their words no matter what. There is no if ands or buts about it. And again in 2016 I believe he said something along the lines of It will be impossible or almost impossible to see somebody over the age of 30 win an individual gold medal. And funny enough I was giving him shit about it after the Olympics in '16. And he goes I know how you work. He said So I was helping you get that extra fuel to really give you some extra motivation to really make sure you would kick some ass. To Grant's point though I knew Grant probably better than any other athlete in the world I knew Thorpie would be better than any other athlete in the world. And the same way for them. We knew about each other because we all were just trying to learn whatever we could and use it into our everyday lifestyle to help us accomplish the goals that we wanted.  Mm-hmm . And to Ian's credit or defense I will read one of the actual quotes that is not Wikipedia in which he says I am really proud of him not just because he won eight golds rather it is how much he has grown up and matured into a great human being. Never in my life have I been so happy to have been proved wrong. So ultimately he was proved wrong. And as we are talking about this translation of using the negative or the critical and into rocket fuel like you said Grant it is  at least in my experience which is very limited. But it is rare to see. The one other exception that I can think of and maybe you guys will have seen this is Michael Jordan in The Last Dance where every episode there is an example of this. And someone will say something to him and then they will say Fuck should not have done that. And he comes back and breaks some universal record in the next quarter. And it was so remarkably consistent. And yet when you flash forward and you are watching this current day footage of Michael you cannot help but get the feeling that he is still very angry but he has lost a target at which he can direct this anger. And so I am curious to hear from you Michael because I have lived in my life with a lot of anger. Have you found that to cut both ways? What has been your experience with anger during the competitive years or afterwards?  I mean naturally Hackey can agree I carry a lot of anger. And a lot of that I would say stems from my childhood and some of the things that I experienced. But I also think anger is really really what did fuel me on those days where I just did not want to swim. Those were the biggest things. It was almost like turning a switch on in a way. But I will say now knowing what I know about depression knowing what I know about anxiety mental health and about myself as well I know that I cannot approach my life or anything that I do in my life like I did in swimming just because  I guess I could say I was a professional or I was a doctor or whatever the hell you want to call me in the swimming world. But I understood swimming I would like to think almost better than anybody and I definitely feel for it. So I do not have enough practice doing what I am doing now in life so I do have to take steps back and take deep breaths or I have found that through e and I's communication level has gone up another level. So it is little things like that. For me I am constantly learning more and more about myself and about why I am how I am. So yeah. Do I still get angry? Of course but I play a lot of golf. As I said I work out six or seven days a week. I lift weights three days a week for anywhere 60 to 90 minutes. And then the other four days I am either swimming riding a stationary bike or I am on an elliptical. So those are kind of the outlets for me. But it does get scary at times. And I will say Hackey has always been there for me through any single moment of my life through those dark times. But I can also say during this quarantine it is been difficult for me. I have been very open about that recently. And through all of this. And I can imagine that it is been difficult for more and more people. And I will say the one thing to the listeners out there who are listening to it you are not alone. That is the one thing I truly truly want to repeat. You will hear me say it a lot of times in this podcast. But you are definitely not alone with your thoughts your emotions. But if you are afraid or you are scared or nervous reach out to somebody for help a trained therapist or a trained doctor. This is just a very uncertain time for everybody in the world. That was a little rant so go ahead.  No. I enjoy rants. That is why we have a long format. You mentioned dark times I would like to talk about this because I feel like both of you have been very open about this which is a huge service. I mean it is a huge public service to people who feel alone and it is a huge public service to people who feel like they are uniquely flawed or are in a place of shame because mental health and depression and so on can be very stigmatized still. Michael could you speak to when you knew you needed help or when you hit rock bottom could you just tell the story of that moment or moments?  I mean the first time I experienced depression I would say it was back in 2004 coming back after all that success. And obviously you expect it to continue and you get back and it is good for a week or so. And then you kind of feel like you fall off the face of the earth. For me it was just beginning to open talk about these things. Honestly I felt there was a weight lifted off my shoulders. Now these were things that I carried for probably 20 years 15 years. When I really do get into those dark times I basically isolate myself and give everybody the Heisman because I almost feel like I am causing more stress to their life or I am a burden or this that or the other. So I go strictly internal and almost I pick at scabs or like internal scabs that really hurt. So I almost try to inflict pain but not literally inflict pain. So it gets bad. And when it does get bad it really spirals. Also one thing Hackey was over here  was that two years ago Hackey?  Yeah. Two years ago. Yeah 2018.  Yeah. I mean that was one of the scariest ones that I have really experienced. Honestly I feel like I am alone and I feel like everybody's attacking me. And yeah it is an uncomfortable feeling. But I guess the easiest way for describing it would be like a turtle going back into its shell. I want more than anything to feel like I am a human being. Because I feel like that is what I am. I feel like I had a great talent and I put my mind to something and shit I did not give up. I went through ups and downs and I was able to accomplish some pretty amazing goals. But at times I feel like I am almost a piece of meat and an object. And I think especially during those times when I start going there when I am in dark times and start going there it just downward spirals. So that is why I alluded earlier to talking about how much mine and my wife's communication has really just grown through quarantine because I would say I had a similar incident like I had in 2018 where it was very scary. And I know Nicole was doing everything she could to help and we were almost forced to grow and to change as a couple because of the current situation and the situation at the time. It was difficult but honestly that is the coolest thing for me that I am so excited about with having depression or with having anxiety because it honestly makes me who I am. I understand it is never going to be fixable. And it is a part of me for the rest of my life. But you know what? I think it is something that I want to learn more about and something I am excited to wake up every day and have that chance to learn more about. I have spoken about my wife and I just communicating so much more. It is crazy to even think that that was possible but just going over leaps and bounds just learning more and more about how we both work and things we need to be careful of so we do not trigger one another. It is been almost a blessing in disguise for us.  And if I could just jump back to one thing you said   Whatever you need please always.  And if I am misquoting please correct me. But for those who are not familiar could you describe what made 2018 scary? What was the experience?  I mean in 2018 I actually took a pair of golf shoes and I hit myself in the head with them. That was one of the very last times that I would tried to inflict pain on myself. And I knew at that point that right there I would never done something like that. I would never even thought about doing something like that. And the fact that I did that right there was a message for me. It was a red flag. So coming back to the house and I had kind of a meltdown but talking to Grant talking to my wife that was just a learning experience. For me I basically am a pot of water at the very last second I am ready to blow. And when I blow it is pretty bad and it gets pretty ugly. I would say throughout my career I am great at compartmentalizing. I would say I could probably win a few more gold medals of that. But that is not something to be proud of. So I think that is one thing that I have learned. Just to really talk about it. I have learned more about my emotions and if I have something I do not like I talk about it or ask questions about it. So I think with the experiences that I have gone through and the struggles that I have gone through I feel like I have almost let my guard down in a way if that kind of makes sense like drop my shoulders like take in a deep breath and just try to relax. Because I think throughout my whole entire life I have been trying to shave hundredths of a second off my time. Right. And now for everyday life I am trying to slow it down. So it is crazy now for me to look at life. So yeah. The last four years have been interesting. But that in 2018 to this day was one of the scariest times of my life. That and 2014 after my second DUI. We talked about sleeping earlier and I have opened up more and more about this story just because it is a part of me. So basically throughout my entire life most of my swimming career we were prescribed Ambien for traveling for trips to try to acclimate to times. And that night after my DUI I was happy that I only had two Ambien left. That was a sleep aid that I had. And who knows what would have happened if I had more. Those two moments for me are the two scariest moments of my life. And recently I would say within the last handful of weeks I have had a couple of real scary breakdowns where I almost really start shaking because I just do not know what to do I do not know how to control anything. Yeah that is about it.  Thank you for sharing that Michael.  Yeah. But honestly for me yes it is. It is wild to think about it is wild to talk about. But it is what makes me me. And how if I can learn from just understanding why I am certain ways or why I react certain ways then I feel like I am setting myself up to be a better person. And at the end of the day that is all I want. I want to learn more. You have heard us talk about stats numbers I want to know stats I want to know numbers I want to know why. I just had  I do not know why why why to every single question that you can possibly think about. So I always know there is so many other options out there and if I come to a dead end I can reach out to one of those options or I can backtrack a few steps and take a different route. So yeah. I think really trying to simplify life and trying to slow things down for me those are the two things that I would say I focus on on a daily daily basis. Yeah. Just to give myself a chance.  Yeah. And Grant I am going to come back to you in just a minute because I want to sort of do a similar expedition into some of the dark chapters to hear your stories. Before we get to that I am looking at just a paragraph from an ESPN article that includes you Michael. And I want to read a small portion of it and ask a question. So here's the portion it says In treatment Phelps earned the nickname Preacher Mike because each day began with a chapter of The Purpose Driven Life a book given to him by former Baltimore Ravens linebacker and good friend Ray Lewis.  I do not know if you would still recommend this book or how you feel about it but are there any books or resources that you have found particularly helpful in your journey in experiencing these things?  So I have a very close friend of mine who I feel very comfortable opening up to and asking a lot of questions about  I think you know who I am talking about Hackey. But he passes me a bunch of different books. And some of the ones recently I guess  I was never somebody who liked to read books. And when Ray gave me that book I was not spiritual in any way I was not religious but I think through my journey I a hundred percent am spiritual. Without question. There is a power that is greater than me. I do not know what it is but through my journey I feel like I have learned so much from the books that I have received. The Purpose Driven Life is one amazing one. The Power of Now is an amazing one. Ego Is the Enemy is one that I go back to a lot. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck is a great one. I loved It Takes What It Takes. I thought that was a great one. Just little books like that where I can. For me whenever I am listening  I tend to do Audibles. And when I am listening to it it is what we are all supposed to do but I love just taking little small pieces that are similar to things that I did in my career. For me to be as efficient as I was in swimming I had to learn the absolute bottom line of every single stroke. Right. I had to be as efficient as I could with my body that I was given. So it is like I have almost done that in ways it is opened my mind into some really interesting new thoughts. It is given me new journeys to travel down roads to go down. But yeah. I mean I would say I cycle through a lot of those depending on as you heard before the dark moods that I am in. I went back to The Subtle Art Of Not Giving A Fuck just because I felt like I was just attacking myself too much. And I just needed to get a handle of a few things and do what I am teaching my kids take a lion breath take a deep breath every once in a while and relax. It is not about racing the clock in every single thing that you do in your life. So that is one big key thing for me is just trying to be as simple in every form of life as I possibly can. And it is honestly looking at my kids and that is the greatest example. I mean we were talking about it earlier. My two oldest boys were playing with a metal trash can the other day. And you know one of the trash cans where you step on it the lid pops up. One is banging on the top like it is a drum. The other one is stomping on the lid. And I was like Boomer what are you guys doing? And without missing a beat he looks over and said Dad I have never seen one of these things before. And look I could not do anything but start laughing. So I was like All right. Yeah whatever. Go ahead. Meanwhile there is a hundred different noises going on. I mean I was going crazy but I laughed out loud. I damn near fell on the ground laughing. I was like that is what kids are they are the best example of really living in the moment. And for me I feel like having the time that I have around my kids during this quarantine I feel like I have a few things that I can kind of log into the memory bank and go back to when Boomer is pressing that red button that I hate to be pressed inside of me and he is trying to get my nerves and go crazy I mean. But kids are kids and honestly I have seen the  one of the coolest things is they want to be us so bad and honestly they just love us. And it is  for me I told you we would get tears. For me honestly it is taken some of the dark times that I have been through just literally being crying and having your kids come up and give you a hug those things. That right there it is the greatest thing on the planet. So yeah. It is been a treat and yeah as a dad it is the greatest feeling in the world.  Thank you Michael. Grant we are going to go back into the depths here a bit.  Oh I was going to say if you want to keep going you can. It does not bother me man. I just need a second to wipe to tears off and I am good.  I have already been through a whole heap of emotions just listening to that just going back to 2018 and the day when Michael was not Michael or was Michael just the other side of success. And I just think it was tough to listen to that. I actually have water in my eyes just listening to it because it was seeing one of your best mates that you have known for so long and been through everything together just go through that. It was brutal. It was really really tough.  Sounds brutal. What of your personal experience? What did the dark times look like for you? Are there any particular instances that come to mind in terms of knowing when you needed help or hitting rock bottom?  The first thing I will say at the outset it is really funny. As an athlete you were told from day one. I mean I started swimming when I was four and being competitive when I was five. So everything throughout my childhood and throughout my sporting career was Hey if there is an obstacle go through it overcome it beat it. You are injured you are sick whatever just turn into a gladiator and just keep going forward. That is your job. And it was almost like adversity was your friend and you used to  I call the expression now with mental health it is like I got used to iron-fisting my way through difficult periods in life. And that is not right. That is great as an athlete that is a great attribute to have to push through pain and overcome those challenges to get the outcome. But in life that actually does not work and I found that out the hard way and I have realized how real mental health was. So I think for me I remember I have been through the ups and downs and I really never recognized that about myself because I just kind of thought Okay just put your boots back on and keep going. But a few years ago when I went through a really public divorce here in Australia and everything that followed from that and innuendo and speculation and people questioning your value set just undid me. And I just did not realize how much it undid me and how much it took me down. And I got to a point where in early 2017 just kind of one more thing. It is one more thing where I was sitting in a hotel room completely isolated two security guards on that floor so no one would come near my room. Seeing on the front page of the newspaper and the news just what is going on with me. Then I think the four days that I had there and I was texting Michael at the time I literally had over a thousand messages in my phone on WhatsApp on my email and on my SMS within about a three-hour timeframe. And I think I got back to three people and Michael was one of them and Allison Schmitt who lived with Michael too were the only people that I got back to. And I think I have used words like Oh I am just scared. And everyone thinks you are invincible for what you have done but like everybody else you just have those vulnerabilities. And when it is so public it just exaggerates the situation and amplifies it and creates another layer of complexity that you have to deal with. And I just made a commitment to myself I think at the end of that that I am never going to allow myself to get to this spot again. Any time that I feel like you are getting pushed to that edge or things are going wrong I am just going to adopt the strategies that I now know instead of denial. Because I would always put myself in denial. I would not let myself be vulnerable. And even my fiance Sharlene now like if I start talking about the way I am feeling in isolation or going through a stressful period and she goes Oh. She is so proud of me. She goes Oh I just love it when you are vulnerable. And I said Oh I feel like a bit of a pussy to be honest but yeah. Cool. So it is like and then I am like Wow I feel better afterwards. That open and honest transparency and my relationship is better as well. So it is like wow doing this vulnerability thing which was the number one thing that I found I had to tap into going through those stages in life and phases whenever they embark upon you. And they come across at the weirdest times too. Like even when things are great and going well sometimes it can be a low point after that that you have to deal with that. So yeah I mean I made that decision back in 2017. I basically lived with Michael most of that year and he was my biggest supporter. When I went and did therapy and got some help he was the guy drove me there and dropped me off. 00 00 a.m. sometimes later in the morning. He would come in and wake me up in the morning with the dogs and Boomer crawling on the bed all over me which I really appreciated. But it is those sorts of times where we will just always be there for each other. But people see us as these people who have achieved great things and won multiple Olympic gold medals and world records and all that sort of stuff. But yeah just because you are good at something does not mean that you do not fall into the same fate as everybody else when it comes to mental health or just being a human. Yeah I had to learn those things definitely the hard way.  You were mentioning the vulnerability with your significant other. I was just having a conversation last week with a coach who you could really consider on some level a therapist. And he said to me Candor is the ultimate aphrodisiac. It seems to have a lot of benefits not just singular benefits. And you mentioned strategies. I would love to hear what other rules or strategies you have found or developed for yourself so that when you sense yourself edging towards the brink you are better able to reel yourself away from it.  I think I am just doing everything proactively. I exercise like Michael six days a week. I try and make myself have a recovery day which is hard when you have got personalities like ours. We know the importance of recovery but we just like to keep going and going and going. So that is one thing. The other thing that I do it is funny I went to stop drinking for a year and then I got to a year and I was kind of like You know what? I do not even feel like drinking anymore. And it is not like I was ever a person who drank every day by any means. It would be far and few between but I could go hard if we were having a night with the boys or something like that or use it to escape. So I stopped drinking full stop. I got to a year and I was like You know what? I do not even feel like that anymore. It is not something in my life that I value or I like or it brings value to me. So I do not do that. I also make sure that I get enough sleep. That is really important for me. I eat very healthy. Diet has been a big part and just that whole sort of health regime that I have to follow just to make sure that I am in a good space. And the one thing that I still find difficult that I do and we just touched on is I talk about it. I talk about where I am at how I am feeling why I am feeling like that instead of bottling it up. Michael and I we are the kings of compartmentalizing things and actually just locking them away. I will deal with that box when I need to deal with that box. But unfortunately that box is growing and being fueled. And when it goes to 10 it is no good. It is not good at all. And Michael and I know this best. So I try and jump into that box and I try and work through it try and get it out. So I think for me it is all that sort of proactive stuff that I am doing and I feel more settled in my life now than I ever have. And you know what and I know this with Nicole because I know Michael's wife extremely well and the wonderful human being that she is just how good she is for Michael in that situation and how much she cares and loves him it is actually beautiful to watch. Because I have been through this stuff with her and we have spoken about how we were there for Michael. And Sharlene's the same for me. Just that partnership of someone who gets you. Like she gets me. She gets my drive and ambition. And yet that other mental sort of fault that whatever you want to call it vulnerability those things that are imperfect she gets that and she likes it and works with me on it. So I think I have not necessarily had the right partnerships in life as well. So I think Tim that is a really important part of who you are surrounding yourself by but that significant other can make and break in many respects too because they have got to connect with a unique personality which I know Michael and I certainly share a uniqueness like that. So they are kind of the things that really matter. And look it is been a journey to get to know all those things because I have made so many mistakes along the way but I just know what makes me feel like more of me now and feels like a purpose and the things that help support and maintain that.  Grant do you see someone like a therapist on a regular basis or are they used only in cases of emergency or beginning to red line?  I do if I have gone through a hard period. I will not say on a consistent week-to-week month-to-month basis. But if I am going through a stressful period I have definitely got that support network there and I will jump online have a talk get it out. Because sometimes and I have learned this too I did not ever really use a sports psychologist too much when I was swimming because I always thought I was invincible and that was a weakness if I had to go up into that. Little did I know that would have really helped me and I might have had a better trophy cabinet than what I have got if I recognized that at the time. But now sometimes family members I know I spoke about a significant other then but I know family members sometimes are not necessarily the ones you should be tapping into because the emotion is just too close. So having someone else a little bit more objective has the skillset has the understanding somebody you can have a different type of conversation with is really important. So definitely got that network in there tap into it when you know that the flags kind of come up.  What are the flags like? When do you know it is time to take yourself in for a 60000-mile checkup with a professional? What are some of the signs that you notice?  Oh. I mean we spoke about anger before. Michael was talking about that and the way he is able to channel it. And look there is a negative connotation with anger because it is not always a bad thing. Sometimes anger can push you to get more out of yourself to deliver an outcome that is amazing. But sometimes when you are edgy you are irritable you are not sleeping well things just are escaping the mind I think all those kind of little red flags that sort of start to add up and compound and you are just not removing that stress that weight they are kind of the things that you start to recognize and go Hey I am going through a bit of  this is not just a one-off right now. This is not a two-off. This is kind of been a little bit more sustained than what I would like. And I think I have a much greater ability to check in with that now than what I have ever had. Where before it would be like that little box that I said it goes into let us just stuff it back in there with the others. And I do not let that happen anymore. So yeah it is mood more than anything else. And if it is a sustained poor mood then yeah that is the thing that I go Okay we have got to do something about this. In a situation where I have got twins from a previous marriage and I miss them like crazy when they are not here and the impact that that had on me for so many years that I failed to even really talk about has been a big thing that I just highlight now. And I will just go Sharlene I am just like Oh I am really missing Jagger or Charlize and I will just start to talk about it. And then all of a sudden you kind of get on the other side of that. So they are kind of the things that I recognize now that are not as big of blind spots as they were previously.  When you talk to a professional if you do what does the format look like? Is it more about really just getting it off your chest and talking to someone or is there a particular type of guidance or a format that is helpful to you?  I have a guy who I tap into. And he is almost got a comical element to his style which I really connect with. I love that because he is extremely intelligent very very bright. And look I will write down the things that I am feeling and that I feel like I have got to really check in with and get through and ask questions about. So I will do that. So that is a structure I come in with. He will then just pull out stuff on all of that that just takes the emotion out of it almost. It almost  because it is more pragmatic. He goes This is why that would happen. This is why you feel like that. You know what? You are kind of catastrophizing that. That is not as big as you seem. Then he will make comparisons and perspectives around other people or other situations and it kind of gives you a different view. And it is like he just comes in and provides these additional lenses that I did not have that he is just given me. And I kind of cover off all the topics like that. And we have a laugh through it all too once you kind of get on the other side of each of those areas. So I find that that style has really worked with me. It is a good question Tim. No one's ever actually asked me that before.  Oh well if I can get one novel question in I am quite pleased with myself. You guys have been interviewed 500 million times so I am glad to give myself a pat on my bald head for that one. And I will follow it up because you mentioned something that I find very interesting and that is sending something in written form to this therapist beforehand. Is it a stream of consciousness? I am feeling this because of this and  is it just like one gigantic paragraph or page? Or is it something else? That just seems like such a time-saver to provide that context to someone in advance so they can actually put some thought into how they might respond to you?  I think I mean you probably got the sense through the chat. Michael and I we are very analytical. We think through everything and every situation and every outcome. That is the reason we know every time with respect to our events and the timeline and history of our sport so well. And I think if I am going to approach something I might as well do it properly and get the absolute most I can out of it. So it is just dot points dot points and specific areas like things that have been on my mind situations   Dot points? Dot points are bullet points I guess?  They are bullet points yeah.  In Aussie terms yes so.  Yeah that is it.  I can decipher all of that stuff for you Tim.  Yeah thank you. Thank you.  I got you. I am fluent. It is good.  When I go over and stay with Michael we will go out and I will say something and he will repeat it for me. And I was like Yeah what he said because everyone sort of looks at me like I have got two heads but Michael's the ultimate at deciphering Aussie slang. He knows a bit. Yeah. So bullet points is exactly what I jot down.  Dot points.  Yeah dot points. Yep. Yeah. And so for me that works. They kind of just cover the areas the topics that have been on my mind or the situation. Normally it is more of a situation for me. Day to day I am pretty good. It is more if I have come across something that is sustained stress or I cannot work through myself. And look to be honest that seems to be happening a little bit less in my life. But in saying that I know it could intensify at any point in time and I recognize that you have got to always stay on top of those things. And it is been great for the work that I do now and the life that I have and the dad that I am. I think I have just improved across so many different areas. And it is probably where I refer back to sport. I am like Damn I wish I used that sports psychologist a lot more and tapped into that. I did not even recognize the vulnerability for a split second throughout basically my entire career. And I feel like that was a bit of a disaster now. And actually probably would have set me up better for post-sport career as well.  Yeah. Well it seems like a lot of superpowers have on the other side of the coin super weaknesses almost by definition right? Because if you have a hyper focus on anything in life by definition you have to neglect other things. You cannot  you only have so much attention to slice and dice right? And if you are using compartmentalization as one of the tools for optimizing as a competitor which every competitor I have interviewed on this podcast seems to be very good at then there is sort of a price associated with that when it is applied more broadly speaking. Michael do you meet with therapists or professionals on a regular basis?  I am online all the time. I mean with everything with traveling as much as I do I spend a lot of time on Talkspace. I have worked with Talkspace for a few years now and honestly for as much time as we are on our smartphones it is just kind of a no brainer. But also besides that like to Hackey's point I will be the first one to admit I still compartmentalize a little bit but I will say I do not think I would make the podium anymore if I was competing in it. So I think I have definitely improved but my big thing is just I pile things up sometimes and I can agree with what Hackey said and what you were saying as well Tim. Like when we did that in our career I was almost selfish in a way where everything I was doing in my life was based around swimming. Every single decision I made. And now with a family it is not that way. My life is different. So I have to take a step back and almost reassess everything. And that is what I was saying. Really simplifying everything to the smallest form because that is what Grant and I did during our career. And honestly I was sitting here taking notes listening to what Grant does when he kind of feels himself spinning and I literally it was like Oh my gosh that is exactly what I had to do if I wanted to learn underwater dolphin kick or like I had to break it down to the simplest form. That is really what I have to do more and give myself a little bit more credit from time to time where I am as hard on myself as I am.  You are the toughest person on yourself that I know.  Oh it is brutal bro. Bro I am sitting here looking at like I mean I cannot even  some of these names that I have on my desk I am not going to repeat but I mean Hackey you know. Also to Hackey's point I love writing stuff down writing stuff down to see especially with dates because times for me are so important. So if I know I am going through a dark phase what was I writing? Why was I thinking these things? So like here I have felt alone or I have felt dark lately. So those are the things that I have written on my calendar. So if I sit down I see that and I am like Why was I feeling dark? I have so much to be happy for I have so much to be proud of. There is so many amazing things going on in this world with me with my life with everything. Why am I dark? Why am I afraid? Why do I feel worthless almost? I feel like writing stuff down really helps. That is why for listeners out there in particular if you guys find ways to simplify things because we live in an over in a crazy crazy moving  crazy fast-moving world where there is always things trying to get our attention. So if we can simplify things and focus on what is important to us I think it just it makes our life easier right? There is less stress to worry about.  Mm-hmm .  And you hear Hackey like Hackey communicating. Shit. I made the joke that I learned how to communicate at the age of 30. Yeah. It is  I mean I can laugh about it because I was really good at compartmentalizing but that is not good. That is why I talked so much about this quarantine and how much it forced us to become vulnerable in a way because there is so much unknown. So it is like if we want to give ourself a chance then we have to do something different. So if it is opening up and talking about something that is scary try it because I will say like all this stuff that I have talked about throughout that happened throughout my career. I mean should I carry that thing like all that stuff along for 10 years? So having that out and open one makes it so much easier to talk about but two there is so much less weight on my shoulders. I feel normal. Like talking about this stuff that I know there is so many other people that go through the same thing or in similar different ways. I do not know. I feel so much better like my shoulders drop and that is just something that I will always say and try to push.  Well there is a weight to secrets or keeping things inside or there can be. And it makes me also want to mention that there is a new documentary HBO documentary out called The Weight of Gold in which you are featured very heavily. Why be part of that? And I think we have probably mentioned a lot of the reasons why. And maybe a better question because that is kind of a lazy question and I should know better.  how does it feel having done that?  Incredible.  And maybe you could describe what it feels. Yeah please say more. And just for those who do not have any context The Weight of Gold is an HBO sports documentary. Very very well-shot exploring the mental health challenges that Olympic athletes often face. And just wanted to provide that since I did not explain it. But could you expand say more about   Sure sure sure.   what it felt like to do that.  Yeah. I mean as you have heard or as people have seen or read I struggled throughout my whole career. In 2016 where I was probably more aware of just life in general and everything that was going on more than I ever have in my life. At that point I saw that there were other athletes that were going through similar things like I was going through opening ceremonies and seeing athletes almost body language. I feel like that is something that I have learned to read really well throughout my life. But I started reading people but I also started hearing things that people were saying seeing things that people were posting or this or that. And I was like Oh like literally I said Oh shit this is a lot bigger than I thought. Because I always knew it was  mental health in general was something that was very big but I almost I felt like it smacked me in the face at the 2016 Olympics and with losing way too many of our family members in the Olympic world over the last five years I mean I literally I want to cry every time I think about it. So for me-  And by losing you mean to suicide?  Committing suicide yes. So for me to be able to do this documentary with the athletes that we had who were so vulnerable I honestly cannot thank them enough for opening up and being them being their authentic self and feeling I guess sharing some stories about what we experienced and what we go through. But as we stated earlier there is a massive stigma around mental health and this is something that a journey that I have started on and I am breaking the wall down as fast as I can. And the more that people stand up and talk about their stories and their struggles we are going to break it down piece by piece. And doing this documentary I feel it is an awesome first step. And just kind of overall look at some of the things that go through our heads and that we experience. We are not this statue. We are a human being and I think it was something. Yeah like I said I cannot say enough. I am super proud of. It just shows just yeah just  I was a kid in a candy store working on it. This is something. It is like my baby. I guess really since I opened up in 2014 about my struggles with depression and anxiety I really kind of took it by the horns so to say and this is my mission. I am going to do everything I can one to learn as much as I can about mental health but also try to help as many people as I can break this wall down. The suicide number is continuing to climb and it frustrates the hell out of me. I mean I read a story last night going to bed of two brothers that are on a show over in London. And honestly I just  my heart hurts because I feel some of the pain that they go through. And I mean I think the biggest thing I want people to know that there is help on the other side. I have been and I have seen a lot of really dark places throughout my life but I also know that I am not alone. So when I look at that word on my desk that I wrote down like I am not alone but that is part of my darkness. And I think just always always knowing that there is somebody out there that is what we all have to realize. No matter what we are going through somebody is there to hold your hand to give you a hug to  whatever it is that you need because we are not alone in life and honestly we cannot do anything in life by ourselves. It is really hard if you think about it and if we can include other people that love us and want to be around us then it makes life 10 times better. That was one thing that I had to learn the hard way with compartmentalizing throughout my career is I could not do it by myself. It was impossible. I could not handle the stress of the emotions and the feelings all that stuff that was building up inside of me while I am trying to perform at the absolute best. It is impossible. It is unhealthy. So I think that is the biggest thing. Really being able to do it and put it together. And I was honestly frustrated with how long I mean I am somebody that wants stuff done fast. So I never realized how long of a process of making a piece like that takes. And to be honest I am extremely thankful that it came out and we were able to launch it during e it is the single  that was the one thing that I was deathly afraid of when everything started happening was the impact on everyone's mental health that this was going to take. And we have seen suicide numbers increase. So I cannot stress enough how important it is to  you have something going on inside of you that is not normal say something to somebody write it down something. Do not hold onto it. I think life is definitely too damn short. And as I said earlier I want to slow down time as much as I can and be able to enjoy everything that life has to offer.  Totally. One way of slowing down time is sharing time with others and it strikes me that of course on one level I respect both of you tremendously as just icons of competition as champions of achievement. But what impresses me even more than that is the model of male friendship and brotherhood and mutual support that you guys have demonstrated certainly privately but also publicly. And I am just so happy to have both of you on this call because that seems so foundational to your success as not athletes necessarily although that could be part of it but as humans is having that deep bond and mutual support. And like you said Michael even if you are out there and feel alone which is very easy during 's easy all the time in modern industrialized cultures because we are very much compartmentalized physically and separated from a lot of interaction and cohabitation and so on. There are tools like Talkspace there are professionals who are available and just reaching out to someone can release so much pressure in the system and there are options. So I feel like The Weight of Gold as a doc coming out now is great timing during very bad times for millions of people. So I could not agree more. And Grant I realized I did not come back and ask you one of the questions that I would asked Michael which was related to books or resources that you have found helpful. My audience is always interested in books certainly any resources or tools but are there any books that come to mind for you that were either particularly helpful with respect to challenging times or books overall that you have recommended or gifted the most to other people?  I gave The Subtle Art to Michael. So that was one gift.  Which was that?  The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck.  Ah yes. Mark Manson.  Yeah that one. I just reread that probably a couple of months ago. That that book always just takes me back one or two steps and renews my perspective on situations because I am a hyper focused individual when I get onto goals and tasks and things that I want to deliver. Like I sometimes get the blinkers on in such an intense way that I can lose perspective on things around me. So I am really a lot more aware and conscious of that now. And I make sure I have got things like that. His follow up book was great. I really enjoyed that. I actually read that and bought it for a mutual friend of ours Tim Matt Targett over for his birthday last year in December. So I enjoy his reading. I read a lot of journals. I even read a lot of Harvard Business Review articles. There is one I like in particular and it is really funny. This will sound a little bit counterintuitive around mental health but it is about mental toughness and they have got the sort of mini books that you can read all the journals that they have had around that particular subject matter. And I love that because it resonates with me 100 percent. So I find I actually need to not just read things that give me renewed perspective but actually things that make me feel more like me. And that is one of the things that the psychologist that I have dealt with because we always talk about purpose and meaning and all this sort of stuff. And he had this really interesting thing that he said to me because people have this high expectation of you once you have achieved certain things in life and you have a greater expectation of yourself more than anybody else. And he just said to me he goes Just do more things that make you feel like you. That has always stuck with me because it is like Okay what do I value? What do I truly value? And it is funny that upon the basis of that saying or that statement I really got back to my own core values. And then I did things that sort of checked into those values. And it is funny because I always had people tell me Oh Grant just slow down just enjoy it just relax. Do not do not try and do everything to the top level every single time.  I hate when people say that shit. God it pisses me off so much.  I tried that and you know what I realized? That is not me. Like doing things mediocre is not me. I cannot stand that. And it was funny all the things that disconnected with my value set destabilized me. And so I focus on reading things reading journals doing things that connect more with me and those things like mental toughness reading about Navy SEALs reading about different training strategies that sort of stuff I really love. And I find that an escape from my personality. So that is quite a good thing. And then I love commerce and love business. So I read a lot of different business books and articles. So they are kind of the things that I just enjoy. So yeah it is always just reconnecting with purpose for me that actually slows my mind down. It gives me perspective. And then yeah the books that I just referred to certainly have helped me round out that view even more so.  Do you have any favorites since you mentioned it? I know this might seem off topic but it is not since this is about your lives and not just one facet. Any particular favorite business books? And I will just mention for folks also Harvard Business Review has a book which is HBR's 10 Must Reads on Mental Toughness and features Martin Seligman Tony Schwartz Warren Bennis and others. And that is 24 25. You can find that online and I will link to that in the show notes. Are there any business books that are real standouts for you?  Oh there is one I am reading at the moment that I am really enjoying which is Phil Knight Shoe Dog.  I have got to read this book. I have got to read it. It is been recommended to me a hundred times.  Yeah. So I am in the middle of that. I have got to say that is definitely one that springs to mind. That is definitely top of the list. Other ones that stand out I mean probably that one for now. The other ones that I enjoy reading I enjoy just general sort of leadership. So I read a lot of stuff that relates to that in business and knowing and understanding what the fundamentals are. I have probably got if I walked into my bedroom seven or eight books that I want to read that I have not at the moment. I always enjoy reading things around Warren Buffet. I have read a lot of books that relate to him just on his mindset and his approach towards things. Because the one thing that I have really found in high performance you do not actually have to read always on your specific subject matter because when it comes to business I always find I read articles mostly like strategy articles or growth initiatives or what was the change in Boeing and Airbus when Airbus said Okay we have got to do the A380. But if we get this wrong it is actually going to send us bankrupt. What was the inflection point where business became great? And I enjoy Jim Collins like his books Good to Great are really interesting just to learn about. I find any sort of success story is the same. It is just a daily grind of mundane things that you just have to keep getting right and improve by 0.1 of a percent and then do it again the next day then do it again the next day. And then eventually momentum and the flywheel as it is referred to in that book kind of clicks into place. And then all of a sudden many years later you have got this outstanding result that people think is an overnight success that took you 15 years to get there. So that is the way I find most things work. And so I love reading around the principles of high success high performance and success in any single field whether it is a Navy SEAL whether it is business whether it is sport whether it is in music. The school Juilliard or whatever it might be those principles are the same. And I am always trying to identify those because I got to be honest I love it. I am passionate about it. I am passionate about learning about it talking about it reading about it. So yeah they are probably always the things that I try and tap into. And again it comes back to that saying that I said before just do things that make you feel more like you. That is not everyone's cup of tea winning Olympic gold medals is not everybody's cup of tea because the sacrifice you have to make for that for most people is probably not often worth it. But for the two guys you have got on this call we will do anything to get those things and sort of have the same approach to everything else that I try and achieve or want to achieve.  I love that expression doing more things that make you feel like you. I have never heard anything or I never heard the message worded quite that way but it is very succinct and very deep if you spend some time on it. Thank you for sharing that. Michael are there any other books or resources that you would like to mention just to give you another dip at the well?  I was sitting here looking at my like the little bookshelf that we have behind  just scattered in here but I was sitting there looking at these books and there is two of them that popped into my head that one I have gone back to. So for time to slow things down I tried to mix in more of a daily reading. So Mark Nepo has a good one The Book of Awakening and then The Daily Stoic. I mean I feel like some of those things you can really just almost take a step back right. Take a deep breath let it  like read a quote read a single page whatever it is let it marinate. And just for me it is just something that is so easy to do but something that is so awesome to do to start your day. I just feel like it just gives you some kind of purpose of what you are doing and when life is too fast again it gives you that second to take that step back.  Yeah. Daily Stoic and Ego Is the Enemy. You have got a whole lot of Ryan Holiday on your bookshelf.  Honestly it is funny because I just got The Daily Stoic from my coach or my old coach sorry Bob Bowman. And I have gotten a few of the other books as I was saying earlier from  you know Seth Hackey right?  Yeah yeah yeah.  Yeah so he is one of my favorite human beings on this planet to have a communication or conversation with excuse me. Some of the books that he is given me really have I feel like he has a really good understanding about me as a person and how I work and he is a very very smart human being. So I feel like some of the things that he is given me to read are again back to my point just simple ways for me to understand something that I might be too hard on myself with or I might be too hyper focused on one thing. So almost giving me that bigger picture. Trying to be that lake instead of being that glass of water. So yeah I think a lot of the books that I have that I will rifle through time and time again I think it is been super helpful just to  yeah I mean I think more than anything just give me a chance. I feel for me a lot of my life was focused on swimming and that really was it. Like Hackey knows being an Olympian your life is focused on one thing. Nothing else matters in life but that. I am honestly really learning how to live on dry land so to say. I kind of made the joke throughout last few years I feel like I have taken more strokes in the swimming pool than I have taken steps on land. So it makes it challenging when you have a freight train trying to come down in the middle of the street with no tracks on it. So It is been difficult at times slowing me down. But I feel like some of those simple kind of different approaches to looking at things for me have benefited so much just because I cannot expect to fill up everybody's cups if my cup is not filled up right. I have three boys and an amazing wife and a household here that I am in charge of my roles right. So if I am not taking care of myself and filling my glass up by taking the time that I need for me I have no shot in being able to be a good husband a good friend a good dad. So I just want to have a chance. And I feel like that is what I did my career my preparation it was the process. It was the whole process of it all that I learned but the preparation was so key. So yeah just trying to slow things down. I do not know. I do not know if that makes sense but yeah it is something that   It does.  Yeah. It is been enjoyable but as you can imagine something that is been extremely challenging at times. As you hear Grant and I talk about we want to go fast and we want to get to point A to point B as fast as we can the fastest way but also the most effective way. So how can we do it for you know what I mean? .  Totally. Sometimes you want to be the lake and other times you want to take a jet ski at a hundred miles an hour across the lake. And some days it is hard to decide which one you want to do.  Right.  Oh man. Well this has been such a fun conversation for me. And I just have one more question and it is sometimes a difficult question. So if it does not work it does not work but I will give it a shot. And that is actually before I get there I have to say I have also found stoicism very very helpful. And It is such a small world because I actually published the audiobook versions of both Ego Is the Enemy and The Daily Stoic believe it or not.  I have listened to your voice a lot. I have heard it a lot. I think you have done some stuff with Trevor Moawad as well I believe?  I may have. Yeah.  I might be wrong! Sorry.  It is just such a small world. So let me ask a question that sometimes does not work because it is sometimes a hard question. I will ask it of both of you. And the question is this if you could put anything on a billboard this is metaphorically speaking. It could be an image a quote a question a word anything non-commercial on a billboard to get something in front of billions of people what would it be? And if either of you want to take a stab at it feel free to jump.  You can go if you want Hackey. If you want to go go ahead.  Yeah something popped in my head but you go first bud.  I mean I would just say it is okay to not be okay. I think that is something that for me even in my darkest scariest moments that is the one thing that Nicole always says to me and she will throw her arms around me or ask if she can give me a hug sometimes if I am just  if I really want to be alone that is the one thing she will ask me because sometimes I just need that moment by myself. She will ask to give me a hug. My wife will ask me to give me a hug. So we have just been able to I mean again I cannot say it enough grow so much. So I would say again to everybody out there it is okay to not be okay and you are not alone. Those two things I think can just go together. Just I mean with everything we have talked about on this call it is just that in a difficult time it is something to just simplify it take a step back take a breath and relax.  Those are great. Those are great. Grant any thoughts?  Yeah. The first thing that popped into my head and I often think that is always the right and best answer was if you want to put something in a billboard just be you. Be you.  Be you.  Two words very simple because the more you do the things that make you feel like yourself or it brings out your personality. It brings out who you are makes you feel good about yourself and you do not have to be something that is false or superficial or create an image for anybody else or anything else. And I think once you get back to that simplification and to Michael's point I think often you feel best about yourself often you find the things that you enjoy doing more often often enough you are living a life that just makes you feel good about yourself and connect better with the people around you. So I think just be you and feel comfortable in that.  Excellent.  Good man. Honestly just hearing you say that through the last hour that you have mentioned it to me it is brought up so many things that would help me just simplify life. And it just totally makes sense. There are times  I can say I played golf with or I have had the chance to play golf with a lot of professional golfers and I recently got to play with I got to know John Ram a little bit. So the first time playing with him I am like shit I want to try to play as good as I can. I want to be on my A game yada yada yada. And I am like well that is not me because I do not have the time and the preparation to perform how I expect to perform. So I cannot expect to be somebody else. I have to be me. And I think that is something that I struggled a lot with and at times still do that where I feel like sometimes I am just a swimmer and because I feel like that is what the story has been right? Every single headline was about swimming swimming swimming and finally now that is why I have really I am so happy with everything we are doing with mental health but that is one thing that I really just saw myself as not a human being. So I want to say thank you because that quote right there Just be you I think can simplify a thousand things for me. and I mean I do not know how I have never heard anyone say that but thanks. I appreciate you bringing that up today.  It just popped into my head. I just went with it.  Well this has been really fun to have both of you on and for everybody listening we will link to everything in the show notes as usual at tim.blogpodcast so you will not miss anything. The documentary that was mentioned is The Weight of Gold. That is an HBO documentary. Grant people can find you on Instagram granthackett H-A-C-K-E-T-T. Two underscores and then Michael people can find you on Twitter michaelphelps Facebook Michael Phelps Instagram mphelps00. Is there anything else that you gentlemen would like to mention? Anything else that you would like to add as a closing comment or anything at all?  Oh I have got to say I just I am so proud of Michael as a friend. He knows I love him like a brother. But people have seen him as a product right because he got so successful and so amazing and achieved things that no one else ever has in the history of sport. But to hear how open and honest and transparent and forthright he is around mental health because I know he wants to help other people to me is just an outstanding characteristic. And you could never under underestimate that strength but Michael always has that strength to do that sort of stuff. So yeah man it was awesome to hear today. It was emotional for me sitting on the other side because I have been there. I have been right there with you sitting in the closet talking.  Launching my phone right? You shattered that thing!  I think yeah no that is just been awesome. And I have really enjoyed that today and look I am sure that that will help a lot of people. And I know that is exactly what you like to do.  Honestly likewise bro. I mean we have both been through our fair share of ups and downs publicly and privately and as you know my circle is super tight and I love you like a brother and honestly it is awesome to see the journey that you have been on and honestly just welcoming a new baby. Jeez it is so cool. It is so special. Awesome to watch. I miss you like hell. As selfish as it is I wish you lived next door. We need our compound.  We will still do that.  Tim honestly it is been great. For me even though with the relationship and as close as I am with Hackey I have been able to learn even more about him today and I am excited that somebody finally put this together the two of us to be able to just chat for two hours. Honestly it was a treat and we have listened to a lot of you over the years. I look forward to listening to a lot more. If it is okay I would love to grab your email from the team and stay in touch. And honestly if you have any books or anything I truly add something that as I said I think I think I have read more books in the last five years or listened to more books in the last five years than I have in the previous 30. So I think it is funny how life works and how open I am or how much more open I am now and that wall is down a little bit more. So yeah anything that I am always eager to learn and it is just been a fun process. I cannot thank you enough for having us on today. This was a true treat.  Yeah. A total blast for me an experiment certainly especially scattered across the world as we are. And it worked out. I am so happy that we were able to come together and thanks for the kind words. Also the book that I would recommend more than any others not one of mine it is actually a book called Awareness by Anthony De Mello. It is a short book D-E-M-E-L-L-O. Anthony De Mello. And I will definitely I will share my email and cell with both of you guys and you can feel free to reach out anytime certainly. And hopefully we will meet in person sometime and it has been such a treat. So thank you both very much and I wish you both a wonderful weekend.  You too. Thank you so much for having us Tim.   