 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of The Tim Ferriss Show. I am so excited to have my guest today. His name is Rich Roll and I am going to start in an unorthodox way and that is by reading a tweet. I do not really do this. I do not know if I have ever done this but this is a tweet from October 2018 and I think Rich is probably going to see where this is going. Just before his 52nd birthday. Here's the tweet. I did not reach my athletic peak until I was 43. I did not write my first book until I was 44. I did not start my podcast until I was 45. At 30 I thought my life was over. At 52 I know it is just beginning. Keep running. Never give up. And watch your kite soar. And then there is actually another tweet within context. So I have retweeted this for people who want to see it. They can also find it of course at Rich Roll R-O-L-L. I want to mention one more thing before we get to more of the bio and that is related to your first half Ironman. So this is in Outside Magazine and here's the quote. In my first half-Ironman I barfed during the swim. By the time I got off my bike my legs were so cramped up that I ran 100 meters and just stopped. It was a DNF. That means he did not finish. My beginnings in triathlon were very humble  but I loved it. All right so I am going to give this in drips and drabs but let us start with paragraph one. So now zooming out to present day for a little bit of retrospective. At age 40 Rich Roll as I mentioned richroll on Twitter made the decision to overhaul the sedentary throws of overweight middle age. And I might I may or may not be in that place just right now. Walking away from a career in law he reinvented himself as a globally recognized ultra distance endurance athlete bestselling author and host of the wildly popular Rich Roll Podcast which I highly recommend one of the world's most listened-to podcasts with more than 200 million downloads. And I am going to modify the next paragraph a little bit. Rich has been named one of the 25 fittest men in the world by Men's Fitness and the guru of reinvention by Outside Magazine. He is written a best selling memoir Finding Ultra and has co-authored the cookbookslifestyle guides The Plant Power Way and The Plant Power Way Italia with his wife Julie  is it Piatt?  Piatt.  Dammit. I knew I had a 5050 chance there.  It is a common common thing. Not alone.  This is showing where and how the sausage is made because a professional would have asked and in fact I highlighted her last name to ask you before we started recording.  Do not worry.  And just to get a few things mentioned and we will mention them again at the very end richroll.com you can find all things Rich related Rich Roll on all social including Twitter Instagram YouTube except for Facebook which is Rich Roll Fans. Rich welcome to the show.  Thanks so much for having me Tim. It is really an honor to be able to join you for this and I am really looking forward to the conversation to come. So thanks for having me.  Yeah absolutely. Me too. And for those of you who cannot see video at some point maybe you should check it out because we have the perfect yin-yang color template here. You have a rather disheveled Tim Ferriss in tan with white background and Rich looking like a handsome devil with black clothing black background. It is actually very striking. I should request that guests do this in the future. It will help viewers to keep them separate. So let us really dive in here and I want to establish just a bit of background for folks and we are going to go all over the place. So at age 40 right? So you make the decision to overhaul dot dot dot. But let us get granular and maybe we could focus on one piece of this life puzzle which is alcohol. And could you speak to the role that alcohol has played in your life? When it entered your life? When you really realized that you had a problem? Let us begin there if you are open to it.  It entered my life near the end of high school and the beginning of college. Prior to that I was a very studious highly motivated person who was very goal driven. And that grew out of I think in retrospect looking back on my life on a deep insecurity that I had because as a young person I was very much an introvert I had a lot of difficulty connecting with other people and making friends I certainly had not demonstrated any kind of athletic talent or ability. I was the prototypical kid who gets picked last for kickball and was very awkward and self conscious. And at some point along the way I discovered the sport of swimming and we could talk about that if you like but that was the one thing where I kind of felt comfortable and showed some level of acumen at an early stage. And when you are a young person and you experience just a little bit of encouragement or success you are going to kind of double down on that. And that is what I did. And I think there was something about being underwater in almost a metaphysical sense or a psychological sense where I felt protected. It was almost this womb where I was insulated from all of the confusing emotions that I had as a young person. And so swimming really became my focus and I realized early that I was not the most talented kid but I had this capacity to suffer and to work hard and a willingness to go the extra mile. And with that sensibility I was able to bridge the talent deficit gap to some extent to the point where by the time I was a senior in high school I was one of the better swimmers in the Washington DC area where I grew up and the discipline that I learned in the swimming pool trickled into my academic pursuit. So I was able to go from a kid who really had trouble learning and was sort of a sit in the back of the class kind of guy to being a good student and ultimately getting into a bunch of fancy colleges. So at 18 I really was in a situation a very privileged situation where the world was very much my oyster and anything was possible. But I ended up going to Stanford University. I went to the opposite coast and I am sure there is some psychological reasons why I flew 3000 miles away to go to college. And the reason to go there was two-fold. I mean first of all Stanford is Stanford and it is this amazing academic institution. But at the time in the mid- and late 1980s it also had the number one NC2A division one men's swimming program. They were like the most incredible the most insane assemblage of Olympic champions and world and American record holders and the like. And the opportunity to be a member of that team was like a dream that I could not even imagine for myself. So here I am in this incredibly privileged situation where anything truly is by possible but enter alcohol. And alcohol was something that I first was introduced to when I was doing recruiting trips and traveling to colleges which is what you do when you are an athlete and trying to consider where to go to school and I had some experiences there that kind of really anchored in me from a moment one that this was going to be a thing for me. I had that sensation that you hear about with recovering alcoholics where from the very first drink it was like this warm blanket that I could wrap myself in and all my troubles and insecurities and fears and insecurities just sort of vanished and for the first time I felt comfortable in my own skin. And I just remember thinking this is the way that I want to feel all the time. I could go to a party and I could strike up a conversation or crack a joke or talk to a girl which were all things that were terrifying to me at the time. And so I just felt like I had found this solution that I had been looking for my whole life. This young person who felt like everybody else had a perfect roadmap for how to live and suddenly those answers that eluded me were being provided in the form of this substance. And so when I got to Stanford very quickly well quickly and gradually but I would say that I got more and more progressively more interested in like where is my next good time then how am I going to create a foundation for a happy successful life? And a lot of those aspirations that I had about athletics and academic excellence soon became secondary to where is the party tonight? And it was just a situation where over an extended period of time my life began to degrade. So it was not a situation in which I created cataclysm out of the gate that derailed me because I could function and it is easier to do that when you are younger but I could function. I could comport myself in a way where I could still get good grades show up for class still go out partying until two or three in the morning 00 a.m. swim practice. But over time this is not a good recipe for living. And I lived that way for a very long time until ultimately things got really dark and scary and I hit that bottom that you hear about with people in recovery.  What did any of the bottoms or dark moments look like? If we could paint a picture of any example that comes to mind.  Yeah. I mean first of all I would say that there was nothing like cool or rock and roll about any of it. It is just lonely sad and kind of pathetic and deeply embarrassing. I would drive drunk and would not remember where I parked my car and would have to wake up the next morning and try to figure out where my car was when I was living in San Francisco when I was fresh out of law school. One time I woke up one day did not want to go to my law firm job and flew to Las Vegas and lost my wallet and woke up not remembering anything that had happened and trying to figure out how I am going to get home. Stuff like that. I was the guy who was the last to leave the party. And when you are in college maybe it is cute but when you are 25 26 28 nobody's living that way anymore. And you have to find other people to do that with. So you are surrounding yourself with what they call lower companions in the parlance of recovery until ultimately there is no one left and you are just alone. And I was a guy who would drink alone in my apartment or wake up in the morning before work and have a vodka tonic in the shower. It was all very Leaving Las Vegas and I was only 31 at the time but my disease had progressed to such a state where there was really only a couple things that were going to happen. Either I was going to kill myself kill another person or end up in jail or some kind of institution. And that is really kind of what ultimately led me to getting sober.  And when you say kill yourself do you mean via alcohol poisoning or a car accident or via some deliberate suicide? What do you mean by that?  I was never suicidal. I did not have suicidal ideation but my life was getting smaller and smaller and more lonely. So if I was able to kind of maintain that lifestyle over an extended period of time I am certain that I would have reached a level of desperation where that would have seemed like a good idea.  Why did you choose law? Why did you choose to pursue law?  It is a very good question. Right out of college I moved to New York City and got a job as a paralegal in a big law firm in New York called Skadden Arps.  That is a huge one yeah.  And that was a situation that should have told me immediately that maybe this was not the right path for me but I think that I chose it not out of some kind of deliberate idea that it would be something I would be interested in or show some proficiency in but more as a reaction to social and familial pressure. This idea of not really knowing what I wanted to do but Hey I can always go to law school and society will smile upon that. And I can put a nice suit on and have nice lunches and have interesting conversations with people and make a good living. I mean my self-inquiry really did not go any further than that. And there was nothing about my interests that would have indicated that law was a good path for me but I was so disconnected from myself that even asking myself that question at the time was anathema to who I was. But I am a good student and I actually enjoyed law school. I enjoyed the intellectual pursuits and all of that but the practice of law is very different at least in the corporate law firm context very different than the law school experience.  Yes. Very. Knowing many people who went to law school I can through secondhand stories say that that seems to universally be the perspective that people end up with.  If you love it if that is your thing then more power to you. But I just remember walking the halls of the various law firms that I worked at being confused that there seemed to be certain people that enjoyed it because I was just gritting my way through it thinking I will just apply these tools that I learned in the swimming pool about suffering and pain tolerance. And I just thought everybody was having that internal experience. I am sure many were but there seems to be some people that that seemed to enjoy it but I just know that the more that I kind of looked around certainly with respect to the partners that it was clear to me that I did not really want that life and yet I felt very stuck in that career path and unsure about how I could ever get out of it and do anything else.  So we are going to spend just for people listening and also for you Rich so you do not think that we are going to spend too much time in these waters. We are going to spend a lot of time talking about turn-arounds techniques pattern matching all sorts of things. But I do want to spend a little bit more time on this chapter or maybe the chapter shortly after this point in time. What was the straw or what were the straws that broke the camel's back with respect to alcohol and seeking help?  Mm-hmm . Well there were a couple important inflection points. One of which was getting two DUIs essentially in a row with ridiculously high blood alcohol contents looking at jail time my boss finding out at the law firm and being on the precipice of getting fired. That is a whole rabbit hole sort of chaotic disaster that I weathered. Another was a marriage or I should say a wedding that went awry. Yeah I got married and that relationship ended on the honeymoon which is a whole crazy story that is inextricably linked to I mean I was sober at the time but it is very much linked to my alcoholism. So there is big events that but I think those situations created such a deep level of shame inside of me that I was not able to shake alcohol in the wake of those experiences because I did not have the emotional tools to process them. So I continued to drink for a while. I mean the wedding was really the nadir of the whole thing and a reasonable person would have woken up and gotten sober at that time but I needed to medicate myself through that emotional shit storm until one day I basically woke up and I was hung over but it was not like I reaped any kind of chaos the night before but it is just that moment of realizing like I have had enough I cannot live this way anymore. It is just so lonely and desperate and it only leads in one direction. And I think that is what it takes. For anybody who has experience with addiction particularly substance addiction you have this sense like you asked me earlier on Tim when did I know I had a problem? I knew I had a problem very early on in my drinking career but that is very different from the willingness to do anything about it. I harbored this notion that this was a problem for me but you are also protecting it because you want to be able to keep doing it. And that is what leads to this sort of double life where you are hiding your behavior from other people and diluting yourself into thinking that they do not know what is going on. But ultimately you realize everybody knows what is going on and on some level it is a process of like stripping away those layers of denial until you can really face the objective truth of what you are doing. And that is a very terrifying thing. And so that is kind of what was going on inside of me until this day in 1998 where I was like Okay I have had it. I am ready to really take this seriously and do something about it.  How old were you roughly then? My math is going to fail me at this moment. But 1998?  Yeah. I was 31.  31. All right. And because it struck me as a curveball if you do not want to get into it that is totally fine. But in my mind I envisioned this honeymoon just going down as a fireball due to some catastrophe that was alcohol-induced but you said you were sober.  Yeah.  Are you willing to expand on that at all? And if not that is fine.  Yeah no. It is so hard to describe this and have it make sense. But essentially what happened was I had been drinking quite a bit I got engaged to this woman. I was living in San Francisco at the time she was living in Palo Alto and is from Palo Alto. But in the kind of lead up to this wedding because we had gotten engaged I had taken a job in Los Angeles so we were living in separate cities. And I think during that interim period when she got distance between me she realized maybe this is not the guy I want to marry and I had come clean with her about the DUIs and I think that was very scary to her. So even though I had been sober for a number of months and told her that I was committed to this path of sobriety I think in her heart of hearts she really wanted to get out of this relationship but she was unable to muster the strength to break it off herself and I think that she wanted me to break it off. And so there was so much energy behind this impending wedding that was happening that it just kind of transpired without anybody hitting the brakes and I was trying to be conciliatory and say because I knew she was off and not present and something was wrong. And I would say Are you okay? What is going on? How can I make you feel comfortable with all of this? And it is a much longer story I go into detail about it in my book. But essentially she permitted the wedding to go through but then did not want to sign the marriage certificate. That is a red flag right?  Cause for pause.  Yeah. And the night of the wedding when we went back to the honeymoon suite that did not go well. I am surprised that we even went on the honeymoon but I think in my mind I was thinking I am going to try to make this right. And it is all going to work out. That was its own level of delusion. And while we were on this honeymoon on a Caribbean island it was clear that this relationship had no future. And ultimately we were able to have a conversation about it and she ended up leaving early. And at that moment I was left with myself with no tools and having been sober for six months but unable to really process the emotional devastation of just basically had everybody that I cared about in the world with like 12 groomsmen in this wedding in Palo Alto bear witness to a marriage that clearly was not going to work out. And it was really devastating to me. So I ended up getting drunk on that island and really struggled to get sober again for quite some time after that.  And then so thank you for sharing that. 1998. 31. I have had enough. How do you seek help? Or what are your next actions after that?  Yeah. So prior to that I had been court-ordered to Alcoholics Anonymous. So I had been to meetings but I was not doing it because I wanted to get sober. I was doing it because I was compelled to do it and I think that is an important distinction especially for people who are struggling or have people in their lives that are struggling with a substance issue. You want to help them you want to intervene and you can create interventions and things like that to get people into treatment but ultimately if that person is resistant to it or is not interested in getting sober that is going to be a very tough hill to climb. So willingness is crucial. So when I was attending those AA meetings I lacked that level of willingness. It was more like I just need to get people off my back so I can go back to living the way that I want to live. And why is everybody bugging me? But in the wake of that wedding experience when my drinking got more and more dire my parents had reached the level of their tolerance threshold with me and basically my dad said Listen we love you but we just cannot continue to watch you destroy yourself like this and we cannot have anything to do with you. But if you are ready to get sober we are of course here for you. But until then we are not available to you. However because they were so terrified of all of this they had found an addiction medicine psychiatrist in Los Angeles and they said We have this guy. It might be great if you go and see him. So I started seeing this addiction medicine specialist and he just rang my bell immediately and was like Here's the deal dude you are an alcoholic and you need to go to treatment. Until you do that nothing's going to change and your life's going to continue to be terrible. And I would try to negotiate with him and say Well I think I can do it in AA. So I was kind of in and out of AA doing my own self experimentation with trying to get sober but every time I would crawl back into his office and I was honest with him and I said Yeah I relapsed again. or This happened. But at some point I made a deal with him because he was like Are you ready to go to treatment? I was like Let me try one more time. And he said Okay. And to his credit I think that is a really interesting approach. You have to back off a little bit and allow people to have their process. It is like Inception. They have to come into this awareness on own. You cannot compel somebody to see themselves as they really are. And of course I relapsed crawled back into his office and because I considered myself such a man of my word I said Well I made a deal with you. So okay. Now I will go to treatment. And I called him after this one bender and I said I am ready. And he got a bed for me and I immediately go online and I am researching treatment centers and I am looking for the spa resort one that has really nice accommodations. He is like No no no. Here's where you are going. This place in Oregon. I got a bed for you. Get on the plane today. And that is basically how it began.  What do you think people tend to miss about this story? Whether they hear you telling this story or they read about it are there things that are important that people gloss over or that elements of this story whether we have heard them today or not that stand out to you as particularly important sort of on the road to recovery initiating recovery? I think about this type of question a lot what do people tend to glom onto as the really important parts? What do they tend to maybe neglect to their detriment if they are aiming for recovery themselves? Does anything come to mind when I say all that?  And you are talking more broadly about addiction in general not my personal story?  I think I am talking about I am weaving into it through your personal story so it could be your personal story but it could also be addiction in a broader sense because part of what is so interesting to me about you and your story is you have not only had the experiences that you have had but you have no doubt witnessed many people try to emulate the turn-arounds of various types. And you have seen some people succeed spectacularly you have seen some people fail spectacularly and then there is a whole spectrum in between right? So that I think is extremely interesting and potentially instructive. Right? So you could answer this in any way you like. It could be from your personal story it could be from what you have seen or learned more broadly speaking about addiction and recovery.  Yeah. I think there is a lot that I can say about this. I mean first with respect to my personal story if you Google my name there is a lot of misguided narratives out there that me adopting a vegan diet is what got me sober or that ultra endurance training is what got me sober or keeps me sober and those are all wildly inaccurate. I mean I was sober for almost 10 years before I made these lifestyle shifts. I had a whole chapter in between where I created a foundation of sobriety so sobriety and addiction stand outside of those things and those other things have a role in my life but addiction and recovery are a very separate thing. And that is the way that I kind of think about it. And I think in terms of addiction and recovery more broadly I think it is important for people to understand that for somebody who is addicted and who is behaving poorly or all of the stuff that addicts do it is not a referendum on moral character it is they are suffering from an illness that wants to kill them. And when they get sober we think of drugs and alcohol or gambling or whatever behavioral addiction that someone might have as the problem that has been eradicated. But in truth the behavior or the substance is the solution to the problem. There is a level of psychic pain within a human being and they search out a substance or a behavior that gives them some level of solace. The substance or the behavior is the solution to the problem because it allows them to feel okay so that they can function in the world and it works for a while. If it did not work people would not do it but what they miss is that it is solving a problem for them. Of course it progresses and then things go sideways and it is no longer the solution but that is how it begins. And when you have removed those behaviors and substances from those people they do not know what to do with themselves. They are like a live emotional wire without any kind of tools for addressing the underlying problem that has fueled the addictive behavior for so long. And the process of recovery is really about providing tools some tactical some strategic some practical and some very ephemeral spiritual that can be guideposts in helping people create new neural pathways and emotional relationships with how they engage with the world. And that is a very slow non-linear process and that is why so many addicts and alcoholics have a lot of relapses in their story. And relapses are always treated as failures but ultimately they are learning experiences because you are trying to reorganize your entire life in accordance with new ways of living that are very foreign to somebody who has been engaging in a behavior or addicted to a substance for so long. So there is a saying in recovery your emotional development gets stunted from the moment that you begin to use and when you have removed the substance you are left with that young person at that stage of life and you have to treat that person with that in mind because they lack the tools that other people normal people take for granted. And I think the more that we kind of understand this it allows us to have a little bit more compassion for the people that suffer and a way to kind of hold them in our hearts and a little bit more lightly when they slip up and do the thing. Because for people that do not have direct experience with this it defies logic. How could you do that? After everything that is happened you went and did that thing again. It is so difficult to understand. So I think to the extent that we can peel back the layers of the onion and really understand what is fueling that behavior to begin with allows us to kind of be more compassionate to those people.  That is really well put. And it brings to mind for me something that a doctor named Gabor Mat said in a conversation I had with him which was I am paraphrasing here but he said Do not ask why the addiction ask why the pain. Right?  what is the addiction being used for? And makes me imagine and I am going to take a leap here but I will go in this direction. I imagine that a lot of the questions you get about addiction are how did you stop? Right? How did you stop? How did you stop? How did you quit? How did you negate subtract something? But if that subtraction leaves a void of sorts or it leaves an unaddressed need or unhealed wound. Few questions related to that if that resonates with you what was it that you ended up needing to address and what were some of the tool rules or resources or realizations that you found particularly helpful for that sort of additive piece?  First on the subject of Gabor I had him on my podcast and he flips the table on you and suddenly it becomes a therapy session which is amazing.  Yeah yeah.  That is exactly what you want right? And he was very helpful to me in addressing that underlying trauma piece and my resistance to really go there because I love my parents and I do not want to blame them. And he was helpful in helping me understand and this idea that it is not their fault. They are good people. They parented you with the tools that they had but that does not mean that you did not  just because you were not homeless and impoverished or abused in any particular way it does not mean that you did not suffer some kind of trauma that ultimately is related to the behavior that you pursued later in life. And I think to your other point of tools certainly. Yeah. I mean I was not able to stay sober when I was a tourist in Alcoholics Anonymous because I was sitting in the back just waiting to get my court card checked. That is very different from engaging with the true process of recovery. And I am a 12-step guy and the whole Alcoholics Anonymous thing is shrouded in anonymity for a reason. So I do not want to get too specific about that other than to say that the steps are the steps for a reason. And it really is this incredible roadmap for unpacking a lot of that underlying pain and providing you with tools to redress it in a meaningful practical way that alleviate that burden and that shame and allow you to mature into somebody who can look somebody in the eye and show up when you say you are going to show up et cetera. And a big piece in that is  well there is lots of pieces. But one of the crucial pieces is doing an inventory which is the fourth step where you literally go through your life and you itemize out all of your resentments towards people institutions et cetera so that you do your resentment inventory. You do a fear inventory where you itemize everything that you are scared of. And you do a sexual inventory where you hold yourself accountable for how your sexual energy has created havoc in your relationships. And I think the more comprehensive that inventory the more clear the picture is of how you have conducted your life. And from that themes emerge where you see these recurrences of oh when I am in this situation I always behave this way or this type of person always makes me feel resentful. And you can kind of go behind that and you get a better understanding of your fundamental blueprint which is revelatory frankly. But that inventory is only helpful to the extent that it then allows you to itemize all of the people to whom you owe amends because you are carrying around with that shame this psychic burden of knowing that you have wronged people or screwed up situations or created chaos in other people's lives. And reckoning with that and then addressing it by going to these people and figuring out how to make those wrongs right is a huge relief that is like a pressure valve release on a lot of that shame. And the more that you engage in this process you kind of emerge from it where you can make peace with your past and it no longer holds all of that power over you. And you can talk about it freely without it creating all of those challenging emotions that are so inextricably related to the errant behavior itself. So that is a huge piece and that is something that I continue to practice all the time. It is something that you return to constantly including the 10th step which is basically do it like a daily 10-step where you do a daily inventory of how you have conducted yourself where you might have gone wrong if you have to make any kind of minor amends or in your life. And then on top of that meditation is a step in the 12 steps. So daily meditation is super important as well. And there is a lot more in there but I would say those are kind of the fundamental tools.  I am so endlessly fascinated by 12-step programs and I guess multi-step programs. AA specifically the story of Bill Wilson. I find all of it just incredible. Also the sort of decentralized nature of AA itself. Are you aware and I will be honest that I did just a very cursory search. I did not do a really dedicated search but are you aware of any good books or documentaries that dig into the history the tools of AA? Are you aware of anything that comes to mind or is that something you?  I am sure. I am sure. Yeah. I am sure there are those things that exist. I do not know any offhand. I know there was that movie that James Woods did a while back where he played Bill Wilson. But I do not know that I would recommend that one. I am sure there are. And there is plenty of kind of ancillary books around recovery. There is a book called A New Pair of Glasses that it is sort of practical applications of the 12-steps for people that are suffering. I do not know that there is the definitive history of Alcoholics Anonymous or the definitive documentary. But I think your point on decentralization is so fascinating. It was blockchain before blockchain you know?  Yeah.  The way that it is structured is truly remarkable that these guys like Bill Wilson and Dr. Bob knew that they had to decentralize it in order to immunize it from any kind of external corruption or power dynamic that could capsize the whole thing. And the fact that it has not only sustained itself but grown over the many many years that it is been around is truly miraculous. And I think a case study   It is bonkers. Yeah.  Yeah.  It is amazing. It is really incredible. And you were saying sorry to interrupt.  No it is all right.  It is just   Yeah. I mean I just think it is a case study for how to structure an organization that is trying to do something good and not fall prey to the lowest common denominator of human power dynamics that tend to fell even the best-intentioned people who are trying to create something good. And it is interesting that it has not been replicated to my knowledge in any other scenarios because I think there is so much to be learned about how it was formed and how it is continued to not only survive but thrive.  That is the primary reason I ask is that it just seems like this very obvious jewel in plain sight if that makes sense.  Mm-hmm .  And maybe it is the decentralized nature that makes it invisible to a lot of potentially direct study. I do not know the reasons for it but it is just knowing a lot of people who are part or have been part of AA and just being introduced through casual conversation to some of the facets of how it works. I am a really really fascinated by it. And also for people listening who are thinking to themselves God we are spending a lot of time talking about addiction and recovery. What does this have to do with me? I would just take a moment and say when people ask me What do you do? I always kind of flub and do not really know how to answer it. But I view myself I guess first and foremost as a student not necessarily expert but student of behavioral change. And if you look at alcoholism if you look at other types of substance useabuse if you look at workaholism if you look at eating disorders. I mean certainly now being over the last several years involved in a lot of scientific study related to different conditions nicotine addiction. I do not want to say this too glibly but they are very overlapping right? And so studying behavioral change in the context of something like addiction to alcohol I think transcends that and applies to many things in the same way that the training and discipline and pain tolerance that you cultivated through swimming then was applicable to your studying right?  Mm-hmm .  So let us talk about the physical turnaround because as you mentioned people tend to   If I could just interrupt you. Can I just interrupt you?  Please.  Sorry to do that. But I think there is one kind of final important point that I wanted to make about addiction. I think you are correct. A lot of people might be listening and saying Well I am not an alcoholic or a drug addict. And I do not know anyone in my life that is either how is this relevant? But as somebody who is been kind of steeped in this world for many many years. And like yourself I have had many guests on my podcast to discuss this subject matter. I have become increasingly more and more convinced that we are both very cavalier in how we define addiction. I am a chocaholic or I am a shopaholic. So we kind of it is a throwaway phrase. But at the same time we are also very rigid in how we define it in that addiction is like heroin addiction or opioid addiction and alcoholism right? But I think I am becoming convinced that addiction lives on this incredibly broad spectrum. And it is a spectrum so broad that almost anybody can find themselves somewhere along the line. So on the one hand you have the guy who cannot pull the needle out of his arm. But on the very far other side of the spectrum you have people who find themselves repeating the same tired self-defeating narrative about their life and cannot get outside of themselves to see an objective truth about themselves. Or the person who is repeatedly in the same bad relationship time and time again. Or the person who is addicted to whatever it is video games or social media scrolling. I mean the social dilemma has really foisted this conversation onto mainstream audiences in a way that I think is allowing us to really think about addiction more broadly because of the devices that we all have in our pockets. And so with that I think it is helpful to people to understand that there are tools available to help you decouple from whatever that thing is that is holding you hostage or creating that obsessive compulsive behavior that you cannot seem to transcend despite your best efforts. And the 12 steps yes. They are crucial and instrumental in helping people get off drugs and alcohol but they are very helpful to anybody. Just to be able to do an inventory of your life and to see yourself more objectively and to understand that you can redress these shameful incidents in your life because we all have them on some level I think is really profound. And to the extent that we are talking about addiction in this broader context right now I think is super helpful because this is an era in which more people have been become addicted than ever before with substances and behaviors. And so to have a conversation about this I think is super important.  Yeah. I am really happy we are doing this. And also the broad applicability of concepts from the 12-step programs or AA in this case. For instance I would never heard this term  lower companions.  Yeah.  I mean it is just such a perfect   Phrase.  Yeah. Perfect phrasing for what we all kind of intuit on some level. But having a simple label for it makes it much easier to wield kind of conceptually right?  Mm-hmm .  In thinking about your life. We are going to get to the physical piece because I have just selfishly many questions about that and I am sure a lot of listeners will be interested in that and it is related. Let me throw out another mnemonic of sorts but it is a very short phrase that I' mood follows action.  Yeah. I love that one. That was something that my first sponsor said to me very early on in sobriety. I think I was complaining to him about some commitment I had made to sweep the floors or make coffee or something along those lines or something that had happened to me that day that I was annoyed with and I could not see my way through. And he just said Mood follows action. And what he meant by that is you cannot think your way into the mood that you seek or the state of mind that you aspire to inhabit. Action is the only thing that can trigger that change state. And I literally think about this every single day. And it was validated recently in a podcast that I did with Andrew Huberman who I know has been on your show where he studied the neurochemistry of this and realized that behavior has to come first and thoughts perceptions emotions follow from that. And when you think about that in the context of our daily lives let us just use running for example. If you wake up in the morning and you are supposed to do a run because you are training for some race and you do not feel like doing it we all resort to that state where we think well I do not want to do it right now. I will just wait until I feel like doing it and then I will do it then. And when we engage that way we end up never doing it right? If you are waiting until you feel like doing something chances are you are probably never going to get to it. But to take the action despite how you feel about it is the thing that catalyzes the state change. And in my case or anybody who is a runner they will tell you when they finish the run they are always glad that they did it. They do not generally regret it and then they feel better. And I think that that example is applicable to all areas of life.  So when did you turn I mean of course in the bio it says at age 40 why did you decide to turn the ship around physically?  So after getting sober at 31 and emerging from that treatment center where I lived for a hundred days which is a pretty long time to be in a treatment center. And being told by the counselors that You have a very serious case of alcoholism. The kind of case that we typically only see in lifelong drinkers like guys in their sixties. It was impressed upon me that I really needed to get this right or I could I was going to die. It was just that point was made to me very clearly. And I was able to hear it and take it seriously. And so I was super dedicated to creating this foundation of sobriety because my life truly did hang in the balance. And so that became my main priority for many years after that experience. So I returned to Los Angeles I was going to multiple meetings a day. I was doing all this stuff and building a new community of friends because I needed new people. I just I could not hang out or go to the places that I had been going to before. And with that was also unpacking this shame that I had about being this person who had all of this potential and all of these opportunities that I had squandered. And I felt compelled to repair all of that and get back to becoming that person that I was before I started drinking. And I did that with blinders on. In my mind the best way to do that was to go back to the law firm and work my ass off and become a partner and get all the stuff so that the world would smile upon me and my parents would think that I was safe. Alcoholics Anonymous is a spiritual program and I was developing spiritually but I had not yet reached the level of maturity where I could really look inward and ask myself those fundamental questions about what it is that I actually wanted to do rather than thinking what is society expecting me to do. But what is unique to me what gets me excited in the morning what do you think that you are here to express that is uniquely you? That just was not part of my mental process in any way. And so a lot of those addictive personality traits although I was not using substances anymore or channeled into workaholism and in turn some pretty unhealthy lifestyle habits. So basically 80 hour weeks working as a lawyer and hitting the fast food drive throughs on the way home and Chinese takeout for late nights at work and the like. And really despite the fact that I would been this swimmer in college not exercising just not really attending to or taking care of myself physically. And so over a 10-year period that accumulates such that by the time I was 39 I was about 50 pounds overweight. Never like an obese person or anything like that but just kind of like a heavy guy who looks like he works too much in a law firm and subsisting on junk food. And just feeling progressively worse and worse lazier not energized not enthusiastic about my life. And I think in the back of my awareness was this percolating existential crisis because I knew that this career path that I had chosen was really not for me. And I could will myself into doing it but ultimately it was not only not making me happy it was making me more and more miserable this square peg in a round hole kind of thing. But I was too afraid to really look at that or think about how I could change that trajectory. And there was so I guess what I am saying is there was a confluence of poor health on the one side and this spiritual existential crisis that I was harboring on the other hand. And they essentially collided with each other shortly before I turned 40 when I had this specific moment of walking up the flight of stairs to my bedroom after a late night at the office. And I had to stop halfway up a flight of stairs. I was too winded to just walk all the way to the top. And I had tightness in my chest and kind of like I had that sweaty pallor on my face from a flight of stairs and thinking I am this person who had swam at Stanford and would look in the mirror and see that person reflected back to me. I realized I was harboring a whole other level of denial that I needed to look at. And it was a scary moment because heart disease runs in my family. My mother's father had been a champion swimmer and captain of the university of Michigan swim team in the late 1920s and early '30s. And a guy who had an American record and somebody who  he is a guy that I am named after. And in many ways like my doppelganger but he had died of heart disease at a young age. And I had this flash where I realized if I did not course correct how I was living that I was likely headed in his direction and would meet my demise probably sooner than he had because there was no McDonald's and Jack in the Box when he was kicking around. And it was sort of like a second bottom that was very reminiscent of the day I decided to get sober. This very crystallized moment in time where it is almost like a window of opportunity presents itself like a crack in the door or a line in the sand. And you have this opportunity to harness it take advantage of it and take contrary action or not right? And because I was so aware of how that simple decision of going to that treatment center had changed my life so dramatically that I was being once again visited by just such a moment I realized that I needed to take action swiftly. Because if I did not kind of grab onto it immediately I knew it would just pass and become ephemera. And so that was really the moment that catalyzed kind of everything that followed. And even the fact that I am talking to you today it all tracks back to that very specific incident.  What year are we talking more or less do you recall?  So yeah this would have been let us see 2000. I was just about to turn 40 so 2006.  Okay. Did this coincide with something I have read you describe as complete financial dismantlement which sounds brutal? It does not sound pleasant. Was that around the same time before or coinciding?  That started a little bit later. It was sort of precipitated by the crash in 2008. And it continued through years after publishing Finding Ultra. It was a very extended period of time of being challenged to even put food on the table.  So I have all these cheat sheets in front of me of course. And one of the questions I like to ask as you well know what is the best or most worthwhile investment you have ever made? Could be time money energy et cetera. And I give various examples of this but it could be Warren Buffett talking about his best investment being investing in Dale Carnegie speaking classes or anything at all. And you have a couple here. Three decision to train for 2008 Ultraman stepping back from the law to write Finding Ultra and then starting your podcast. And so we could focus on the first one and I want to if it is okay with you and feel free to redirect look at the second one stepping back from the law to write Finding Ultra. When was that that you stepped back to do that?  I started writing it in I think late 2010 or early 2011.  Okay. So the reason I ask there seem to be these inflection points.  Right.  And inflection could go multiple directions not only up. But there seemed to be certain decisions in retrospect just really make a lot of difference in direction. How did you decide to step back from the law to write this book given the complete financial dismantlement and all of these various things going on at the time? And was it an easy or hard decision?  I think it was a little bit of both. At that time I had already been scaling back on my law practice. I was balancing training for these crazy races which we can talk about and becoming less and less interested in being a lawyer. And at that time I was self-employed as a lawyer. I had made the step of getting out of the big corporate law firm hustle and had a couple different incarnations of my practice being solo being with a couple partners et cetera. So I had flexibility over how I was allocating my time. And The 4-Hour Workweek was actually really helpful at that time in helping me wrap my head around how I could straddle these both worlds and still get things done. So the truth is I had already begun to take my foot off the gas a little bit on the law practice. But the opportunity to write this book was such a remarkable occurrence that I could have never predicted happening in my life. And I just felt so grateful to even have the opportunity that I knew.  And that was an inbound email or outreach of some type?  It was it is actually a really interesting story. So what happened was I had been doing these races and getting some notoriety for it and some press. And an article came out in the Stanford Alumni magazine and it had mentioned what I was doing. And it had also mentioned that I had had this struggle with alcoholism and have been sober for a while. And somebody who I only knew very tangentially sent me an email and said Hey I read that article. I am recently out of a treatment center. He was an alumni. I am recently out of the treatment center and I am the CEO of this company. My board does not know. I need somebody to talk to. Can we just talk? And so I struck up a phone relationship with this person and was just trying to help him and guide him to make good decisions about how to conduct himself in early sobriety. And at some point he said Hey I know this book agent. You have such an amazing story. Let me introduce you to this person. And at that time I had not thought of writing a book. It was not on my list of things that I was thinking of doing. And that conversation with that book agent basically made me feel comfortable giving it a stab. And it was kind of a charmed thing where I wrote a proposal. I worked really hard on it because I recognized the unique and amazing opportunity it presented and that led to getting a book deal really quickly. And so suddenly my life priorities changed because I was able to recognize that this could be a lever that would propel me into an entirely new universe of opportunities and trajectories with my career. So prioritizing the writing of that book was the most important professional commitment that I made at that time. And really created the foundation for me being able to do kind of all the things that I do now.  You do quite a few things.  Mm-hmm .  And quite well I will add.  Thank you.  You are welcome. So you mentioned that   I should say can I just say really quickly. Sorry to interrupt you. But you have no idea how much that means to me Tim. It really is meaningful that you said that because I look to you and the example that you have set and all the things that you have done in the world in such a remarkable fashion. And I aspire to your level of impact and influence. And I just also so I wanted to thank you for that. And thank you also for being a support to me. When the book came out you let me do a guest blog post for your site. I think I pestered you and until you finally relented but that was extremely helpful to me at the time. And you have no idea how much I appreciate that.  Oh thank you Rich. Well it was my pleasure. And I will say that a compelling story is a compelling story. So I really appreciate the kind words. And you are doing a hell of a job man. I mean I really admire the work that you are doing in the world. And it is fun for me to be sitting here asking you thinly veiled asking you for very thinly veiled advice. Yeah. I have been very indirect so far. But thank you for that. And   Very welcome.  I figure just as a way of and we can go anywhere we want to go of course but we are recording this around the turn of the new year. I am in the next year going to turn 45. And I have realized just in the last few years really that  so I used to not at your level within this kind of dynastic famed team at Stanford for swimming which we might come back to at some point. But had competed as an athlete. And when I competed I found it very easy to motivate for a lot of reasons right I mean. But there is a lot of positive and negative reinforcement involved when you compete. And then in the last let us just call it four or five years have continued to train but in a pretty lackadaisical ad hoc way. Right? Lots of travel going to gym kind of figuring out what I am going to do when I get to the gym. No real programming to speak of. And what I have realized in the last few years is what I was able to pull off for let us just say 10 years of decent kind of mediocre to high mediocre training is just not going to cut it moving forward metabolically or otherwise. And I have trained before and having competed before and I have found a lot of shame around and judgment around having let it slip if that makes any sense. And nonetheless right have really decided All right. 2022 this is the year that I want to make some significant changes. Given the book given your podcast you have no doubt observed many people try to emulate what you have done to differing degrees of success. What advice would you give to someone in my shoes? It could be advice to me but someone who is considering this sort of doing a reboot. Given sort of the sample set that you have observed over time or just from your direct experience.  Yeah. Well I mean I guess the first thing I would ask you Tim is like Why? What is going on? What is beneath the kind of surface level aspect of this that you just shared? What is it that you feel is lacking that would be fulfilled by you pursuing some kind of fitness goal? Is it just like Oh I am starting to feel lazy or I have slipped off or I do not feel the way that I would like to feel right now? I always like to ask that first because people are very casual and cavalier about saying I want to do this goal. I want to do this race or whatever. And I am always like Why? Why is that important?  Why do you want to do it?  Why is that important to you right?  Yeah.  So that would be the first thing I would ask you.  Yeah. I have answers. So the first I think overarching answer is mood follows action. Right. So I know that when I am training consistently with a purpose of some type not just going to yoga a few times a week I can do that. I can lift weights two or three times a week but training with a purpose I find just leads me to a better mental psycho-emotional state more often than not. It is the most reliable intervention so to speak. So that would be part one. Part two and we will see where this goes. But I really really miss the camaraderie of being on a team or striving towards a similar goal. Probably it does not have to I have never had that experience in a co-ed capacity. So it does not necessarily have to be all men but that experience which I have found challenging to replicate outside of sports would be another reason. And I stopped doing judo and jiu jitsu and so on quite a while ago just because of the number of injuries. I am okay with intermittent injuries they just take a lot longer to heal from now than they did when I was 16 to 22 or whatever. So those would be top of the list. And I think that related to the first answer this like mood follows action I think that self and we could probably pick this apart I am sure. But self-image also follows action. Like I just have  I feel better about myself when I am training with some degree of focus and a goal of some type. Especially if it is time-bound I just do very well with that. And I have not over COVID and everything else not to make excuses but I have been very bad at doing that. And still I am training a couple times a week but I have realized I am barely skating by. Kind of like look fit with clothing on fit which is not enough for me at this point. I enjoy I should also say I really I do enjoy pushing myself physically. Maybe not to the point like when I was much younger I would go for training runs or sprint workouts for wrestling or whatever. And I would run until the blood vessels would burst in the corners of my eyes I do not need to do that anymore. I think that is kind of silly for me at this point but that is a long-winded answer to your question.  Yeah. Well I think no it was a great answer. And just knowing enough about you to know how important structure is to you setting really measurable tangible goals and benchmarks like that is kind of how you operate. And that is the easy part for you. But I think the harder part is figuring out what vein what is the character of the actual pursuit right? And I would start with curiosity. What is it that is something you are interested in learning or exploring that might be something new that sits a little bit outside of your comfort zone but is intriguing enough for you to want to explore it? It is easy to say Well you should do this race or you should try this or you should join a team. But I think curiosity is really the most important piece. Because if you are not interested in it if it is not something that is going to get you excited and have some ability to retain your attention and enthusiasm chances are you are going to get bored or you are going to drop off. So starting with that I think is important. Because I could tell you you should do this but only you know what that might look like. But I would suggest that spending time with that curiosity and then figuring out how you can pursue that learning curve in a challenging fitness context that also involves community or team building on some level because that is the other piece that you feel like you are missing. And I get that I miss that too. And I do most of my training alone and when I do group runs I am like I should do this more. This is so fun. And yet I do not do it so I relate to that deeply. But I think those would be good starting places. Things that come to mind for me as some kind of adventure race or something where it involves other people and lots of different types of skill sets that come into play that is kind of scary but also experiential and potentially very fun.  Yeah. Or orienteering something like that. And I should also say that the team or the team piece is also it could be a partner piece. And I think fundamentally for me what that is is an accountability piece. Right. Because and I am sure you experienced this quite a bit too. It is like it is not the pursuit of bad ideas. I mean it could be. But it is not the pursuit of bad ideas or worthless tasks that will drown you. It is like saying yes to too many cool-ish things not a handful or one truly great thing. Does that make sense? Right. So if   This is like my major malfunction these days. I am dying death by a thousand cuts these days because of cool stuff that I want to do and say yes to too frequently.  Yeah. So you can just drown in that stuff. And if I do not have this is going to sound really bad. I know a lot   An anchor you need an anchor.  An anchor I need an anchor. There needs to be a consequence to me being like Eh I'00 p.m. and I am going to push off this workout that'30. I want there to be a consequence to that. And there are a lot of ways to set up stakes and consequences but a very easy way to do it is just train with somebody. Which is part of the reason why one of the most consistent forms of exercise I have been able to get in the last say six months is rock climbing because I am going with a ballet partner. And if they show up and I am not there it is just it is a real dick move. So adventure racing I was thinking orienteering possibly although that is  I mean I say that really knowing very little about it. Are there any other characteristics that you have been able to spot amongst just patterns of people making attempts at this over and over again?  Yeah. I mean the other thing   Common ingredients.  The other thing I would point out is the tendency to indulge in a little bit of analysis paralysis.  Right.  You could spend the next year trying to figure out what mountain it is that you want to climb or how you are going to get there. And I have a sense that maybe this might be a thing for you. And I think there is a lot of value in not overthinking things and just saying This is something that is interesting to me I am just going to decide right now I am going to do this thing. And it is like six months from now and it is in the calendar and I have no idea how I am going to get there but it is there. And I think that that compulsion to want to know all the answers and how it is going to play out and all the steps you are going to need to take to get there can prevent us from moving forward in our lives. And I think these situations in my experience are rigged such that you are not supposed to know all of those answers because you are rewarded for actually getting into action. It is tangential to mood follows action. Action will lead you  like the bricks get laid only two steps in front of you. And you are not allowed to see the whole thing right? Use Ironman for example or triathlon. Like What bike should I get? Well you can go around that merry-go-round forever but ultimately the best bike is the one that is sitting gathering dust in your garage. Just go do a race with that and you will figure out all that stuff as you go. And it becomes the more you do it the more emotionally engaged you get with it. And then these things tend to develop a life of their own.  All right. I have a very specific question for you it came up before we started recording. And this is something I know very little about. So you can safely assume that I can be a very effective stand-in for anyone in the audience who does not know what this is Zone 2 training. Could you share your thoughts recommendations cautionary tales anything related to Zone 2 training? Perhaps beginning with a definition. Because this is something that as you know Dr. Peter Attia has spoken quite widely about. What is Zone 2 training?  Yeah. Well first of all like your conversation with Peter on this subject matter and then Peter I know has done AMAs where he is dove very deeply into this topic are fantastic listens and everybody should check that out if they are interested in this subject matter because my version of explaining this will be a very layperson's experiential version of it compared to Peter's very scientific and eloquent.  Encyclopedic.  Yeah exactly. But yeah I am a huge huge proponent of Zone 2 training. And I believe that my fidelity and adoration of the Zone 2 philosophy is a cornerstone in how I was able to be successful in ultra-endurance triathlon in my mid-40s. So Zone 2 basically is a gauge of energy output in aerobic exercise that essentially is the state in which you are exerting yourself at essentially a conversational level. You are in your aerobic zone where your body can make use of one of two sources of energy glucose or fat. And it is the level of exertion that lives and breathes just beneath where you cross a certain threshold and go into a more anaerobic state which is dependent more or exclusively on glycogen stores for energy. In endurance training Zone 2 I think is absolutely crucial for success because it is the best way or the methodology that you leverage to create efficiency which is something that Peter has talked about. So most people when they go out for a run let us say they go on a run a 45-minute run like three or four times a week or something like that. Most people will go out and they will exert themselves so that they feel like they had a vigorous run. They run as fast as they can for that period of time so that when they are finished they feel like Oh I got something out of that. Zone 2 is a level of output that is quite a bit beneath that level of exertion because when you are doing that kind of mindlessly like I am just going out for a vigorous run. Most typically you are in what is called the gray zone. You are going too hard and too fast to really develop that aerobic capacity and engine and efficiency but you are not going hard enough to develop speed and the anaerobic kind of capacity that you are looking for those really fast shorter bursts. And in that gray zone which is where most average people live and breathe you can get to a certain point but you will very quickly plateau and really never go beyond that. Zone 2 is a certain and kind of discipline because it is asking you to hold back. Zone 2 is the level of output where basically you can get up and do it every day. And quite often you complete the workout and you feel like you did not do anything. And you have this impulse to want to go faster so you have to hold back from doing that. But essentially what it does is it as Peter talks about helps you develop a greater mitochondrial density in your muscles. And in ultra-endurance this is absolutely crucial because there is nothing about ultra-endurance that is fast. It has nothing to do with threshold power or speed or any of that. It is truly the ability to efficiently persist. So the prize does not go to the fastest guy it goes to the person who slows down the least. And when you kind of live in this Zone 2 place where you are training for long periods of time developing this capacity what you are doing is you are building this foundation of endurance from the ground up. And the way that you kind of calculate your zone I mean Peter talks about this. I go in for proper lactate testing I am on a bike and I get my finger pricked as the watts go up. And you get this heart rate zone and this watt-zone wherein you understand this is the level of exertion required to be right in the sweet spot of all of this. When I began training for these races my Zone 2 pace when I was running was 10 minutes a mile or 10 30 or something like that. But by rigorously adhering to this without doing any interval training or any tempo work over a two-year period I got to the point where I could run seven minute miles at the same heart rate. So the same amount of energy output but that level of increase in speed not by doing any speed work but by literally creating efficiencies and developing that mitochondrial density. And ultimately what you are also doing is training the body to metabolize fat for fuel which is your all day source of energy. You literally will never run out of it. So in my experience training the body to metabolize fat for fuel has really been it is an N of one and experiential experience that I have had. But it is really much more about how you are training than what it is that you are eating or when you are eating it. Like I have just found this training to be the best way to get into that place of the body learning how to metabolize fuel in that way so that you can literally continue to go for as long as you want.  And there are and certainly I will link in the show notes to the conversations with Peter Attia that go probably deeper than   I love it though. I think it is great   Yeah. Yeah. It is great. It does get technical but Peter knows his stuff. I will provide some links to that for people who want to dig in. I would love   You chopped it out and then put it at the end and I went immediately to the end to listen to all of that.  Right. So for people who have not heard this episode basically the first maybe it was the first question and we launched into the cellular metabolism involved with Zone 2 training and mitochondrial density and I thought maybe the 20 minute appendix should be put at the end as an appendix. Just so that we can get people in the door right? So we are not having people doing calculus on their way into the club maybe on the way out. But it is a great section. So we will link that in the show notes at tim.blogpodcast. Question for you and this may be a dead end but I am just curious. Have you explored using ketone meters as you have adapted and increased your mitochondrial density through Zone 2 training? And the reason I am asking is I am wondering if you have noticed for instance because this is something I track but without the Zone 2 training. In the case of say a two or three day fast how quickly my body will go to ooh will shift over to say 0.7 millimolars or something like that. Get to the point where I feel like I am in ketosis just subjectively through cognitive sharpness mental acuity generally. Have you played around with that at all or seen a faster switch over?  Yeah no. No. I have not. I have not. Yeah. Yeah. I do not have any experience with that.  It would make sense though. It would make a lot of sense. How frequently is it necessary to do Zone 2 training? I am sure it is highly individual but just painting with a broad brush to begin to accrue some of the benefits that we are talking about.  Yeah. I think Peter answered this question and I believe he gave a window of something like three months or something like three to six months. I would say that this is not the way to hack yourself to success because it requires a significant investment in time. You have to play the long game to really reap the huge benefits of this type of training. It is not an overnight kind of thing. I started to realize gains maybe around six months into it. But I did not really garner the full buffet of what it was availing me for like it took two years basically is what I am saying. The longer you do it the more efficient you become. And then the longer you can go the further you can sustain a certain level of effort. And these adaptations are not overnight. But I think it is like when you are looking at it is not like what are you going to do this year? But three years if you are on a three-year plan I think really doubling down on this philosophy. There is so much benefit to it. But it depends on what your goal is too.  What is my goal? I am in the process of figuring that out. I have to dig into that curiosity we were talking about earlier. And certainly part of that'ill be know thyself. Still working on that.  Are not we all?  I think I have been in the gray zone side note for like two years which probably has some explanatory power. So there are three things at least three things but three things I would love to hear you speak to. And I will let you you mentioned buffet so well I will throw out three and then you can pick whichever one you want to tackle first. So one is sleeping in a tent. Two is taking a full month off the grid every year. And then number three is your daily architecture. So not committing to certain things or focusing on certain things up to 12 noon which one of those would you like to dig into?  I mean we could go any direction you want. I mean we could start with the tent.  Let us start with the tent.  Yeah. So I have been sleeping outside in a tent for a couple years at this point I think a little over two years. And I absolutely love it. It is really been beneficial to my sleep. And it is something that started from a frustration over my increasing inability to get restful slumber. And the impetus like kind of original impetus was my wife likes the bedroom warm. I like the bedroom cold. I am sure a lot of people can relate to this relationship dynamic. And no matter how much we would try to compromise to make it good for both of us Julie would always be bundled up under a ton of covers and I am sleeping on top of the covers sweating. And then neither of us sleeps and we get up and we are not happy. We have a flat you have been in my house I have a flat roof on my house. And one summer evening we did a sleepover on the roof with the kids. And we have a flat wall where we would project movies and we are eating popcorn. And we all just kind of slept on the roof that night in sleeping bags. And I woke up the next day just feeling amazing from the outdoor air and the cool desert air of Los Angeles. And I was like I cannot remember the last time I slept so well. So I told Julie I was like I am just going to sleep on the roof again tonight. And it really began from there and I just fell in love with being  there is something about being outdoors that just agrees with me in the kind of cool evening air. But I would wake up covered in condensation completely wet. So I was like All right I have got to get a tent. So then I got a tent the tent was on the roof. Then it got windy I moved the tent to the ground. But I have really just enjoyed it. And as I get older I am so protective of my sleep. And it is so important to me that I get those eight hours because I know what it feels like not to get them. And it still all eludes me quite often. I really struggle with this but it is been a huge benefit in the quality of my sleep. And I enjoy it. People always ask  well they think I am having some kind of fight with my wife or something like that. Like we have our quality time I promise you. Everything is fine in my marriage. We have been together for a very long time so it is all good. And I also think it is been a cool kind of stoic practice because I live in a really nice house and I have nice things but I actually prefer to sleep in the tent. And there is something about that where it gives me comfort like if everything went terribly wrong and I lost everything I know that I am happy sleeping in a tent. And I do not really need that much ultimately. And that is been really kind of nice in cultivating a little bit of a minimalist sensibility about how I live.  So you say being blown off the roof while you are sleeping is probably not a good idea. I second that do you have mountain lions around those parts?  We do. And I go running in all the trails all around where I live in the Santa Monica Mountains. I know they are there. I have never seen one but they are definitely there. Our property is fenced so I feel okay being in the tent. But yeah. I mean they are there. They are real. But I do not know we will see.  Yeah. I remember this experience in Northern California up by Napa. I went on this hiking trip. And everybody at the same time got the feeling that they were being watched. And I was like Yeah we should probably pay attention to that. There are mountain lions everywhere. What  forgive me. But A I want to know B my listeners will be annoyed if I do not ask. So you did a lot of trial and error with the tent and the set up and everything else what does your gear look like currently after two years of trying it out?  Yeah. Well I am actually at a turning point with all of this. I have been sleeping in a North Face tent that I have had for a while. But these tents tend to only last maybe four or five months at most because the sun just beats them up and then they turn into tissue paper. So I am constantly getting new tents. And finally I was like This is ridiculous. So I just bought a proper canvas glamping tent and we have not constructed it yet. I am having a deck built and I am going to make it kind of like a cool outdoor structure. So that is the next chapter in all of this. But for the last two years it is been a series of basically small tents in the backyard. I have a mattress in there so I am not sleeping on the ground. And tons of blankets which is part of the appeal. Like there was frost when I woke up this morning it was great. I slept fantastic last night. But a key thing that I have been using for a couple years is a gravity blanket which I absolutely love. I do not know if you have had any experience with that.  I have. Yeah. I have one upstairs. So what is the gravity blanket and why do you find it helpful?  Gravity blanket is a weighted blanket. There is different types of them but essentially they are quilted with like I do not know sand in them or different types of heavy materials. And they come in different weights. So I think mine is like a 25-pound blanket. So imagine that experience of being at the dentist and you are getting an x-ray and they put that lead mat on your chest and think is that a pleasant experience for you or an unpleasant experience for you? And when I think about that I kind of like it. There is something about it.  Swaddling clothes you mean.  Yeah. It is like I am being protected. It is like telling my sympathetic nervous system that I am safe. And I believe I could be wrong but I believe that that was the original use case for the gravity blanket to treat people with autism who have trouble calming down and it had this impact of soothing them. And that is certainly been my experience using it and I love it.  You use it at night?  Yeah.  You put that on top of your blankets?  Mm-hmm .  All right. So tent check. Any other modifications that you have made to your tenting experience that come to mind?  No I mean I wear an eye mask. But just to   What type of I mask?  Of course The Tim Ferriss  I forgot what podcast I am on.  I have got to ask.  The Mindfold. I like the Mindfold.  Mindfolds are great.  Yeah.  Yeah. All right. Check. All right. Now thank you for indulging that. Inquiring minds want to know of course. And for people who want another example of this type of stoic practice. Different type of timeframe but Kevin Kelly who is been on the podcast at least two times arguably the world's most interesting man. He will sleep in his living room in a sleeping bag kind of surviving on as I recall instant oatmeal and instant coffee for maybe like a week a year two weeks a year just as a little reminder that all is well everything's fine. But I like the idea of sleeping outside a lot more personally. So daily architecture or weekly architecture just schedule wise seems like you rarely schedule certain types of things before noon your time. Could you speak to that and perhaps just tell the genesis story like how and when did you begin doing that? Because that is contraindicated if you are doing 80-hour weeks right? So it seems like there was a transition.  Yeah of course. Yeah. That did not really become a possibility until I was self-employed. And I think I started practicing it originally when I was writing Finding Ultra because I needed quiet hours before work began to just be focused on that important thing. And I have just built upon from there. So essentially I am early to bed early to rise. 00 00 00 00. And the early hours are really protected as my own time. So morning meditation journaling writing creative projects no meetings no phone calls. Certainly we are doing this podcast this morning so I will make exceptions. We are doing this in the morning. But as a general rule I try not to commit to anything outside those practices for that initial phase of the day. And so after I finish those practices then I do my training in the morning and I try to get that done before I go into the work day.  How frequently would you say you succeed? And not to ever expect it to be a hundred percent. I am just curious what you would say it looks like. And when you get something  because we were talking about the death by a thousand cuts earlier  when you get really tempting stuff what do you do? Like sometimes you make exceptions but if you made all the exceptions then the schedule would not work. Because I am sure you have people pitch stuff early in the day. So what would you say your hit rate is and how do you contend with the temptations?  I would say outside of situations where I am traveling my hit rate's about 85 percent. So I am pretty good. And also the people that I generally work with all know this now so it is less often than I am asked to do things during those hours because they know. And I have gotten much better at just not agreeing to do stuff conference calls Zoom calls and stuff like that during that period of time. But if somebody's in the UK or in a radically different time zone there is situations where it is like Okay am I going to be the huge pain in the ass or am I going to just make an exception?  00 p.m.?  Yeah. I am too much of a people pleaser for that. And that is the war that I am always waging the healthy boundary versus the desire to be liked is the battle ground in my head. And so I am pretty good about that. The death by a thousand cuts shows up in other areas of my life particularly regarding stuff that is not due or is not going to happen for a long period of time. If it is far enough out on the calendar I will pretty much agree to anything. And then that day arrives and you are like What am I doing? I am never doing this again. And then the following week you are reaping the same thing. So that is like my Mount Everest right now. And listen these are problems of abundance. They are the result of working very hard to create something that is interesting to people. And so you get offered cool stuff. And I want to take advantage of all the cool stuff. I know what it is like to not have people interested in having me involved in cool stuff. But at what cost? And it is really hard to do that. It is like Do you want to go do this amazing thing? You are like 100 percent I do. But what are you really trying to accomplish? Where is your focus vested? And calibrating those opportunities against the things that are most important in your life. And I have four kids. I have other responsibilities outside of my professional responsibilities that are important to me. So I am not always great at making those decisions but I would like to think I am getting a little bit better.  Well 85 percent hit rate's really good. That is   That is just for the pre-noon thing. That is not for fielding all incoming stuff.  Still that is a good protected zone. I am  no surprise to anyone  just fascinated by how people think about scheduling and time. I know that you have been doing some workouts at Laird Hamilton and Gabby Reece's place in the pool ex-PT and all that which is  side note on sleep. I have probably never slept better than after a really long workout with weights in the pool. My God.  It is incredible.  It is just amazing. And they have such unique lives in the way that they live their lives fiercely independently. And they came to mind also because I was thinking about Rick Rubin the legendary music producer who is been on this podcast who also  I am not sure where he is now but often spends time with them and has his little corner in the pool where he does his workout. But Rick as far as I can tell basically like 99 percent of life is unscheduled. It is kind of like Yeah ping me and if it works it will work. And I really admire his ability to do that. I have not been able to ace that at this point. So hence the questions about all of this. A month off the grid every year. Let us go to the genesis story for this and how and why this is a priority.  Yeah. So you mentioned earlier on this extended period of financial dismantlement that we endured as a family. And it was a very painful extended period of time where I really struggled to figure out how to provide for my family in a meaningful way. And it is now all solved and everything's great but I think there was a significant amount of PTSD that I experienced from that because it was very emasculating and scary for me. And once things started functioning properly and working a lot of my workaholism tendencies kind of came to the forefront and I became so focused on building this thing and protecting it and making sure that it was providing for my family that I started to overlook the principles that put me in the position to create in the first place like the adage of All this wellness is making me sick. I was just working my ass off. And as you know doing this show and doing other things in your life it is a lot more work than people think. It is a grind and you can lose yourself in it. And a couple years ago I started tiptoeing up to burnout. And instead of being excited to have conversations with my guests  I would not say I was dreading it but I was moving in that direction. And that is not a relationship that I wanted to have with this thing that you and I both do that we obviously really care about. It should be a joyful experience. And I had not taken a single vacation in like five years no break. It was insane. So I was due for it. And so I ended up taking a month off and I went to Australia. And it was incredibly nourishing and I was able to come back from that experience with a renewed and refreshed perspective and relationship with what I do. And just decided that this was going to be an annual thing. So I am getting ready to do it. I am taking January off this year and I am really looking forward to it. I need it and I think it is important to understand in a performance context that you have to periodize your life just like you would periodize your training. You need those fallow periods to recharge the battery. And you have to live your life if you are going to have anything worthy to say about the human experience. If you are just constantly engaging in your profession and focused on what it is that you do and you are missing out on the other experiences and the richness of life then you are not really going to be carrying a meaningful resonance or vibration that is going to be helpful to other people.  Let us go to pre-Australia for a moment because no vacation in five years and then I took a month off and it was great. I feel like we are skipping a few steps. What did the preparationself talk logistics anything look like leading up to Australia? And if you want to mention this first we can mention this part first which is what did off really mean?  So off did not mean completely leave the phone at home. I wish I could tell you that that is what I did. I did not do that. That is an ambition for this experience though which is terrifying but I am excited about. So what are you asking specifically?  What type of preparation was required? Now if this current example meaning January coming up is a better case study to take a look at I am just wondering what the preparation looks like. So you have all of these various plates that you are spinning of different types. And I literally just got back a few days ago from about three weeks off the grid.  Oh wow. Cool.  So I am fresh having just returned where I was in Antarctica so I literally had zero row cell or Wi-Fi signal which was great because the possibility of backsliding is basically removed entirely unless you want to sit in a tent by yourself with a satellite phone and try to make that work which some people did but I did not. So I am wondering what prep is going into taking a month off.  I am much more interested in your experience in Antarctica.  Yeah? Well we can talk about it.  I mean that is amazing. Why did you decide to go there and what was that about?  I have a friend Matt Mullenweg very close friend. He is been on the podcast once or twice. He runs a company  this makes it all the more impressive  so he runs a company called Automattic M-A-T-T-I-C which has something like 2000 employees at the moment. He had gone to Antarctica I want to say  I might be getting the numbers off but five or six years ago  and had heard that a trip was being planned which would put a small group in Antarctica for the totality the solar eclipse at the empire penguin colony which had never been observed before in this year so end of 2021. And that was the purpose of this trip. He grabbed a number of seats made a reservation for a handful of seats five or six seats and then invited me some time ago and asked me if I wanted to go. And I said Yeah I absolutely want to go. I mean when am I next going to have such an invite? And ended up landing in Chile spending a decent amount of time in Chile. They are very very very strict with COVID. So you are getting daily COVID tests. You install an app and you are legally required to identify your location and answer surveys every day. You carry a mobility pass which has a QR code to go into any establishment that then interfaces with a database to indicate whether you are green or red. So very very involved which it has to be because if you have an outbreak in Antarctica the whole operation is done. And then off we went. But it had been a couple of years  well certainly since COVID hit  that I had spent multiple weeks completely off the grid which I try to spend at least two to three weeks per year 100 percent off the grid meaning if there is an emergency someone can contact someone who contacts someone who can find a way to reach me but there is really no contact with the outside world otherwise. And so in my case I love these experiments and hence my interest in what you are up to also because you are forced to look at all of your systems. Like if you are gone for a week you can come back and firefight you can kind of allow things to go towards entropy and balls to get dropped and then fix it when you get back. But with the amount that is going on I imagine in your life certainly in my life if you try to do that with three or four weeks it is just going to be a catastrophe. So you have to set up systems and policies and update things and take a really close look at Okay well how are wires being approved? How are these following things being handled? Oh they are being handled in this really labor intensive ad hoc one-off way. Let us make a policy for that. What should the policy be? And many of those things outlive the vacation. So that is an additional argument in addition to the periodizing of life the fact that you are a biological system that does not have infinite amounts of neurotransmitters and cortisol and so it is a good idea to phase in and phase out. And the other argument for me  and there are many others of course. I mean enjoying your goddamn vacation would be a great one too  but in the case of someone who is self-employed or maybe even if you are employed you develop and refine systems that then have durability and persist once you get back. So I am just getting back in the saddle after multiple weeks. Literally have only been in the US for a handful of days.  Wow.  So that is   What an amazing experience.  Yeah. So I am on the other side.  Yeah that is cool. Yeah I think now I get where you are coming from. I mean it is certainly been a situation of putting systems in place and stress testing them. I mean I have this amazing team right now. When I went to Australia the team looked a little bit different. It was not as mature as it is at this point. But now I have really invested a lot of time and energy in creating structure which was not easy for me as a control freak who wants to do everything and be the bottleneck in every decision and every problem. That a big part of what was leading me towards this burnout was my refusal to loosen the reins and empower people around me. And that is been an education that I am happy to say I am now very much more on the other side of which feels really liberating. And having systems in place so that I can go away and I have got these people here who have their eyes on the prize and can take care of a lot of that stuff. But it took many years to get to this place and I had to learn a lot of rocky lessons along the way.  Yes. And you definitely will make mistakes. I think part of the calculus for me has been also expecting that you are going to allow small bad things to happen. Like if you try to   And being okay with that.  Being okay with it right. Because you are never going to get to 100 percent risk mitigation. Shit is going to happen. So being okay with that the art of letting small bad things happen to get the big good things done. Well let me ask just a few more questions because we are coming up on two hours shortly. And certainly we can go anywhere we would like and I am not in any rush. I wanted to mention one thing also. When you mentioned committing to things that are five six nine months out and then having the day of reckoning when you look at your next month and you are like Oh for fuck's sake what did I do to myself? I want to say it is Esther Dyson who is a well known investor. She I want to say did cosmonaut training also later in her life in Russia. But she uses this heuristic  I think I am getting the attribution right  where she will ask herself If this were next Tuesday would I want to do this thing? And if the answer's no do not commit to it six months from now either.  Yeah that is a good one.  I think Kevin Kelly actually borrowed that from her as well. So question. This is one that you have heard before and know I ask a lot. If you could have one billboard anywhere with anything on it what might it say? What might you put on it? Could be image quote question line just metaphorically getting something out to many many many millions or billions of people.  I have been thinking about this because I know that you ask this question and my original thought was Who are you? But I have modified that. I think a better question is Who are you becoming? And that is a question that I resisted asking myself for too long and as a result led me down some dark pathways or distracted me from actualizing in a healthy way. And I think our culture is set up to distract us from that kind of self-inquiry. And the reason that I add the word becoming is I think that it speaks to the fact that none of us are static. In every moment we are shifting and we are changing. And every decision that we make every interaction that we have every word that comes out of our mouth is either moving us towards a better more authentic version of ourselves or away from it in the same way that that process is as an alcoholic either moving me towards a drink or away from a drink. So I think in the context of becoming it is like we are always becoming we are always on our way to becoming something. Are you becoming a better version of yourself or are you becoming somebody who is moving away from what I would characterize as your true essence? And I think the more that we can inhabit that sensibility if we are in the habit of thinking about these things I think it anchors us more in the present moment and allows for more conscious decisions about how we are investing our energy and how we are conducting ourselves or relating to the world or responding or reacting to the world around us.  I love that. Could you repeat it one more time? It was not Who am I becoming or is it What type of person am I becoming?  Who are you becoming?  Yeah Who are you becoming? That is a really good modification. I mean it sort of leads you to telescope out looking at whatever the current decisions and behaviors are. It is like what does this look like in a year? What does this look like in three years? What does this look like in 10 years? Good time for me. I will put that on my mirror as my wake up reminder. That would be a good one to add. What are you most excited about for the next year? Or what are you excited about? Does not have to be the most but is there anything that comes to mind?  What am I most excited about? That is a hard one.  Or looking forward to in the next year.  I mean I am looking forward to my break for sure. We have another edition of Voicing Change coming out in the new year. So there is practical things that I am excited about. But I think what I am most excited about is this evolving shifting relationship that I have with the work that I do. And this is something you have talked about a lot Tim which is overcoming or transcending this disposition to make everything hard.  What if it was easy? And that is a very bitter pill for me to swallow because my whole life has been premised on this idea that if I have not suffered to create this thing that I have not worked hard enough or that it does not hold value. And I am in this journey of trying to let go. And I have done that through systems and people here at the podcast but in other areas of my life to hold the things that I care about more loosely and to approach them from that perspective of what if it was easy? I do not have to suffer to create. That is an illusion or a construct that I have created in my mind and affirmed over many years but deconstructing it I realized the fallacy of it. And so trying to recalibrate my relationship to the world in which I am able to navigate it more from a perspective of grace and joy and allowing rather than gripping on really tightly is so counterintuitive yet also so liberating while also being terrifying. So I have not emerged from the woods on this yet. This is definitely a hill I might die on but this is what I am committed to. And this is part of the intention that I am bringing into this month that I am taking off and I hope to emerge from that a little bit more consolidated around that idea and in a place where I am ready to practice it in a way that is more meaningful than what I have been able to do historically.  That is a good intention. There is a book that I have been revisiting my Kindle highlights of which is Effortless by Greg McKeown which is the second book following Essentialism also by Greg McKeown. But it is a very nice reminder along the lines of what you are describing. Because certainly my  I should not say default because it is probably conditioned but my out of the box programming is very similar to yours. It is like if I am not suffering if I am not redlining then clearly I am not applying myself enough to whatever X happens to be which is just so self-defeating in so many ways.  I know.  So it is a constant challenge. However I have found that to be a very helpful book. So I have a tab open actually on this browser right now top left to my Kindle highlights of that book. So speaking of books your books include your best selling memoir Finding Ultra the cookbooks and lifestyle guides  Italia which you co-authored with your wife Julie   Piatt.  Piatt. God 0 for two! Piatt.  It is okay.  Good Lord. I am sorry Julie. Forgive me. People can find all things Rich Roll at richroll.com on Twitter richroll. Are you most active on Twitter? Instagram? Do you have a preferred social media?  Probably more active on Instagram than Twitter but I am on both.  Yeah. richroll on Instagram as well. We will link to all of those YouTube Facebook et cetera in the show notes tim.blogpodcast. Is there anything else that you would like to say? Any closing comments asks or requests of this audience before we wrap up?  Yeah. I mean first of all thank you for having me. It really is a privilege. And I have been doing a lot of thinking around how divided the world feels right now and how broken it can feel. There is just so much contention out there. But when I think about what we do having these long form conversations it just feels to me like there is never been a better opportunity to contribute in a positive way. And I just want to encourage people to find a way to transcend the predominant media narrative that seems hell bent on pitting us against each other and to be more conscious about not just your media choices but how you carry that sensibility into the world and the manner in which you interact with other people. Because in my experience  and I am sure this is shared by most people  when you go out into the world it does not feel like what we are seeing on social media and on the national news. People are fundamentally good and we share so much more than what appears to divide us right now. And I do not know. I despair of the way that I hear these narratives being spun online. And so to me it is almost a reminder to myself to remember that what you see there is not necessarily a reflection of the world's objective reality.  Yeah. Hear hear. So true. And at least for me over the last few weeks that has been one of the best medications is the abstaining from these inputs that are very much designed to polarize very much designed to upset. So that is an incredibly good reminder. And I really appreciate you taking the time man. I have been looking forward to this. This conversation is landing at the perfect time for me having just come back from this time off the grid with pages and pages of notes on what I hope to be big picture changes or additions or subtractions that of course are great in theory. Fantastic. Well done chap. You put it all down on paper but you have got to translate it somehow. So this I think will be a nice push for me. You have a very inspiring story. You also have a very human story and you have not just the highlights but you have the low lights and the difficult times as we all do. And you have been very vulnerable and forthcoming in sharing that full picture with the world. And I think it is such a service. It is such a gift that you do that. So thank you very much for doing what you do Rich. I really appreciate it.  Thanks man. I appreciate that. And I think vulnerability is something that we can all use a little bit more of in this world. And when I hear other people being vulnerable it gives me permission to be vulnerable and I think there is real strength in that. So I appreciate that. And I am happy to be somebody to hold you accountable for this next chapter. I am excited to see how this is going to manifest. But I would encourage you to just figure out something to latch onto so that you can get into action and not just ruminate and make more notes. And if you need somebody to hold your hand to the flame on that I am happy to be that guy.  Right. So I do not spend the next year deciding which bike to ride. I will do my best. So getting something on the calendar. For me if it is not in the calendar and if somebody else does not know about it is probably made up. So I will get something on the calendar. And I am looking forward to it. I am really looking forward to it. Because I know it can be done. It is not the first time out of the gate actually putting something together. I am just out of practice. And hot damn stakes and consequences  if people prefer the term incentives great  they really do work wonders. So I am looking forward to it. And I have really enjoyed this conversation so thank you very much Rich. And to everybody listening we will have links to everything that we have discussed in the show notes at tim.blogpodcast. You can just search Rich Roll and it will pop right up. You can find him again at richroll.com. And until next time be safe out there experiment often be kinder than you think necessary and thanks for tuning in. Interview with Peter Attia on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Trauma is not what happens to you it is what happens inside you. - Gabor Mat  Some people in the comments are asking Which ayahuascaibogaine retreat center would you recommend? and similar questions. To avoid DIY medicine potential injuries and other liability headaches we have decided not to publish these Interview with Dr. Andrew Huberman on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast   