 Sarah welcome to the show. It is nice to finally see you.  Likewise.  And I thought we would start with an unfinished story from my perspective which came about when I had COVID and I was isolating and I was watching multiple episodes of Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee and I watched your episode where you had coffee with Jerry and you were beginning to tell this heartfelt story. You said I went through a terrible depression. I remember my stepfather says What does it feel like?' And then Jerry jumps in to say Excuse me to the wait staff Can I get some half-and-half? And you are like Really? Was it that much of an emergency? And then the edit cut to a different segment of the conversation. So I was wondering if it is possible for you to finish the cliffhanger because I was actually interested to hear the rest of that I went through a terrible depression. I remember my stepfather saying What does it feel like?' And then you got cut off by the half-and-half.  Wow. Yes I could tell you exactly. It is one of the few very clear memories I have of that time. Depression came over me when I was 13 like I always say it was as fast as getting the flu. You ever get the flu and from one moment to the next you feel fine and then you go Oh oh my God I have the flu. It was that fast. Just like a cloud covering the sun and all of a sudden it is dark. And it lasted for a few years and it was the '80s and I was put on Xanax. That is a crazy story. And ultimately was just given more and more and more until I was 13 and taking 16 Xanax a day four Xanax four times a day.  Good Lord. Wow.  It just does not even seem possible. It cannot be legal to be giving a child that much drugs. My mom and my dad were kind of trying to come up with solutions and fix things and my stepdad was the only one who just asked me what it felt like. And it was the first time I had to think about what it felt like. And I really came up with the perfect description which is It felt just like I was homesick but I was home so there was no way to satiate it. There was nothing to hope for. There was no home to go to. I was home.  Yeah. And that was where? If we place you in time where were you at the time? Were you still in New Hampshire?  206 County Road Bedford New Hampshire.  New Hampshire.  03110.  Can you think of or identify anything that led to that wave crashing over you at that time? Is there anything that you can point to that acted as a trigger?  I remember the moment it happened what was happening. I was a chronic bedwetter and we had the eighth grade camping trip which was a four-day camping trip up Mount Cardigan. And I was the student leader and I cried the whole time and I had diapers hidden in my sleeping bag and I just felt humiliated and homesick. Nobody caught me with the  I slipped diapers in my sleeping bag so that I would not pee in my sleeping bag. I was 12 13 but I just was painfully homesick and I never enjoyed a moment of it. It was terrible. I probably would have loved it. Anyway it was humiliating and we come home and I just want to go home and go into bed and I have got my giant backpack with all my stuff and everyone's getting off the bus and my mom picks me up. She was a photographer and she just was taking pictures of me like a paparazzi and I was begging her to stop. And it was this very odd combination of being photographed and ignored at the same time and that is when it happened. And there is a picture of it. I have a picture of the moment depression took hold of me.  It is kind of incredible that you have that locked in the amber in a way. You have that moment captured. And part of the reason I am asking is I do not have a clear vision of when the depressive episodes that I have experienced started. I know it seems to be congenital. My dad has had extended depressions for as long as I can remember. I do not know when my experience of that started right and in retrospect it kind of seems like it was ever present. But what I would love to do is actually flash forward to something I read in a piece from a few years ago in The Guardian because I am curious about how this has kind of lent itself to your life. I read that your mom always said to be your own best friend.  Yeah.  Right this was at the very end of a Guardian interview I suppose and the paragraph reads As we say our goodbyes Mary the dog trots off down the corridor to pay some visits and Silverman asks if we can hug. I mention that she seems happy glowing in fact. Why? This is going to sound obnoxious' she replies but Mom always said be your own best friend and I really really mastered that.' And it goes on. Could you just elaborate on that because I think this is one of my lifelong quests is to get to that point. I would love to hear you just speak more to that and maybe just describe how your mom instilled it and also how you practiced it if that was something that you explicitly practiced?  I was a serial monogamist. I would not go out on a date with a guy without at least putting two years in.  Yeah.  I think maybe out of politeness. But there was one relationship I just completely lost myself. My partner fell in love with this independent woman and I became a completely dependent codependent  I got out of that relationship so emotionally atrophied I forgot who I was. I remember I just kept saying I do not know how to be and that was really scary for me. And I think from then on I really got very  it became really important to me to be alone and enjoy that. And I loved it. I would come home and go What do you want to do tonight me? I love hanging out with myself but I also love television. I said recently on my podcast I had to kind of admit I always say how much I love being alone and I do but I am constantly being kept company. I have got the TV on I am listening to Howard Stern. I guess when I listen to music I think it takes me to a new place that is not just company but it is a kampf. I am trying to use that word in a positive way. It is mein kampf!  Rebrand. Rebrand.  I did actually practice. I lived in this apartment building for 14 years I just moved into my first house since growing up in New Hampshire. But I would walk in from the apartment building and there were mirrors by the elevator and I would make myself look in the mirror and give myself a thumbs up. And even though it is silly  because it is silly I guess  it always made me laugh. It just makes me laugh. So it is nice to have kind of inside jokes with yourself. I also became very comfortable talking out loud when I am alone. When you first try it as an experiment you really have to break through a wall it feels so odd and now I am so comfortable doing it that oftentimes   Are you talking to yourself or other people the world in general? What is the content?  I just talk out loud. I think just creatively just as a human I will be saying my half of a conversation I am imagining or just be in conversation with myself. I mean I think when someone has a dog they feel comfortable doing that but essentially that is not talking to yourself you are talking to another living thing but remove the dog and there is not a big difference in that conversation.  In the conversation.  And so I got really comfortable talking out loud so much so that I have had boyfriends that are like What? And I am like No nothing. I was not talking to you but   I am talking to myself.  But I feel I get a lot out of that just talking because we are always  have this kind of inner monologue going on. Do we? I do not know. I think we do.  Yeah I think so.  We are always thinking something. Meditation is trying to clear that out so we must be always  have something in our heads.  Was that something that you always had? That feeling of enjoyment or being at ease with yourself and you just had to resurrect it after getting lost in that relationship? Or was it something that you were kind of building from the ground up afterwards?  My friends always made fun of me because I have the opposite of FOMO. One of my best friends John he loves telling this story. I was living in West Hollywood and all my friends lived on the east side and I just never saw them because it was I could not even imagine getting in my car and going to a bar to hang out. I do not know why. I like staying home. I love watching TV. Listen it is not very intellectual but it is really my joy. And there was a birthday party for two really close friends not even a block away and I did not make it. And he was just like You are unbelievable. But when I do go out I am social and I love talking to people and meeting new people. And I am a people person but I just really love I love being alone. And I have had friends especially now really annoyed with me that I am not connecting with them. And I feel busy because when I have free time I want to take a nap or watch TV or snuggle with my dog. And I love my friends and I do drop the ball a lot. I have a lot of friends that say Why is it always me calling you? And I feel terrible because I love them and I think of them and I keep track of them on social media  whatever these are asshole excuses but I am really not good at staying connected.  Well it makes me think of a friend Jason Fried talking about the opposite of FOMO as JOMO the Joy Of Missing Out.  Yeah. Oh that is great.  Yeah that is his take.  I mean there is nothing better than someone canceling plans for me. I am just like Ah.  Surprise gift surprise gift. So you mentioned watching TV are there series that you have re-watched multiple times or watched multiple times or if you had to is there anything that jumps to mind as something that you would absolutely replay?  Law  Order is my safe space. Something about the softcore murder the kind of comedian version of things ripped from the headlines not true crime but the   Homicidal but approachable?  Yeah. You only see blood and it is all Broadway actors playing cops and lawyers and I love watching the same actors playing different roles and I just  I think it comes from this which is when you are on the road it is a constant wherever you are you can find a Law  Order. And it is like my  what do they call it in the  my totem. You know the movie   Yeah it is totally. Yeah. Yeah. It is like a totem of some type it is some kind of a   It is a constant it is something I can always  I used to bring the same plaid blanket that I would shove into my bag just so I could put it over the hotel blanket and just have something just consistent. Something that feels like home. So I think that Law  Order has just always been that and now I am  it is so funny I am discovering I am loving Colombo from the '70s and '80s.  It is a classic.  Ugh it is so good and just bizarre. And I tend to not watch comedies even though I really should and when I do I am glad I did but I think as a comedian it feels stressful to  I do not go like Oh this would be relaxing because either I do not like it or I like it and I go Oh God I wish I wrote that. But I do end up liking it. And one show that is on that I watched the whole first three seasons twice through is and I am waiting for the fourth season and it is a comedy is What We Do in the Shadows.  What We Do in the Shadows. What is it about or what is the   Oh my God. It is on FX it looks like a reality show because it is one of those mockumentary style but it is about these three vampires.  That is right.  Living together in a house in Staten Island. And it is very kind of a show about nothing just about everyday life getting along but then they have unbelievable effects. So to see that in a format that is like reality TV the contrast is so fascinating and it is just brilliant it is   That is amazing. I did not realize that  I knew that name sounded familiar and I did not realize that it was made into a TV show because it started as the New Zealand mockumentary. I knew that I recognized the name.  Right it was a movie. Taika Waititi   Taika Waititi.   and Jemaine Clement.  That is right. Yeah. Yeah. That was outstanding. I had no idea that it had been made into a television series.  And the movie's so great but I have to say I love the series even more there is just some  the actors are unbelievable and it just it brings me a lot of joy. It does not give me that comedy stress for some reason. I think I am growing out of it.  When you say comedy stress what does that mean? You are analyzing it as it plays out in front of you because it is your craft? What do you mean by comedy stress?  Yeah I think so. And I think I have shed that a lot but I think comedians kind of go one of two ways. Judd Apatow watches everything comedy that comes out. Podcast movie TV he just loves consuming he loves comedy. It is like when you watch a Scorsese film or a Tarantino film where you go Oh these movies are made by someone who loves movies. I think Judd's love is of that school. But then there are other comedians and I am not proud that I fall into this that just they cannot  it is not relaxing to watch comedy. It is relaxing to watch a murder mystery or for me I like thrillers or murdery stuff. Peaky Blinders. Stuff that is just not in my world. Something that I can just get lost in.  When you wrote your memoir  Stories of Courage Redemption and Pee was there any part that you found particularly or very cathartic to put down on paper? I mean you have lived so publicly shared so many stories. Was there anything that just felt different or freeing or cathartic when you put it in the book? Or the opposite extremely difficult to kind of put down.  Well the first couple months of stuff I wrote I had to throw away because it was I was writing the way I thought a writer should write instead of just the prose of how I talk. Or just me however that is.  Using your voice. Right.  It is like the first time I did Fresh Air with Terry Gross I remember I was like Well Terry you know and then I was just like Who is this? I felt like I had to  I grew up with NPR I wanted to have that voice I felt like I needed to. So these moments where I found myself trying to do or be what I have seen before what is normal or what and then I had to just throw it out. And I was writing with such a furrowed brow and you could see it. But then just kind of almost being an investigative reporter in my life interviewing my parents and seeing how those stories their perspective on things were the same and where they were different and kind of be a detective in my own life to be able to tell a story and realizing stuff I had never realized. Having to deconstruct  I always thought Oh God. Well deconstructing comedy just ruins it. But it kind of does not it is interesting. And to me it is fascinating. It is what I love. And writing that book made me realize really see the trajectory of how I became a comedian. Because I had a dad who thought it was hilarious to teach his three-year-old swears and then I would yell those swears at the market. And I just I remember the feeling of yelling it out and all these grownups giving me this wild approval despite themselves. And that feeling I just became addicted. I remember my arms itched with glee. And of course I chased that. I chased it. Shock became my currency at three and four and five and it just made so much sense looking at how I depended on that. And then after my first special which was a standup movie actually I did not get a special with anyone. But the guy from Interscope was like I will make a movie. And Jesus Is Magic was my first special it came out like a movie. And after that I had to start over. That was my first special so it was the best of everything I had ever done kind of assembled. Now I had nothing. I had done it as a one-woman show for a few years and then it came out in like 2004 or 2005. So I had been working with that material for so long and then I just kept doing it a little bit. And then I was like   After it came out?  Yeah. I just did not know what to do because I had a real identity crisis and it was a great moment of growth in a way because people did not want to see the same material. I had to write new material. But in order to do that I had to disappoint audiences. I had to start over and now people came to see me. I was not just comedian number seven at the Improv lineup. People were coming to see me but I had to start over. But what they expected was to be shocked and surprised and I wanted to give them that. And I did not know how to do that because they had an expectation of it now. And what I had to realize was comedy dies in the second guessing of what your audience wants to see. It was never how I had started and now I found myself in this place where I was like Well if they are expecting to be surprised I need to surprise them. But then I am giving them what they are expecting. And I just had to stop. And I got very inspired by watching Chris Rock who does a special I mean he is such a pro he goes out on the road he runs it runs it runs it tweaks it all those things. And then he starts at zero and he goes to the Comedy Cellar or wherever he goes and they bring him up and the audience goes bananas. And he does not take on that pressure of wanting to give them what they want to see he just What do I got? He brings it down to zero. And he just he bombs. And maybe one or two or three things there is something there. It is work and you have to be brave enough to eat a bowl of shit and try new stuff and see where it goes. And then some stuff that bombs you cut and some stuff that bombs you still believe in There is something here I like this. It could be just missing a beat or an and or an article of a word or I am setting it up too much or I am not setting it up enough and you stick with  But the point is you have to be brave enough to bomb again and start over even if you are famous even if people come to see you and you know they are going to be disappointed. Because that process is you cannot avoid it you cannot write a monologue at home and memorize it it is just not how comedy works the audience is half of it.  And there is a I would have to imagine a toughness that you develop through repetitions of that attempting to rise from the ashes like a phoenix with zero just eating shit sandwiches over and over again. I have read and I actually do not know the details on this kind of deliberately because if I knew all the answers to the questions I was going to ask that would be very boring for me. I would love to hear a bit about your Saturday Night Live experience. Because I have read that that helped you to become tougher. And I do not know if that is true and I also do not know the details of what happened. But could you perhaps just describe what your experience was?  I think what I meant was it really was like a bootcamp. And I remember going in thinking Oh my gosh. I have this job where I can dream things up and then they are on television. And it did not necessarily go that way but it was a great experience and I learned so much. And it was still very much a boys club to use that old  and there were not many women around and it was just a very different time. It was about to really change but it had not yet. And I did like it and I got along with everyone and I really shined on Thursday nights for punch-up that was where I could really I felt like I   What is punch-up?  Oh so Thursday night you take the writers' room you sit around a big table and  I mean this is how it was in '94. And you go through all of the scripts that are now chosen to be on the show and you punch them up. You Oh there could be a joke here. Let us think maybe there is something better for this. Just go through it and see try to make it better as a group. And boy I mean it was  there was computers then but they were we still wrote on legal pads and gave it to a room of typists. I remember my first day I was put with these three guys who were hired right out of Harvard and we were all 22. But I did not go to college I was a standup. And they kind of put us together because we were the kids and the newbies or whatever. And I spent the whole day with these guys. And at the end of it they I mean they thought I was a typist they just assumed I was a typist.  At the end of the day.  They were hanging out we are getting to know each other and they go So are you a typist? And I was like What? I am a writer like you. And it was just it  I always think of how it was for me to be a woman in comedy as how it was for me to be a woman in basketball. Because I played basketball growing up but not at school I played at the Y. And so I always played with almost all men. And I still although I have not played since March 2020 play pickup games with almost all men. Sometimes a woman will play and it is great. And I always demand that we are on the same team because I hate how they always go Well we will each take a girl. I have played my whole life I play but that feeling of going to pick up games and the you can feel guys rolling their eyes or a burden they feel that they have a girl on their team or this and having to prove yourself so much. And I like using this analogy with other women in comedy or other women that I play basketball with every shot as a woman that you shoot and miss is like missing a hundred baskets because you feel the weight of the guy going Argh. And maybe I am putting that on them. Maybe it is true and maybe I am putting it on them. And either way it should not be in my head but it is. And you carry this weight and it does not help you. And I always say sometimes especially in New York I love just watching the pickup games and stuff and there is always maybe there is a woman playing and I go Watch how many times these guys shoot and miss and shake it off and shoot again and shoot again and shoot again. That is how you get better. You cannot take on this Oh I am a woman in a guy's game. And I That feeling that if I shoot and miss I better not shoot for a while. Because I better just work on setting picks. And it really taught me something learning suddenly taking the focus off of myself which is really a self-centeredness and watching the guys and watching them fail shake it off shoot again shoot again. And go Oh yeah. Yeah. I can keep shooting if I have a shot I should shoot. Does that make sense at all as an analogy?  It does. Yeah no it does make sense. It does make sense. And did it take you  so my understanding with the SNL   Oh God I completely forgot what we were talking about SNL.  No no that is okay. No that is okay because I think it ties to the basketball in the sense that you got a is it true that you got fired by fax or let go by fax?  I got a call a three-way call from my agent and my manager and it never occurred to me that I was not coming back. I was already writing sketches I was like And this year's going to be better. It is going to be great. And I go Oh they are both calling me. I go Well hello. What wonderful news must this be? And of course I was fired. And they said that they had gotten a fax.  They had gotten a fax.  I mean it is fine that they got a fax that is the business that is how it was. And they let go of a lot of people that were had their first year. But I remember starting out comedy and guy comics giving me advice. They go The best woman comic is Paula Poundstone. And that was probably true. I love her. But they go And the reason is because a guy could do the same material and it would work. And I bought it. I bought that. I mean looking back I am just like that is so absurd that a woman comic could not talk about the experience of being a woman. The conceit was yes the audience is half men and half women but the women are on dates and they only laugh if the man laughs so your audience is the men.  I never thought about that.  Well it is absurd and stupid.  Yeah.  But that was what it was.  Question for you. Well see you mentioned not taking on this burden of for lack of a better term kind of hiding say as a woman taking a shot in a basketball game if you happen to miss. In the case of SNL because part of what is impressed me does impress me still about you is just your longevity in the craft. I mean it is really it is remarkable. It is really remarkable and it is not all together common at all. And I am curious after the SNL were you able to dust yourself off and just get right back to work quickly?  No.  Did it take a while to recover from?  Yes.  All Right. Please tell me more.  I have a Polaroid picture I took of myself and I saw it when I was moving. And I had cut my bangs maybe an inch just insane looking bangs and it just says No confidence on it I wrote. And I just I remember thinking like Am I in show business? I mean I did not know where I fit in. I did not know who I was. I did not know how to just  and eventually I just put my head down and kept doing standup and it led me wherever it led me. I have really never made a plan in show business. I have never thought like I want to do this. Or I know this is maybe not the it is not advice at all but I have never set goals for myself. I just always kind of I do not know.I love the stuff I do. I think of myself as I do odd jobs. And when I could not do standup I said Well I have to do a podcast. What am I going to do with all of this? But I do think part of the longevity is just being open to be changed and to be  What I learned after that first special that I talked to you about that really changed my life along with therapy great therapy. But to be brave enough to bomb to change and no longer have the same fans to disappoint people and just go on the trajectory I go on. There is a line in a song in a musical Sunday in the Park with George it is a song called Move On and she says The choice may be a mistake the choosing is not you have got to move on. And it does free you. I feel like you can thinking of that the whole play is quite brilliant it is about art and life. But that it does not matter the choice. It does not make a difference. You are going to wind up where you are going to wind up but make one. Because it can be so paralyzing I think. Not wanting to make a mistake. And I think what I learned from that basketball analogy as well along with a brilliant quote by Charlie Kaufman and it is being talked about a lot just in general is how essential failure is and what you do with it which is not a new concept anymore.  Is this it? I just pulled it up. Failure is a badge of honor it means you have risked failure. If you do not risk failure you are never going to do anything that is different than what you have already done or what someone else has done.  Oh wow. I never heard the whole thing. All I knew is Do not fear failure. Failure should be a badge of honor. It means you risked failure. And look at all these  the concept of cancel culture and I can argue either side of it passionately. But another thing is if you think of yourself as a risk taker in comedy for instance the thing that makes it a risk is that there is something to lose is that there is consequence. You cannot just say I am risky and then be angry if there are any consequences. You have got to take it and be changed by it or disagree with it maybe. But wonder about it. It is like when you get notes from a network and I know there must be a  I know this sounds very specific to show business but of course any job where you have a boss. When you get notes from a network and you go This is stupid. This is not even There is always something that they are onto some germ of something the spirit of that note that you need to figure out because they are onto something but they maybe do not know how to articulate it.  Yeah. The first sentence in that quote by Charlie Kaufman that I do not have any context for was Do not simplify And then it goes on to Do not fear failure And I wonder what that refers to.  We need to find the whole thing. Oh Inspirational Writing Advice from Charlie Kaufman. It is on YouTube. We are going to have to watch it. I have heard it as a quote or I read it as a quote and I was like Oh my God. And completely attached myself to it. And of course I never just Googled the whole thing which is now I am very excited to watch.  It is 41 minutes. We will link to that. Charlie Kaufman's got all sorts of good quotes Say who you are really say it in your life and in your work. Tell someone out there who has lost someone not yet born someone who will not be born for 500 years. Your writing will be a record of your time it cannot help but be that. But more importantly if you are honest about who you are you will help that person be less lonely in their world because that person will recognize him or herself in you and that will give them hope. All right. Charlie Kaufman I am sold. Charlie Kaufman who was as I understand it One of modern cinema's most celebrated writers with work including Surreal Fantasy Being John Malkovich cerebral sci-fi Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind comedy-drama Adaptation and extraordinary animation Anomalisa. I do not know that one.  Oh yeah.  Wow. All right. Well we will put that video Inspirational Writing Advice From Charlie Kaufman 41 minutes. I have spent way too much time on the internet with this kind of accidental audience or unexpected audience after my first book in 2007 and I have seen in the last say four or five years some really disconcerting patterns emerge just watching this large  I mean for me large-ish following   Massive.   and I imagine I have seen a lot of well-intentioned in some cases well-educated does not really matter but thoughtful people get pushed to the polar ends into these extremes or pushed themselves or just been led by algorithms who knows but the   Right.   it makes me think of and I could also be getting the facts wrong on this but it was either Fahrenheit 451 or 1984 one of those lovely dystopian novels that makes me think of the book burning in one of them but probably Fahrenheit 451 and there is this kind of monolithic state and the firemen and so on. But the book burning started with the people the people themselves were burning the books and the kind of righteousness porn and like reputational assassination that I have seen even among people who you would think to be of the same kind of tribe let us just say listeners of this podcast is really disconcerting to me and I am curious to know where you think this goes. Like does it burn itself out in some fashion? Does it get increasingly bad with higher and higher consequences? Because I mean you are watching a lot of these events unfold and you are noticing them. If you had to hazard a guess where do you think this goes right three years from now two or three years or four or five years from now what do you think it looks like?  I am going to have to say a very solid I do not know but I could not begin to guess what the future holds for us in terms of this. I think the sooner people realize we are all totally connected and you are fighting with yourself basically the better but I do think we are at really like the pendulum has frozen in both   Extremes.  Yeah. And they are almost a mirror image of each other in a real fucked up way as much as neither side would want to see that.  Yeah.  But I hope that there is a  I do not know. I do not know how to an  what is your answer to that? I mean listen when you leave social media for a while you realize it is not the whole world it is not even most of the world or half of the  it runs a very small part of the world and   Yeah.  But it is given us this thing where we in real time can see how like almost everyone  well it seems like everyone feels and it can  yeah I do not know. I do not know where it is going to go from here. I mean listen we  and unless Facebook and YouTube radicalize people by algorithm it is not like they are set out to do it but greed has made them do it because inciting rage is  they found very lucrative.  Yeah. Twitter too.  And Twitter. And so you see a headline and the headline is designed  even reputable places now their headline is click bait. It is so one small piece of a story that is the most salacious. And maybe if you click on it and read it it proves to not be true at all or is wildly minimal to  but who clicks on it and reads it? Very few people they are reacting to  so it is just these little beams of light coming out at your face to upset you and make you angry. And whoever you are it is designed just for you.  A guest on the podcast very bright guy who has the most endurance of any guest I have ever had Balaji Srinivasan he talks about the media you consume having root access to your brain in the same way that you can have root access to a computer and therefore control the computer right. So if coding is scripting the behavior let us just call it behavior of computers then media is basically the code that gets installed into humans and so when you have algorithms on Twitter or anywhere else for that matter YouTube right that are kind of self perpetuating by reinforcing to greater and greater extremes because they are more effective for producing clicks. Of course I am not a Nostradamus I do not know where that leads but I do see more and more examples of the kind of hatred and vitriol online resulting in people getting doxxed so having their physical addresses and personal information posted in the hopes that there will be some to type of violent consequence. And I really do  and I think it is also just my nature I come from a long line of worriers. So I have to be aware of my predisposition to go to worst-case scenarios. I do not know there is some part of me that maybe perversely just gets something out of imagining these   I think for a lot of people and I think myself included and I really see it like in my stepmom and so many of us that worry is even though we do not want to be in worry we do not want to be worried it is our comfort zone because it is familiar.  Do you experience that yourself or do you   Yep.   see that more so in  yeah.  I do. I do. I mean all these things I know and talk about are purely aspirational for me so I can hear myself talking moving my mouth.  Well I mean in a sense they are aspirational but I am still impressed by this sort of success story around the be your own best friend. I think that is very rare. I think that at least in my kind of concentric circle of friends I think that particularly if people are driven and I think even though you may not have a five- or a 10-year or a 20-year plan I mean I think most people would consider you very successful at what you do. A lot of that drive seems to translate to people being very dissatisfied with themselves or hypercritical of themselves or at least they seem to correlate. So I mean what advice would you give somebody who is maybe prone to self-flagellating? Would you have any advice to them if they are not yet at a place where they maybe they do not even particularly like themselves right but they use work as a way to occupy their minds so that they are distracted from that?  I think in terms of the self-flagellation I see it and I do not mean this to pile on someone who is constantly putting themselves down in their head or out loud but it is not modesty. It is self obsession. Unless those thoughts turn into change that make you into the person you would be very happy to be then it is very masturbatory. It is there is no room to observe and watch and be delighted and mused by others. It is just all self. And listen I mean I think I have friends that are comics that cannot be alone. They are out until four in the morning and only go home when they can drop to sleep and it worries me some of my friends.  Why do you think they do that?  Because being alone is terrifying for them being still being alone being alone with their thoughts is terrifying. And listen I admit to you I love being alone but alone with my thoughts is a whole other thing. I mean I am often but I still constantly entertain myself with television and radio and   Law  Order?  I just think there is when you accept yourself the way you accept any schmuck on the street you just have a lot more room for other stuff. I had a therapist who said Look in the mirror less and I found it to be incredibly profound because instead of like  just know that any one of us looking in the mirror does not see what other people see. Not that what other people see is what is important but we cognitively distort what we see in the mirror so much. I mean look at the whole thing with selfies and I see it the same as people who heckle and I know that sounds really a weird connection but hecklers to me whether they are yelling something out lovely or mean or whatever it is it is interrupting like a show. And the same with people who are constantly taking selfies. I feel like the subtext is the same for both which is I exist right? And that is ultimately what it is that life is this existential crisis of like what is it to exist? And we need it to mean something.  Yeah. I completely agree with you on the  and I say this as someone who I think is pretty self-absorbed as evidenced by my sort of depressive episodes in the past because   Same same.  No because it is the sort of the me me me I I I song right when you are either suffering from depression or anxiety you are kind of trapped in a self-referential loop right? So I think   Yeah it is not conceited. It is awful but it is consumed to be consumed.  Yeah. And I think that what is been hard for me is realizing that but not being able to extricate myself from that loop right? So this might be a good time to just ask in what ways therapy has been most helpful to you because there is good the bad and the ugly among therapists right? So I am   Yes.   wondering how has therapy most helped you or why has it been helpful?  Besides that it is another perspective on your life and how you see things and how you relate to people  listen there are plenty of terrible therapists out there but it is always bizarre to me that people will drive 10 different cars to see which one they like best and if you are lucky enough to be able to afford therapy and it is becoming at once less and less accessible and more and more accessible because there is a lot of stuff online and there is a lot of stuff  I mean the best therapist I ever had charged 100 a session. This is recently I mean up until very recently but I mean that is not nothing but it is for therapy. It is pretty good but it is become more and more accessible and I just think if you have the luxury to be able to find the right one for you do that but I found the right one for me and he just changed my perspective in a lot of ways. And you want some greatest hits?  Yeah.  Is it?  Yeah.  Like he said   I mean if you have got yeah definitely. It sounds like you have a couple locked and loaded. So let us do it.  I have one he said Have you ever predicted anything that is happened in your life? I go Well yeah I guess not. He goes We are looking through a pinhole. You do not know what is coming up next. We have a fear of the unknown. That is why we tend to and I am very ritualistic and I it is hard to get me to try new things actually. And I try to break out of that but we have a fear of the unknown. We have a fear of change but like the truth is you should be just on the edge of your seat. What is going to be next? I do not know it is  so I thought that looking we are looking through a pinhole we do not know what is coming up next. I like that. He changed my perspective in a lot of ways and I realized like listen I see this when I think about when I went into depression so fast and I think about it in beautiful wonderful ways as well but I mean you change your perspective by one degree and the whole room looks different the whole world looks different. And that is neat to me.  How often do you when you have been in the sweet spot whatever that means from a therapy perspective how often are you doing sessions? Is it once a week twice a week once every two weeks what is your cadence?  I am very erratic with it. I will go once a week if I am working through something and I will go like  then I will just sometimes I will go like months or a month or something and be like Oh you know what? I need to talk this out or  I have gone for many years regularly and I kind of go  I am starting actually with a new therapist and I have got my second session on a Wednesday.  So why are you starting with the new therapist if you had a great therapist?  He is so wonderful. Well I could just say he is retiring but I actually left a little before he retired and I love him so much but I am talking about path  I am not giving him a path to redemption or whatever but he does not need to be redeemed. I just  we had a session after I lost my friend to COVID that was my writing partner on this musical the music part and I had my first session with him since spending three months in New York during the first three months of the pandemic. And I told him the whole story of losing Adam and it just seemed  it was all so  he texted me Oh my God think I have this thing. And then like Oh I am still sick I cannot get a test anywhere. This is crazy I have like a really high fever. And then not getting anymore texts. And he was in the hospital. Then I get a text I am in the hospital with COVID. And then the texts stopped and then his girlfriend was reaching out to us and then he was gone. I mean because it was so early they put him on a ventilator and he was  anyway I tell him the whole story and I guess I do not have to not say this because it is my therapy you know what I mean? I feel like   Yeah.  But he was like Well what did it say on his death certificate because they are calling everything COVID now because they pay hospitals 30000 to call something COVID. And he is like a COVID denier. And I do not care what he is but he did not need to bring it there. And I was pretty positive the thing to say was Are you okay? Or Gee I am so sorry. And now I feel like someone online who He did not say exactly what I needed him to say and now I am angry at him. I am not angry at him. I love him and I am so grateful for him but I just needed to detach with love. And I have a very close friend who also knows him and said Just talk to him about it or whatever. And for some reason I do not feel angry about it I just want to kind of move on. I had wonderful years with him and I do not need him to say  well listen he is on his own thing and I am so grateful for what he taught me but I just kind of moved on.  You can get a lot from someone and a lot of value and they can do something you really disagree with. And the latter does not necessarily negate the former which is hard to sometimes see out there on social media.  Oh yeah it is odd that we seem to be living in a world where people just expect you to  they are just if you say something that was not in their mind what you should say they are just so disappointed. And I have always maintained personally I go Hey I am not everyone's cup of tea and it is okay if you do not like what I say and it is okay if you are no longer a fan.  Yeah. I had the author and I mean she is just an incredible historian and historical thinker Doris Kearns Goodwin on the podcast and I asked her if she thought leaders like say an Abraham Lincoln or an FDR or a Churchill could exist could actually be elected in today's day and age? And she said no because the veneer of perfection has to be  the facade has to be presented in such a way that if any of the kind of foibles and flaws of many of these leaders had been transparent or were transparent in today's day and age there is no way they would get elected even though in other respects they were really effective. So it is definitely  I do not know why today is the day I have decided to showcase all my dystopian concerns about the world in the next five to 10 years.  I bring it out in people.  Oh. Now The Sarah Silverman Podcast I think you alluded to at least one of the reasons perhaps and I think that you began the podcast but why did you decide to start the podcast?  Yeah the pandemic happened and I could not do standup and I just felt like this is  where do I put all this? And just made sense to do a podcast. I have been resisting doing a podcast for so long and I   Why had you been resisting it?  Because everyone was doing it. I was not an OG like you but I really liked the idea of being able to talk to to hear from people all over. And I am shocked by the people who call from so many other countries. This is just so American it did not occur to me that this would go to other countries it just did not cross my mind. And so that is been really neat but just that people from all over are really calling in and I was hoping that would happen and that I get to  . it is voicemails. Every once in a while I go I need to talk to this person more and will call but it is mostly voicemails. But people will call in and follow up and I have become kind of connected to this kind of community but it is always changing. And it is so different from my standup. First of all sometimes I listen back to the podcast and I go There is no evidence of a comedian. Who do I think I am? But then I do not know I try to remember joy before I go on. I go Stop taking yourself seriously  I take a little puff at night and then if I listen to some podcasts I go Who the fuck do you think you are? It is embarrassing to me but then I go back and do it again and people call in with questions and I really feel like I can help or at least say what I am thinking. it is morphed into this thing that I did not expect. And I did not really know what it would be but I knew I just wanted to talk and hear people's thoughts and opinions and then let that be the trajectory of the episode and it is been really fun.  How do you choose which to speak to because you use  I was looking at your Twitter feed. You have an enormous New York City plus sized Twitter following like 12 point something million and you use SpeakPipe. But with that sized audience you must get an absolute avalanche of different voice messages. How do you choose what to respond to?  I have got two producers on the show Raj and Dyana and they go through all of them and they bring me about 20. And they know I want different  . because it becomes very we all think alike kind of so I am always looking for another perspective or anything. And they kind of know what I would look for. And we listen to them the night before like tonight because I record on Tuesdays and it comes out on Thursday and I just go Oh yeah that is good. I kind of talk through like what I might say and I just Yeah yeah let us do that one. And I probably pick like 18 of the 20 and then that night or the next morning I will kind of think about it more and make like an outline just to have thoughts in my head. And then we record and sometimes I respond the way I planned and sometimes I do not at all I go a different direction and then I always record way more than we need. And so we either throw stuff away or if it is evergreen could be used another week it is not about the news of this week or something we might save it because then when I work on the play in March April May I will probably be able to do some episodes in New York but I like to stockpile some that are brand new but could be a month from now or so. And maybe you did not want those exact details but that is basically how it goes.  Are you kidding? I love exact details.  Yeah.  I stockpile exact details so you are in good shape.  Yeah it is interesting because with my standup I am a very slow honer I will work on a joke for months months months months maybe even a year or two years and I hone it so slowly even though it may sound kind of in the moment I am working on it inch by inch. And on the podcast it is very immediate. It is messy so I am loving now that I can do standup more and more less and less and then more and more depending they are very different. And I like doing odd jobs. I like doing different stuff. And when they converge it is kind of neat where if I say something I go Oh that could maybe be a joke.  Has anything from the podcast popped in an unusual way for you where one topic or one episode unexpectedly got particular traction? Has anything been really surprising for you overall?  Yeah I am always surprised. Well at first I was like I usually pick three little clips to post on social media. And do we go with what works best or do we go with what  because it is a quandary because then you become   You run into the same problem with second guessing the audience on stage right?  Yeah.  I want to dig into this because this is an important choice right? Do you use what you think is going to get kind of the cheap applause so to speak or the easy layup or do you use something else? So how do you make that   But the irony is and I do not know if this is irony but I would post those clips that I thought were funny and people are like Meh. And then I post something and I go Oh that is opinionated thinky hippy dippy granola stuff that is also me but And people really responded to the more serious stuff. There is a couple comedians that have become like motivational speakers and I find it incredibly obnoxious and then I am like How am I different? Am I doing that? And I think maybe that is why because people always go Why do you always say you are talking out of your ass or whatever? I go Because I am. This is me in process trying to make sense of life. And so my answers there is no authority in my answers other than my own life experience and having not died. And I have lived a long while I hope to keep living a while and I have learned a bunch of stuff but it is a fine line and I would be horrified if I saw that I had become that. And I think that is why I  and I really spot when people qualify things a lot and now I am doing it right now. And I do it on my show sometimes where I go Oh I do not know. I am talking out of my ass. What do I know? But I feel like it needs that qualifier just to prevent me feeling like I think I know best.  Yeah. Yeah yeah.  My mother was like that and I have become my mother. She could not help but  I mean there were not enough comments cards in the world for my mother. She felt she could correct so many things just in the strangers around her. I mean it was almost like a horror movie. You could pick up a book there was a book she had that like a guide to Santa Barbara and it had in pen corrections all throughout it like grammar. But now I have found that I have become that person that I am like I am helping. She would always go I am helping. And I would go Oh. But I was at like 7-Eleven and a 19-year-old kid or something was buying orange soda and Doritos and I just could not control myself. And I was like Really? Almonds are the same price. This is what you are feeding your body? And I am just like Oh my God Sarah.  I am helping. I would love to ask you  there are a few questions. I will tell you what I will give you a twofer and you can pick which one you want to answer first.  Oy!  So the first is how you chose to become involved with I Smile Back. And the other is what you learned or any kind of lessons taken away from Garry Shandling.  I will just do both of them in order. I Smile Back was a book written by Amy Koppelman and she had sent it to my agent at the time who is a real character. If you ever want to interview an agent I do not know why you would want to but he is fascinating named Michael Kives. And he sent it to me and he said She wants you to play this part. And I was like She does? And I read it and it was really interesting. And then she and her friend Paige Dylan wrote the screenplay. And then they were very  I said I would do it and they were really collaborative and we worked on a lot of it together. And it was very hard. I mean I remember thinking Yeah this is a really heavy movie but it does not mean it is not going to be fun. Yeah. I will act. That it is the reality of the moment and then they will say cut and we will have  it will be fun. And it was. It was a good experience but it was so  I did not know that you have to have your 10000 100000 hours in. Tom Hanks seems like he can just  I always heard he jokes around and he is like the belle of the ball. He is funny and all this and then they say action and he is Captain Phillips. So I just thought   Right.   Oh yeah. I do not have the experience to be able to access everything. Once I access those kind of things they are just on my lap. You know? So it was   Yeah.  I remember a friend would call and say How is it going? And I would go This is really a bummer. I was not able to just separate. So it was just a lot.  To compartmentalize.  But I am so glad I did it. And it was an incredible experience. That movie's really relentless though. You know? Even   Yeah.  What is the movie Gabourey Sidibe won the Oscar for? Precious. Even Precious had moments of relief.  Yeah.  This movie is just like too much. But it was really fun to do. And Koppelman just directed her next book that was made into a movie which is really cool. Anyway so that was that. And the second question   I want to say two things real quick. So the first is I thought you did an outstanding job. I think a lot of folks have exposure to your comedy of course and you as comic and so on but less exposure to you in a dramatic capacity. And I thought you did a really outstanding job and a really nuanced job. So I wanted to say that. And I have had dinner with Amy before she is a very smart very observant fascinating woman. So I wanted to also encourage people to check out her work. Garry Shandling.  What did I learn from him? I cannot say enough about him. And really for anyone who is listening please watch Judd Apatow's two-part documentary on him.  Is it The Zen Diaries of Garry Shandling?  Yeah. Oh it is so good. But Garry was so generous. We played basketball at his house every Sunday and there were big celebrities that played. There were writers' assistants PAs that played. It did not matter. He assembled this ragtag group and they were all his friends equally. I said there are NCIS scripts that a writer would show to Garry and he would give  he put so much into helping writers helping actors. Everything he learned the hard way he really offered up to us on a silver platter. And some things you have got to learn the hard way but so many things he really  I learned about silence about taking the  in stand-up even just the moments in between the words and the currency in that. Currency sounds like a  or the specialness or the  that you are saying something in those moments just as well. And to not be afraid of them to not feel like you need to fill that empty space. And it is interesting learning that for stand-up but then in life. I hear my dad when we talk on the phone now we FaceTime and it is different. But when we would talk on the phone and there would be like a dip in conversation he would go Um ah ah ah um um um um uh That fear of silence is so real in people. You know? And I learned that from him. It is very interesting. And he studied Buddhism. He was a Buddhist but it was not because he was naturally that way. It is because he was riddled and he needed it. And that is all of us. And trying to just be honest and get to the core of  he kept a journal which I think your comedy notebook is half journal. And he would say Just be Garry Shandling whatever that is on stage. All these things. Judd helped clean out his house and stuff and would post  took pictures of a lot of his journal pages that are I do not think he would be upset about it are so revealing and so helpful. He was not perfect but he was in search of. And just even learning that or watching that in him was so fortifying and helpful.  Here's just a question that is sometimes directly leading to a dead end but that is on me. So I will try it. Just be Garry Shandling made me think of this. So if you could put a message any message could be a quote could be an image could be anything really on a billboard metaphorically speaking just to get it out to a hundreds of millions billions of people what might you put on that billboard?  Two things come to mind. One is the story about Fred Phelps who started the Westboro Baptist Church.  I do not know this story.  So he started the Westboro Baptist Church. You have got to interview Megan Phelps-Roper.  All right.  She   I will write it down.   grew up in the Westboro Baptist Church and her story is amazing. She is amazing her change and the ways in which she did not change that she was always this beautiful person but to grow up in something and believe it with your whole heart. Anyway her story's incredible. Fred Phelps her grandfather started the Westboro Baptist Church. And of course these are the people that show up to funerals with signs that say God hates fags. They are those people. And people showed up at his funeral with signs that said Sorry for your loss. And I just thought that was the most beautiful act of protest I have ever heard. And for some reason I feel like that on a billboard would be useful for everyone in some way.  I do not want to chip too much of your time Sarah. I am having a great time. Is there anything else that you would like to talk about? Is there anything else that you would like to comment on? Any suggestions you would like to make? Anything you would like to point people's attention to that comes to mind?  I' Grab joy where you can get it. Grab joy where you find it. I was single and I was in DC and I was supposed to go home to L.A. for a friend's memorial service. Comedians kill themselves a lot. And I kind of wanted to go back to New York to see this guy I was dating. And I go I feel guilty. She goes Go to New York grab joy where you can get it. Your friend is gone. You can honor him in your mind. You know? There are other ways.  Yeah.  Although   Grab joy where you can get it.   comedian memorials are really fun.  Okay. I cannot let that sit. So tell me more. What makes them fun?  I find funerals to be pretty fun usually. Even if you are sobbing you are with a group of people that loved this person talking about the greatest hits of who they were and how they impacted everyone. And with comedians  I mean Garry Shandling's memorial was amazing. You are laughing and crying.Kevin Nealon for lack of a better word closed the show the memorial. And he was sobbing and he was killing. And it was just all real and true. But afterwards when everyone goes their separate ways and lives life is when grief punches you in the face and you are at line at Ralphs two weeks later. But you are just   But in the meantime    hearing the funniest stories and the greatest things they wrote and said. It is a celebration. I think that is a  you know.  Sarah Kate Silverman. Where is the Kate from?  I do not know. I think I was supposed to be named Kate Sarah Silverman and my Nana said No I know someone named Kate and I do not like her or something. So they go All right well we will say Sarah Kate. And that is the amazing story of my  if I was a boy I know I was going to be John Robert after the Kennedys.  Wow. John Robert. I think Sarah Kate works. I like it. Sarah Kate Silverman SarahKSilverman on Twitter. Thank you so much for taking the time. People should absolutely check out The Sarah Silverman Podcast where each week you can find joy where you can get it one bite-sized audio morsel at a time. And your book your first book memoir  Stories of Courage Redemption and Pee.  That is from 2010   It is from 2010.   but the musical is called   The musical   The musical is called The Bedwetter and it comes out  previews start in April at the Atlantic Theater in New York. And that is based on the book but it is just the year I was 10. And I am not in it. There is a little pint-size incredible me. I mean the actress is incredible.  Well congratulations. I know that is been a long time in the making. I know that your dad has been counting down the days as best I can tell.  Yes. Yes. Like how much longer do I need to stay alive?  And it is here it is here in just a few months. Fingers crossed and thank you so much for taking the time Sarah I really enjoyed the conversation and getting to know you not just through doing the homework and research with the conversation but having the conversation itself. And I hope that we get to have another conversation sometime. And I appreciate it!  Me too!  And for everybody listening we will put links to everything in the show notes and you can find that at tim.blogpodcast. And until next time thank you for tuning in.  Bye! Interview with Sarah Silverman on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Interview with Jerry Seinfeld on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast In order for art to imitate life you have to have a life. - Whitney Cummings  if you just tell the truth and get your heart broken as a comedian you will have a house. - Whitney Cummings This episode how to turn pain and struggleinto amazing creative   