 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of The Tim Ferriss Show where it is my job each and every episode to interview world-class performers to try to tease out the habits routines frameworks favorite books and so on favorite cereals maybe who knows that you can apply to your own life. And my guest today is Steven Pressfield. I have wanted to have Steven on this podcast for a very long time. You can find him on Twitter SPressfield. Steven is a former Marine and graduate of Duke University. He became an overnight success as a writer after 30 years of abject failure. Those are his words not mine. So we will dig into that. Identifying the omnipresence if I am pronouncing that correctly of resistance the interior force of self-sabotage he described in The War of Art one of the best book titles of all time has saved his own artistic life and helped many others struggling to find their creative calling. Pressfield's novels of the ancient world including the non-fiction The Warrior Ethos are required reading at West Point Annapolis and in the Marine Corps. He lives in Los Angeles. His newest book is A Man At Arms an epic saga about a reluctant hero of the Roman Empire and the rise of a new faith. You can find him online Steven with a V stevenpressfield.com on Twitter SPressfield and Instagram stevenpressfield. Steven welcome to the show.  It is great to be here Tim. I have been wanting to have a conversation with you as well. So I am excited about this too. It is great.  And we are going to run out of time well before we run out of content I think in part because I have all these notes in front of me I have all these questions and then there is I would say at least 51 percent of me that just wants to turn this into a selfish opportunity to have therapy from you. So we will see what blend of all of those elements   All right.  We will see what blend   I was hoping for the same thing.  Oh wonderful. Okay.  From you.  From me. Well we can turn this into a mutual therapy session in that case.  All right.  So let us go back in time for those who do not have much context on your life and perhaps a good entry point is a prompt that you provided and that is Ask me about my house for 15 a month and the backwoods cat I made friends with. So that is where I am going to start. Please tell me about this house at 15 a month and the backwoods cat.  When you talked about 30 years of abject failure that is really true. I mean from the time that I originally tried to start writing quit a job like you did and actually had a book published was about 28 years 30 years something like that. And at one point I was driving trucks tractor trailers in North Carolina and had just come out of living in a halfway house which was when people are released from mental hospitals not me but everybody else was there. And I found this house out in the country for 15 bucks a month. It had no doors no electricity no kitchen no toilets nothing. I just basically lived in my van which I parked on the dirt road there. And I used to cook. There was no way to cook. So I used to have a little fire I would make a little fire out in the back behind this little house. In North Carolina there is a lot of pine woods and this was right in the middle of the pine woods around Raleigh. And there used to be this feral cat this wild cat that lived in the woods behind me. And when I would come out and cook and I would be sitting on the back stoop and the woods started maybe only five feet from the house this cat would materialize. He was an old battle-scarred tomcat. And he would sit there across from me while I would make hot dogs or whatever I was doing. And I could never feed him. He would never take anything from me. I think it was like he did not want to be a pet. And he would sit there this is all true Tim I am not making this up.  I believe you.  He would sit there across from me just eyeballing me and there was no doubt which one of us was the superior being and no doubt which one of us had his shit together and the other one did not. And he would look at me like he was trying to decide whether or not to kick my ass or not. But I felt that this cat was a great omen. I felt that in some way why does a cat materialize like that? Why does anything happen like that? In the Native American tradition when an animal is a spirit animal or something.  Right.  And so I took a lot of courage from that cat appearing. I felt like in some way my energy had drawn him out of the woods because he kept coming back. This was not a one-time thing. And so anyway I do not know if that is context Tim I do not know. It is quite a while ago but that was at the heart of my darkest hours.  Well it provides a bunch of fertile ground for exploration. Before we leave the cat though what meaning did you take from that? What effect did that have on you? And then we are going to come back to the halfway house because you mentioned everyone else was there after being released from a mental hospital or something along those lines so I want to know how you ended up there. But first what meaning did you imbue this cat with after these repeated visits?  Well I felt like the cat was a little bit of a role model for me that it was a cat that was obviously completely self-sufficient lived in the woods did not require anybody to feed him would not let anybody feed him was a totally autonomous individual. And I thought to myself first of all why did anything come out of the woods? But if this is what came out of woods that it was such a positive person? And so I thought if this cat has come here maybe he is come here to encourage me and tell me that Steve you can do that too. You can be like me too. You can be autonomous. You can be self-sufficient. You can take care of yourself.  It makes me think a bit of the poem Wild Geese by Mary Oliver the first few lines.  Ah I am not familiar with that. Tell me.  I will tell you. The first few lines are You do not have to be good you do not have to walk on your knees for a hundred miles through the desert repenting you only have to let the soft animal of your body love what it loves. That is the beginning.  Wow.  And I think about that quite a bit and contact with nature and man's tendency. And what I mean by that is mankind's tendency men and women both to view themselves as apart from nature as opposed to a part of nature. And the halfway house so let us connect the dots from the beginning to the tomcat at the end of that first response. How did you end up there and what was your state at the time that you were there?  I do not know. We are getting into some deep stuff really early there Tim.  I know it is the first date and everything but skip the foreplay a bit if that is okay.  Well I was in North Carolina at the time. I had married a girl from North Carolina. We would been married for five or six years at that time. And we were at the state where we were coming apart at the seams and we were desperately trying to hang on together. And we had come back from North Carolina and we were living with our mother out in the woods in a farmhouse that also rented for about 20 bucks a month. And I had this job delivering industrial food. I drove a little truck and I would deliver things like Salisbury steaks and frozen crinkle cut French fries to little restaurants and stuff like that. And without going into a long story I got fired from that job. And in a state of great shame I was just totally ashamed in front of my wife in front of her mother. And I just could not stay there anymore. I could not stay there with them. So I moved into town trying to find a job desperately. And the only place I could find was this boarding house this is in Durham North Carolina that was also a halfway house for where the state government would pay for people who had been released from mental institutions and were on their way back into the real world. And so I found a room in the basement there and that was how I came to that halfway house.  Wow.  And I have a theory about halfway houses and about the people who are in there. You want to hear this Tim?  I do.  Because I have been in a bunch of other situations like that and you would think that people were really struggling mentally but in fact the people in this halfway house we used to hang out in the kitchen and talk all night long were among the smartest people that I ever met and the funniest and the most interesting. And what I concluded from hanging out with them and from others in a similar situation was that they were not crazy at all that they were actually the smart people who had seen through the bullshit and because of that they could not function in the world. They could not hold a job because they just could not take the bullshit and that was how they wound up in institutions because the greater society thought Well these people are absolute rejects. They cannot fit in. But in fact to my mind they were actually the people that really saw through everything. So in a way I felt bad when I had to leave this house because I liked the people so much.  Well it also speaks it seems to not to say it is not worth it but some of the possible risks of seeing through the thin veneer that is what we consider civilization.  Yeah. Yeah.  And just how   It is a dangerous thing.  Just how slippery it can be to realize how arbitrary so many of these social constructs are. You have just an incredible resume. I mean it reads like I do not want to say hero's journey because we will probably come to that and clarify that a bit later but you have an eclectic to put it mildly collection of professions. You have tractor trailer driver cab driver school teacher you picked fruit as a migrant laborer and the list goes on. Of all of those does one stand out as having been especially formative for who you then later became as a writer as a creative?  Driving tractor trailers was probably the most formative thing for me in that sense in the sense that once you are out on the road delivering a load you are completely on your own. And if anything goes wrong I mean obviously you can call for help if you are really desperate but pretty much you have got to get it together one way or another. And other people are depending on you whatever that load is you have got to deliver it right? The shipper wants it the people it is being shipped to want it and there is really no mercy. You have to be a professional and you have to do it. And at the time that I was doing this job I was really dealing with my own tendency to sabotage myself. I mean I was like a self destruction machine where I would just screw up constantly. And I had to be constantly monitoring myself that I would not act out in some crazy way and destroy everything that I was trying to do which was just to survive. So first of all the help from the people that I worked with from the other drivers from the dispatcher who was a mentor to me a guy named Hugh Reeves who really saved my life in a lot of ways and also just the need to deliver to really actually deliver the goods and the self-imposed pressure of that that really helped me. And yeah there were a bunch of instances when I found myself really up against it and having to get it together completely on my own. And when I thought I never could and each time that I was able to do that it reinforced that kind of like the cat that came out of the woods I felt like I was being a little bit of my own role model and that there was hope that I could get it together one way or another.  At that time in that period you mentioned the self-sabotage and I will give you two questions and you can take a stab at either or both what was the form or most common form of self-sabotage if you could give an example or just describe that because there are so many different types? And then also Hugh Reeves as a mentor what type of mentor was he? What did you glean or learn from him?  I will give you a specific. When I was driving the little trucks and delivering institutional food to these little restaurants like Toddle Houses and stuff like that the way I got fired was it was early in the morning I had just finished delivering to a restaurant. I had not had breakfast and I was coming back out through the warehouse section at the back of the restaurant. And they had a whole bunch of rows of little cans of fruit juice.  Mm-hmm .  Pineapple juice and stuff like that. And so I just reached out and I grabbed one for myself  I am fired. And I really feel like me doing that was an act of self-destruction and I absolutely am certain of it. I just knew why do you do something like that? So that was the thing that I would do over and over. And driving trucks I could tell a bunch of stories but one of them was where I dropped a trailer one time delivering meaning I pulled the tractor out from under the trailer in this warehouse parking lot right in front of about 500 people and just dropped this entire trailer nose down onto the thing and it was just a complete fiasco. And so that was the thing that I would do or I would just be careless.  Mm-hmm .  If you are an airline pilot and you are doing your checklist before you take off you have got to check the flaps in the engine and blah blah blah whatever it is there was something in me that would make me forget to check the one most important thing that I had to do. And as soon as it went wrong I knew it. It was not like Oh what a surprise it was like Oh shit. I have done it again.  Mm-hmm .  And getting back to your Hugh Reeves who was the dispatcher who was my mentor in this thing after I got fired  I do not know. I guess this is interesting I do not know.  I find it interesting.  After I got fired for stealing that can of pineapple juice I was in a state of utter shame. I did not even tell my wife or her mother and I had already applied for  I would gone to a truck driving school and I had applied to 50 different companies throughout North Carolina and could not get on anywhere. And I was just leaving town in my '65 Chevy van heading for the oil fields in Louisiana where I would worked once before and where I knew I could at least get a job. All you needed was a pulse and they would take you on. And so on my way out of town in the dead of winter worst possible rainy North Carolina I stopped at this one trucking company that I had already applied to a couple of times and they rejected me. And Hugh Reeves was the dispatcher. And he was a former Marine and he knew that I had been a Marine and I just stopped just for the hell of it. I thought nothing's going to happen and he hired me. So that saved my life right there. But throughout the whole  my struggles to learn the business and stuff like that I will tell you there was one moment where he sat me down. And I had kept screwing up like I said and he sat me down alone in his office. And he said Son. And I was I do not know what 25 years younger than him. He said I do not know what is going on in your head son. I do not know what journey you are playing out here. I do not know what your issues are. I do not know what you are trying to solve in your own inner mind. But this company is a business. We are in business to make money. You are a driver you represent this company. When I give you a load to take somewhere you better fucking deliver that load. And so that was a great thing for me. It was like a slap in the face because in my mind I definitely was on this Odyssey. I was living on an inner world I do not know what it was and he was absolutely right. This is a business this is for real. I have a real job people are depending on me. And that really helped me to just think of myself as much as I could as a professional and not somebody on some crazy adventure.  I can definitely see how that ties into a lot that came later. That is a great story.  Yeah yeah.  That is a great story. So let us flash forward. We are going to bounce around quite a bit. And in doing so I want to maybe first bring up just a common belief or sentiment that I hear a lot which is you are going to do your best work in your 20s it is like a professional sport. You do A B and C and you have reached escape velocity or not by the time you are 30 35 whatever the number might be but it tends to be around there. Your first novel you mentioned in some comments a few minutes ago and I mentioned it in the bio 30 years of abject failure. Okay so your first novel published after around 30 years of effort The Legend of Bagger Vance how old were you when that was published?  I think I was 53.  All right.  Maybe 54.  Okay. So now a lot happened up to that point obviously in your life. You had a lot of experiences. Where I want to go next is to ask how you developed your facility with words because you are a very good writer. The jobs we have mentioned so far seem to have nothing to do with wordsmithing. You have an incredible vocabulary. How did this happen?  Well I will accept thank you for saying that Tim. I accept that at face value. But through the whole time that  I was not only doing blue collar jobs. I worked in advertising in New York three or four times and I also had about a 10-year career as a screenwriter in Los Angeles where I am now. And so through that time you are trying to learn what a writer is and what writing is. And also of course I was writing novels through that time. I wrote three of them that never got published. And each one took about two years full-time.  What drove you to do that if I could just pause there for a second?  Sure.  Most people do not write period. So what was driving you or compelling you or inspiring you to do that?  I do not know. Why does anybody write or why does anybody paint or anything like that? It originally started for me it was not a dream I had as a kid. Like Jack Carr the thriller writer and former Navy SEAL he always wanted to be a thriller writer from the time he was six years old but not me. It never occurred to me. And my first job was in advertising in New York and I had a boss named Ed Hannibal who quit wrote a novel and it was a huge success overnight. And I thought Well shit why do not I do that too?  It seems like an easy gig let us try it.  There is nothing to it right? He is in that office I am in this office. Why cannot I do it? So that at least started this dream for me. And then once I had failed that really badly I thought I was even more motivated to do it right? Somehow I have got to write my way out of this thing one way or another. So that was how it initially started Tim in terms of just the intention to do it to finally make it work.  Now I want to allow people to peek behind the scenes here for a second just to see how the sausage is made with this podcast. And I am looking in front of me at a whole raft of papers but one of them contains prompts and exploratory bullets. And I always ask guests if they would like to provide any prompts that might lead to interesting or fun stories fertile ground as I like to say for exploration. And you learn a lot about guests looking at the bullets they provide or the lack of bullets they provide.  I bet. I bet.  And your bullets are fantastic. And this will be tied into what we are talking about in just a second. So for instance right Ask me about the house for 15 a month and the backwoods cat I made friends with. Another one which we are not going to get into right now but we will probably come back to we might come back to is Ask me about the time when I was driving trucks when they told me Whatever you do do not' in all caps GO PAST THAT LAST RIGHT TURN. Now to me speaking   And of course I did go past that last thing.  Of course you did. Now as someone who has read I want to say it was John Caples and all these books on copywriting I can see very clearly and I say this as a compliment the influence of your time as a copywriter working at agencies. It is so obvious to me because you cannot not ask. I mean it is very well crafted in that sense. Could you speak to your learnings in the world of advertising? What did you gain from working as a copywriter? Whether at I think Benton  Bowles is that one of the names?  Yeah that was one of the places. Yeah. Yeah. And I do think in many ways I learned a tremendous amount in advertising. I mean I hate advertising. I hate it when it is on the screen. I hate watching TV commercials. I hate the whole concept of it. But I met a lot of great people there and I learned a lot. And one of the books that I have written about writing is called Nobody Wants to Read Your Sht.  Yeah please. For those people who do not know it this is just a spectacular piece. If you could describe it. Yeah.  And this is to me the number one lesson that any writer or artist should know before they know anything else and you learn this in advertising because as you are trying to write an ad or a TV commercial one thing you have to always keep in mind is that nobody wants to see it. In fact they hate it. Sight unseen they hate it right? If it is a TV commercial they have got their remote in their hand and they are going to click right through it as fast as they can. Or if it is an ad that is in a newspaper or magazine they are going to turn the page as fast as they can because they hate it. They do not want you to sell them Preparation H or anything like that right? So the lesson for that as a writer knowing that you are facing that with so much resistance from the reader is that whatever you are going to put on that page or on the TV screen it is got to be so good and so compelling and so interesting that people will have no choice but to watch it. And so it makes you work really really hard and also makes you really project yourself into the mind of the viewer or the reader in an empathetic way in a really good way and try to say What would be interesting to them? What would catch their interest? Or what would hold their interest? And you realize too that writing and reading is a transaction that the reader or the viewer is giving you a very valuable commodity which is their time and their attention and you have got to give them something. You cannot just put some crap out there and expect that they are obligated to read it or watch it because they will not watch it. So that was a great lesson for me that applied in writing novels or movies or anything at all that you are going to do. A restaurant if you are going to open a restaurant nobody wants to come in there and buy your greasy cheeseburgers. You have got to come up with something that makes them say I have got to go in there and that is where the work comes in and that is where the creativity comes in. And another sidebar to that Tim of what you learn in advertising is a 30-second commercial cannot have more than 60 words in it two words per second because an announcer or people speaking actors speaking cannot deliver it. It becomes so fast that you cannot hear it. So there is pressure on you every time you write a piece of copy. I would bring a piece of copy in to my boss whoever he was or she was and they would say Get out of here. This is way too long. Go back to your cubicle and cut it down. And I would spend hours cutting it down and bring it back and then they would say Cut it down again. And so that was a wonderful skill to learn to find that you can say maybe in 25 words what you had said in 250 words before. So you are right Tim you are right on target that there was a lot of lessons that came out of that experience of writing ads.  I mentioned in passing and I am by no means an expert here but mentioned in passing hero's journey and in reference to your life in a sense. But my understanding is that you consider the hero's journey as perhaps we know it in the Joseph Campbell sense different from the artist's journey. Could you please elaborate on that?  I definitely feel this time that you and I are talking about now when I was driving trucks and doing things like that and being sort of lost and in the wilderness as my hero's journey. I mean I think we all have many hero's journeys but we probably have one sort of overarching one. And to me the hero's journey of our lives takes us from believing that we are what our parents told us we are or what society told us we are or what we imbibed from the culture shedding that and finally finding out who we really are and that is sort of the moment the hero's journey always ends in Joseph Campbell terms with the hero coming home right? Odysseus coming back to Ithaca. And at that point hopefully we have kind of found who we are and what our calling is. And for me it was a long journey but at that point a new stage of our life takes over. I will say for me it was when I finally got a novel published The Legend of Bagger Vance. So that took me 28 years of hero's journey. And in my view this is me thinking about this later I had no concept at the time. At that point I said to myself I am a writer. I am a real writer. I can do it. I have paid my dues. And then the next question became Okay now what am I going to write about? What is my gift? If I am here to bring kind of a gift to the people as the hero's journey template says my question to myself is What is that gift? And so for the rest of my life I feel at that point I got on my artist's journey and now I am a writer. I am going to write one thing. I am going to write another. I am going to write another. And the question I am asking myself is What is book one? What is book two? What is book three? What is my gift? What am I here to give? And I will blather on for a bit here Tim if you do not mind.  Please. I love your blathering.  If you have ever heard of Richard Rohr who wrote Falling Upward I think it is. He is a Franciscan monk and a very deep thinker and he kind of divides life into two halves first half and second half. And the first half of your life he says is when you are sort of finding your identity and kind of establishing your presence on the planet maybe you are a mom and you say Oh okay I am a mom. I am that. Or I am a lawyer. I bought a house. I have a wife I have children. You are sort of in his words Richard Rohr's words R-O-H-R. If you want to look it up I highly recommend anything by him. You are creating the vessel that is your life. And then in the second half of your life you are filling that vessel. So you sort of ask yourself Okay now I can do it. I have got a house. I have whatever. I have a profession. What am I going to do with this? Am I just going to be another crappy person that is continuing the societal garbage that we have or am I going to try to find my gift that is unique to me and bring it forth to the world and try to help in one way or another? So that to me is there is the hero's journey comes first and when the hero's journey is over our artist's journey begins.  I love that.   anything that is a gift to the wider world.  Part of the hero's journey as I understand it and please correct me if I am getting this wrong is what is sometimes referred to as refusal of the call right? When Luke Skywalker is just bitching and whining and does not want to go see Yoda et cetera he is just being a pain in the ass to Obi-Wan Kenobi. Everyone should re-watch Star Wars if you do not remember this part   Yeah yeah.   or this section. Was there that element in your hero's journey getting to the point of having created the vessel was there a refusal of the call? Did that play any role?  Oh absolutely. And I think it does in everybody's life. In the hero's journey as Joseph Campbell lays it out there is a bunch of stages and the hero's journey usually it starts in what Joseph Campbell would call the ordinary world. And it is just you are living your regular life but something is wrong. In the case of Luke Skywalker he is on Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru's evaporator farm on Tatooine I guess is the planet right? And this is his ordinary life right? He is stuck. He is nowhere. In fact I think there is somebody asked him at some point Where are you? And he says If there is a spot that is the farthest point away from the bright center of the universe that is where I am. Right? And so that is kind of the ordinary. And then the next stage this is very early in the hero's journey. And then the next stage is the call. And something happens that tends to pull you out of this ordinary world. In The Wizard of Oz it is Dorothy gets swept up in the tornado and in Star Wars it is that Luke Skywalker finds R2-D2 and he unplugs the little hologram that says Princess Leia Help me Obi-Wan Kenobi you are my only hope. Right?  Mm-hmm   So that is the call right? Suddenly he realized Uh-oh I have got to do something here. And then what follows immediately after that in Joseph Campbell paradigm is the refusal of the call where for Luke he goes No I cannot leave. I have got responsibilities to Aunt Beru and Uncle Owen blah-blah-blah and that seems to be across the board. If you remember the first Rocky the movie when Apollo Creed  or the promoter calls Rocky into his office and says I am going to give you a shot to fight the champ. And Rocky's first reaction is No I cannot do it. You are crazy. This is a joke. I cannot do it or if we want to go back to another one when Odysseus is being summoned to go fight in the Trojan War his first reaction is No no no I do not want to do it. And if you remember the myth he pretends to be crazy. And he goes out and he is sowing his fields with salt and the messenger who is sent to summon him takes his baby the young Telemachus Odysseus' baby and puts him in a furrow in the path of the plow. And when Odysseus comes to the baby he veers around it right? He is not going to run over his baby. And the messenger says to him You are faking. You are really not crazy. Get on the boat we are going to the Trojan War. So that is the refusal of the call. And for me it was the first novel that I tried to write which I had no business doing. I got two minutes from the end and I just blew it up and blew my whole life up. That was my refusal. I refused to go into the unknown world.  How did you blow it up? Do you mean that you just stopped? You threw it   I am not going to tell you actual details but I did something that made my wife hate me and kick me out.  Got it okay.  So that is why. I acted out as they would say in psychological terms. In other words another form of self destruction. Those are my demons forever.  Well now they may be your demons forever but perhaps you are getting or have become better at dancing with them instead of struggling against them. It seems like at least referring to your mentors and lessons learned that in some respect and please correct me disabuse me of this if it is not true that you have been able to at least strike a deal with these demons because you   Yes. I have yes.   you went from being unable to finish a novel to producing many works. So what is that deal or how has that come to be the case?  Well let me just talk about a novel for a second.  Please.  After the first one that I wrote that I could not finish and I went on these various spiraling down the rat hole type of things. I finally got it together. I saved some money. I saved 2700 working in advertising in New York. And I moved out to a little town in Northern California determined to write a novel and finish. And I rented this little house and I was just by myself. And through that whole time again I was aware every second of my tendency to sabotage myself. And so I just said to myself I am going to finish this son of a bitch or I am going to kill myself. And when I finally did and I write about this in The War of Art when I finally did finish it and I typed those words The end I felt like my DNA changed you know? And I will say that as an encouragement to anybody that is listening that is struggling with the same stuff once I was able to finish that thing that novel I have never had any trouble finishing anything ever again.  That is interesting.  But it was just sheer willpower driven on by shame that I just could not. I think shame is a great thing but I just could not stand myself if I failed yet again. So I just had to keep going keep going keep going.  Well it seems like it is possible and I am speculating here but when you finished that novel and you had the end right because confidence is just not something you can fake right in the respect that your true self knows whether you have earned it or it is unearned. When you typed the end the story of I always self-sabotage now had a counter-example. That statement was no longer.  I never thought about it that way Tim but I think you are absolutely right. Yeah. A counter-example.  Yeah. With The Legend of Bagger Vance. So finishing a novel is one thing getting a novel published is quite another endeavor in many respects. So 30-year overnight success. What happened? Did you end up drawing straws and you became the bridge partner of a book agent? What actually happened that allowed this publication  publishing your first book?  Well like I said I wound up writing three novels that never got published. And when I finished the third one that was sort of another kind of an All is lost moment a suicide moment for me because I could not get any  even my friends would not read it. And I knew that I just did not have the wherewithal to do this again to save up money to work for two years. I just did not have the wherewithal. And so I decided or sort of came to me as a flash that I would go to Hollywood. I thought Let me write a screenplay. Let me try Hollywood. If I failed as a novelist let me go fail as a screenwriter. So I did go out to Los Angeles and after about four or five years I did have an agent. I kept writing screenplays that also did not sell. And finally I got kind of teamed up with an established writer a guy named Ron Shusett who did the first Alien among other things and who was a real brand name and a real guy that really could get work. And so I   How did you get teamed up with him? I am sorry to keep interrupting but Alien turned into an iconic film.  Oh yeah.  I mean he created a franchise.  Great film.  How did you get teamed up with him?  Well I had an agent a wonderful agent named Mike Warner who tragically died at a young age and he had other clients and Ron was one of his other clients. And Ron usually worked with a partner. And at that time because Ron was more of a producer-writer than a writer-writer.  What is a producer-writer?  A writer-writer is the guy that actually sits down at the page at the typewriter and actually writes the scenes and so on and so forth. A producer-writer is somebody who is great at coming up with the ideas the big ideas and also sort of shepherding a story through from start to finish. And also is a producer in the sense of being able to get financing and take the meetings and make a deal. So whereas Ron was not the kind of writer that could actually sit down and write the screenplay. But he could say  I would sit there and come up with like 30 ideas. What if we do this? What if we do that? Why do not we do that? And he would say 29 of them suck do this one. You know?  He is the guy who would say It is Jaws in space. Act one two three here's the deck. He could line up all of the ducks in a row   Exactly.   to get the financing.  For instance that great scene in Alien where the thing bursts out of John Hurt's chest that is Ron's scene. That was his idea.  Which is burned into anyone's mind who has ever seen one of the Aliens movies.  So you cannot say just because maybe he did not actually physically write it at the typewriter  that was his. So it is a very creative thing to be a producer.  So he usually works with a partner. He is more of a producer-writer instead of the writer-writer. You have the same agent please continue.  So Mike said to us Let me team you guys up and you will be a team. And so that from my point of view I now became an apprentice. I was the like junior partner of this team. And when we would go to meetings in Hollywood nobody wanted me they wanted Ron. He was the brand. And I was the guy that actually sat at the keyboard. So in any event for maybe 10 years or so I did have a career as a screenwriter. And so that was gaining credibility for me and also I was learning what a story is by the process that you go through. And then at one point I just had this idea for The Legend of Bagger Vance. And I had it as a book not as a movie. And so when I told that to my agent then at the time he basically fired me.  Unceremoniously.  My story is that I fired him but his story is that he fired me. But basically he was absolutely right because what he said to me was I have spent the last five years trying to get your career going and we are now just about to get going and you are telling me you are going to write some stupid golf novel that nobody's going to buy and nobody's going to read. It is going to take you a year to write it. And by that time everybody will have forgotten who you are here in the business in Hollywood. And I am back to square one. I have spent a lot of time working with you so get out of here. So but in any event that was how an actual novel that I wrote actually got published. So it was sort of a smooth transition. And when you know the actual passage there it did not just come out of nowhere.  So you broke up with this agent or he broke up with you you go off to write this thing. The agent has these doubts and believes that you are going to sort of sink into oblivion and become irrelevant right? You are just going to be completely forgotten. You march off to pursue this dream and this project. From there not to beat a dead horse about this but how does it then find a home with a publisher?  It was like I joke that I was an overnight success after 30 years. And I think sometimes your bad luck builds up to such an extent that it turns into good luck. Law of averages starts to work for you right? And what happened was you have to get a literary agent right? Which I did not have I had a Hollywood agent. So I went to my lawyer. I had an entertainment lawyer named Larry Rose and he sent me to an agent named Jody Hotchkiss in New York who worked for Sterling Lord who was a big literary agent who is still my agent and just turned 100 years old by the way. And so almost overnight that manuscript just found a buyer boom boom boom. It found a buyer found a movie buyer found everything right away. So I think it was just a law of averages finally even down a little bit.  That is just incredible. What a story. So I would like to ask you about momentum in your life. And I am asking this is where I might segue at least indirectly into some therapy for myself. So I am looking at an interview you have done and it is discussing the little successes approach and I am just going to read the first paragraph and then you can tell me if things have changed. But the first paragraph and this is your response to a question. I think this is on writingroutines.com. I'30 30 to actually sit down and start work. I used to be able to put in four hours but these days two and a half is my outer limit. I close the office then. I never work later or at night. And then you talked about your friend Randy. Could you speak to the little successes approach and what this schedule represents?  Randy is Randall Wallace who wrote Braveheart and has directed a bunch of movies as well. And he is a good friend of mine out here. And he has a theory that he calls little successes and it means that from the moment he gets out of bed and I believe this too exactly he is looking ahead to the moment when he actually sits down and has to write whatever time that may be for him nine oclock 10 oclock whatever. And he is trying to produce a series of little successes between now and then to generate momentum. And he counts brushing his teeth as a little success. And I do too. And one of the reasons I like to go to the gym early or do something physical early is because I am trying to build up a little successes so that by the time I get to sit down at the page I feel like I have got some momentum going. I have done I have done this I have done that I took out the garbage I have fed the birds and I have got a little momentum going. And I think it is very important. I mean even if you think about let us say a basketball player. Think about Kobe Bryant or Michael Jordan or anybody Steph Curry or whatever going to a game tonight. They are at the stadium three and a half hours early. And even before then they have been at the gym or they have been getting a massage or mentally they are preparing themselves and they go through if you watch Steph Curry do his routine it is like I do not know what. It is amazing what he does. Big rubber bands between his knees to strengthen his knees. And he does 100 shots from by beyond the arch. And he is trying to build up little successes so that when the game starts he is in the flow immediately and he is at the highest possible level. That is the theory anyway.  What is your preferred exercise routine? Do you have any favorite exercises or workouts?  I am now in the COVID thing where I am doing it out on my deck but for up until the COVID thing I trained with a wonderful trainer named T.R. Goodman at a place called Pro Camp at Gold's Gym in Venice. And he has a whole thing that he does with us who train with him. We usually train in a group of two or three guys and it is basically just really straight basic weight training. Squats and curls and stuff like that. Legs on one day. Just very basic stuff.  That is a very iconic location as far as gyms go.  Yeah. Now it is all in a tent in the parking lot.  Right so it is changed a bit during pandemic times. So the little successes approach makes sense to me and really appeals to me. And there is so much variation of course when you talk to writers about process right? So I recently interviewed Joyce Carol Oates and I have when I was an undergrad took just a wonderful seminar with John McPhee and both of them seem to basically sit down chain themselves to a desk and write for eight hours. And their feeling is you cannot wait for mood. You cannot wait for the muse to strike. You really just need to start writing and that will produce the conditions for writing. I have sometimes had the experience of that working but perhaps it is just a weakness of character. I often break. I also just break. I am just like God this is fucking terrible. And I stopped. And then you have maybe a contrast and I am not saying this is all or nothing one approach or the other but folks like B.J. Novak who people might recognize who spends quite a lot of time getting himself into a good mood. So he might take a few hours to get himself into the proper mood to write and he is prolific and very successful. And then there is this little successes approach. I suppose the question piggybacked off this is how should someone think about developing a routine for their own writing process or creative process? Let us stick with writing just because it is what we are talking about. Even though I think the discussion extends to many other areas. How should somebody think about figuring it out? Because even for me personally I have we will talk about this afterwards but I have been having quite a lot of challenges writing in the past few years. And so I have tried to reach into the grab bag of different routines and I found it challenging because so many of them are diametrically opposed or seem to be.  Yeah.  So how would you talk someone through finding something that works for them or making sense of conflicting advice?  The one thing I would say is that it seems to me that every writer or artist has a unique way of doing it. And I do not think there is any kind of one size fits all type of thing. There was an article in The L.A. Times a few years ago where they interviewed screenwriters and they were asked what was their routine. And they interviewed five writers and three of them wrote in their cars. And this is true.  That is amazing.  And one of them wrote in their car when it was moving. Now I do not know how they did this but it just goes to show you that whatever works works. Like Joyce Carol Oates or John McPhee doing eight hours that is beyond my comprehension. I just cannot imagine.  Yeah that is like an Alex Honnold in Free Solo but for the writing world I cannot cannot process that.  But I do agree with them that  there is a famous quote that I quoted in The War of Art and now I am blanking on who it was a famous writer who they asked him Do you write on a schedule or only when inspiration strikes you? Oh Somerset Maugham. And he said I write only when inspiration strikes me. He says 30 sharp. So he was a believer in routine right?  Mm-hmm .  And another person there is a wonderful book by Twyla Tharp I am sure you are aware of this Tim called The Creative Habit and she kind of describes her habits and she is kind of like me. She goes to the gym at the crack of dawn. Every day she catches a cab at exactly the same time goes to the exact same place. And she is trying to build up those little successes for when she gets to the studio and actually has to work but to go a little deeper than that in my book The War of Art I talk about the concept of resistance with a capital R which is again that force of self-sabotage is a big theme in my life that will try to stop you as a writer or an artist or anybody from achieving your best work from following your calling will try to distract you undermine your self-confidence make you procrastinate make you quit make you give into fear or on the other hand make you such a perfectionist that you spend all day on one paragraph and you accomplish nothing. And the whole thing of little successes the concept of little successes or of a routine is to help you overcome that resistance to help anybody  that is the wall that you know you are going to hit. And so you are mentally preparing yourself for that moment when you sit down and that negative force hits you that you have got enough momentum and enough self-confidence or your friend who gets himself in a good mood you are in enough of a good place you have got enough good karma and good juju going for you that you could get through that wall of resistance and then just get into a rhythm and get into the flow and then just keep it going. That is the whole concept behind little successes or a routine or habits. And I am a big believer in habits.  Me too. When I have been I suppose what we might call successful in writing just getting anything consistently on pages it is been with some form of scaffolding in the form of routine. And one that actually worked for me I had not thought about this to finish at least one book maybe two was copying what I believe it was Maya Angelou maybe who would rent a hotel room to work out of to put herself in a different environment that was dedicated to writing. And when I was living in San Francisco I remember Hotel Vitale was this hotel right on the Embarcadero and I would rent a room when I got really stuck to put myself in a different environment. And for whatever reason I mean I am sure it is a placebo effect because how could it not be right? It is got to be harnessing the mind and pulling an Aikido move on your own psyche that really really helped. You have mentioned a number of books. So The War of Art I think everyone should read certainly. Then Twyla Tharp's Creative Habit. I have also read you mentioned Stephen King's On Writing Ernest Hemingway on Writing Larry Phillips and Henry Miller On Writing. Henry Miller's just incredible. One that I am not familiar with I would love to hear you just expand on for a second and the line here that I am reading is For integrating the editor's mindset into the writing process the best book is The Story Grid by Shawn Coyne I think it is C-O-Y-N-E. What does that mean the editor's mindset into the writing process?  Before I say to that I want to say that your idea of checking into a hotel room I think is a great idea. That is something that might be unique to you Tim. That might be a trick that works for you.  It is safer than driving a car and writing.  Yeah. It is kind of an Aikido. It is a way of tricking yourself to somehow Oh I cannot work there but I can work here. If it works it works.  Right right. Totally.  But The Story Grid Shawn Coyne actually was my first editor. He was the editor who bought Gates of Fire.  Oh no kidding. Amazing.  We are really good friends and we are partners in a little publishing company that we have called Black Irish Books. So I know Shawn very well. And Shawn he is a Harvard guy and he has evolved this concept of editing that he calls the story grid and it is incredibly deep. If you and I were looking at this it is like Einstein. I cannot even begin to grasp what it is but he really has a whole concept from A to Z of what a story is what a scene is and so on and so forth that he calls a story grid. I highly recommend his website www.storygrid.com. If you want to be an editor if you want to be a writer he teaches this whole concept and it is great. But getting back to integrating the editor's mindset to the writer's mindset. A lot of times I found me as a writer I will just spew stuff out in a novel let us say. I will just be consumed with a story and I will just take it from A to Z without even thinking about it. And then I have to bring it to Shawn and he tells me what the story is about which I never had any clue what the theme is and also will help to shape it into an actual story that really works. And a lot of the editor's mindset has to do with the hero's journey and that whole concept of act one act two act three refusal of the call that we were talking about earlier. Shawn has another company of his own that he calls Genre Management. He is a big believer in genre in the sense that like a thriller has certain obligatory scenes and conventions and a love story has certain obligatory scenes and conventions a western has certain and you have to know them. And that is what an editor does. For instance if you are going to have a love story there always has to be a rival. That is a big thing. Think of any love story in the world. And there also almost always has to be the lovers part in the middle or towards the end and then they come back together at the end or they fail to come back together at the end. And that is what an editor brings to a writer's huge pile of papers that you bring and dump on the editor's desk is he or she is aware of the various structures that actually work and the principles of storytelling. And when you have violated them an editor can bring you back from that or when you have left certain things out that need to be in there an editor will say You need to do this. So if you can educate yourself as a writer in that editor's way of thinking you can become your own editor in a sense and it really helps you. I mean I do maybe 15 drafts of a book and seventh eighth ninth I am really thinking like an editor. I am looking at this and saying What is missing? What have I done wrong? What conventions have I violated? And if I have violated them do I have a good reason for it? So I am not sure that is an answer Tim but that is   That is an answer.   I highly recommend anything to do with Shawn Coyne and Story Grid.  I am going to ask you about A Man at Arms. First I want to take this opportunity to paint a picture of the last week in my life if I may be self-indulgent for a second.  Please do. Please do.  So I have this newsletter called Five Bullet Friday. It is five short bullets of things that I have found interesting or helpful or novel throughout each week. And I had the experience   I am a subscriber by the way.  Oh wonderful. I appreciate that.  So I know all about it.  I love doing it. And it serves as a diary of sorts for me. And I had the experience in the last week of one of those bullets expanding dramatically and ultimately becoming close to a 10-page blog post which if people want to check out it is related to conservation and ethical choices in the world of psychedelic compounds. They can find it at tim.blog. But the point that I want to make or the contrast maybe is I wrote this piece. I was very happy to have finally written this piece even though I am catching heat from certain factions within the psychedelic communities for it because it is been a very long time since I have written a blog post a long form blog post. That having been said I was interviewed yesterday by a friend of mine Harley of Shopify fame. And he read a passage from The 4-Hour Workweek in the course of that interview because he is read the book. He is very kind. He wanted to use it as a launching pad for discussion. And he read a few paragraphs from The 4-Hour Workweek and here's what you can probably guess. Here's what I thought to myself. Goddamn I have done nothing but become worse at writing since I was 29. For fuck's sake what am I doing with my life? And I became hyper self critical. I was like Man look at how many em dashes I have in this long-form blog post I just put up. What kind of crutch is this? I am using em dashes like they are going out of style. And so on and so forth. So this just litany of abuse just rolled off the brain while it attacked itself. And this has been a large part of my own resistance the feeling that my best work is behind me and I cannot replicate it or not replicate it because I do not want to become an imitation of myself. But that for whatever reason the pixie dust has been lost. Or that I have atrophied I have so let the muscles atrophy that I am past the point of no return. Have you ever contended with this? If you have not what advice or even if you have what advice would you give for people who are bumping up against this? Because it is been a real hindrance. I recognize it is self-imposed but it is been a real hindrance to me actually putting pen to paper so to speak.  Well here's my thoughts on that Tim. Resistance with a capital R the force of self-sabotage is tremendously diabolical and nuanced and protean and subtle incredibly subtle and it will attack us at our weakest point. It usually will attack us in an area where there is some truth to what we might fear about ourselves. So I would say for sure Tim that thought that you have is bullshit. It is Resistance. It is totally Resistance. There is nothing wrong with you. You have not lost any pixie dust. That is pure Resistance. It is finding a weak spot in you. It just knows it. It is like the alien knows how to get after you. The form it takes for me might be different. The weak spot it might find in me might be different but I think it is just finding that in you. And I think the only way to deal with it is to just dismiss it. Take my word for it it is bullshit. There is no grounding in it at all. Just keep doing what you are doing. I remember I had a friend when I first came out to Los Angeles a fellow screenwriter and he got on the phone with me one night. He was in hysteria because he was sure that he was over the hill. And I asked him I said Tom how old are you? He said 22. This is true. So Resistance will find that weak spot that chink in our armor but do not pay any attention to it Tim. Dismiss it. It is bullshit.  Well thank you for that.  what purpose does Resistance serve? Why does it exist? I try to think of things in evolutionary terms. Maybe this is just some sort of vestigial mutation that has just persisted but does not actually have a utility but I would love to hear your thoughts on it why it exists.  I am not sure. Seth Godin thinks it is the lizard brain. What is it? Amygdala whatever it is. I never have quite understood but to me and I am going to get a little airy fairy here a little metaphysical I think that if we think of our identity we can say that there is at least two parts of it. One I would call the ego and the other I would call the Self with a capital S in the Jungian sense of Self. The ego is our rational mind. It is the part of us that pays taxes and goes down and gets a driver's license and becomes a lawyer or whatever whatever. And that ego is our I the letter I. And we obviously have to have an ego. We have to have that I that we know how to stop at a stop light and all that sort of stuff. And then there is the other thing that Jung would call the Self with a capital S and that Self includes the deep deep unconscious the collective unconscious the hero's journey the archetypes all of these things that we are not aware of until Freud finally discovered this but that are driving us in a good way many times in a really good way. And also according to Jung the Self with a capital S butts up against what they call the divine ground. And I love that. It is what I would say is where inspiration comes from. It really is divinity. It is beyond mortality. It is the muse. It is inspiration. It is anytime you get into the zone that is where you are as an athlete as an artist or whatever. So I am getting back to Resistance trust me.  I believe you.  What I think is when we as artists or as athletes or as anything begin to shift our identity from our ego to ourself when we start trusting in intuition when we start trusting in our deep dreams in our deep inspiration from sources that we do not know what it is like for me writing the novels that I wrote that I never thought that just came out of nowhere. It made no sense but are coming from a deeper source. Anyway when we start to identify with the Self and turn over our nexus of control to that the ego becomes threatened because the ego realizes that it is going to lose. The ego strikes back and creates Resistance. And its goal is to try to convince us that this other world of inspiration of intuition of the muse or the Self is a phony world. It is bullshit. Do not pay attention to it. Stay here with me Mr. Egon the ego. That is what it is to me. I got into an email correspondence with a monk from Self-Realization Fellowship Brother Kivashananda. Are you familiar with Self-Realization Fellowship?  I am not.  Anyway it is a wonderful thing. It is Paramahansa Yogananda's thing that he started. And he was telling me about beyond the Bhagavad Gita and the story of Arjuna and Krishna in this great battle in the Bhagavad Gita is the ego is a character named Bhishma. And Arjuna finally slays the ego shooting him with 108 arrows. And he is shot so full of arrows that he is on his back supported by the arrows and it takes him a month to die. And even as he is dying Bhishma he is constantly spouting his bullshit about how he is still in charge he is still in charge he is still in charge. And I think that we as artists or athletes I think are trying to get beyond the ego or Buddhist meditators or people doing ayahuasca or whatever we are trying to get beyond the ego into whatever is next. But the ego does not want us to get beyond it and the ego will hang on and take a month to die. And that is what I think Resistance is. It is the ego's way of trying to hang on to control of us.  I really like that. It rings true to me in so many respects. I mean the ego  if we are not what our ego believes us to be a lawyer a this a that   Which we are not.  Right. Someone who does X someone who always or never does Y then what are we? And that uncertainty is very threatening. So it makes a lot of sense that there would be a violent opposition by the ego to   I mean I may be completely wrong but this is my theory.  Yeah. Well I mean it is certainly helpful to think of. It is a useful lens to look at this through. And this may be very related. I would love to hear you define or describe what a shadow career is. I read a relatively short blog post of yours that discussed this. And I think it could be very helpful to explore.  I will give you an example from the movie business. As you know in the movie business you need a lawyer. There are law firms entertainment law firms. In fact Rich Roll the wonderful podcaster and athlete used to be an entertainment lawyer.  He did.  And entertainment lawyers directors if you are a director or an actor or a writer you have to have a lawyer because when deals come up they make the deals for you. They get the contracts. And I have found that when you talk to not all entertainment lawyers but some entertainment lawyers secretly they want to be writers or they want to be directors. And what they have done in becoming lawyers to some extent is their law career is like a shadow career. It is adjacent to what they really want to do. They really want to direct or they really want to write but for whatever reasons they were afraid to do it. So they thought well I can go to law school and that will give me a trade an occupation a profession I can count on. And so the law becomes kind of a shadow career for them. Another instance of that is a lot of times people will work as other people's assistants. They will pick up their dry cleaning. They will do all of that sort of stuff and that is a shadow career. Of course it is also a legitimate thing. It can be an apprenticeship where you are working for a photographer or whatever whatever and you are learning. But it also can be because a lot of times those people who are people's assistants really want to do what their boss is doing be a musician be a rockstar whatever it is but for whatever reason they are afraid to. And so they pick a profession that is kind of adjacent to where they want to be but it does not have the same risk.  I want to underscore this for folks because I think it is exceptionally common. I see the temptation in myself also and around me in certain capacities. So it is really worth having on the radar I think. I am going to read just a little bit of this blog post from 2012 which is on your website stevenpressfield.com. And I think this is More from Turning Pro at least that is the URL. So here we go. Sometimes when we are terrified of embracing our true calling we will pursue a shadow calling instead. The shadow career is a metaphor for our real career. Its shape is similar its contours feel tantalizingly the same. But a shadow career entails no real risk. If we fail at a shadow career the consequences are meaningless to us. Are you pursuing a shadow career? Are you getting your Ph.D. in Elizabethan  if that is how you say that  Studies because you are afraid to write the tragedies and comedies you know you have inside you? Are you living the drugs-and-booze half of the musician's life without actually writing the music? Are you working in a support capacity for an innovator because you are afraid to risk being an innovator yourself? These are really good questions. I think they are really important questions. And the drug-and-booze half example I think is also very important because it is possible to grab the romanticized risky portions of a possible real passion and emulate them in a shadow career in a way that actually has quite a lot of downside risk with none of the upside potential.  Yeah true. I mean I think not to overstate it but sometimes addiction is a shadow career. That you are acting out the wild and crazy lifestyle rather than actually doing the work to be a musician or to be a whatever.  What do you say to people who would answer yes in the sense that they are able to be honest with themselves and say You are totally right. I am actually doing that but like you said this is low risk and the pursuit of what I really want to do does entail risk and I am afraid?  Well there is no way around it except to actually do it. If I were advising anybody or advising myself if I were in that condition I would say Get into some kind of therapy. Get into something that will help you elevate your consciousness about this let you explore it introspection. And at some point it will become pretty clear what your real dream is. Maybe if you are a photographer's assistant you really say Oh I want to be a cinematographer. I would love to be Vilmos Zsigmond I want to shoot Scorsese's next movie whatever. I would love to do that. Then it is a matter of I hate to talk about the ego but getting back into rationality and saying Okay how do I pursue that? Should I go to school? Should I apprentice myself on a track that will actually take me there? Or should I whatever figure out what the actual track is that will get you to that dream. And then the other thing I would say is talking to myself again is be very aware of your own tendency to self-sabotage of Resistance and watch out for any of those mental self conversations that will try to talk you out of doing it. Build up your professional habits and just go for it. Just go for it.  I will add one thing to that which has been very helpful to me. So I am saying this to myself also because it is probably time for me to do this again with respect to writing. And that is take a look at an exercise you can find it online called fear-setting that I have written quite a bit about. I also did a TED Talk related to the subject because it is saved my life in some ways. And it is really just a rephrasing and presenting of an exercise from the Stoics called premeditatio malorum so meditating on the worst case. This is just a practice of actually putting to paper what the worst things are that could happen how you might mitigate against them how you could minimize the damage or reverse the damage. And as Seneca the Younger has said of course not in English and I am paraphrasing here but We suffer more in imagination than in reality. And it is easy to believe or to overestimate the threats that exist from action while underestimating the risks of inaction when they are trapped in your head. But when you put them on paper it actually loses oftentimes a lot of its force. So I would just recommend people take a look at fear-setting with a hyphen in the middle. Let us talk about A Man at Arms. You have your creative how to books The War of Art Turning Pro Do the Work and so on. Then you have your historical fiction which is just outstanding Gates of Fire Tides of War The Afghan Campaign and now A Man at Arms. Why did you write this new book? How did it come to be? What was the genesis story?  Before we go away let me come back and talk about fear-setting. I want to say something after that when we are done.  Sure.  There is only been like one recurring character in my historical fiction and he is this gunslinger of the ancient world Telamon of Arcadia a one-man killing machine of the ancient world. He is been in three books of mine as a minor character but I have always been fascinated by this guy. And in fact a lot of readers have been fascinated by him too. And I have always wanted to write a book only about him. This is another weird thing Tim about the creative process. A lot of times I will block out a story and I know exactly what each character represents and who they are and what they are going to do. But this one character Telamon that one-man killing machine of the ancient world came on the page to me fully formed. I did not plan him. I had no idea where he came from. And not only was he fully formed but he had a deep philosophy and a very dark philosophy a real warrior samurai philosophy. So I wanted to write this book about him only about him because I wanted to follow his journey. He was really sort of in the other stories at the end of his hero's journey. And I was wondering where was he going to go from there? For like 13 years I tried to come up with a story that would work and I just did outline after outline. I never could find it. Finally I just had a flash about adding to his world a young vulnerable girl. A nine-year-old girl a mute girl. And somehow that sort of cracked the story for me. This book came very fast. It is set in first century right after the crucifixion in Jerusalem and in the Sinai desert. I just wanted this guy character of Telamon is sort of an alter ego for me. I know on some crazy unconscious level I am bound to this character in some way. And his story is my story in some way. I do not know what it is. Writing as you know particularly fiction is like a dream in that you enter another dimension of reality when you are sitting down to write and you do not know what is going to come a lot of times. The work takes on a life of its own and it will pull you along. So that was this book for me. I wanted to see where Telamon would go and what his arc would be. And I know I am going to have to write another one because I have not got to the end of it yet but that was the genesis of A Man at Arms.  And when you write a book like this since I have no experience with fiction although I am endlessly fascinated by it I think I am afraid of it honestly because I read good fiction and I think to myself   There is a good reason to be afraid.  Good Lord. I just cannot. I just do not know how humans do this. Do you write a book like this simply because you are a writer and fiction is a way of exploring this alternate reality? Is it because you hope to impart certain messages or lessons that people will learn from? What are the reasons behind an undertaking?  I am absolutely a believer as you know in the muse. I believe in another dimension of reality I believe that books or songs or businesses exist in the realm of potential before they exist in the real world. I believe that as a writer I am a servant of the muse and I believe this book A Man at Arms it existed in that other dimension. I was called on to bring it forth in this dimension. So I really do not have a message. I do want to explore certain aspects of the character but mainly this story just seized me. And I felt like I have got to tell this story. I have got to get it. I have got to make it work in a hero's journey terms and I have got to tell it in the right way and solve all those problems. But mainly I just wanted to tell this story like a singer would want to sing a certain song or a dancer would want to dance a certain dance. So that was the reason. It is just the story just seized me and came very fast and very easy.  What would you say if you have an answer for this distinguishes the books that come fast and easy from those that are more difficult those that are maybe just a hard slog?  It seems the hard ones do not work and the easy ones do. It is almost like if it is hard maybe it is a reason why it is hard.  Why are you pushing a boulder uphill right?  Which is not to say even the easy ones are hard in the sense that there are a lot of technical problems to solve. Like I just did a video on Instagram. I was talking about the original manuscript of Gates of Fire it was 802 pages long and the book was finally 384. So I had to basically cut it in half. So that was a technical problem that was hard. But the book itself was easy. The book came with a lot of energy just like A Man at Arms just kind of came. In fact I do not even have really a memory of writing it. I know I wrote it last year but it just came in a real rush.  I would love to experience more of that in my writing. Sounds like I just have to get on the playing field a bit more often.  Sight unseen Tim. We do not know each other. It is the first time we have really talked for a long time and if you will forgive me for being your psychotherapist here for a second.  Yes please.  I think maybe you should think about writing fiction at some point.  I agree with you. I agree with you. I do. I do. I think I am psyching myself out and I think it would be so freeing for me to do it because my nonfiction books are so carefully meticulously architected. There are no surprises. They are  everything is intended to be as clear which is fine and prescriptive and represent such a logical sequence and building   I know what you mean yeah.   that for the writer for me there is very little element of surprise. That harnessing of the muse is minimal in a sense. It exists with turns of phrase and certain thoughts about composition. But I appreciate you saying that and I agree. I would like to try some fiction. Just write it maybe for a handful of friends. Although let me make one comment actually coming way back to something you said at the very early beginnings of this conversation when you said you wrote a novel and even your friends would not read it. I wanted to just say that if you write for those people out there who have not written much do not be overly offended or demoralized if your friends do not read it because my friends and especially my family I am not going to name out names are the last people who will ever read my stuff including now. I think it is just like  yeah.  It is absolutely true. I could not agree more Tim. And there is a reason for that too. They are the last people who  I could not get my mother to read anything. It is because the people who are close to you when you write something or you take a chance they sense you changing. You are becoming a different person and their fear is they are going to lose you. And so they want to make you stay the way you are. And that is in a crazy way it is love. It is out of love but it is a dark side of love. But let me say a couple things to you Tim for whatever this is worth forgive me for being presumptuous. But if you do decide to write fiction here's what I would suggest. First of all do not start small. Do not say Oh I will only write a short story because that is kind of a pussy way of doing it. Seriously and a muse does not like that. She wants you to go big so go for something big I would suggest. And also the way you will know the idea is that it will be terrifying to you the prospect of exposing yourself to do this. And that is the one you should do.  I love that.  I encourage you to do that.  Do not piss off the muse with small ambitions.  Really.  Or maybe not piss off. Do not insult the muse.  The 4-Hour Workweek was a big idea a huge idea and an idea that you could have fallen completely on your face. People sort of laughed you out of it but you did it and it worked. So I would say do the same concept only with fiction.  Thank you. I am going to take that to heart.  Let me get back for one second to fear-setting. It was just one thing I wanted to say.  Yes please.  To reinforce what you were saying a few years ago I wrote a book called The Lion's Gate which was about the 1967 Arab-Israeli War the Six-Day War. I went over to Israel and I interviewed a bunch of fighter pilots. I had never really talked to fighter pilots before. The thing that they have in common the mindset of a fighter pilot is exactly what you were saying. Before they would go up on a mission they would sit down and for hours in solitude run the mission in their mind thinking of every possible thing that could go wrong. What if I get a flame out over the Sinai desert? What if my guns do not fire? What if I am attacked from out of the sun? Whatever. And they would sort of in their mind play out all of these worst-case scenarios. When they had played them out and they knew what they were going to do then they were ready to go. And I thought That is a great way to think about things. Because the last thing you always want to be able to have to say if something is Oh I never saw it coming. Right?  Mm-hmm .  So I heartily agree with that idea of fear-setting that whole Stoic concept. I think it is a great thing.  Well let us use that as a jumping off point to something I know very little about but I have seen it come up in some discussions. And that is the concept of I am not going to get the pronunciation here correct but yetzer hara.  Ah yetzer hara.  Yetzer hara. What is yetzer hara?  I wish I had my rabbi Rabbi Mordecai Finley here to explain it to us. But apparently it is a phrase from Genesis and it is translated by Rabbi Finley as a turning toward evil. And he has said to me that this is a concept in kabbalistic thought in Jewish mysticism. And it is the equivalent of my concept of Resistance with a capital R. It is that force that exists in the world to stop us from going to a lower level to a higher level to realizing our calling to coming into our own it is that negative force. And in Jewish mysticism there is a concept that life happens on more than one dimension and that we live on the material dimension and above us is a higher dimension that is called the neshama and that is the soul. And when they talk about the soul is that above every blade of grass is an angel saying Grow grow. The soul or what I would say would be the unconscious or the muse is actively engaged in our life and trying to help us. And we are trying to reach up to the soul at the same time the soul is trying to reach down to us and help us. In between the two is this force called the yetzer hara this negative force of self-sabotage. When Rabbi Finley told me that that that was something that existed in Jewish thought for years and years I thought Ah I am not crazy. Other people have thought about the same thing. Actually in Genesis as I understand this right I may be getting it wrong but is the story where God decides to destroy the human race. And he regrets and repents that he made us and he looks down and he sees everywhere a turning toward evil meaning this is the yetzer hara. And this is when God decides to send the flood to wipe us out and Noah survives right? In this kind of spiritual sense it is almost a flaw in the universe that when God created us at least according to kabbalistic thought he made a mistake he screwed up.  Bug in the software.  Yeah a bug in the software. And certainly if you look at the human race there is a turning toward evil everywhere. There is something wrong with us. I would say it is a lack of connection to the soul what we were talking about about the self and the ego the resistance and everything. So in any event that is what the yetzer hara is as I understand it. I may be wrong but as I understand it in a kabbalistic Jewish mysticism.  So I would love to ask just a few more questions. The first few are going to be related to my homework assignment or recommendation of writing fiction. You said Go big. In my mind I am thinking that could mean a novel it could mean a screenplay. So I would like you to elaborate on what that means. But also I know that I have a tendency to read and prepare perhaps excessively often as a form of procrastination.  Mm-hmm .  I can read 10 books before I ever set pen to paper. Since I have no exposure or experience with fiction writing are there any books I should read or things I should consider before I begin? Or literally should I just say to myself I am going to write a novel. I do not even know how novels are structured but I am going to start with page one today. So there' what is big? What does that actually mean to you? And then how much preparation if any or education is the right amount before beginning?  I think when I say Go big I think that the muse likes it. Fortune favors the bold. And I think when we try for something big we are taking the initiative and we are invoking a tailwind behind us whereas if we are kind of timid and we say Oh well just let me do this small little thing that I am going to do I do not think the muse likes that. And I do not like it in advertising. When I was working in advertising I used to come up with the tiniest ideas. It was really pathetic and I would bring them in with the boss and he would just throw me out. He would say This is an idea the size of a postage stamp. Get the fuck out of here. Come back with something big. And it was really hard for me to do because I was afraid of it. So I do think going big invokes the muse in a good way. Sort of as a parallel to that Tim I would say even though eventually you are going to have to learn what the story principles are I would say just plunge in and follow just do something that you love. It is too bad we are not on video here because I have behind me a book by a friend of mine Mike McClellan called The Sand Sea and it is like 780 pages long or something. Mike is a lawyer. He is a functioning lawyer he is got a wife and kids. And over a 13-year period he would get up at the crack of dawn and go out to his garage where he had an office and he would put in he would write 500 words a day. But this book The Sand Sea is a huge book. It is like a Tolkien-type of book with all kinds of crazy characters from everywhere. I really applaud that he did it that way. And now he is onto the second book in a trilogy. There is going to be a third one. So for him going big really worked. And it has worked for me too. That does not mean it necessarily has to be 800 pages long but just a big idea. An idea that is kind of a scary idea that you say to yourself When I show this to people they are going to look at me and go What happened to you Tim? Are you okay?' That is what I mean by big.  Should I just assume this is never going to be read by anyone? Is that a helpful assumption to make? A couple of follow-up questions.  Do it only for yourself. Yeah do it only for yourself.  Because when I hear stories of someone working on things say in the mornings like The Kite Runner It is a similar story. I think the author was working in medicine at the time and would wake up super early and worked for a long period of time on this book. When I think of my first foray into fiction if I think it is going to be a like daily homework assignment for years there is a very large part of me that just does not want to do it unless the purpose behind it is therapy or this is going to be cultivating your connection with this other dimension you have described and that is the purpose of doing this. Do you have any thoughts on those points or concerns?  It may be Tim that writing fiction is your calling. I do not know. It could very well be. You could say that nonfiction books and podcasts and stuff like that might be if you will forgive me might be a shadow career for you. I do not know.  Ah. Yeah it could be.  So in that case the exercise of writing fiction would be like a lifelong calling a practice from now till the end. And I think it is a good idea to hope that it will be successful that it will find a market that people will love it. But at the same time I think it is very important and I am talking to myself too to turn off the self-censor and not start to think Oh shit are people going to like this? Or Have I gone too far in this scene? In other words trying to second guess the audience because an audience if it is out there it will find it. It will find the work. And if it is not it will not. But I would say just write to please yourself and always take the brave choice. Should I write this scene this way which is kind of a chicken way or should I really go for it and write it the big way? And I would say always take the brave choice. And monitor yourself as you go because what should happen is once you are into this you should really start to feel good. You should really feel a tailwind and really feel like Ah shit my feet are on the ground. I may be a beginner maybe I do not know what I am doing but I am on the right path. And if it does not feel like that then maybe it is not the right idea.  Well if it is okay with you I may reach out to you as my   Yes please do. Absolutely.  As my stabilizing wing at some point.  No I am serious Tim. Please do.  Thank you. I really appreciate that. Steven this has been so much fun. I would love to do another round at some point have another conversation like this.  Okay put me down in the books whenever.  There is no shortage of topics to cover. Maybe after I have actually given this a shot I think that should be the stakes. That should be the accountability is I cannot have you on again until I have actually spent some time on this scary thing called fiction. Just a few last questions. And this one does not always work out but I like to ask it. It is not an easy question necessarily but if you had a billboard metaphorically speaking to get a message or a quote or a question or an image out to billions of people assuming they would all understand it what might you put on that billboard?  Ah ha! Actually this was a question in Tribe of Mentors that I actually give an answer to.  It was.  What I said in that in Tribe of Mentors was I would not put up any billboard at all and I would tear them all down. But to answer your question a little more seriously because you are sort of saying Well what would it be if you had to say one thing to somebody to help them?  Exactly.  I would say Life is long. This is what a friend of mine Phil Slott once said to me. He said They always tell you life is short but actually life is long. And if we find ourselves making mistakes or we have not yet found our real calling do not drive yourself crazy with that. There is plenty of time. Everybody thinks they have got Oh if I do not do it in the next six months I am going to kill myself. And I thought that too forever but look at me it took me forever to break through into anything. And I still feel that I have got a whole other lifetime ahead of me and you Tim you have got like three lifetimes ahead of you. So be patient with yourself. I would say to people Be kind to yourself you are on a journey whether you realize it or not we all are. There is no way not to be. And things will reveal themselves as they go but do not beat yourself up too much.  Steven this has been so much fun. I really appreciate you taking the time  and people can find you at Steven Pressfield again with a V stevenpressfield.com Twitter SPressfield Instagram StevenPressfield. We will link to all of your books including the newest and one that I am quite excited about A Man at Arms an epic saga about a reluctant hero the Roman Empire and the rise of a new faith checking all the boxes for me. Are there any other comments you would like to make any requests of my audience any parting questions? Anything at all that you would like to add before we bring this conversation to a close?  No I think that billboard that is my billboard. Yeah that would be the final thing other than to say thanks for having me Tim. It was great talking to you getting to know you a little bit and I hope I did not overstep my bounds in giving unsolicited advice. I hope what I said helps a little bit and we will talk again.  I think if this writing thing does not work out for you maybe that is your shadow  becoming a psychoanalyst.  Yeah right.  Maybe that is your real calling. I have found this very helpful personally and I am sure it will help many other people out there. So thank you again Steven and to everyone listening. Once again you can find links to everything that we mentioned at Tim.blogpodcast. And until next time thank you for tuning in.   