 I am Tim Ferriss author entrepreneur angel investor and now TV host. I have spent my entire adult life asking questions then scouring the globe to find the answers. On this show I will share the secrets of pioneers who have faced their own fears. We will dig into the hard times big mistakes tough decisions and how they got through it all. The goal is not to be fearless. The goal is to learn to fear less. Welcome to Fearless. I am your host Tim Ferriss and on this stage we will be deconstructing world class performers of all types to uncover the specific tactics they have used to overcome doubt tackle hard decisions and ultimately succeed on their own terms. My guest tonight is a member of the National Wrestling Hall of Fame New York Times bestselling author and has summited Mount Kilimanjaro among others. He inspires audiences around the world with his message and he conquers challenges with his own unique style. Please welcome to the stage athlete author and mountaineer Kyle Maynard.  What is up? What is up everybody? How is it going?  Yeah good buddy.  Awesome man. Thank you.  All right. Are you guys ready to get the show started?  Yeah.  All right.  Ooh. Ooh. Yeah. Ooh.  It is so nice to see you.  You too. Nice to see you.  It is been five years. We met a while back up in Napa had quite the adventure.  It was.  I do not remember most of it but I do remember in the flashes of consciousness in between too much wine everyone being really really impressed and inspired by you there. I mean it was such a wonder to behold your effect on people.  Like How could that guy be so drunk and still stay in his wheelchair?  I was like How does he remember these one liners? They are brilliant. But what I thought we could do since this is Fearless is that we could start not with necessarily the highlight reel. Let us start with some of the challenges. So we are going to begin with a video and let us take a look. Video plays. Kyle Maynard' Every weekend we would go to the tournament and he would get beat. He would lose and we would go and we'00 in the morning and drive across the town and go wrestle and he would get beat. And then I would drive home with him crying because that emotional side of the sport that was happening that I did not want to have happen. Video ends.  All right. Tell us about your first wrestling season then we are going to back into all the rest but as a former wrestler I like talking about wrestling. So let us start there.  Oh yeah. We could geek out on that. Yeah. I mean it is a short story. I was terrible. I mean basically people were almost saying it was borderline child abuse that my mom and dad were having me do this. It was just crazy. And I think the craziest part of it too is if my dad were sitting here with us and he would been a wrestler and he would kind of been the one to encourage me to go and do it if he were being honest with us he would say that he did not think that I would ever have won a match.  What was your record like the first season?  I lost every match that first season and halfway through my second season. So I still had not won a match.  What was your last season like?  So senior year of high school I had won 36 varsity matches beat the state champ from Alabama Louisiana went to the nationals and placed one match from being All High School American.  Tremendous. And we are going to dig into a lot of the wrinkles of that so I do not want to jump too far ahead but can you explain for people what congenital amputation is?  Yeah honestly I have no idea. Really doctors do not know. I am not even joking when I say that but when I was born there was no known cause. And my mom and dad they were young they were in their early 20s and really they kind of thankfully stopped looking for an answer. Maybe there is some genetic link but they do not know.  Mm-hmm . Where did you grow up? How would you describe your childhood and in the early ?  In the early days? So I was born at Walter Reed Army Medical. So it is where so many of our veterans that have gone through an amputation have come back to do the rehabilitation which is crazy that  I mean there was no other reason  they had no idea that I was going to be born an amputee. No idea at all. The ultrasounds appeared normal. So it was a big surprise at first. I say my mom and dad kind of pulled the ultimate  my mom especially. It is like this Jedi mind trick where it was like You are not disabled. And I am like Cool I am not disabled. It was this attitude of normalcy. And I think that they saw that if they saw me as normal that I would see myself that way.  Mm-hmm . Yeah. I mean it is  I think we will talk a lot more about this but I mean you definitely  child or adult you sort of conform to the expectations of the people around you.  Right.  So if your parents are presenting you with that image of yourself    That is why sometimes too I mean this is like a small thing and it is really not I hear parents that are like Oh my kid is bad at math. I am like What? He is not  maybe whatever he might be lazy. That might be true but  they say that like My kid is lazy or My kid is bad at math or something like that. They do not realize how they are actually I think in a lot of ways  they are creating that right? How they go and see their kids they are going to be how the kids see themselves.  Totally. Yeah. Self-fulfilling prophecy.  Yeah. But my mom I mean she was the coolest with this where it was like she wanted me to have friends in the neighborhood and she knew that the socialization aspects of things were going to be the most critical to my development. She would be out corralling other kids to play like neighborhood street hockey games. She was working as a temp secretary and my dad was in college at the time. They did not have money but they would buy the Super Nintendo so the newest gaming system so I would have friends come over and want to play.  Cool. For instance just things that I think many people in this audience probably all of us take for granted how did you learn to eat for instance?  Yeah so that was an example of where my mom wanted to help. She wanted to go and do it for me. My dad he knew that there was going to come a time where I would want to be able to go and do that on my own right? So I used to use a prosthetic spoon and a lot of times we would forget it and leave it at home and I would be dependent on my mom or my grandma to feed me. He kind of brought up the point and I kind of say this jokingly now but it is true right? Can you imagine senior prom date or something like that? I am not going to want my mom or grandma hanging out behind me like Oh here's a bite Kyle. Like Oh cool. He got the bigger picture of the fact that the world was not tailored for someone that was born like me so then I would have to be able to adapt to go and figure it out.  What was the process like?  I mean I was two or three years old. I barely have any conscious memory or recollection of this but I probably dropped the spoon like thousands of times.  And did you ever wear prosthetics or consider prosthetics?  I did. I wore them up until I was in kindergarten and for a little bit on and off. I hated them. They were not natural. They were big bulky. They slowed me down more than they helped. It was more of a cosmetic reason that I decided to wear them but it was actually one day sitting like this in a chair surrounded by my kindergarten classroom and it was my turn to do show and tell. And I had these big prosthetic arms on and I am trying to  I would brought this toy machine gun to school which would not really fly nowadays right? But I am taking the hooks from the prosthetic and trying to make the sound with the gun. And I fumbled with it and dropped it on the ground and I could not jump out and grab it. And I was so embarrassed. I wanted to come to school without the arms and legs the next day. And my mom she called the teacher and just talked to her. And teacher was like Yeah bring Kyle to the second half of school tomorrow I will talk to them in the morning the kids because apparently  I mean it is a group of kindergartners right? So it took like three hours to explain to the class why Kyle had arms and legs yesterday but he is not going to today. It kind of tripped the kids out a little bit.  That is a lot to absorb. Yeah.  Totally. And   I know we are working on letters but take a second and we are going to  But the kids at the end of the day they told the teacher  they said that they liked me better like that because I got to jump around I got to go and play with them and all that. And that was the last time I ever wore them.  When you were growing up what were you most afraid of? What intimidated you the most or what was harder than you thought it would be?  Definitely girls.  Girls.  Yeah a hundred percent.  Yeah.  Yeah.  It seems pretty common.  Yeah. For anybody right?  But yeah for anybody. How did you contend with that?  I mean probably at 10 years old and started to become attracted to girls and stuff that was a lot of probably the questioning of What is the rest of my life going to go and look like? That was a big part of it. I know it is like with anybody with any type of physical difference it is a big thing. It is like Am I going to be able to find or seek companionship? All that right?  Yeah.  And probably the most fear-filled moment of my entire life to date was  not like Kilimanjaro or stepping into a cage and fight in MMA. It was asking my senior prom date out. But at the same time too now fast forward to where life is it is like I have had an amazing dating life. I have dated some amazing girls. My mom's ticked off that I have not settled down to find the right one yet and give her grandkids but   It sounds like a lot of moms.  Yeah. I remember meeting at the event with you and Neil Strauss was there right?  Yeah.  And I was thinking   So Neil Strauss he is written eight New York Times bestselling books including The Game.  Yeah. He was like We should totally have a pick-up seminar for guys in wheelchairs.  Yeah.  You know?  Well I was going to wait until a little bit later to ask this let us say if you meet a vet who is newly an amputee and they have some of these concerns right? What is the rest of my life going to look like? Am I going to have companionship? What do you say or do in that situation?  I think it is really tough because being born the way that I was yes in these earlier years there were a lot of those difficult emotions to process right? There were a lot of painful times. I mean when I was 10 years old kind of swirling with a lot of the stuff of like What is the future going to be? I mean I got to a point where I did not see  I did not want to go on living at 10. I was 10 years old. Obviously now being able to look back I could not even imagine what life would be. And I want them for someone that if they were a veteran or if they went through some type of accident or injury to be able to see that hope in that future right? But at the same time have to go and realize that right then for them in that moment it is way hard and it is a thousand times harder in my opinion to go through if you lived 20 or 30 or 40 years with arms and legs and then you lose them. Your brain and all of its neurology it is hardwired to  when you go to pick up a coffee cup they go to pick it up with their hand right? I have never had that programming. So all of my motor development all of everything was developed around what I have currently since it was congenital. And now they are also dealing with all of the emotional processing side of things too. But I really want them to know that they are capable of living whatever life it is that they set out that they can still create the life that they want to right? It is not going to be easy not going to be  they do not have to process some of this stuff and deal with some of this stuff. But just like the topic of the show fear is ubiquitous. I mean everybody experiences it all the time. The difference is the people I think that have a great life versus someone that is sort of just getting by or struggling is they think at some point maybe the fear is just going to go away and then they will be able to start or something like that. I think you just have to be able to jump in and find a way to be able to live your life now you know?  Yeah. What kept you going? I mean 10 that is not only a sensitive period but a really early age at which to have   A lot of that stuff.   that type of darkness right? What inspired you to keep going or how did you come out of that?  I think if I had to pick a moment in time it was making my first tackle in football.  Okay. Let us talk about it. Tell us about it.  I was convinced I was going to be the quarterback on the team. I was like No question. They are going to make me the quarterback. And they told me to line up as a nose guard. It is a defensive line. And first day of practice we were not even in full pads but just wearing helmets and stuff. And the center went to go and snap the ball between his legs and I am lined up right across from him. They told me my job was to like follow the ball. And he basically just stood straight up. And so I just dove under his legs and smashed my helmet at the quarterback's legs knocked him over at first play got the sack came home that night and called my dad. He was out of town on a business trip and I was like I think we are done with youth football. I am going straight to the NFL. And   So there is a good photo.  Right?  So that was one of the moments?  Big time because it was like at that moment it was like this moment of achieving something I never thought that I could before and being a part of the team and the camaraderie and all that right? So it was all of these psychological studies and books on like engagement and flow and all that right? When you are in that flow state then it is like you are not thinking about anything else right? That is why I love jiu-jitsu or mountain climbing that kind of stuff now because it is like when I am doing that if I think about like Oh man I have got to go and do my taxes then I get choked right?  Yeah right. There is an immediate penalty.  Yeah. Big time. So   You are not just sitting on a couch meditating trying to get into the zone. There is an immediate repercussion.  Immediate repercussion.Well like in that moment it was like I was not worried about Am I going to have to live at home with my mom and dad forever? Am I ever going to have a girlfriend? All those fears and doubts and those questions it started to loosen the grip on that.  And your dad suggested the wrestling? Is that how that started?  Yeah. He basically tricked me into coming out. So the rule is that for me or my sisters if we sign up for any type of sport or activity we had to finish it. Or at least just finish the season. We did not have to sign up and do it again but you had to like sign up and finish that season. So I did sixth grade did not want to ever do it again. I was done. And seventh grade signups came up and my dad was like Yeah maybe you should try it again blah blah. And I am like No absolutely not. And he said I want to tell you something I never really talked to you about. I did not win a single match my first year either. I knew that he would become a really good wrestler in high school and college and stuff later on. I was like Wow really? And he is like Yeah nobody ever wins a match their first year in wrestling. It is actually really common. But everybody wins a match their second season because you will find somebody who is there for a season and you will beat up on them right? So I was like Awesome. Sign me up. And to make a long story short I was interviewing my dad's dad my grandpa for my book when I was writing it and I was asking him I was like When my dad was losing all his matches his first year did he want to quit too? Because I did. I begged to quit all the time and they would drag me out to these tournaments. And he had no idea what I was talking about because that whole story had been a complete lie. So I based my entire life off of that lie right? And so then the first kid that I beat I see this  before the match started I had him beat. I am like Oh that kid's a first-year wrestler? He is pretty scrawny. He is not even warming up the right way. Look at him jumping around. We shook hands. I was like He got a weak handshake. Took the kid down and landed on top of him. I was like Whoa this is awesome. I was more shocked than he was like I am just going to keep doing it.  So let us pull up a video of one of your wins. Let us take a look.   So we also have some photos and when they have a chance I want them to pull up a photo of a low leg attack. I was really impressed when I saw this photo. So   May we demonstrate one right here if you want.  Yeah. Let us do it. Yeah yeah. Let us do it.  Yeah. Let us do it.  All right.  I mean I knew at some point this was going to happen all right?  Please do not break my knee.  All right. We will go through it slow.  All right. So how do you want to do this?  So a normal wrestling match starts we come out and we shake hands right? And a lot of times guys would push on my head and kind of like Stay away right?  Yeah.  So my strategy was to be able to close the distance down. And   That was good. That was awesome.  So   Very John Smith. Very John Smith.  Yeah yeah little John Smith. That is good.  Yeah yeah.  Totally.  I do not know how many more of those I want to do. So   We are getting old. We need to be careful right?  No no. But I was going to  yeah. My heart rate got  okay. Two seconds. This is probably going to apply to like 0.001 percent of you but I want to ask what were your go-to moves other than that?  So I did a lot of kind of duck under type positions and so   We will show you guys what a duck under is.  So if you come in  a lot of guys would go and wrestle me down on their knees right?  Yeah yeah.  So then if he reaches over the top I can boom shoot across here come around and take him down or  one of my favorite takedowns to this day is like a Jap whizzer. So   Oh God.  We will go slow.  Oh God.  But if he is on top of me  we can start here right?  Yeah.  So if he starts so he goes     your position.  Yeah. Exactly. So he goes over top here then I will just tuck   Oh God.   and be able to roll.  All right. I think it is time for water. All right.  We definitely  the biggest go-to I will not  I do not think it is a good idea to demonstrate.  What was this?  But my biggest go-to technique was called the jawbreaker but basically would take someone's jaw line like that and use kind of a front headlock position and just crank on the jaw until   Oh God.   they just turned over on their back. Boom pin me. So that was   The jawbreaker. Oh my God. I am really glad we did a little demo.  You do not wrestle with all your guests? Is that   No this is new.  Okay.  I mean maybe I should.  I am glad I could be your first.  But I am not going to pick you. Yeah. No. Of all the people I am going to pick. So you were inducted into the National Wrestling Hall of Fame. That is a big deal. That is a big deal. I mean my heroes are in that Hall of Fame.  Totally. Mine too.  How did that feel? How did that happen?  I mean in contrast to how bad I was when I started it was really just a cool moment to be able to reflect and look back and see just how  I mean how far we got in the . It was really pretty wild. There was a big argument when I was competing in wrestling and in jiu-jitsu as to whether or not I was unfairly advantaged which is an interesting juxtaposition of how bad I was like I talked about when I first started to then later people were saying Yeah he is unfairly advantaged. Because I was competing against  in high school I weighed 103 pounds many moons ago and I am going up against these 103-pound kids. Were not huge kids right? And I had a bigger upper torso than the kids I was going up against. And you know probably some of the similar people that were saying that like Oh man this is child abuse that his parents are making him doing this they are now saying like He is got an unfair advantage over my kid.  Wait a minute! He just pinned my son.  Yeah exactly.  I have changed my mind.  And it happened quick. It was really interesting. But to me I think in a lot of ways I think that with the wrestling and all that in particular it was a cultivated advantage and you are all about those advantages that you cultivate give you an edge.  What was the most valuable thing that you took from that whole experience?  It was not until pretty recently within the last two or so years of doing some deeper self-reflection that I realized I could kind of summarize my biggest fear was being seen as helpless. And you can imagine as a kid of course it was just like if other kids were laughing or joking or making fun of me I would want to prove to them that I was not helpless. So wrestling mountain climbing those are sports that I mean have a little bit of a bent of like I am going to show you that I am not helpless right?  Mm-hmm .  But I think that now acknowledging that I am so grateful for that too but I do not have to be driven by that. It does not have to be the thing that is running the show. And I think that if we have these experiences and these fears that are outside of our awareness then it can start to go and run the show. I have met billionaires that there is some moment in time that it was running the show for them. And maybe it was from a time when they were six or seven years old.  Mm-hmm . I heard someone ask an ultra runner once they said Well what are you running from? And it is that switch not everyone makes it going from running away from something to running towards something. How did you develop that awareness so that you could use it as a tool maybe when you choose but not to have it use you? How did you develop that awareness?  I think that one of the competitive advantages that I have is that the disability from a physical side got me to ask some bigger philosophical questions at a younger age. I know that that kind of started to generate some just deeper questioning of like What is this about? What is this experience about? What is this life about? Why did this happen? What is the larger context here? All of these sort of things. And then like What did people thousands of years ago think about this? And even before that. I think that we are all sort of in this inquiry in some level but then we kind of  we get stuck in our day-to-day and whatever. The physical disability I think sometimes it is a little bit of an access in that. It kind of forces you to  maybe for some kids to look at some of those things at a younger age. For me I could summarize it in a recurring dream that I had. It was not until two years ago that I had an experience of remembering this dream. And when I remembered it I just started crying and I could see all of my successes and all of my failures. And it was just like  it was like these buildings that I built just crumbling down. And the dream was I was in the backseat of my dad's car and he had this e-brake that he would go and pull. So you would push it with your thumb and he would pull it up. It was like a parking brake right? So the parking brake on this hill and all of a sudden in the dream I would be in the car by myself and the parking brake would come off. And I would try to do whatever I could to grab it and I could not pull it up. And I could not stop the car. And then the car would just pick up speed and then eventually I would just wake up and have this fear that kind of falling feeling right? And it was just this intense fear and this intense feeling of helplessness. That was from the time I was maybe five or six to like middle school. Had that dream a couple of times a year. It was pretty intense. And I think now if I am in the airport traveling sometimes they will pull up the gate and the gate agent will have different responses. Sometimes they are totally cool and I will tell them I will jump out of my chair and I will go and walk to the plane. Sometimes they will not believe me and sometimes it is like You cannot do it. And I am like Can I It would trigger some of that stuff where it would be like some of those helpless feelings and I would have this thought that would be there of like Man you do not have any idea of the places that I have been you probably could not go. You probably could not be able to climb Aconcagua or something like that. I had that thought and I am like Oh man that is a stupid thought. Because I think if you have awareness of something it pops up into my head and I am like Well that is just my own fear. It is my own insecurity. And then it can go away. But if it is just behind the scenes running the show it is  I think a lot of us I mean human beings we are wired that for whatever reason we kind of make these decisions up about ourselves.  I think also human beings just evolutionarily speaking we are wired for survival not for happiness. It is not what your genes are optimized for necessarily. So it is something you have to  at least something I have to work on. It is like I can go dark really fast for whatever reason. It is been a trend.  Yeah.  And   But I love that you share that though. You are real. And I want people to know for me I have had periods of time of feeling like a fraud in front of groups of people where I am like Man I am really struggling with X Y or Z. How do I have any right to go and tell anybody here anything? But then now  and I am sure you have maybe had similar experiences but I have gotten to be around enough people where I can see that it is almost the people that do not share that that those are the ones that I am like Ugh. I want to stay away from because it is like they do not acknowledge that because it is everybody. We all have that stuff right? We all do.  Let us pull up a video of you doing some speaking. Video plays.  I would say my purpose in life at least from my perspective would be to help show other people their purpose. That other people and what they think is totally irrelevant. For me inside my heart this is what I am capable of doing. This is what I deserve. They are thinking about if I were in your shoes and I were running your business I could not do it. That is a lie. You decide. You decide what you are capable of and believe and deserve. Video ends.  Why do you do your speaking 200 days on the road? That is a lot of days on the road man. Why the speaking? What drives that?  To me there is again so many different whys that are interconnected with that. It is a form of artistry for me. I think that a speech is something that I can bring that creativity to. But I am not that one thing. I am not a speaker. I am not an author. I am not any one thing. I am not even an entrepreneur. I do not care. I do not care to have any label I am not an amputee or a wrestler or whatever. I want to not know what I am right? So I can go and find and be curious and figure it out. If I had to pick one defining quote for my life Emerson said Do not go where the path may lead. Go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.  I applaud you man. We are going to go to some audience questions. If you had to pick the most inspiring religious or spiritual leader who would it be and why?  I would say Emerson for sure. I have read all of his works. I mean it is had a profound impact on me. Joseph Campbell is another one. But yeah. I mean I am just constantly  I geek out on that stuff hard. The thing I am obsessed with currently is the Upanishads. It is just like thousands of years old a lot of these ideas right? We kind of like to go and put different wrappers on things and think that we have got different smart ways to figure stuff out. It is really just like this knowledge of life and this inquiry is so old. And it cracks me up now. I am also a big fan of Martin Seligman and positive psychology and Albert Bandura in the research side of things. But it cracks me up. I told you I did an interview with Mark Divine today Navy SEAL commander and we were just joking that researchers will be like New headline.  it makes you happier. It is like Wow.  Thanks. That is where my tax dollars are going.  Right.  Great.  Yeah. It is like it was like 10000 years ago right?  Yeah.  Somebody  Hey smile and you will feel better.  Put two and two together. I read this and I was like Of course just because we have spent a little bit of time together. It was like Known for having nice handwriting and I was like Okay. Yeah of course. Of course you have got better handwriting than I do which you do. So I wanted to actually pull up an example of your handwriting as much for the content as the handwriting itself. I know there are many people who whether they admit it or not view disabled people as inferior. We are broken' in their eyes. We are of no use no value and we are just running out the string on life. But I believe that we are all disabled in one way or another including disabilities of character and personality. My disability just happens to be more visual than some. When I read that it really impacted me because it is true. I mean that sounds maybe a simplistic way to put it but it is really profound right? You have people walking around with  everybody has their own wounds. They are all battling their own demons. And I remember I was really bent out of shape about some personal flaw or weakness. And I think it was like an aunt because I think I would had too much to drink and she said Do not worry. People are like Swiss cheese. And I was like What? And she said No we all have holes. We all have those gaps.  What specific things do you tell yourself when the thought of quitting enters your mind?  I think a lot of it is I try to examine just what is that coming from? Because sometimes I think that  and this is one of the things that is kind of changed and a shift right? I used to talk about like Oh never ever give up. Now I am like Giving up is super important. And you should give up a lot of things a lot quicker. A job that you hate a relationship that sucks give it up immediately right? But there is other instances where too it is like that is a gray area and I know it is something that we will probably talk about it was like the mountain climbing.  Yeah. Sure.  But for a little taster of that a lot of my experience with mountain climbing has gotten to the point where I am like How far is too far. Yeah I can go and have  I can push myself but will there be irreparable harm? So of course probably 95 percent of any climb that I have ever done I am wanting to quit and the five percent that I am not it is like I am either hanging out with my friends or looking around at how beautiful this is but it is like a lot of the time I have that thought going through my head. And the most brutal parts of either climb Aconcagua or Kilimanjaro that I took on were the last day that I could have paid extra for a helicopter evac. And I realized because I had that option and that choice to get that evac it made the suffering way worse.  So I want to pull up a photo of you I believe it might be in your gym. It could be elsewhere but working out on rings. So it looks like you are having a pretty pleasant afternoon.  Pretty good time. Yeah.  What role has building physical strength played in overcoming mental emotional and social challenges for you?  I think easily that the physical is the easiest and first access to  I think just gaining some type of inner awareness. I mean that is a baseline. It is an awesome place to start but I think it just does not stop there. I think sometimes if you have people that they are not able to really contextualize what they are doing and see how the physical can map into everything right? It is kind of all the same stuff. So the same lessons you are going to go and learn there are the things that are going to help you in business. The same things are going to help you in your relationships or your passions and all that. It is just realizing that it is kind of all the same and nothing happens quick. So it does take a lot of time and frankly a lot of suffering and a lot of failure and a lot of stuff that nobody really wants to do. It is more of like I want to take this pill and get this effect. I want to go and have this thing. You know what I mean? I love a lot of the biohacking stuff but I feel like the thing that we go and do by cheapening the process is we skip a lot of steps along the way.  I think a lot of people forget that they are supplements for a reason.  Right. Totally.  It is not primary. And just to underscore something that you mentioned or looking at it maybe a slightly different way but this is how I have thought about it a lot is when I am in dark periods the most fruitless thing that I can do personally I am not saying this applies to everybody but is to try to think my way out of it. And so people say mind over matter. I think you can also go the other direction. I think you can have matter over mind and using your kinesthetic body rather than viewing things through this lens of like  it is like Cartesian duality of mind and body. Your brain is an organ. That stuff is completely intertwined.  Big time.  So using the physical as a way to develop mastery over the mental has always been my default when I am feeling   It is a good place to go. I mean because it is like that immediate sort of access. Yeah. I mean go to the pain cave man right? Figure stuff out real quick.  Figure your shit out.  But to that point too something just popped in my head I had an amazing meeting a couple weeks ago. I got to have a meeting with the Secretary of the Army at the Pentagon and talked to him about some of these veteran issues and why is it that 22 veterans a day are committing suicide? And it is staggering. I wanted to know what are they doing about that. But one of the things that he said really stood out and I think it is helpful in the sense. He said whenever he gets to that place of being really stuck he knows that one of two things are happening probably both but one he is trying to do it all by himself. And the other is he is just not asking for help.  What advice would you give to someone who has the tendency and I do it quite frankly to isolate myself? It is the worst instinct. So I am like Let me just sit down and figure this out on my own. And it is just like   Yeah.  How many times do I have to do this before I learn my lesson? But what advice would you give to someone who has a tendency to do that?  That is me. I totally would agree. I am the same way but it is really  lately I have been like Nah screw that. I mean really what is running the show there? I think it is a big part of it. Is it my own ego? Is it my own sense of I cannot go and have support or help from other people. I need to go and do it on my own or no one's going to go and do it as good as me or whatever where those kind of stories are. It is all BS. And just if it is made up in my head that is just like I can go and unmake it up right? I can go and surround myself with amazing people that are way smarter than I am. Some of my best friends and business partners have the exact opposite strengths that I have. As soon as we partnered together then it was like things just shot up through the roof right? And you put the right people in the right places. That is the whole special forces mentality. That one person inside of an environment can go and change the whole landscape. And I think it is so true in business. The whole idea of being the solopreneur and grinding it on your own and the late nights it is like yeah that can be a good place to go and get started when you do not have a team and access to people but even then it is kind of an excuse. Because you have a community of people that you could tap into in your friends and family and other people like that that are going to be willing to champion your cause.  The one thing that is helped me quite a bit you guys can check this out the musician Amanda Palmer has a TED Talk on asking for help. And I remember watching it and then I read her book and I was like Yeah dummy. If you are suffering call one of your friends who has already figured it out and ask them for help. It was just such a kind of in retrospect hilarious epiphany for me. And it is always been really hard for me to do that. But   In those deeper moments of suffering I think that is the last thing you want to do.  Yeah. So you mentioned Emerson. What books have you gifted the most to other people if any? Or if you were to gift books to other people.  A  is an article that I know that you have recommended a bunch that I have gifted to all my entrepreneur friends is 1000 True Fans.  1000 True Fans by Kevin Kelly.  Yep.  Oh yeah.  And that is made a huge difference for me because I am like you know what? Frankly it is like Is it my own ego that tells me like Oh I need to have an audience the size of Tony Robbins or Tim Ferriss' right? It is like Not necessarily. I need to really be able to communicate and tap into who is my tribe. And I am in the process right now of  literally I am finally balls out I am creating it. And the wrapper that I want to go and use for that brand is the Mountain Movement. But the whole idea is I want people to go and get over this idea of knowing that they have all the right answers and that their beliefs are the right way. And any belief right? I challenge any belief in that. I am not talking about one thing. It is like a mountain. It does not care what race you are what gender you are whether you are in a wheelchair or not. It does not give a shit right?  Yeah.  Mountain's like Zero Fs given. I mean a hundred percent. It is kind of in that it is beautiful in its indifference I think. And at the same time it is like I think I want to go and empower people to go in their own metaphorical mountains. How they go and climb those things and how they go and build that team to ultimately leave the world better than they found it. Because right now it is insane. You know what I mean? Just the polarity and all that stuff that we are experiencing and seeing it is  I do not know. And I mean I am guilty of it too right? We all have our assumptions and beliefs and judgements and it is just impossible to see somebody else's perspective with that. And when you look at me or if someone looks at me for the first time if you have not seen the videos and stuff like that it does not automatically occur to someone like Oh that guy's clearly an MMA fighter or a mountain climber. It would be true. There is a quip that has been profoundly impactful in my life. It was called The map is not the territory. And basically we all walk around as these mental cryptographers as if the maps that we go and create are reality are the territory and they are not. They are just maps. And any map that you go and create can get outdated it can get  you need to do that software update right?  For sure.  And update your map.  Yeah. And it strikes me what I have really tried hard to do in the last couple of years myself in part to get to correct this faulty software or buggy software that needs updating it is really simple. I mean I was told at one point so some advice I got on conflict resolution they just said Say less. Two words. Say less. It is like Okay.  Wow.  It was not directed at me but it certainly applied to me. And I was like Yeah. How many problems would be solved in this country and around the world if it was just like before you can state a strong opinion you have to ask three questions and listen to the answers?  And actually listen.  Yeah.  Actually listen.  A lot of things would resolve themselves. What is something you have changed your mind on in the last few years?  I think I grew up I mean in a sort of  and not really something I have talked about at all publicly but I grew up with very sort of Baptist views and all that. And then I went for several years privately as a period of full-blown atheism. And kind of secretly harbored some sort a degree of spirituality. And really it was after like a trip to Thailand and became interested in sort of Eastern thought and things like that that I expanded that view to a lot more things but then also too have come back to Christianity and seeing the beauty of the message that Christ taught. And I think that now I think I would still  I mean I identify myself as a Christian of someone who is a follower of Christ but at the same time I am not religious but I think it is a more broad inclusive view of spirituality. And I think that sometimes too I think that we think that we are so smart. We have got all the answers for this stuff. And sometimes especially now I mean with the interesting things it is like stuff gets spooky at certain levels. And it is like there is some other interesting answers and implications there that are fascinating. Stuff that Buddha talked about stuff that Lao Tzu and all these teachers or Campbell  I mean Campbell was the biggest one. Joseph Campbell talked about this monomyth and how these different creation stories occurred with very similar structures around the world at different times. But as human beings we get so  again coming back to this idea we get so locked into our beliefs that we will start wars over these things. We will literally kill millions of people off of a lot of this stuff that we hold onto. And that is why I want to I mean bring this idea that really kind of not knowing I think is the better place to come from. The entirety of my life was not knowing but we are going to figure it out.  And when I think to the best doctors I know and how they distinguish themselves there is an expression  there are a lot of funny expressions in medicine that doctors have. So one is P equals MD. Pass equals MD. So just like any industry just like any trade you have people who are at the bottom of the class people at the top of the class. So the people at the top of the class I think generally have another expression which is We know that 50 percent of what we think we know is wrong. We just do not know which 50 percent.  Wow.  So I think if more people walked around   I love that.   keeping that in mind   Wow.   it would lead them to ask more questions as opposed to seek to antagonize seek to prove themselves right right off the bat.  Right.  So I want to talk about mountain climbing. Let us say Kilimanjaro. How did that come into the picture?  Total ADD. It is the best explanation I have for it. I did a CrossFit sectional workout. The first workout was a thousand meter row and then sprint up this like 900-foot stone mountain and tore the skin up on my arms to get up there. But I got to the top in an hour and 46 minutes. I was destroyed but got there. I was like Wow this is beautiful. My friend we were sitting there and we were talking and I told her I was like I want to do Kilimanjaro. She was like You are freaking crazy. You just tore skin off your arms doing a 900-foot stone mountain and this Kilimanjaro is like 20 or 21 stone mountains stacked on top of each other. And I was like I do not know how we are going to do it but want to figure it out. I mean that was just a brutal beat down from the universe on every level after that to get to that point.  Now what did you do  all right. So you have this stone mountain was it?  Yeah.  Took all the skin off of your arms and legs. So what was the gear?  So with that we used leather welding sleeves. And I was like Yeah this will protect my arms until I realized the leather welding sleeve was a lot tougher than my skin.  So it was the leather that ripped it off.  Yeah. It was not the stone but we tried bath towels and duct tape and thankfully I have got these amazing friends that were sitting and just duct taping stuff on my arms and my feet for hours. And we tried oven mitts cooking oven mitts and several of them stacked up. And we tried knee pads all these different things. We would finally got smart and took a mountain bike tire and cut that into pieces and then wrap it around and give some traction and created this prototype shoe. So I used that to get up the mountain and we did not get the final gear set complete until two and a half weeks before we left for the climb.  What was driving it? That is a big commitment right? And you presumably have other stuff going on. That takes a lot of focus.  Big time.  What did you hope to get out of it?  The biggest driver there was for me personally and it is hard to understand unless you have spent a significant portion of your time and your life in a wheelchair.  Okay.  Because you do not necessarily realize how many places you cannot get to in the wheelchair. In America I think that we have the greatest country that I have experienced in terms of accessibility. Part of it is because I think we are a fairly new country right? But it is like in terms of the world there are many places that are off limits and that was  when my friends would go and run off into the woods I could not go and follow them. And so when I was a kid I wanted to and I wanted to go and have a way to go and do it unless I was like riding on a buddy's back and we would not get very far doing that. But it was like that was my access into the woods for a long time or in the mountains. And I wanted to go to nature. I wanted to experience it. I wanted to go and see these places that I would read about in some poem or something. I am like The Snows of Kilimanjaro I want to see that. Video plays.  As the ever-present threat of deadly avalanches looms scree and dust make movement difficult for Kyle. Spikes are attached so he can navigate the icy slope and Kyle's will to succeed is clear. Nothing will stop him. As day breaks Kyle Maynard pushes ahead a beacon of will and determination showing the world that no matter what there is a way to the top. Various support team members encouraging Kyle as he approachesand then reaches    Oy oy oy!  Love you man.  Love you.  Let us all gather round. We have got to grab all    Once he is reached the summit Kyle Maynard's mission is complete and he can pay tribute to the men and women who have inspired him. Who choose to live to the fullest because there are no excuses. Video ends.  If you had a gigantic billboard and you could put out a short message few words whatever it might be to a huge audience to the world what would you put on that billboard?  I think this time I am going to switch it up and go with a Campbell quote where he said  he was asking the purpose of life. And I think you could have a debate with this but really I think there is some beauty of it where he said it is to follow your bliss and that doors will open where there were previously only walls. If I am attached to this idea of like Oh I have to be the speaker guy then I do not necessarily get it. And that sometimes maybe that could be the most empowering thing to go and give up everything and go and pursue a different path. And I respect people that are willing to go and to do that and completely recreate themselves.  Well I would just want to thank you Kyle for honestly showing everyone that they can do more than they think they are capable of doing. It is a huge gift to the world. Ladies and gentlemen Kyle Maynard.  Ooh.   