 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs Kevin's and Toasters. This is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of The Random Show episode number 1374. My guest today as always is Kevin Rose. Mr. K Rose how are you sir?  Dude I am so glad we finally got a chance to hang. We went and did that trip together. It had been so long and then we finally now that we are all vaxxed and whatnot had a chance to hang out in Marfa Texas. We could talk about all that stuff later.  You should. You are teasing it. So you might as well just describe for folks what we ended up doing. It was a lot of fun. It was a great time. It was also just fun to crash together. Me on the couch   Yeah you tried to get in the bed.  I did. I tried to snuggle into bed. It was freezing. Well we should provide some more context but I will just say that Kevin's like You got the couch. I am like That is fine. I can crash on the couch. And I was like Where are the blankets? And we found basically some towels and it got down to mid-forties at night. I was dying. And then the very last day I was like Are you sure you checked everywhere? He is like Yeah I checked everywhere. And I am like What about these drawers? I pulled them out under the bed and I am like You fucker. There are comforters everywhere. So it was good. Good shared privation. It was not actually shared it was isolated Tim privation but that is okay.  There must have been some health benefit from doing that cold. It is like a cold plunge at night for you basically is what you are doing.  It is great. Yeah it was fantastic. But what the hell were we doing in Marfa Texas? And why is Marfa Texas noteworthy? I can also chime in.  So we were out at Marfa Texas which for those of you that do not know it is in the middle of nowhere. It is quite the trek to get out there. Well we had a little easier time getting out there but we got out there and it was the Art Blocks conference. And so they were doing their first kickoff event. They have a house out there. For those of you that do not know Art Blocks is a NFT generative art platform. So they were the very first generative platform. Meaning that artists come in they write code that creates art. So the code actually you do not know what you are going to get when you are minting it. So when you come in to Art Blocks and you see a project that looks cool because you have seen a test mint you go ahead and connect your wallet. And when you connect your wallet you choose Make me one of these. And then it is all random and you get some beautiful new creative piece of artwork that is defined by the code that was written by the artist. Generative art's been around for quite some time but this is the first time we have been able to capture it. It is always been art installations. And now that it is captured in NFTs this platform really took off and you and I were like Heck let us go check out the kickoff event and see what is going on there. And it was awesome.  I said Kevin heck let us get out of here. What the heck? This is exciting Kevin Rose.  I am keeping it PG.  That was good. You are ready to move to Utah.  We had fun though dude. It felt like early South by did not it remember? You know early South by Southwest?  Yeah. It felt like South by Interactive 2007 to be really specific where you could tell there were the seeds of something that was going to grow to be much larger but it was still being largely as a phenomenon. It was not even considered a phenomenon. It was the new curiosity that was not taken terribly seriously if that makes any sense and then it started to gobble up everything else in terms of interactive. And in the same way that some people think NFTs will be ubiquitous in some respects with the ownership economy. And I should say also for people who are listening to this if you are like Good Lord is this going to be another entire episode on NFTs? We are going to talk about NFTs but we are going to also touch on many many other things including my experience with finally contracting COVID. We will talk about that. We will talk about all sorts of tools biohacks many other things.  We have got a full agenda today all kinds of crazy stuff.  A full agenda. We have holiday gift ideas and we will cover a lot of ground. So NFTs will be part of that but not all of that. And it was great to hang man. It was so nice to finally be able to spend some time just the two of us in person. It is been a very very long time. When would you say the last time is that we were able to do that? If we think about the old days right just KevKev and TimTim   My bachelor party. Remember that?  Yeah. So it is been more than a few years at this point. I do remember that.  Oh no. You know what? We did my 40th birthday in Japan together. That was the last time we got some real good quality time and that was four years ago which is crazy.  Wow.  Yeah. So it was great.  It was great to actually hang and be stupid and drink lots and lots of sotol.  Oh speaking of which.  Mm-hmm .  Yeah we should talk about what that sotol is because I thought that was a fantastic drink. And you ended up being an investor in a company that was based in Marfa which was crazy. And then also we should talk about the old school. We are drinking drinks now but on The Random Show we used to talk about what we were drinking.  So let us check off the drinks. I will describe sotol first. So sotol S-O-T-O-L is a really fascinating plant that is found in a few different places certain parts of Texas like West Texas and also a few distinct portions of Mexico. And when you create a spirit from this  and the company in Marfa is Marfa Spirit so it is easy to find Marfa Spirit Co. and we had a lot of sotol when we were there  it is tastewise somewhere between tequila and mezcal. So the cooking process is actually very similar to mezcal which has a smoky feel to it. And that is actually what I will be drinking today is some mezcal. So I will just show what I am drinking today. This is Aqu Noms from Oaxaca which is an artisanal mezcal and it is dot dot dot we will find out. This was a gift from a friend because he knows that I like mezcal and he brought this back. So this is what I will be drinking today. But what we had were at least two different types of sotol when we were in Marfa. And we also had Marfa Spirit is sotol that has been aged in I want to say rum barrels which gave it an incredible flavor. So that was a blast. In Marfa but today it is Aqu Noms from Oaxaca. What are you drinking?  It is a little earlier where I am versus where you are so I went with some champagne actually. So I am doing Billecart champagne. Which for me just the rose I know it sounds  it is what it is.  You live in Portland you have JapaneseChinese calligraphy artwork and you have a designer hypoallergenic dog on a bed behind you. So I think it matches. It works.  This is the guest bedroom. Dude you know what? I wanted to just come out and say it I love champagne. Champagne is good. I am sorry. It is just a good beverage. It is like it does not spike my glucose. And I think that Billecart for under 100  champagnes can get really expensive obviously for under 100 I think it is 60 bucks or so it is like the best. It is fantastic. So that is my pledge to Billecart. I am not a sponsor. Although if you want to sponsor me Billecart I would love that.  Actually I will give people a two for one because I had two choices. I had more than two choices but I decided to narrow it down to two mezcal and then tequila. And this tequila here which I am not having today but I have had before I was introduced to a few weeks ago it is called LALO. It is made in Mexico L-A-L-O and it is 100 percent agave as well blanco tequila. And it is from Los Altos de Jalisco. It is delicious. It has a vegetal green flavor to it which is from my palette and my experience at least pretty unusual with tequila. And I was introduced to this at a restaurant called Suerte here in Austin.  Is that a blanco?  Yeah it is.  Awesome.  Well it is Agave Azul Blanco. So I guess it is a blanco. Yeah blanco tequila.  You what we had in Marfa? We had Dragones which we both love. Casa Dragones that is a fantastic tequila.  It is also a great tequila. So thank you Chinati Foundation  or I guess thank you  Casa Dragones for probably sponsoring the Chinati Foundation weekend at least that event. So that was a rare opportunity. They were just serving Casa Dragones out of a booth. And to everyone who was there I was like Even if you do not love tequila you should go try that because it is 300 a bottle and they are just pouring it like it is water. So you should try some.  It is funny you and I showed up to this basically  it was a buffet. You and I we would show up at this event and it is a buffet with a bunch of people and it is in the middle of nowhere this field and shit with buildings falling down all around. And I am looking I am like There is Dragones holy shit. And you and I look at each other and we are like We can just go tap into that. That is free money right there because that stuff's expensive. And then we started hitting the free Dragones. I was like I want to see if they could make it neat. Because remember they were making mixed drinks. I am like I just want to pour this in a little flask and take it home. It is good deal.  It was the greatest asymmetry between value on your plate for food and value in your drink.  It was like an Olive Garden salad with a 300 tequila pairing.  It was awesome. It was great. Kevin where should we start? I feel like maybe since we are talking about booze this leads right into biohacking but we could start really anywhere you want to start but why do not you jump into that because you have been doing more experimentation or at least voluntary experimentation than I have recently.  Yeah absolutely. And I will say first and foremost you have obviously had Peter Attia on your show many many times when we mentioned these crazy biohacks always best to go back to his podcast and refer to these episodes where he talks about these in great detail because   Even better to talk to your own doctor.  Well no doubt!  None of this constitutes medical advice but yes to hear Peter's descriptions in greater length his podcast will not disappoint on the detail side.  I am just a consumer he has real scientists that he interviews and whatnot. So for me I have been following the news around rapamycin for a while. Right now the drug is used for immune suppression in transplant patients. So if you get a new organ a high dose of rapamycin is used to suppress immune system so your body does not the organs but they have shown that in lower doses in all different types of mice and rats and now hopefully in dogs here pretty soon through something called the dogagingproject.org which I actually helped fund their most recent study out of the University of Washington.  You and me both!  I did not know you did that as well! That is awesome. So essentially we are hoping that this will also translate. They have already shown improvements in dog cardiovascular health and in aging dogs and it looks like it is working in terms of extending life in dogs. And the hope there and Attia will talk about this on his podcast he is been taking it for a couple years now low dose the hope there is that it will actually extend life in humans as well. So I decided to try an eight-week cycle of it. I did it. People vary on what they believe is the correct dosage and the correct duration and whether you should cycle it or not. And there is a bunch of just unknowns right there. So I just wanted to see what it would do if I noticed anything different. I had some knee joint pain in my right knee that had not gone away for a few months that went away. But I stopped it   The barnacles on your right testicle?  They are gone.  They are gone?  They are gone now. Yeah. Clean as a whistle. Like a couple of boiled eggs down there just beautiful. This is what happens when we introduce champagne into the episode. Billecart champagne people it goes straight to the head. I am sure they want to sponsor the next episode. So the Dog Aging Project I figured well Mr Toast who is sitting behind me on the video he is looking so alive right now. He looks like he is dead.  Looks like a tuna fish laid out on the beach.  Exactly. Toaster is 11 now and I decided let us get him on the dose that they are using in the Dog Aging Project. And I am not joking Tim there is an absolute difference. Darya and I will tell you that  he is having some hip issues as he is getting older his hips slip out from underneath him from time to time. And it does not help that we have concrete floors and it makes that a little more slippery for him but he is jumping up on people now when they come in the house including us and just the level of excitement and energy and everything else that is come out of him. He is been on it for about two months now. It is is working. So I have no doubt that those early studies around cardiovascular health and obviously that will extend dog life to a certain extent. So we will see what it is whether it is five percent or 10 percent or 20 percent or whatever it may be. I think we powered the study now to detect up to 20 percent is that right? I had to look and see what  because that was the additional funds that we recently put in or that I recently put in. I do not know if you were part of the original funding or the add-on.  Good question. This is all through the foundation. I would have to go back and look. How did you feel? Did you notice anything subjectively? Obviously who knows? You are not doing a placebo control trial.  The only thing was that my right knee was bugging me in just a dull pain for many months and that went away. But it is N of one dude that could have gone away for  so other than that nothing.  It is so tricky with this stuff and we will talk about my COVID experience later but whenever you take something there is this phenomenon of regression to the mean. This is not a perfect example with the knee but when you are feeling your worst you are likely to throw everything in the kitchen sink at something. And that is also frequently when you are at the peak after which you begin to regress to the mean which is your normal baseline. So it is really hard to determine causality but great that your knee is not bothering you.  And then I stopped it and four weeks later I just had a steroid shot on my shoulder today because I think I tore something in my shoulder but that is just getting old. One thing I will say because there is going to be a ton of people asking this question I have an older dog how do I get my dog on this? There is a study. You can go to the dogagingproject.org. You can apply to be in that study but the easier way honestly is to talk to your vet and have the vet go to the project go to the site they have dosing instructions for what they are using in the study. And under a vet's supervision if they are willing to do it and some will including my vet out here once I explained everything you can prescribe it off label to dogs. And so Toaster takes two milligrams a week for his body weight. And that is going to vary for your dog and I am not a veterinarian but talk to your vet show him the project and they might roll the dice with you but so far so good with Toast. And I would just love to get an extra three years out of Toast. That would mean the most to me. This is like family.  How old is Toast right now again?  11.  11. I feel you man. Molly's seven. And I would imagine but I do not know enough about the science to say this with any confidence that like many things the earlier the intervention the more likely you are to avert different icebergs. I would have to imagine that is the case but that is a question for the scientists. Suffice it to say I would love to see Toast around for a much much longer time. I remember in one of the very first Random Shows when he was a little pup he chewed through our microphone cables when we did it in person in San Francisco. Do you remember that?  Yeah. Toaster was the king of chewing through cables. He chewed through a power cable that was not plugged in one time. And we came home and it was like he had gone all the way through it. I was like That would have been the end of him. At that time he was 10 pounds. We would have come back to just a fried Toast.  Fried Toast. So what other experiments have you been doing?  So dude I have got a couple crazy things. So I have been playing. It is like you go through these times when you do not do any biohacking stuff and then you go deep. And I started a new drug called Ozempic. And the reason I did this is a couple reasons. One I have always had poor glucose control. So when I did a glucose tolerance test which is basically you go to your doctor they make you drink 100 percent glucose a pure sugar drink and then they draw your blood and they check your insulin levels and your glucose levels. And they check it every 30 minutes for two hours. And they want to see how high does it get and how long does it stay that high and how quickly do you return back to your baseline. And mine I have always had what is called bad poor glucose disposal. And Attia was the first to detect this in me. And there is a bunch of stuff you can do. You can do zone two cardio. You can sensitize your muscles. You can do a lot of things that will suck up glucose and get you back quicker. But there was this drug that came out called Ozempic and it is been out for a while now that does a few things. One it helps lower glucose which is great. It is a subcutaneous injection. So it is a little tiny pin that you get. You get it from your pharmacy. You push this little pin against your stomach and you do not even feel it because it goes in a quarter of an inch in this little tiny injection of 0.25 milligrams. But they also showed there was a 39 percent reduction in non-fatal stroke and a 26 percent relative risk reduction of a major cardiac event. Which on my family side my dad and my grandfather both died from heart disease and heart attacks. It was heart attack in my dad and a stroke in my grandpa. And so for me while I am not diabetic it is a no brainer. And get this the number one side effect is weight loss. I have one buddy that is been on it for seven months lost 15 pounds of belly fat and looks great now. Another buddy just started a couple months ago has lost five pounds of belly fat. And I like those Portland beers and I was just like This is going to be a great nice little trimming if I can get that benefit as well. But I will say there are side effects that are unpleasant as well. So let me tell you those   It is not just like magical Bitcoins appear in your wallet and your penis gets larger and you lose belly fat. Sounds great.  If you find that drug I am in. So this one's tricky because a lot of doctors will prescribe it at 0.5 milligrams versus 0.25. And at 0.5 you get some nausea for the first couple days and it is intermittent so it is not nonstop nausea but what some doctors do including mine is a slow ramp. So I started at 0.25 and you do it for about four weeks and then you go up to 0.5 with the goal of getting to one milligram once a week. And so that is exciting. I am really excited for Ozempic. So a couple other really quick ones unless  do you have any to throw in? Have you been trying anything new?  Well I have been trying things new but I am going to save that for   Save that for the COVID.  The category of lease continue.  All right. So a couple other things. Fantastic article which we can put in the show notes from The Atlantic where they found the Prozac of the Middle Ages is what they called it. And so back in the Middle Ages they found out there were these nuns that used to get high off of taking saffron. So saffron like you have on cooking food is a very potent happy drug. And they used to have these people called these Croakers who were these people they harvested saffron and they would have to take a break when they were packaging the saffron to avoid getting the giggles because they would laugh so much from just packaging and smelling this stuff. And so saffron it is almost like a happy drug like a Prozac. So I was doing some research and I was like Okay maybe they will have it in supplement form. I found some shady stuff on Amazon. I was like I am not going to do this but this company I finally found one that I trust is Olly brand O-L-L-Y. You have probably seen it before. You can link it up in your show notes. They call it the happy gummy worms and they offer gummy worms now that are infused with saffron with a good enough dose to get you a little bit of that happy feeling like loopy   A little bit of the croakies.  Little bit of croakies. So that is fun to play with. And then the last one is   I remember from 4-Hour Chef that really good saffron is very expensive.  Yes. 100 percent. I have seen it. By weight it is more expensive than gold which is crazy. Do you know Zak Williams at all? Have you ever met Zak?  Zak Williams? Maybe. Wait a second. I think I have in the Bay Area?  Yeah. Robin Williams' son.  Yeah. I do not know if we have ever met in person so I should not say but there is a good chance that we have bumped into each other at some point.  He is definitely in some similar friend circles but Zak's just a fantastic human. And after his father Robin Williams passed away he became obsessed with mental health and trying to figure out things that he could do that could improve people's well-being. And he came out with these mood chews called PYM P-Y-M and they are on Amazon. You can link them in your show notes but it is actually a really basic thing. It is just GABA L-Theanine and Rhodiola which is all these like really stress anti-anxiety type mood chews. And he sent me some and I did not try them for a while. And then Darya is like I want to try some of these. And my wife she got hooked on them she is like These are amazing. She takes them and she is like I do not even want to drink anymore. Whenever she wants a glass of wine she just takes a couple  yeah. And you know she likes the juice. She still drinks but   00 a.m. on Tuesday.  Exactly. 00 a.m. chew but they are awesome. Zak is in this for the right reasons he is not putting any funky weird ingredients in it and he is just such a good human. I wanted to give him a shout out because they work well.  I will say also that I am a big fan of L-Theanine for a number of reasons. It is really helpful for in some respects taking the edge off of coffee consumption. So if you have a tendency   Oh yeah I take it with coffee.  That is what I mean. So if you have a tendency to perhaps over-caffeinate and get into the creepy crawly Trainspotting end of the spectrum then the L-Theanine can help minimize some of that. Rhodiola is very interesting for developing endurance and for endurance output also. So that one is interesting on multiple levels. Do you have any idea why it is called P-Y-M?  I believe that is his middle name.  Oh wow. Okay. Dig it. So we will link to that in the show notes P-Y-M original mood chews you can find them on Amazon.  And it was also you baked it in the supplement something your mood prove your mood or improve  I cannot remember what it was but he also put it in the name of the actual chew itself. He had a double meaning for it.   I like simple interventions or simple supplements that have two or three variables because otherwise if it is just a laundry list of 27 things especially and I say this as someone who knows this industry pretty well if it is a proprietary blend so you do not know the actual ratios of these ingredients it is very hard if not impossible to determine what is doing what. Whereas if you have three at the very least if you then wanted to try to determine for yourself which of those three was having an impact or not. There are ways to actually placebo blind as an N of one as a single subject. People can just look up quantified self and blinding or placebo control to learn more about that. But you could actually do a deep dive on each of those three and further test to try to determine for yourself which is not possible if you are just getting something with 30 or 40 or 50 ingredients which you do see in some cases.  You are right. You will see these proprietary blends and there is no clue how much  they do not list any amounts in there. There is just 30 ingredients.  Not very helpful as I have learned. I keep giving these teasers. I will say that when I was diagnosed with ry first thing I realized is if I were to take the advice of everyone sending me advice right now I would almost certainly die of several dozen contraindications.  Just give me a little taste before we get into it what was the weirdest thing somebody told you to do? Not the whale thing that I joked about.  I have to just say that we were joking about whale semen I think gargling with whale semen or something or you said that I want to give you proper credit. And then I was joking with another friend of mine who asked me the same question he is like What is the best advice you have received? And I said Well I think somebody told me to gargle with horse semen I used horse semen. And he said Actually it would be great if after you recover you talk about this seriously as an April Fools' joke because people would be jerking off horses around the planet. It would be the best prank ever. I did not end up deciding that would be a good idea but the most hairbrained craziness you can imagine. Every alternative remedy possible. So you pick you it there was a recommendation. It does not matter. And we can come back to this but it is interrelated with the problem of not just determining causation but avoiding contraindications which is really really really important. So we will come back to that. And part of reason I keep delaying this folks if they are just like Why the tease? Why the tease? Is because people get crazy. On both sides I have noticed that the people on far ends of the conspiracy spectrum or on the political spectrum are like a horseshoe when it comes to COVID. They bend around towards each other and they actually get very very similar. So there is no way for me not to upset people when I talk about COVID and the various steps that I took and so on.  Well I am excited to hear this. Save it for the end.  We will save it and it may be a disappointing punchline for folks but that is why we are pushing it off because we have a lot of fun stuff to talk about. I will say let me throw something in related which was when I was isolating so as soon as I was diagnosed I ended up isolating about 24 hours or 36 hours later first sequestered myself upstairs my girlfriend stayed downstairs. And then I ended up isolating myself in a separate location so that my girlfriend would not get sick. And I found Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee to be an incredible  Cure my a! No it is not a cure. I found it to be extremely psychologically helpful and a real gem of a discovery when I was stuck in this apartment by myself for 10 days. And so I would make a habit of watching two or three episodes when I got up and two or three episodes if I got really tired two or three episodes right before bed. And it allowed me to obviously in a synthetic way but to interact with people and to feel like I was socializing on some level I loved it. So I really really really applaud Jerry Seinfeld for first and foremost designing a format for himself that is the most fun and ease he could possibly have in putting together a show. And for people who do not know the format he likes classic cars and cars in general so he gets to drive an incredible classic car different classic car every episode and he goes to pick up one of his friends to go get coffee and bullshit and talk about comedy and life and so on. And it gets cut down to 17 minutes. It is just a genius format after coming out of the show Seinfeld in the '90s which was  I do not want to say a death march. That is too severe but it is so much work right? So much incredible work to put that show together and to sustain it for that long. So to do the opposite and create a format that is really fun really easy an excuse to hang out with your friends kind of like The Random Show quite frankly. It was great. So I really recommend people check out Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee. I watched it on Netflix. Bob Einstein is probably my favorite episode. That is Super Dave. Larry David also amazing. Sarah Silverman always incredible. Garry Shandling. Lot of old timers some of which are no longer with us are kind of captured for posterity. So highly recommend Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee.  Speaking of things that just make you feel good have you watched Ted Lasso?  I have not watched Ted Lasso yet. It is been recommended at least a thousand and one times to me and I have not watched it yet.  Tim and everyone else that has not watched it everyone that has watched it is screaming right now Yes please Tim. Watch this. You have to see Ted Lasso. It is really really good.  Yeah it is on the to watch list. What my girlfriend and I have been slowly chipping away at when we watch something short together because we are not always in the mood to watch something that is 90 minutes or two hours long like a feature film. So we will watch Schitt's Creek and we are making our way through all of the seasons of Schitt's Creek which is amazing. But Ted Lasso I remember polling on social at one point what series should I binge watch next? It needs to be of a certain length and it needs to be first and foremost feel good. Right?  Oh dude it is the ultimate feel good.  If you just get your face kicked in during the day this is something you would look forward to watching after such a day. And Ted Lasso was probably the most consistent recommendation.  Dude. You have to do this tonight seriously. It is real  it is funny because when you think of for me I am not a soccer fan or football as they call it in some parts of the world.  Ftbol!  I am just not a fan. Not that I could not get into it but it just not  it is not about that. It is about the relationships and it is funny and sweet. And it is endearing. There is a lot to love. Anyway.  I am into it. I am into it.  Sweet.  All right. K. Rose what other news? What other exciting updates findings would you like to share?  Yeah I have one last NFT thing and then I promise we will not talk about NFTs because you and I both got the sickness.  No but you are doing a great job. I feel like I am doing a very junior varsity job. I feel like you have sort of full-spectrum expertise. I am very impressed. You are like a decathlete of NFTs right now.  Well thank you.  Yeah. You are welcome. You are welcome. Yeah. I have been very impressed with your shot put especially.  I think you and I are both kind of  tell me if this is true for you. I think it is. I like to go  well it is definitely true for me. I like to go light on a lot of different things until I get hooked on something and then I go really really deep if I get the hook.  Yeah yeah. Yeah that is true for me.  So NFTs I got the hook but anyway. So yeah I guess there is a couple of things to mention. One people should be aware of just an overarching trend that is happening in NFTs that is without a doubt the future. So it is just important that people should know about this. Sarah Jessica Parker just launched an NFT for her wine. And at first you think  everyone that thinks about NFTs they think about these are just pictures. They are photos. They are JPGs. They are being captured in the blockchain. People are trying to pretend they are art or whatever and they are selling them. And they do not necessarily think about actually the technology and how it can be applied to different things. And what they have done with her wine company and what she has done that is really impressive is they have used NFTs as utilities. And so what I by that is if you collect one of her wine NFTs it is not about saying This is a piece of art I am going to hold in my home. It is about showing ownership over membership of something. So it is a membership to her wine club. So you get your wine allocation based on the fact that you actually hold one of these NFTs. So that may sound boring but if you think about it it is really interesting in that now that can be resold to someone else. Let us say I buy an allocation of her wine   Well that was going to be my main question. Not to interrupt but I will.  Yeah.  Wine clubs have existed for a long time.  Right.  Or you have Soho House and you have memberships so people have figured out how to have exclusive memberships. So is the unique aspect of this that the sale of that NFT cannot or in this case is not being constrained?  Right. Well think of it this way. Okay. So let us think about some of the most scarce things in the wine world and let us talk about Napa Valley for a second. There are two wineries that are far and above the cult hottest wineries in Napa Valley. It is Screaming Eagle and it is Harlan Estate. And I say that with a slight conflict because I am on the advisory board of Harlan Estate but these  well it is fantastic wine. It really is. Everyone would agree with that statement that is in the wine world.  It is.  Now imagine you   Do not exclude me just because I am not in the wine world. I enjoy Harlan Estate.  Yeah. You know what is up.  It is usually when I am just riding on your coattails but that is okay.  But imagine Harlan  let us take Screaming Eagle because I do not want to shill my own stuff here. So Screaming Eagle is I believe it is around 4000 a bottle right now which is just madness right? But the waitlist to get on their actual allocation is something like 20 to 30 years. So that means if you go to their website today and say I want to sign up for your wine program. It is going to take you 20 to 30 years to even get considered to be offered an allocation. And that is not just because they are being dicks. It is actually a very small producer so they do not have a lot of wine to sell. So they have to wait for people to kind of come off of that waitlist. Now   In fairness they could expand production if they wanted but they know how to constrain supply because it is ultra premium right?  Well yes and no but they have this hillside that has very specific climate very specific soil conditions. You cannot just grow that without compromising some quality. Right?  Yeah.  So there is other ways. You could do a sub-brand or something like that. You could expand it. They actually have one called Second Flight which they are smaller less expensive 500 bottle kind of sub-brand type thing. So imagine membership is no longer about someone retiring and the new person coming on but about it being a liquid environment. So if I had a membership I am like Tim I want to get rid of my Screaming Eagle membership. I bought it when this NFT was a 100 10 years ago and now what would that cost? I bet you that membership would go for 25000 50000 or more. And so now that can be resold   We are talking about Screaming Eagle?  Yes.  Oh minimum! Are you kidding me?  Yes exactly.  I mean if the bottle costs 4000 it is just bragging. I should not say just but a lot of the value is in bragging rights. Right?  Right.  Just having access. So there is no ceiling for what someone could spend it on.  So now here's the crazy thing. When I sell that to let us say I sell it to you because of what is written into the code and the smart contract behind the scenes for the NFT 10 percent of that sale could go back to the manufacturer to the producer. So they are in essence the artist receiving a commission on the resale of their membership. So these types of utility NFTs are going to be coming and it is not just going to apply to wine. It could be applied to individual objects as well. You can imagine no longer waiting in line for some crazy Supreme drop or some Yeezy sneaker drop. You get the NFT instead. And then price discovery happens in the secondary market via NFTs and then if you decide to destroy the NFT you will actually get shipped the actual shoes from the manufacturer. Gets rid of fraud at the same time. It is amazing.  Destroy meaning you are sending it to a wallet that is known to be inaccessible.  Well what you would do is let us say for example and this does not exist today but it will in the near future. So this is coming. Let us say you have a limited edition Air Jordan NFT right? And you are like I actually want this pair of shoes. You bought it in the secondary market. It started selling. Nike sold it for 250. You bought it for 1000 and you are like It is going for 2000 but I actually want the pair. So rather than have to go on eBay or any of these secondary marketplaces to figure out are these legit shoes. And I know there is other places that are clearing houses to determine whether or not they are legit. But you could go direct to Nike and say Nike here's my wallet. I am going to connect my actual cryptocurrency wallet. Here's my NFT. So I prove that I have the rights to one of these pairs of shoes. Now take my NFT and you will destroy it. And in return you will present me with a form where I put in my shipping address and you will actually ship me the physical shoes. So it is so cool and it is coming. So anyway that is a little preamble on what is going on in the industry but today I have an announcement to make. I have this podcast. It is called Proof. It is all about covering the entire NFT landscape. And I have been lucky to have a pretty decent audience. We are up to 250000 downloads per episode now which is just crazy for the NFT world. And I am going to be offering a utility NFT to these listeners. So I am going to do 1000 NFTs in total that are utility and they will unlock early access to podcasts a private collectors-only Discord and unfortunately a bunch of perks that I have planned but I cannot talk about. I talked to some legal counsel and they always say Do not promise things. Like over deliver but do not make any outrageous promises. But rest assured I am going to do everything in my power to make sure that this membership is just awesome. But Tim I do not want this to be a commercial. I think this is going to apply to all podcasts dude. I think that there is a world where in my mind  I do not know. You might cut this out. You might cut this out if I say it but I am going to say it anyway. Please do not cut it out.  You do this every other Random Show and I usually keep it in. Go ahead.  Okay.  We will see.  I would buy one of your NFTs just not to hear your ads dude. If I could get a Tim utility NFT cut out the ads get access to episodes and behind the scenes additional extended footage  this is where things are going to go. You will hold something and whoever the creator is is going to provide additional benefits additional things for their audience. I am telling you in the next two years you will see so many podcasts adopting this type of model. Not just podcasts but sites in general will be adopting this type of model.  So if someone buys KevKev NFT   It is called PROOF. The s. I love that you are trying to rename it KevKev.  So if people buy the PROOF KevKev NFT   Yes.  And they could also flip that and sell that six months later to give someone else the same access.  That is right. You sell the NFT off to someone else and then they immediately receive all of the perks going forward from that point.  You are such a crafty little monkey. You really are.  Dude you are going to be doing this. You know this could be applicable to what you are doing.  I know it could be. Quite honestly I feel like I have been thinking and cogitating and meditating on this too long. And honestly the novelty of all of this will have worn off by the time I do anything. And therefore I have less interest but maybe I am wrong. Maybe I am wrong. I do not know. I am curious though to hear from you why do this? You have a great life great setup got plenty of things to keep you busy. Why do this of all things that you could do? What do you get out of this? So of course you could get income from the initial sales of the KevKev I am kidding the PROOF NFT. But there have to be other reasons. So why are you doing this?  This is at my core. It is one of  the PROOF podcast is probably since Diggnation it is  and obviously our show that we do here The Random Show   Ooh stinger! Ooh stinger!  No. I would say it is the most fun that I have ever had dude. I think we are both in this boat of being creative people. I love building things. I have been a builder and an entrepreneur for many times over.  Is this a breakup conversation? Is this the swan song?  No this is not a swan song! I am just saying the reason I want to do it is because I want to help these artists get off the ground. And I think that this is the future. I truly believe that in a hundred years from now we will look back on CryptoPunks and these early projects as being a changing of the guard and a brand-new shift in a way to capture value. And we are in the very first innings. It is the same excitement level I got in 2004 when I started Digg at the very beginning of Web2. Web3 has the same gut  00 a.m. I cannot stop thinking about things. Tim when you were laying on my couch when we were in Marfa you said the same thing. You are like I cannot sleep.  I know I know. I could not sleep.  Because it is so exciting. And when you get that much excitement I am like How can I help make this a reality? And that is what I want to do. So.  You know what? I am going to share one of those ideas right now because if he has not grabbed it by now he should have grabbed it.  Yes. I know what you are going to say. I love this.  So we could not sleep. We are thinking of all of these maybe genius mostly half-assed ridiculous ideas.  By that time DAO was first.  Yeah. All right. So well DAO has come up a couple of times on the podcast. DAO is  go for it give it a quick summary.  So in the world of Web3 and crypto there is something called the DAO. It is a decentralized autonomous organization. It basically means a fancy way of saying a group of people coming together decentralized independently to work on something together work on a project together collect NFTs together whatever it may be. So a DAO is a very common  it is like saying a new corporation or a new LLC. So there is all of these DAOs. There is Flamingo DAO. There is Meta DAO. There is Neon DAO. Friends with Benefits.  There is so many. A million of them and there are going to be a billion more of them. Yeah. Okay.  Go ahead.  And you can use them or I should say design them for many many different purposes. And so for the few days that we were in Marfa everyone's drinking booze we are routinely just coming up with more and more ridiculous DAOs that could be. And   The TimTim DAO. The TimTim DAO would be huge.  Right? The TimTim DAO. And then I was for whatever reason thinking of cartoons because as you mentioned I used to be an illustrator and paid a lot of my expenses in college as a graphic illustrator for magazines and so on. And I was thinking of cartoons and then I realized Oh my God. I need to send a text to Scott Adams. So for those who do not know I will actually back into it. So the DAO is called Dil DAO. D-I-L-D-A-O. And the Dil DAO would be a DAO for fans of Dilbert one of the most successful comic strips of all time. And so I texted Scott   You texted him.  Yeah. I texted him and I was like Trust me on this. Please just go out and buy dildao.com. dildao.xyz. Something like that. And he replied given that he has not heard from me in God knows three or four years I think it was a very polite response given the absurdity of my text. And it was something like Hi Tim. Great to hear from you. I think I need a little more context. So there you have it. Dil DAO. It may be taken it may not. The race goes to the swift. What the hell were we talking about? Oh we were talking about Web3 and how excited you are. And I should also say yes I am very excited. I encourage people to listen to my conversation with Chris Dixon and Naval Ravikant that really goes kind of soup to nuts with a lot of this stuff. What I would be interested to know from you is if we look at some of the benefits that you are offering right? You were in a very very unique and not accidental position at all. You have navigated the world of Web3 and NFTs so brilliantly I have to give credit where credit is due. And I have said this to a number of friends of mine I am like Man it is like this playing field is so perfectly designed for Kevin's superpowers. Right? They do not apply in all places. They do not line up in all places but   No they do not.  Your weird quirks and nerdiness and superpowers all line up for this fucking weird thing called Web3 specifically NFTs. It is hilarious. It is just every time I get news and obviously a lot of it is private and I am just like Of course. Of course this is working. Amazing. So congratulations and it is fun to watch. But I want to ask you what is some of  let us say I did my own NFT or something along these lines. What might some of the benefits be that I would provide that would not be stripping out ads? It could be but quite frankly I have tested this before with memberships. Ultimately it turned out that most of my fans I should not say most but a lot of my fans recognize the vetting and selection that I do with products. They do not mind it. And they would rather hear the ads than pay. That just seems to be true for the vast majority of my audience. They can fast forward. They would much prefer to let sponsors shoulder the burden of keeping the podcast going and growing than pay even 15 bucks a month. Does not matter. They do not want to do it. Now maybe that changes once they have an asset that could appreciate. Maybe it changes. I do not know if just the economic model has some difference but what are some other benefits that I might be able to provide that are not going to make me want to smash my head through a car door window? Because I am like Why did I ever agree to do all of these things?  Yeah. Well I think on the ads thing just touching on that briefly there are going to be let us just call it 50000 people or something that would love to have a no ad version of your show right? It may not be massive numbers but there is going to be some subset of that that would be stoked. But I think Tim it is more about what do you do early that you do not share with the rest of us and how can you share that back to your community of insiders? Because when I think about what I do is finding these early artists and how can I tell people about this stuff before it becomes big? And so for you what is that crazy  I mean not so much these days but back in the day it would have been like what is the crazy biohack that you are on? Or maybe what is the new transcript of the book that you are going to publish? Or an early galley copy that no one gets to see or they all get to see before everyone else? There is things that are exclusively you that you could say Here's my private discord where we do a Q and A which is only for members. That is just with you because I am sure a lot of your listeners have tons of questions you probably get via email. And you could do that in a real format where you actually get to interact with the smaller subset. Dude I could have done 10000 or 50000 NFTs for this PROOF collective but I wanted to keep it at a thousand because that is a number that if I go to a city and I host a private meetup it will be a hundred people or whatever or 50 people because people will be distributed all over the place. And I can manage that number and I can hang out and we can have conversations. So actually Tony Robbins does this. He has a really high end tier of people that pay a   Platinum Group I think.  Platinum. Exactly. And so this is access to you access to pick your brain your knowledge. It is just a different  it is a deeper connection to you basically.  Yeah. I suppose what I am trying to figure out right? Because I understand in the case of ern Finance if people for instance were able to listen to the podcast a week earlier and this is not investment advice I am not saying this is guaranteed but there is a possibility those people could do really well from an investment standpoint. If they really know what they are doing there is a lot of incentive in that case. And it is not a very heavy lift for you to provide say a separate RSS feed that is available to a smaller subset of people. There is so many things that I could do right? For instance I could have something where it is a hundred people as members and they have to pay a hundred thousand dollars a year. I am sure I could figure out a way to make that work. I could make that valuable enough just by selecting those hundred people properly so there is value in the network. I could make it work. I could make it worth it and worth much more financially. But I am like Do I want to do that? I remember I thought about doing that. And then one of my friends was like Well you could just end up babysitting billionaires who think they have 247 access to you.  See that is a problem.  Do you want that? And I am like No I do not want that. So I decided not to do it.  But that is not adding any value back right? That is like just rubbing elbows with the people that are already really wealthy. I think you have to go a little bit wider than that.  I would push back a little bit in the sense that I could make that very valuable in part because I could add people to the community who are not buying in. So there are ways that I could make that very very valuable. The question for me is what will nourish me and not deplete me? The numbers are fun. The money's fun. Let us be honest right? It is a nice clean obvious way of kind of putting points on the scoreboard or having them taken away. So that I think is understandable right? It is sort of like the gamification of life is this thing called money beyond our kind of subsistence needs. But what I am wondering is what could I do that would actually nourish me right?  I know what the answer is.  A hundred percent. Tell me.  It is really easy. And this is what my approach is going to be and it should be yours as well. When you launch a program like this it is not about knowing. It is about trying 20 different things and two or three of those are going to be really nourishing to you. And you are going to say This is amazing and I want to do more of this. And your fans will love it because you will try a Q and A. You will try a live event. You will try an early podcast. You will try a bunch of different things. And all of a sudden something will click and it is about the experimentation. That is what Web3 is right now.  I see. So you just have to set the expectation up front right? Because if you say Hey. This is an exaggeration obviously but if you are like Hey I am going to go ice skating with you at Rockefeller Center every winter. And then you are like Wait I changed my mind. After they buy the NFT you are like Actually I cannot stand Tony. I do not want to go ice skating with Tony anymore. So you are going to have to just set the expectation then I guess up front. Hey I am going to try a bunch of stuff. And I am only going to keep doing the stuff that is fun. Basically.  And also they have to know that you are Tim. You have a reputation. You are going to deliver on something that you sell. There is no doubt. You never have not. And I think that is the unique thing that whether it be a Gary Vaynerchuk or you or me we care too much about our reputation to grab money and run. So we are going to deliver on this in some way. We do not know what it is going to be. I will try 10 15 different things and I guarantee you there'ill be some things that you will find that your fans will love and you will enjoy doing.  Slip and Slide in Manhattan. That should definitely be one.  Connect Four with Tim.  Connect Four. Connect Four with Tim that is right.  Twister.  Twister. Twister is the one I was going for. Yeah. So where can people learn more about the PROOF NFT? Is there a place to go? I guess they should just go to your Twitter handle. Where would you suggest they go? They are listening and they are like Tell me more Kevin Rose. How do I do this?  Yeah. Well my main website for it is proof.xyz. And on the top there there will be a link for a newsletter. If you subscribe to that newsletter those will be the first people to know along with Twitter but Twitter you can miss because it can just go downstream but newsletter folks will get it in their inbox.  And then you are in the Kevin Rose flywheel of infinite joy. It is so beautiful. It is so beautiful. I love it.  By flywheel I mean  I forget to send a newsletter. I probably only send a newsletter every three months.  Oh it is great. It is perfect. It is perfect. It is a very slow flywheel but it is a   Yes. That is right. It is more like a tricycle.  Yeah. Yeah. So a couple of questions. Where did this XYZ thing start? Because that is a thing.  Yeah the domain handle .xyz was co-opted by just the whole NFT and crypto movement. It just became this thing where all of the dot coms were taken. It seemed too commercial. It was played out. It was old. .so was big for a while. Notion.so and things like that. And for some reason if you are Web3 if you are crypto if you are NFTs just use .xyz. And everyone just latched onto that. So that is been the thing.  Was there someone who led that charge? Because it could have been a million other   Those are good questions. Yeah. I do not know.  Oh I would love to know. I am so fascinated by how these conventions start. Who was the person who was just like Guys this is what we are doing or just had the reputation that they were the first people to do it?  There has to be a .nft coming soon you would imagine. That would be a no brainer.  I just wonder about so many conventions right? Back in the day when every startup ended with LY you know what I mean? Bit.ly. Optimiz.ly. This.ly. Everything was LY and then there is Spoti.fy Shopi.fy. Who was the first person to use the fy?  Expensi.fy.  Oh man. Well I have a blockchaincrypto update. It is not nearly as well-formed as yours but it is my first dip into the pool in a sense because I have always wanted to experiment first with fundraising for scientific research related to so-called intractable psychiatric conditions. So things that are thought to be incurable or almost impossible to treat with current tools. And so as you know Kevin and a lot of people know Saisei Foundation which is my foundation and it is all my money has committed many many millions of dollars now to psychedelic therapy research and medicine research helped establish centers. The first in the world at Imperial College London. The first in the US at Johns Hopkins. Many studies that have done incredibly well. So in terms of picking bets we have had now studies that have been in Lancet in the New England Journal of Medicine kind of sweeping the Oscars equivalent from a scientific standpoint. And I was introduced  so you mentioned Art Blocks earlier in this cover conversation. And sorry I am slurring my speech a little bit. It is actually not from the alcohol. We will talk about that with sing the words is not from the booze.  The horse semen?  It is mostly from the horse semen. It is a little viscous. It taxes your vocal cords.  You always take it to that   I just want to dial it. I just want to turn it to 11 for a second. God we took it from Saisei Foundation to horse semen in one second flat. So Snowfro who is the founder of Art Blocks introduced me to a nonprofit called Endaoment. This is another great name. So E-N-D-A-O-M-E-N-T.org endaoment.org. And he introduced me to them because they help nonprofits accept cryptocurrency donations and it is a very cool  effectively company I mean organization. In this case they have a nonprofit arm. I believe Giving Block is a for-profit company that takes a very different approach but is complementary if you are a larger organization a nonprofit or 501c3 that wants to accept cryptocurrency but does not really have the knowledge or desire to develop the expertise around crypto. These are two ways to do it. And so I was introduced to Robbie and Zach at Endaoment and they helped get the Saisei Foundation set up on Endaoment. So if anybody out there is looking to back a proven player who really picks good shots within the scientific research fields and that includes many different things but predominantly focused on psychedelic medicine and addressing things like treatment-resistant depression opioid use disorder so different types of addiction and many many other things then you can go to Endaoment. That is E-N-D-A-O-M-E-N-T.orgsaisei. S-A-I-S-E-I. Well we will include a link in the show notes at tim.blogpodcast but if you want to type the whole thing out it is just app A-P-P.endowment.orgsaisei. And Saisei I am surprised I probably have not mentioned this before the name of the foundation means a whole bunch of things in Japanese. I used to live in Japan went to a Japanese school. I love Japanese culture and language. Saisei means rebirth or to be born again and that is how many people feel after undergoing properly administered psychedelic therapy or psychedelic-assisted therapy. So that is why the name is Saisei. So people can check it out and   It is so cool.  Yeah it is great. I am excited about it. And it is also a way for me to feel really good about engaging with it. So that   A couple things Tim. You were so early on this and nailed it before it was cool. I feel like all the universities these days are like How do we add psychedelics to our roster? And it is like it is a snowball that I feel like in many ways you started which is awesome to see.  Thanks man. Thanks. Yeah. It is been really really exciting to see a lot of what has happened in the last handful of years and just to see how far it is come politically also. There is a lot of room left for improvement but just last week on Veterans Day that was November 11th I was in Coronado which is in San Diego basically. And I am pulling up my Twitter profile for a second because I can give you the actual website which I would like to do. I was there for a benefit for vets. On Twitter it is the handle vetsforvets but they had a Strength in Numbers Gala to End Veteran Suicide. And the website for vets is vetsolutions.org. They sponsor psychedelic treatments for veterans and have a particular focus I believe not exclusively but have worked with many Navy SEALs therefore the location in Coronado. And the reason I bring it up is that I was on stage with Governor Rick Perry. So former governor I guess he is the 47th. I want to say Governor of Texas former Secretary of Energy Republican and right next to him was Rick Doblin founder of maps.org which is doing incredible work including phase three trials for MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD so they have many veterans involved with this. Who is as far left as you can go. Sort of hyper  and then again these are maybe exaggerated terms but kind of like hyper-conservative hyper-liberal sitting on the same stage disagreeing on many things but agreeing completely on the value of psychedelic medicine for these conditions like PTSD.  That is amazing.  So it is really kind of mind-blowing  pun intended  to see how we were in a scientific winter and a policy winter basically for 50 or 60 years after the Nixon administration. And in the last 18 months really last two years perhaps there is just been this flash boil and so much has happened. So cautiously optimistic and I do think that Saisei Foundation will continue to be on the forefront seeing around corners and looking at things that are not yet on the mainstream radar at all.  It is great that it takes crypto. Anyone can I see here you just connect your wallet and you can donate crypto and it is good to go.  Yeah. And I want to give also some credit where credit is due. I ended up there because I was invited by a friend of mine former team member named Nick Norris. So I want to thank him for inviting me to participate in the event. And I also want to give thanks to all of the sponsors who supported that event including Future Ventures and I am an LP in Future Ventures but Steve and Genevieve Jurvetson were there who were kind enough to host me and allow me to sit at their table. And it was just an incredible event. So I am super excited about what is to come in 2022.  One question I had for you. A friend of mine she recently did ketamine therapy for depression and there is actually a startup that I am not affiliated with at all. I do not even know the founders called Mindbloom. Have you heard of this?  Yeah. Okay. So I am very glad you brought it up. I have thoughts on Mindbloom. So continue. I can   It is interesting because what she did is she signed up for it. And normally people think of ketamine as like an IV treatment that you go into a clinic and all that and that is kind of hardcore to get stuck up with an IV. You have to be a certain  some people are very not cool with needles right?  Right.  This is actually pills that they mail to your house. They pair you with a therapist and she was saying fantastic things about it. It is kind of home therapy. Only available in like a dozen or so states right now but ketamine treatment at home I just wanted to know what your thoughts were.  I started off incredibly skeptical and concerned with telemedicine as applied to psychedelic experiences and that extended to ketamine because I do think that there are even with some psychedelic compounds probably with all but to a lesser extent with some and to a greater extent with others the potential for abuse. So I had a lot of questions around telemedicine particularly when you are dealing with remotevirtual administration of drugs. And ketamine for those who do not know it is a dissociative anesthetic. It is generally speaking extremely safe. It is widely used. I believe it is one of the 100 most essential medicines as defined by the World Health Organization because as an anesthetic and again double check everything with your doctor but my understanding is it is famous for being inexpensive and not suppressing respiration. So it has a great risk profile. And some people will say Oh that is a horse tranquilizer. That is not really accurate. It is used in veterinary medicine but it is very widely used in humans.  So many horse drugs these days. There are a lot of hot horse drugs.  Lot of hot horse drugs.  Lot of hot horse therapy out there these days.  People need to take a closer look at these horses.  These horses have got it figured out! They beat COVID. They have done everything!  These horses have it all figured out. Oh God. Yeah. So you know what I am going to share just a quick side note which you will get I am pretty sure but the reference is going to be lost on a lot of people. I was sent this GIF of  it is a drawing of the two arms in Predator with Arnold Schwarzenegger and Dillon where he is like Dillon you son of a bitch. And they slapped their hands together. And they are basically like arm wrestling with their biceps showing and it is one gigantic white arm which is Arnold Schwarzenegger. And then one gigantic muscular black arm which is Carl Weathers I believe. I mean both incredibly jacked. And they are like baby oiled up. And it is this extremely long handshake just for the glamour shot. And I was sent this painting of this and it said and on one side it had Liberal and then on the arm it said Ketamine. And then on the other side it says Conservative. And then on the arm it said Ivermectin. And then below that like At least we can agree on horse drugs.  Yeah exactly.  So technically not accurate but it was still pretty funny.  I saw that as well. That is great.  Yeah. ivermectin actually is I believe used by many people suffering from psoriasis. I want to say it is psoriasis. It might be rosacea. It is either psoriasis or rosacea. And because of all of the buzz around ivermectin one of the casualties has been that people who really need it for known indications are having increased trouble procuring it kind of wild to think about. In any case someone will be able to fact check that on the internet. Shall we talk about COVID? What do you think?  Yeah let us do it dude. Now's the time.  Now's the time. All right.  So wait wait wait I get a text from Tim and it is two COVID tests. It is me. You are texting me and Sacca I think we can say that. And it is two COVID tests and it is like they are both clear red-lined and you are like I mean you did not say Fuck but you were just like Shit this happened.  Here we go.  What was the first  walk me through it. You just woke up one morning and was like I just do not feel right. What happened?  Yeah. I will walk you through it. So this is about two and a half weeks ago now I want to say something like that. And if I look back as you know I have been very very careful and   So careful.   began tracking  January beginning of February 2020. Put up a blog post which was very moderate super moderate. And ultimately in the subsequent weeks encouraged South by Southwest to cancel and was kind of dragged over the coals at the time. And then of course COVID turned into what COVID turned into and had been very careful not because I assumed that it is instantaneous death. That is not what I assumed but because I have preexisting respiratory issues very well-established respiratory issues and there were a lot of unknowns  there continue to be a lot of unknowns related to COVID-19  and I wanted to delay getting it as long as possible. So looking at the lifestyle calculus it was very easy for me to mitigate risk without making huge sacrifices. I saw a lot of potential upside and very limited downside to taking certain precautions. I ended up going to F1. So Formula 1 in Austin where at least in the paddock everyone had been believed both vaccinated and tested negative with a PCR test within 48 or 72 hours where I think I contracted it because there is so few options because I have been so careful. There is so few options where I would have been exposed. What I think happened is I succumbed to social pressure. And the way it happened is I had taken a car by myself to and from Circuit of The Americas from COTA each day. And then on the last day getting back I had made some mistake and there was a snafu with transportation. And so I ended up getting directed to a location to transportation which I assumed meant I would be able to get a one-on-one ride back to the city since trying to find parking is just impossible. I mean there were 400000 people there over three days. So I end up in a golf cart driven like a half a mile to this point and it is complete pandemonium. Everyone is trying to leave COTA at the same time. And I get directed to this van and it is like There is your ride. Now I had taken a van to the event that day but I was one of three people in the van and we spaced out and so on. And I also had a mask. On the way back I opened the door of the van and it is packed. It is like a 12-seater with 12 people or 11 people so that I could fit in. And they are like Okay. Yeah hop on in. We are headed downtown. And I was like Oh fuck. I do not want to do this. But at least where I was everyone was tested. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. Whatever. And then I got in and I sat down and it is like there was this one model chick vaping in the fucking van. I mean it was terrible. And I am just sitting there reading my Kindle. I am like If I am going to get fucking going to be right now here. And then about five days later started feeling very very congested and began to develop a really severe headache. And I attributed it to allergies in Austin because Austin has really really bad allergies. You have cedar or juniper ash. You have ragweed. You have all sorts of allergens that cause really severe reactions to people. So I just assumed that it was allergies. And then I was getting ready to pack to get on a flight to go to New Orleans for a friend's 50th birthday and Halloween. Basically by my request everyone was going to be PCR tested when they landed and we had my girlfriend and I Binax kits at home. So we had Abbott-manufactured rapid antigen test at home. And I was feeling congested. And so she very wisely suggested Well before we get on the plane and pack and do all this stuff why do not you one before we go? And I did just as a formality. Kept packing. Da da da da. And I came back and I am like Oh shit. That looks positive. And I do not know what the let us just call it accuracy  there are different ways to assess these tests but let us just say that it is 85 percent accurate and Peter Attia could give you a much better description.  I think it is one of those things when if it has a positive it is more likely to be positive but it could miss  you know what I am talking about? Like there is   Right I do. But also if you just take two tests or three tests you can get the likelihood of two false positives down to say less than five percent.  So let me ask you a question. The one thing I am always curious about these things because we have all done these at home or at least a few of us have that are listening how quickly did that other line show up? I always wondered   Within five minutes. It showed up so quickly.  Oh. So it was not like  because it is always like Wait 15 minutes and I am always waiting.  It popped up really quickly and then did the second test and it popped up really quickly. And I was like Well this looks like a positive. And at that point went immediately into action mode. I did not panic at that point. I am very good in crisis or I should say and some people listening might say Well that is not a crisis. Well if you knew my history and you knew some of the outcomes that I have seen and the doctors I have interacted with you would not be as cavalier.  What is action mode for you? What does that mean action mode?  Yeah. I will tell you but I will just say in crisis situations it is like the little paper cuts of life on a daily basis that make me lose my shit. But if there is a car accident or someone is in the hospital or something really bad happens I am good in those circumstances. Like the freeze in Austin and doing disaster response I am really good in those circumstances. So what action mode meant for me was number one immediately scheduling a PCR test to definitively confirm that I was positive.  You knew. You have taken three of these things.  No I would taken two at that point but before  and actually this is important. So before considering different types of actions or interventions I wanted to really to the extent that I could be close to a hundred percent certain be a hundred percent certain because as one doctor I know we will put it not Peter. Another doctor he says Drugs are all terrible with a few positive side effects. Meaning you are signing up for a targeted effect that you are hoping will be helpful or beneficial but almost all drugs have known andor unknown side effects. It is just part and parcel. Very few things are so selective that it is all upside. So I want it to be as certain as possible. So PCR test and then as soon as I was confirmed sort of simultaneously scheduling because I could cancel let me just pause for a second and say none of this is medical advice. This is very specific to me. It is very specific to conversations with my doctors but I want to for educational purposes only walk through this so that people can if it is helpful have some view into my thought process. So I booked IV monoclonal antibodies which are from Regeneron in this case.  Question.  Yes.  As this is unfolding where you are at where you are based you were in Austin at the time is that correct?  That is right.  Okay. Is that something you could just book? I did not even know you could just book or do you have to have a doctor go and like how hard is it to get that?  Yep. So you know what I just realized also? I did not answer your question about Mindbloom and I want to come back to that because this is related. So let me just put a bow in Mindbloom. So Mindbloom CEO Dylan I have met with him. I have had a number of people I know who are extremely seasoned facilitators with psychedelic medicine. The vast majority of those facilitators are charlatans as you and I know but there are a handful of folks who are really methodical and expert in my opinion and they have gone through the Mindbloom process and they have said only positive things which I was dumbfounded to hear.  That is awesome.  I have never gone through myself but I have through a clinic here in Austin about a year and a half ago done five or six infusions with IV over the period of two weeks so that I would be able to speak to the effects and side effects of ketamine if people ask me about it specifically for depression or suicidal ideation I think ketamine is very interesting. Also for chronic pain and that relates to NMDA receptors but we will not get into that. So Mindbloom very interesting and I have a very high opinion of both the company and the CEO Dylan. So that is Mindbloom.  I have heard good things as well.  So the reason I tied that in I am sorry for forgetting that earlier is because there is a company called Drip Hydration driphydration.com. And my girlfriend booked the monoclonal antibodies through Drip Hydration. And the way that works is you effectively sign up and then you will be and I am probably getting some of the details wrong here but you will be contacted by a doctor or nurse practitioner who does an intake evaluation because there are risks with almost anything that is an unfamiliar compound. You can experience anaphylactic response. You could have anaphylactic shock and you could die. So there are people who have adverse events with monoclonal antibodies. And as I am also going into action mode I am talking to three different doctors and it gives me tremendous sympathy every time I have a situation like this or some type of acute medical situation how challenging it is to navigate medicine and science even if you are really plugged in. So I was in contact. I am not going to name names. So I was in touch with three doctors all very good doctors. One effectively said Do monoclonal antibodies as quickly as you can because the sooner you do it the better. My understanding is generally you want to administer within seven days of contracting but keep in mind I do not know when I contracted exactly. It was probably five days before I was diagnosed. The second person said I do not think you fit the risk profile. You are not immune-compromised from sort of a textbook assessment.  Yeah. You double vaxxed right?  You are double-vaccinated in my case with Moderna. There are possible downsides to having the monoclonal antibodies administered. I would advise against taking it and you should wait and see and if you develop more severe symptoms then we can talk. The third doctor gave me the pros and cons and this is a very common response that you will get gave me the pros and cons and said Really it is up to you. I could justify saying Go' I could justify saying Do not go.' That is a very challenging situation to be in. There is no tiebreaker in this case.  Can I ask you how you got three doctors? Are these like preexisting doctors that you have worked with in the past?  Preexisting doctors.  Okay. I know you know a lot of doctors. I just was wondering are you calling people randomly or   Right. 1-800 COVID doctors. I am not calling up people randomly. I as you know Kevin really believe in redundancy and backup. And I have two backup whole house generators at my house which meant I was one of two houses in an entire neighborhood with power during the Austin freeze last winter. My feeling and this is from the military not that I was in the military but a lot of my friends who have been in the military will say Two is one and one is none. If you have two of something you are going to lose them and then you will have one. If you have one just consider it none because doctors get sick. Sometimes doctors are unavailable. I am not in a near fatal car crash so it may not even qualify as an emergency for some doctors. And for that reason I want to have multiple people sort of on-contract or multiple people I have already done intake with who I have relationships with who I can contact via cellphone. If I am going to spend excess money anywhere for redundancy medical is where to spend it for you and your loved ones. So that is how I had three people and I was doing this via email and also via cellphone. And I spoke with all of them and they are all great but the point is there was no consensus. I ended up for psychological reasons deciding that I wanted to do it. Because of some of my preexisting conditions I did not want to wonder whether or not I was going to develop some type of respiratory distress or collapse. I just did not want to have that on my mind for the next five days. I knew that if I had an anaphylactic response there are ways to kind of attenuate that response with say an EpiPen or intravenous. I think it is diphenhydramine Benadryl. So there are ways to kind of mitigate the risk. So I decided to do monoclonal antibodies and then also decided with through the advice of two out of three doctors in this case to take fluvoxamine. So I started taking something called fluvoxamine which is a repurposed antidepressant. This is a very interesting case. So fluvoxamine and I am reading here from nature.com so I would expect it to be credible and fact-checked but obviously do your own homework and please always speak to any doctor before stopping or starting any medications. So common antidepressant slashes risk of COVID death. So fluvoxamine not to be confused with Prozac which is I think fluoxetine. It has a very similar name but it is different. So fluvoxamine is a different antidepressant that is cheap widely available and frequently used for depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder. So also I was like I am kind of curious to see what this'ill do to me.  Win-win.  Yeah yeah. Win-win. So I will just read briefly so that people have an idea of why this has been repurposed. It is also known to dampen immune responses and temper tissue damage and researchers credit these properties with its success in the recent trial. Among study participants who took the drug as directed and did so in the early stages of the disease COVID-19-related deaths fell by roughly 90 percent and the need for intensive COVID-19-related medical care fell by roughly 65 percent. Now I should however also read the quote from a scientist at Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta who says A major victory for drug repurposing! but next Fluvoxamine treatment should be adopted for those at high risk for deterioration who are not vaccinated or cannot receive monoclonal antibodies. So one could make the argument and one of my doctors did make the argument that A you are not at a high risk of deterioration B you are vaccinated C you are getting monoclonal antibodies. You do not need to take fluvoxamine.  So you took the kitchen sink approach basically?  I did not though. I took I really   You did not do the horsey but you went full horse?  I did not do the horsey. I did not go full horse. I chose two interventions and then I supplemented with Vitamin D and a handful of other supplements that are very low risk. I also supplemented with baby aspirin for any type of thrombosis risk. So one could make the argument that this is complete overkill but for me in my mind as I am tracking outcomes and I have tracked this since February and I am not crazy I do not think I am crazy. I think I am actually pretty   I think I would have done the exact same thing by the way. Based on everything that I have read I think I would my protocol would have been the same.  Yeah. I do not think I have been crazy about this stuff. I think my paying attention to this early allowed me to make some of the best investment decisions of my life. So even if you think I am a crank when it comes to the science understanding the societal and supply chain implications of this is useful. So that is what I did and I will just add a few things. So what happened? I ended up having I would say overall mild symptoms.  What was the text you sent me where you said you woke up in the middle of the night with a little bit of a panic? What was going on there with the chest stuff?  So there were a number of events that were very disconcerting. But when people ask me zero to 10 how bad was your COVID? And I was like Well people die from this so if dying is 10 not a seven. I have to assume that if it is like a seven or above you are in the hospital. So four five perhaps I do not know. So I had a mild fever. I had severe severe headache and very bizarrely like a localized headache that felt kind of like an ice pick in the side of the head.  Oh I hate those.  Which was unpleasant. I had extreme muscle soreness to the extent that it was hard to move at all but the most disconcerting  those are all say severe flu symptoms. Let us call it.  Yeah. It is the lung shit that scares you though right?  It was the respiratory distress and labored breathing like tightness in the chest and having difficulty breathing that was the most disconcerting for me by far. That was definitely the scariest and   That was just one night?  That was a few different nights. That was a few different nights. And also it is very difficult to determine causality what causes what because so many things are happening simultaneously. As an example when I started to wean off of the SSRIs because I have never been on SSRIs before. I also spoke to a number of doctors. A few you were like you do not need to taper off you can stop cold turkey because it is only 10 days. Then I spoke to a few other psychiatrists who I trust very deeply and they said absolutely do not stop cold turkey. And I tapered off. So I taper off of the SSRIs this is maybe five days ago. So let us just call it two weeks post. Although I took the fluvoxamine at full dose for 10 days and then tapered off over say three or four. Talk to your doctor do not just do what I did. What I noticed was each night as I started tapering off I would wake up at between four or five in the morning with really rapid heart rate and sweating profusely.  Crazy.  Now it happened once. Who knows what it is from.  That cannot be the SSRI though.  Well hold on hold on. Well hold on. So it could be anything. It could be any number of things. But then it happened the next night and then it happened the third night and I am like okay something's happening. But is it from COVID? Is it from the SSRIs in some capacity? There is a chance that that is it.  It might be from the lack of SSRIs right?  Well that is the other thing. Is it because I am experiencing a rebound inflammatory response from removing these SSRIs that have an anti-inflammatory effect? I do not know. So I am about now two and a half weeks out. I did my first workout last night and have had a splitting headache since. Within a few minutes of starting exercise my heart rate spiked to 150 160 beats per minute.  Wow. Crazy.  One of the most consistent   That is high dude. Doing what?  Doing nothing. I mean getting on a stationary bike for five minutes to warm up.  Wow.  I will say the fatigue and extended fatigue and ease of fatigue has been the most noticeable persistent effect. I remember also the symptoms coming in waves maybe at day five I really was just going so stir crazy. I wanted to go outside for a walk. A mask on away from other people late at night. I ended up going for my first walk not that night but the next kind of late afternoon off hours. And I went for a walk downtown Austin not near anybody way way outside of any congestion for a half hour really slowly flat ground and I came back and I was so tired that I fell asleep for four hours. Yeah. So I am glad I took the precautions I did. And I will say this because and I have probably lost some people already just listening to my recounting of this but the purpose of the vaccine I saw a number of comments when I put up a notice just saying I have contracted COVID anyone who is waiting for anything for me please just be patient because it could be a few weeks. When I put up that note on social people lost their minds on every side and every direction. It is really disheartening to see. It is not because I care personally but it is become such a divisive issue. What I will say just from me personally I never expected the vaccine to prevent me from becoming infected. What I did hope for and based on the data believed was likely is that the vaccinations would once I got reduce the risk of being hospitalized or having severe complications including long haul symptoms even if your initial symptoms are mild. So I just think that is really important to say because a lot of the responses I saw were Oh you think you are so fucking smart? Does not seem like your vaccine is working. And it is like well guys if less than one percent and this is the number I have been told by a number of docs definitely check the primary materials. But if less than one percent of the people currently hospitalized are vaccinated just based on the data forget about the politicians forget about all the yelling and screaming on YouTube. But just looking at the data we have which are not all manufactured by big pharma as someone who funds a lot of science I just want to say it is not that simple right? The conspiracies on one side which are like all of this is being driven by big pharma have a grain of truth to them in the sense that big pharma lobbies and has a lot of capital and they can exert influence. But they do not have complete control over something like this. Similarly on kind of the other end of the spectrum you have people who are concerned about nanny states or police state and the US government inflicting this enforcing this upon people. I am not talking about mandates by the way I am putting that aside. That is just outside of the purview of this conversation. But if we are talking about my personal reasons I happen to still believe that good scientists exist. And that the scientific method is the best approach we currently have for asking questions of nature and getting back verifiable repeatable answers. I was vaccinated to keep the symptoms as mild as they happened to be for me. I am not convinced that that would have been the case otherwise. Given that when things were hitting New York I was on the phone talking to doctors at Mount Sinai and other places senior attending physicians who are telling me on the phone If you hear people telling you that this is just affecting people who are 70 and 80 do not believe them because I am looking in front of me at two or three people in their twenties and thirties who are intubated and they have no preexisting symptoms or comorbidities none of them smoke. You have got to be careful with this stuff. So that is my story.  Well I am glad you are okay man. That is the most important piece. That is great.  I have had some residual cognitive effects though. I was mentioning earlier that the kind of slurring of words and missing words. There do seem to be I do not think they are going to persist forever necessarily but there do seem to be some residual effects. Part of the reason that I chose to become vaccinated part of the reason I chose to take the approach that I took which is heavily dependent on your individual doctor input was not just to lower the risk of severe symptoms in the early stages but to decrease the likelihood of long haul symptoms which are no joke.  Yeah no joke. Yeah. I just got my booster. I actually went with the Pfizer and decided to mix and match because I saw some pretty compelling early data around additional coverage with the mixing and matching. I am sure you probably saw that as well.  Yeah you should get your fourth booster with some horse semen. That is the finisher.  For people that are listening do not freak out. My mom has cancer so I got the booster so I could be safe around her. I know that is not my time to get the booster but I want to see my mom. So that is reason enough right there.  Yeah for sure man. So that is the COVID story. It is crazy though. I will say that A I am glad that I got it now and not in March or April of 2020. I will also say that there is some relief to it because my opinion of COVID is similar it is developed a bit but similar to what it was in March of 2020 when I took to social media to encourage the organizers of South By to cancel. And that is it cannot be contained. It does not have the profile of a virus that can be contained. My expectation is everybody's going to get this and people are probably going to get it multiple times. The follow up question to that then or the consideration is how do you minimize the likelihood of having severe symptoms? So that is the lens that I have been using. Now that I have it right like tiptoeing around and taking all these precautions to finally have the thing it was so fucking weird to walk around   I remember when you were telling me you were not even taking Amazon packages and shit in the early days. You would not touch them right?  Yeah no well early days I was disinfecting everything and there were just so many unknowns.  Oh for sure. I was wiping down my egg cartons and shit.  Yeah. It is very important I think to understand the limits of the known knowns and the known unknowns for that matter in everything right? Whether that is picking a partner girlfriend or a wife or a husband or whatever or investing or looking at science it is really important to know of limits and to try to make decisions based on the knowns. I will also say one more thing. Just because this comes up a lot and people are going to hate me for bringing this up. One of the most common responsescriticisms that I have heard in the far left kind of conspirituality folks and also from some folks who would not fit into that demo but who are vaccine hesitant. I understand the concern is we do not know how the vaccine affects fertility or long term fertility right? They are absolutely right. They are absolutely right. But I would agree with that but disagree that that automatically means one should not be vaccinated because if you are going to apply that logic to the vaccine you should apply that logic elsewhere. I would just love to see anyone open their cabinet and tell me what the long term fertility implications are for all the supplements and medications and Chinese herbs and so on that they have in their cabinet. They cannot. That science has not been done. What I would say is it is a calculus that includes not just looking at the downside of that potential unknown but looking at the downsides of some risks where we have more data. So what is the likelihood that ere COVID improves fertility? I would say pretty low. Is there a possibility that contracting COVID decreases fertility? I do not think it is impossible. I certainly think that is a possibility. Therefore if the assumption is everyone is going to get COVID. I think what I just mentioned should be part of the conversation. It does not mean you automatically get a vaccine. It does not mean you automatically do not get a vaccine. But I think it is simplistic and dangerous to say well just because you cannot prove the long term implications for fertility therefore nobody who is thinking about kids should get vaccinated.  So one question for you and I do not know the answer to this at all. Maybe you do not but is there any data that suggests it does impact fertility in any way?  COVID or vaccine?  Vaccine.  I am not aware of any and I went pretty high up the flagpole with people who I consider highly credible because I am planning on kids. I certainly do not want to jeopardize my fertility. I do not want my girlfriend to jeopardize her fertility. I do not want anyone to unnecessarily jeopardize their fertility. But not getting vaccinated does not mean you automatically have a free pass. A you are taking lots of things where the long term implications have not been proven or sort of demonstrated to any significant statistical degree. Next the effect negative probably not positive but potentially that COVID has on fertility is at least an unknown or I should say possibly unknown and possibly known. It just seems unlikely given the mechanisms we understand and the sort of action effects of this disease that it has a positive impact. Who knows? Maybe. I do not know how one would ever do that study also right? As somebody who is very deeply involved in funding science and fundraising for science I can tell you science is very very very very expensive and it takes time and it takes ethics boards and it takes all sorts of approvals IRB approval and the case of psychedelics DEA approval and so on and so on. Let me make a recommendation because this can sound really overwhelming to everybody. Two things. One is check out a book called Bad Science by Ben Goldacre. He is a British MD. I took a number of excerpts from that book with his permission with publisher's permission and put it into the appendix of The 4-Hour Body. So if you have The 4-Hour Body or you buy The 4-Hour Body you can also find a very succinct appendix which helps you to just become more literate and intelligent when reading science. Because everybody and their brother every media outlet is going to make mistakes. Just about every single outlet is going to take shortcuts and sensationalize on every point in the political spectrum. Also they are going to make mistakes in interpreting results. So one of the best things you can do for your life and critical thinking and decision making with health is to become just a little bit more literate with science and your ability to separate fact from fiction or at least clear bullshit from something that might be plausibly okay. You can do that with a few hours of investment. You just need to read say Bad Science. I took some of my favorite parts put in this appendix in The 4-Hour Body. There is also a series of articles by Peter Attia Dr. Peter Attia called Studying the Studies I believe it is.  Yes his are great.  That is a deeper dive but really really worth taking a look at that. It is been incredibly helpful to me. It is enabled me outside of COVID to make some really critical decisions I think well. And it does not take that much time. If you are willing to invest five hours you could really change your life or the lives of others by making better decisions later. It is a great investment of time.  Awesome. Good recommendations. Let us get to holiday gifts.  Yeah let us do it. Then I have to run in about 10 minutes. So why do not you go first?  Sweet. I have got a bunch. We are getting to that time of year where especially with supply constraints that it is good to order on the early side for a lot of this stuff. So I do not know when this is planning on dropping but   These are all for Christmas 2022.  Yeah exactly. So I will say a couple things. One of the things that I have found to a really fun thing speaking of Ted Lasso and other fun things that you can do at night that do not involve drinking or some fun things to do with your spouse or significant other LEGOs for adults man. Some of these LEGO projects they are not for kids. They are super throwback super complicated crazy LEGO sets. I just got Darya my wife just had her birthday actually her birthday's three days but I just got her the ECTO-1 because she is a huge Ghostbusters fan.  Oh that is awesome. I am looking at it right now.  Yeah. It is super legit. It is not snap five pieces together this is like a thousand piece or whatever it is project. I got a Voltron one which is awesome. They have a vintage Porsche 911 and you can link these up but they are just fun. It is just something when you are at home and bust out the LEGOs and have a good time. Go ahead what were you going to say?  I was just going to say we will have links to all these in the show notes. So if you are lucky enough to listen to this on the early side because I am sure they will all sell out. Then just go to tim.blogpodcast and search Random Show and it will pop right up.  There you go. A couple quick things from me because I know you have got to bounce. So dude are you a fan of Benchmade Knives?  I am yes.  Okay cool. So I got this new favorite from them. It is the 537 Bailout Family of knives. It is just a sick little pocket knife.  Is it open assist or what is it?  This has the little tiny nodule that you kind of just flip open it is not automatic. I do have an automatic that actually right here check this out. You can only get these in Oregon because they are legal here in Oregon. But you got the full see you  video. Yeah. But that is the Oregon-only edition. That is Benchmade as well but Benchmade makes great knives. For those of you listening to audio version I just pulled out a switchblade on the video. But they are legal in Oregon. So I am a Boy Scout so I always like to have a blade.  Every Eagle Scout needs a switchblade.  Exactly. So anyway  yeah go ahead.  I was just going to add another pocket knife that I am a huge fan of since you mentioned knives is the Kershaw Ken Onion Leek Serrated folding knife with SpeedSafe. It has an open assist that is fantastic.  I like Kershaw. I do not know if you know this but Benchmades are actually made about a half hour from my house. I went to their factory.  Oh that is cool.  Yeah it is super cool. You can take your knives in and they will just sharpen them for free. It is really cool.  You know you should actually now that I  I totally blanked on this. I think he is still near Portland but Murray Carter who was on my podcast   Yes.   the knife maker who was trained in Japan is nearby. So also if you wanted to make your own knife he could help get you up to speed.  Carter Cutlery right? Is that right?  Yeah. Carter Cutlery he is amazing. Yeah. You can make a neck knife if you really wanted to go full Portland thug.  I need to go visit. Those are great holiday gifts right there.  Those knives are one of a kind super super special.  Yeah. Got to link those up.  Yes we will link this.  So Oura has a new ring out the Oura 3 it is got realtime heart rate better sensors. Full disclosure I am an investor but I do not get anything from saying that it is just a cooler ring. The last thing by the way I use the Oura for sleep. So I put it on when I go to bed. Shows me my sleep stats.  Me too I use it for sleep as well.  Matt Walker just joined as an advisor and is doing stuff for them and helping with the algorithm side. So it is cool.  That is awesome.  Do you know these stone paper notebooks? Did I ever tell you about .  I just pulled up the website but I do not know these guys.  So imagine we all know Moleskine and notebooks are always kind of a fun little gift to give people. These Karst notebooks are the softest they are made out of stone so it is not paper they are made of the stone composite each page.  Wait so each page is made out of stone? That is what I was trying to figure out.  Yeah it is made out of stone.  So this is like hipster Abe Lincoln?  Yes. Pretty much. It is the softest it is a velvety type page it is just a dream to write on. Anyway these Karst notebooks are fantastic. They are not that expensive they are better than Moleskine.  How did you find this?  Somebody gifted me one. When I put pen to paper I was like Wow this feels so good. Then I researched them and realized that they were sustainable and just made from not trees but from stone. And I was like I have to Now I just have them all over the house. I buy them I have got two on my desk right now.  How on earth do you slice stone thinly enough?  I think it is pulverized and they make like a sheet out of it.  Ah that makes more sense.  If you click on the About and then click on the Materials link there and it will show you how they do it. It is really really beautiful to write on. Oh and then also dude my last gift I idea is that venison jerky that you invested in. You got me hooked on that stuff. That stuff's so good. It is so good. I keep ordering it.  I ate a bag right before we recorded.  It is the best 10 grams of protein post workout or whatever. It is tasty it is really good.  It is so good. Yeah. It is so good. So people can check that out. Maui M A U I Nui N U I Venison. I think it is just Maui Nui Venison.  I get the bars because they make them in links as well. But I like the bars the best the pepper bars.  Yeah. Yeah. I love the bars. I actually eat the links more. They have fresh cuts. They are used in some of the top restaurants in the country. They are fantastic.  And they are wild and they are wild harvested. What do they call? Yeah. Wild harvested. So they are not penning them up or anything. They just do like   Oh no no no no. No no. They are gobbling up the ecosystem in Hawaii which is why also you are actually improving the ecosystems in Hawaii by eating this deer because the effects are so destructive. It is part of the reason I invested there is aerial footage of erosion and runoff damaging and destroying coral reef in Hawaii because the undergrowth has been so decimated by axis deer.  Yeah. You sent me this video and there is thousands of them.  It is insane. Yeah.  It is not like you are some butterfly where you are making extinct   No no no no. They are everywhere. They are everywhere. It is just about the most nutrient dense probably the most nutrient dense red meat I have ever had in my life. It is fantastic. So Maui Nui I definitely second that.  Dude. We forgot my budgeting finance tools. I want to mention those real quick. Can I say those real quick one at a time?  Yeah. Go for it. Go for it. Actually. I will cheat on my answer on the holiday gifts.  Oh you go first.  No no no. It will work out perfectly. You go because I do have to run in a couple minutes. So why do not you do your budgeting apps? I will actually just say that I just put together a 10 of my favorite goodies that make great gifts. I think let me just check here I think it is just tim.bloggiftguide and that'ill take people directly to 10 Gifts to Make Your Holidays Extra Fun Relaxing and Delicious. Yeah.  tim.bloggiftguide. All right. Budgeting apps.  Yeah. So real quick we are going into a new year. I always try to track finances and all that good stuff. And so I spent a bunch of time going through all the latest and greatest iOS apps and desktop apps and just seeing what is out there. What is new. So I will just give you real quick. There is one Tim you would love this one. Actually. I am not joking. It is called Kubera K U B E R A.com. It is more spreadsheet style but it ties in all of your S and it also ties in all of your cryptocurrency as well. It is a net worth tracker and it is very simple but very powerful. It is beautiful. It is awesome.  That is a cool screenshot on the main website.  On the website?  Yeah.  Yeah. It is super super simple. It is just more of how am I doing net worth wise across a bunch of different assets. On the day to day budgeting side killer iOS app that I just fell in love with is called Copilot. So you can go to copilot.money. Sadly there is no Android or desktop app yet but they say that is coming. Then lastly Mint old school Mint I hated Mint for years and years and years. Horrible app. The reason I hated it is because it was packed with ads all over the place. My buddy was like Hey you need to check out Mint again.  They needed an NFT to offer an ad-free version.  Seriously ad-free but it is gotten so much better. So if you gave up on Mint a while ago it is time to go back and take another look because they completely redesigned it and it is a lot better. But copilot.money is my favorite on iOS and Kubera for overarching kind of net worth tracking is the go-tos. I have tried probably two dozen of them over the last month or so.  Now let me ask a silly question I know you are not scraping by you are doing pretty well. What do you find  you are more fluent with budgeting apps than anyone I know.  I do not budget.  Well what do you consider this then? Is it just so you can swim in your pool of money like Scrooge McDuck and do the backswim or backstroke? What is it that helps you about this or that you like about the tracking?  Well I would say that for most people it is going to be about the general budgeting. For me I do not want to say this sounds really bougey or whatever but I have someone that does budgeting to make sure we are on track and stuff. I just want to know if I am spending too much money on wine or on travel. At the end of the year it is always nice to sit down and be like Okay here's what we did. Here's how our stocks did. Here's how our crypto did. I just kind of like having that holistic view and then also how much are we spending on the kind of more stuff that we could dial back on a little bit like on the crazy wines or the travel or whatever it may be. That is what it is for me.  Now if we look at say Kubera Kubera   That is not going to your budgeting.  That is assets.  Yeah. That is assets. It is just overarching all of your different banks brokerage stocks currencies it is almost like a spreadsheet but better. It just puts in all of the data it has all the right connections. That is the go-to dashboard just to see How am I doing across the board? If you are one of these people that has a 401k here and some Robinhood crypto over here and Fidelity here and Wealthfront there it will bring it all together under one roof so you can see everything.  Cool. Dig it.  It is really cool. It is the best I want to see how I am doing. It is cool.  You know what I have also heard great things about  also from listeners and full disclosure they do sponsor the podcast but I did a lot of vetting and reached out to Ramit Sethi and reached out to Mr. Money Mustache if you know who that is and a number of folks.  I just had Ramit at my house two days ago by the way.  Oh no kidding.  He stopped by. Yeah. He was in town.  He is so fun. He is a great guy. And You Need a Budget YNAB.  Oh YNAB.  Yeah. YNAB.  Yeah. YNAB is fantastic. I should have included that. It is old school it is been out for a long time but YNAB for people that are if you are really into budgeting I would say YNAB is for the hardcore hardcore. Copilot I would say they do not have the desktop apps you cannot really get as deep but Copilot is more I think it is a better interface.  I do not always judge products this way but I look at the level of cult following like how intense is the cult following. And YNAB people put it on their license plates when they buy a car for cash for the first time or pay off a house. It is pretty awesome to see just how loyal and dedicated a lot of these folks are. I will also check out Kubera that is super interesting. I do most of this stuff on desktop so I could use something that would actually really tie lots together simply. So I will take a look at that one as well.  I use things like Copilot and Mint you say budgeting you are right I do not really pay a ton of attention to that but if they do things like big purchase detection and they will send you a push notification. So if you do have fraud or something weird going on you get a push and you are like Oh wait a second. Did I actually buy that? It is always nice to have little things like that.  Yeah. Crazy world out there Kevin Rose. Anything else you would like to add?  No dude. I am glad you are healthy man.  Yeah me too.  Not in four hours but you beat it.  Yes.  We should beat a small little drum there.  We can add it. Hold on hold on hold on hold on. Wait wait. I have never done this before but  did you hear it?  I heard it. I heard it.  That is amazing. I have never used that before in my life.  That is awesome.  Incredible. All right man. Well it is good to see you brother.  Yeah. Good so see you as well. Thanks for doing this man. It is always fun to do these shows with you.  Oh it is always fun. Yeah. I cannot wait to see you again in person man. Give Darya a big hug for me. And for everybody listening tim.blogpodcast just search Random Show and we will link to everything in the show notes. Happy holidays!  Happy holidays! The Random Show! Tim Ferriss and Kevin Rose discuss Biohacking Tim's COVID Experience Holiday Gift Ideas Favorite New Apps Bad Science Quarantine Delights and a Small Dose of NFTs and DAOs Conversation with Kevin Rose on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast The Random Show! Bitcoin Pros and Cons 2021 Resolutions Fave Books Lucid Dreaming Couples Therapy and More   