 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Kevin Rose. Welcome to the KevKev TimTim Show otherwise known as The Random Show. Kevin Rose I have him here. How are you sir?  Dude you sound just like me. You said you are Kevin Rose. I am stoked man. We are back doing The Random Show again. This is going to be one that I hope I can make it through.  If you make it to the end without vomiting onto the screen we will consider it at least a success and we require I think some context for people listening. Got a text from you about 45 minutes ago asking if we might be able to reschedule. What are the reasons for that? Not to name any people's names but talk about compounds.  Okay compounds. So you and I we tend to  I mean you are the one that got me into this stuff. It is really your fault.  Dubious honor.  You got me into the whole scene of trying out these different compounds and seeing what happens on the body. Actually you know what? It is a really good thing. It is a good story because I am going to hopefully live longer not that I want to have my main  I do not want to live forever. I am not one of those people that is waiting for the flippening to happenwhere AI takes over and we just live forever. I do not care about that but I want to have a good long healthy life for my little girls. So I pay close attention to all the different biomarkers. And one of the things that has always been an issue for me has been glucose disposal. So you and I we sit next to each other. You are a let us just say healthy person. I do not know how your glucose levels are. I know you used to eat all those bear claws.  It is true.  You do love the bear claws.  I do. I do.  The issue I have is if I sit down next to a healthy person we both eat the exact same carbohydrate if we are wearing a continuous glucose monitor I will spike higher and the glucose will stay elevated in my blood longer than most people. That is not good. You do not want elevated glucose levels. It is what they would call close to a pre-diabetic. So I just need to watch that stuff pretty carefully. Cardiovascular exercise is huge. High-Intensity Interval Training Zone Two Training all that stuff is really helpful but there are also some compounds that you can take that help here. So one of them is called Ozempic which is this subcutaneous shot that you do. So you just shoot yourself anywhere you want. I just do it in my belly. And it lowers your glucose levels. It is pretty amazing. It just works really well. And actually some of the other benefits it is been shown in studies to be cardio-protective. So a physician that I work with actually prescribed it to me and they said Hey the one thing you may want to worry about it can cause a little bit of nausea in some people. So I am like Okay. They are like You may want to ramp this up. So this little syringe thing that it comes with you can twist the little knob and you can choose how much you want to inject. And I had a buddy that was doing it too and he was like Okay just do .25 for four weeks and then you can work up to .5 and then eventually one milligram. And I am like Well all the benefits I should say another benefit is the number one side effect is that people lose weight as well. So you lose your beer gut. You get slimmer. You have better glucose control. I mean it sounds like a win win win across the board until it comes down to the vomiting side of things.  Except for the misery the long and lean misery.  Yes. So I just kind of jumped a step. Yesterday I had a couple beers and I was like I should just go in because I just do not want this to just go straight to my gut.  I love that it is combined. I want to juxtapose here.  After a few beers  Dude first of all I live in Portland Oregon. Best breweries out here. It is very hard on me sometimes. There is been a major heat wave here Tim.  Better stay hydrated with that alcohol.  Better stay hydrated. All jokes aside thankfully we got through the heat wave and the beers here are phenomenal. So it was Fourth of July there was a lot of fun stuff happening. So basically I just go into where the fridge is and I pull it out of the fridge and I inject myself and I turn to .5 right away. I am like I am going to skip that .25 stuff. Let us just jump into the benefits. So I did it and I felt fine. No big deal. Waited an hour two hours everything was fine. Went to bed woke up at about four a.m. just wanting to vomit just so bad. I have not laid on the ground of my bathroom in a very long time maybe since I was doing my old Diggnation podcast 15 years ago or something. It was not good. So I just kind of stayed in bed this morning. Called off a couple of my meetings and you made a good suggestion on something that decreases nausea. I did that and here we are. Good to go.  Good ol' Zofran. It helps. Also really important side note generally when people use something like ketamine in a clinic they will give you Zofran beforehand. So it does work.  Oh that is right because ketamine causes a little bit of nausea as well at the higher doses right?  It can. It can. Yeah very different purposes. As far as I know ketamine will not give you a six pack but   Do you have glucose issues?  Not really. Not really.  So you are just like you wake up in the morning if you were to test yourself you are like 75 80 85 kind of thing?  I would have to take a look. I mean you have to keep in mind also I have not worn a continuous glucose monitor since check this out 2008 or 2009.  Oh man you are missing out.  That was gen one Dexcom. You could not get it unless you were a type one diabetic and the insertion procedure was terrible. And the device itself you had to track the readout on a proprietary device. There was no integration with anything like a smartphone or an iPhone. And it was really helpful. I will say that most of the takeaways were pretty straightforward. It is like when you eat a huge meal even if it is good food you really have this gigantic bullous of carbohydrate intake even if it is not carbohydrate really high protein still spikes. So most of it was kind of self-evident. After a few weeks I was like I think I have a pretty good read on what my triggers are including foods that I respond to strangely. So I did not feel the need to wear it continuously past a few weeks.  Man I remember when we went to the movies and you first had that thing on and you had this  I mean back then it was massive.  It was huge.  It was massive third-party a mini tablet whatever those little device was.  It looked like a pager that was on   Yeah like a huge pager. I am like what are you doing? I would never heard of those devices before.  Long time ago.  And you are right. The procedure back then was this massive needle. They would not even hide it. They did not put it behind any thick plastic so you would not see it. You would watch the needle go in and inject another little thing into you and then you would have to mainly pull the needle out. It was so brutally invasive and now dude you got to try the new ones. They are amazing. You do not even know it is happening.  I actually have a new one. I have not put it in yet.  Okay cool.  But the old Dexcom if someone can think of a barbecue kind of two-tined pitchfork that you use to flip steaks or something it kind of looked like a miniature version of that. It was two long prongs kind of like needles that you would have to push into your abdomen laterally.  And there was no spring loading. Today's you push a button. It is one press button and you pull it off and it is done.  Yeah none of that.  Yeah.  One of many things I did for The 4-Hour Body. So are you planning on continuing to take  what is the name of the drug again?  Ozempic.  How do you spell that?  Google Ozempic. O-Z-E-M-P-I-C I believe.  Yeah. O-Z-E-M-P-I-C. We are not recommending that you use this people.  Oh I mean you would have to get a prescription from your doctor.  Extremely clear.  Yeah. So here's the deal. I feel that  we can say it because Attia has had a podcast on this compound and a couple other glucose controlling compounds.  Are you taking metformin?  I am not taking metformin.  Why not?  Well the thing is like you Tim we just have to listen to the scientists and what they are saying and that for me is all the scientists and people analysts that Attia trains or works with as a company they look at that and say yeah there is a benefit for people with type two diabetes but it is not necessarily clear if you do not have diabetes if there is a health benefit there. So I think it is too early.  You are talking about beer consumption. Just to talk about putting life in your years instead of years in your life side of the equation can I share with you an alcoholic beverage that I have become quite fond of?  Yes!  This is new for me. So here's the problem one problem that I have. I do not drink beer. It just does not really affect my system very well. So what ends up happening is I will go out with someone like you and you will be like Yeah let us have some beers. And I will be like I do not really have beer. Okay what do you want? I will have a gin and soda and then we are going kind of gin and soda for one beer gin and soda for one beer which ends in tears.  Oh that is the worst.  It ends really really poorly. Then I was approached by this company to sponsor the podcast and I would never heard of them JuneShine. And JuneShine makes hard kombucha. Had not heard of them but I was like Okay well I like kombucha. I do in fact enjoy alcohol even though it is fallen out of fashion and people are like I only use ketamine. I am so evolved. I am like Well we should talk about that.  Is that what people say? People say that?  At parties. Yeah people are starting to use   Really? I only use ketamine. I do not use alcohol?  Yeah. That is turned into this substitute for alcohol which may or may not have a place but suffice it to say I do not have ketamine in my house for a lot of reasons. We could get into those it has a place. But I will have this right here this JuneShine and it comes in many different flavors.  Yeah! I have had it.  Yeah it is great. So I reached out to my team to ask them about the company and one of them was like Oh yeah. I know what you are talking about. I have three boxes of it right next to me. And I thought to myself Well that tells me something because my team I consider to have very good taste not literally although they might have that too. And it is great because it is carbonated. It has I believe six percent alcohol by volume and you can get a nice buzz from one because it is highly carbonated and certainly also has alcohol and I just do not seem to have the hangover nor the losing arms race of doing gin and sodas per each other person's beer. It is been really nice. So this has turned into more of a recreational light alcoholic beverage for me. I am a huge fan.  Yeah the one thing I was curious about was how much sugar. I always see these types of beverages at the store these hard kombuchas or the hard seltzers all that stuff. I had not tried that White Claw before but I tried it for the first time. Have you tried the White Claw?  The White Claw. I have not tried the White Claw. It is like The Facebook. The White Claw. I have not but how did you feel after that?  It is not that good. It is not that good. I get why  I do not know. I feel like when we were growing up what was the hot thing? The wine coolers. It is essentially kind of like a wine cooler type style drink.  Zimas. Was not it Zima?  Oh my gosh. That is the first alcohol I ever got drunk off of Zima. It is so funny. But yeah 3.6 grams of sugar. That is not so bad. I am looking at their site right now.  Yeah. It is allowed me to socially drink alcohol without just crucifying my brain cells. I have really enjoyed it. You want to see a bad decision? I can share a bad decision with you.  Yeah.  Okay bad decision is this mug I am going to show you. This is a mug that I bought some time ago as a gift for my girlfriend and as context just so people do not lose their minds completely my girlfriend will often text me various things like Calm down sugar tits. She calls me sugar tits for reasons that are unclear to me but sometimes she will call me sugar tits. So I thought it would be very funny when I was walking through this random store and I saw some people chuckling at a mug. So I bought this mug. I am going to show it to you first. Can you see what this says?  Yeah it says Calm your tits.  It says Calm your tits and it has two little dots in the O and the U of your so you can imagine that. And then lo and behold we end up reuniting because we were traveling separately and in between the time that I bought this and had put it aside for her in a place where I knew she would find it the day before we were to meet up we got into this huge fight. So then the next day I somewhat forget about this gift   She thought you put that out there?  Well I did put it out there but it was two weeks earlier when everything was groovy. So then she pulled it out and she is like Calm your tits.' Hmm. Thank you babe. And I was like Uh-oh. Uh-oh. I am in trouble. I am getting pulled into the deep water. Oh I did this to myself.  I feel like she would find that funny under normal circumstances.  Under normal circumstances she would have found it hilarious. But the fact that we had a heightened let us call it a heated  a passionate  discussion within 24 hours that had not yet been fully resolved led to Calm your tits not being as funny as I had hoped.  Yeah that is fair.  So good decision bad decision. What else do we have on the roster?  Oh man lots of stuff to talk about.  We got a lot.  Yeah. I mean one of the things we did put out a little tweet asking for people's questions. Lots of questions around blockchain NFTs all that crazy stuff. We can save that for later and we can stay on the health front. Do you want to do that or do you want to go into some of the blockchain stuff? Up to you.  Since I will be mostly just staring at you with a blank expression once we get to all the technical details of crypto and blockchain I would say let us stick with health for a little bit more.  Yeah. So I am curious actually looking at the video now. We are going to put this video out or no? Be video as well?  Yeah why not?  Yeah so you got a little device up above your door frame behind you. Yeah that little guy right there. So one of the questions that I had for you actually we are not as young as we used to be. For me flexibility has been such an important thing to focus on and flexibility with supporting muscles so that when you do get flexible you are not just like a blob. And I am curious I saw that machine hanging up behind you is that for flexibility? What do you do? What is your focus these days on the training side? As you are getting older are you incorporating more around the not longevity but more around just less mass and more practical old people stretching? What are you doing?  Watching a lot of Richard Simmons videos.  Exactly.  So for people who cannot see this there is a pull up bar within the door jambs behind me. So the design is such that as you pull down on it the physics of the engineering cause it to sort of buckle outwards without damaging the inside of the door frame. So it is a cool design. It is a really elegant design. You can find them on Amazon. And I use that for hanging and really just decompressing or compressing. depending on how you look at it. My back scapula and also just relieving my lower back and hip flexors from sitting too long a period of time. My priorities from a training perspective right now I would say I can just lay it out pretty simply would be conventional weight training once or twice a week probably no more than that. It is really to maintain muscle mass perhaps build a bit of muscle mass and also to make it a little easier to maintain healthy glucose levels. So if you are increasing your muscular mass particularly if you are doing these workouts prior to a meal your glucose disposal is just going to be improved GLUT4 transporters and so on will simply be more effective at doing their job. So let us say once or twice a week. On top of that right now my activities are kind of seasonal these days and they are seasonal in part because I really want to identify types of exercise that not only I enjoy but that I can do with my girlfriend. And that is actually a byproduct of a conversation at one point with an incredible trainer performance coach and all around hilarious guy named Kelly Starrett who is a beast. I think when he turned 40 he celebrated by running the Quad Dipsea which is an ultra marathon. By the way he weighs like 220 230 pounds. He is extremely muscular.  Crazy.  Doing a standing back flip and cleaning and jerking 350 pounds. Something like that. That is how he celebrated his 40th birthday just to give you an idea of who this guy is.  That is a party.  Yeah it is a party. And great guy. The Ready State you can look him up Kelly Starrett. He was telling me about how he has prioritized activities with his wife over everything else. He is like Once you have kids you have got a family you have got business demands. Anything that you choose outside of that is pulling you away from time with your wife or your family. So he is really tried to prioritize that. Before I have kids I am hoping to develop some of those habits. For instance rock climbing is something that I am doing more and more and absolutely love basically everything that involves pulling you are going to check the box. And I really really enjoy. It is very cognitively challenging too. I mean it is like putting together an upside down Tetris.  Yeah. They literally call them problems. If you are bouldering they are called problems because you have to sit there and spend 15 minutes thinking about what you are going to do before you even attempt it.  Exactly. Exactly. I really enjoy that. So we will go to the climbing gym two or three times a week. Usually the lifting will happen after the climbing in the same gym. Kettlebell swings once or twice a week. I am going to get around to answering your macro question. These are all mostly strength and muscle mass-focused but the climbing does help with mobility. So I would say that my focus more than focusing on flexibility which invokes this image of passive stretching laying on the ground with your legs split and reaching forward and just kind of hanging out there for 60 seconds 90 seconds.  That Van Damme moment.  Van Damme.  Everybody wants to do the Van Damme though.  Everybody wants to do the Van Damme. This is true. However where I have had what people would consider the greatest flexibility gains and also just the most practical transfer of seeming more limber it is been through weighted mobility. So AcroYoga for instance involves a lot of pressing handstand work inversion a lot of pressing. And in the process of doing something like AcroYoga for the legs and the hips or rock climbing for less of the upper body but more the hips in the way that you rotate to improve your reach and so on has been really really helpful. There is something called Jefferson curls that you can do and must do very safely. I describe how to do it via someone named Coach Sommer who is the former Men's National Team coach how to do something called a Jefferson curl which is effectively a slow rounded back stiff leg deadlift and you are using very light weights but you kind of roll down almost as you would do in a yoga class vertebra by vertebra. And when you get more comfortable under weight in these end ranges of movement then your body effectively says Oh okay. Now that we have developed some strength in this end range we can extend the end range.  Interesting. So it opens up naturally a little bit once you have got that support structure there.  Exactly and it relates to the golgi tendon reflex and all sorts of things. But when I am trying to develop flexibility my question is usually how do I actually develop strength at my current limitation? And that is also part of the reason why something called PNF is very effective for stretching which is a more active sort of contract and release based form of stretching.  What is PNF? What does that stand for?  Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation I believe. It is been a few decades since I have thought of it. But PNF usually I should not say usually but it very often involves partner stretching where someone would take for instance your leg extended. You would be laying on your back one leg is extended above you. They would push it forward until you reach the end range of your hamstring. You would then push against them for say seven seconds and then relax. And then they would increase the stretch and you would go a bit further. Then you would repeat that.  Is this what you see NBA players before they are about to go into a game you see them kind of laying on their back and they have a trainer come in and they are pushing the leg in. There is always a trainer kind of supporting the leg and pushing it in. They are pushing against it. Is that the same type of stretching or is that different?  Good question. I would suspect it is different just because PNF can be taxing and you would spread it out much like you would spread out weight training.  Gotcha.  So you would not as far as I know you would not do PNF every day for instance. You would do PNF a few times a week. So my focus right now is this is going to sound kind of funny because it is so simplistic but just feeling good. Because there are times when I have been huge. I mean I weigh 170 pounds right now. I have been 220 pounds and not fat I mean huge but did I feel comfortable walking around? No. I could not turn my head. I was like a turtle. I had to rotate at the feet. I mean it was ridiculous. So being comfortable I am doing a lot of weighted hiking also. So I would say mobility meaning strengthen the end ranges strength training and then rucksacking which I love doing when you have access to hiking trails which you do in Oregon certainly.  Is that what that one backpack we talked about a long time ago you use this weighted backpack you take with you?  It is yeah. GORUCK. So GORUCK is the brand I use. There are many other brands. You can get vests. Personally do not love the vests. If you are going to run with these things which I am never going to do then I think the vests probably make more sense but I prefer to use the weighted backpacks and I have a 20-pound a 35-pound and a 45-pound. And then you can add different things to that depending. It is a lot harder than people might think. And what you do not want to do is what I did in San Francisco the very first time I got a weighted vest. I was like well at the time I was really big. I can squat X number of pounds for Y number of reps. No problem. I am just going to put on a 60-pound weight vest. And then I very very stupidly just started walking with no plan. I was like Well I will just walk and when I start getting tired I will turn around. And I kept walking. And I got to the point where it hurt so much that I had to take it off. I was like well how do I get this home? I was like two miles away. So I had to leave the weight vest on a sidewalk. I was like If anybody steals this they deserve it. If somebody's going to steal a 60-pound weight vest good for them because clearly they have more endurance than I do. So then I had to walk back do the walk of shame back to my house without this vest and then get a car and go pick it up. But very big on the rucking very very big. And honestly these days also and this might sound like a cop-out but for a long time my maxim was as far as resistance training goes Train to failure. One set train to failure. There are many many many ways to build strength. I am not saying that is the one and only way. Some people get very dogmatic about these things. It is just for bang for the buck per minute of workout time that is a great approach. However as I have gotten a little bit older and I have been looking at things like time outside time in nature sun exposure I am not trying to optimize to get it under 20 minutes or under 30 minutes. I actually enjoy the process of doing it. So those are a few of the ways that I am thinking about this.  Let me ask you a couple questions there I am curious about. So granted this information is a bit dated but I was climbing a lot in my youth and did quite a bit of indoor and outdoor. And one of the people that I trained with was a semi-pro climber that would tell me a couple things. One every ounce of muscle he considered to be a potential negative in that it is weight that can pull you off the wall. Because in his mind it is dense weight and you want to be as lean as possible. And then the second piece was that he was a big fan of low weight high rep. So I mean the guy could do 100 pull ups in a row. It was just insane right? I am curious  is that the pup?  Yeah that is Molly going crazy. She does not like the idea of 100 pull ups apparently.  I am curious though what is your style? If you are not going for mass and you are going for lean strength it is not about gaining. You are not eating really high protein then? Or what are you doing there?  Well there are also many many many different ways to train and I do not think I have particular insight when it comes to climbing although I have asked around. I have taken lessons and have thought about it. My short answer is I am doing some high rep work like the kettlebell swings are generally going to be higher repetition and I am using a 53-pound and then maybe a 72-pound kettlebell doing two and one-handed swings. You get a lot out of that exercise. Then when I am doing other types of exercises like inversion training where I am doing handstand work where I am really developing actually a lot of finger strength and shoulder extension kind of bringing your shoulders to your ears if your hands were extended over your head for instance as well as some of the training for bouldering specifically. It is super short duration. So you could view that almost as you would view powerlifting. I am trying to avoid a burn generally speaking in those types of scenarios and I am looking to build kind of neurally based strength better recruitment of motor units and things like that. So I am combining the two but certainly I agree with your friend 100 percent. The more weight you have got to haul up that wall the harder you are going to have to work. It is like cycling. Cyclists do not want to have large upper bodies. It is just drag. That is all it is. For me right now I am perfectly happy to be smaller and strong and working on things like climbing. There is no need for me to be large. And a lot of people do not want to be muscularly large but it is hard to find anyone who wants to be weak. I think everybody would like to be strong and you can develop incredible relative strength and really develop yourself as a strength athlete while adding minimal body mass even as a male you can do that.  I got to say man the biggest change for me going into my 40s that has been absolutely fantastic  well let me just stop for a second. Jump back I have got a three-year-old and a two-year-old. When Zelda started getting a decent size and when you have a little toddler running at you at full speed and they want you to catch them especially when it is not straight on it is kind of at that angle and you do one of these one-arm touchdown football catches with one hand you are doing that with a 25-pound little toddler or whatever I literally have thrown my back out five times to where I am on the ground and cannot move and I had to crawl to my bed and lay there for like a day and a half.  That sounds terrible.  Dude I never knew that back pain  because you know when you are a kid you are jumping off walls you are doing all kinds of crazy shit. I was jumping off of my house onto a trampoline.  Yeah for sure.  And then you get older and you realize things just start breaking and back pain is a real thing. I mean I know you have had some back issues in the past. It is no joke and I needed to fix it. So I started doing Pilates twice a week and I stuck with it. It is been about six months now maybe five months and I have not had a single issue. I have not had a single issue since developing that core. It is crazy and I can toss the little kids around as much or more than I could back then. It is just insane to me because I was always like you. Well I would always go to the gym and be like Okay biceps triceps chest back out. Or shoulders too. Same workout every single time and you look in the mirror you are like Yeah I look pretty good. But then it is like none of that   Until your toddler takes you down.  Yeah exactly.  Do you do in person or do you do virtual?  Over Zoom. Yeah she is amazing.  Yeah yeah. Do not mention her name because then she will get the hug of death but I want a referral after we finish because I have been and this is where a lot of our listeners will probably be like Oh my God. They have totally lost it. But Pilates really technical Pilates is not easy.  That is right.  I have never felt better than when I am doing a combination if I look back at when I have felt the strongest the fastest the most limber it is when I was doing a combination of Olympic weightlifting Pilates and AcroYoga. I have felt so limber and simultaneously strong at all of these crazy end ranges and the Pilates with a technical trainer is incredibly incredibly beneficial and there is a lot of carryover in the same way that gymnastics strength training a la Coach Sommer S-O-M-M-E-R has a lot of carry over. Despite the connotations that people might have associated with that word Pilates and there is a lot of ridiculous ridiculous stuff also done technically it is really hard. I will give you an example. I remember last summer I was doing Pilates over Zoom and a friend of mine was visiting who is a former international level competitor in kickboxing. I mean he went to the world championships multiple times and was also a high level athlete in a number of other sports. He is a fit guy had decades of competition. We got halfway through this Pilates class and he was I am thinking some sort of side plank bridge doing stuff with his obliques and he just collapsed and he is like Jesus Christ! This is embarrassing. I do not know what is happening. It was great. It is not easy.  No.  So I am definitely a proponent strong proponent.  You appreciate all those little small muscles that you never really pay attention to and it just  it is such a little  a good teacher will get in there and really help you work all those little tiny stabilizing muscles. Yeah it is just fantastic. Anyway anyone out there who is having back issues highly recommend.  Yeah check it out. I think it is easy for people who lift weight in some fashion to be heavily biased against body weight or calisthenics type exercises and it is very easy for people who do bodyweight calisthenic type exercises including something like rock climbing to sort of glance a stance at people who are lifting weights. I think they are very very complementary but man I have seen some gigantic bodybuilders and powerlifters do a yoga class and just end up on the floor because it is a different exercise.  Yeah.  I do think that they complement each other very very well. All right I say with a sigh. Blockchain?  Yeah will Tim ever make his own NFT?  I would like your advice here because I am fascinated by NFTs. I have tracked them very closely although I stopped following it quite as closely maybe a month or two ago. I do find the technology very interesting. Conceptually I think there are many many many many many applications of NFTs well outside of say artwork. And I have also made some investments in OpenSea for instance which I think there was a question on Twitter also about picks and shovels and so one that I think OpenSea not to narrowly put it into that category but I do think that they are in a very good position to establish themselves as a dominant player regardless of what types of standards might be developed for instance. All of that said great interest. So why the hell have I not done it? I have not done it in part because there has been this mad dash and money grab related to NFTs and I do not want to be perceived nor do I maybe subconsciously even want to be driven by trying to capitalize on a hugely speculative bubble where the goal is not to enjoy the artwork the goal is to resell the artwork for more. And that is fine. It is fine that a market exists that is true in a lot of traditional art as well or I would say less digital NFT-type art. So I would love to create an NFT just to learn more about the process to mint my own NFT and to go through with all of it. Maybe more than one NFT. I would be curious to know how you would think about that if you were in my shoes or in your own shoes for that matter but in my shoes because I am giving you my confessional here.  I mean I think that with NFTs you are right. It is a mad dash by a lot of people a lot of celebrities entering the space and they are quick to attach their name to a project. Oftentimes they are not even the ones doing the artwork which is also just kind of crazy to me. So you will have A-list celebrity come in say I am releasing an NFT. I did a partnership with this person. It is like this beautifully rendered 3D animated thing and you are like Yeah they actually never touched the computer did they? They are just associating their name with it.  Which also happens in more traditional art. If anyone has not seen The Price of Everything I think. I think it might be The Price of Anything. Price of Everything though I believe or The Price of Anything. It is a documentary that goes into some of this.  I have to watch that. That sounds awesome.  You will love it. You will love it.  So basically yes. There is some of that. But at the same time though you have some really legitimate kind of emerging artists that are using NFTs as this new medium. I have collector friends that are not treating it like Let us just grab it and flip but they are going to be holding onto it for many many decades. So there is a combination of both that are happening. For someone in your position you are right. There is the risk that you run is that you launch the TimTim NFT and it is like Oh great. Tim's making half a million dollars off selling this NFT or whatever it ends up going for. He just did it for the money grab. So I think if anything man you do not need the money. Just do it for charity.  Yeah. I would donate it all. But let us take that as an example though. 500k what the hell would I sell for 500k?  Well you are a good artist.  With the understanding that a lot of things have sold for  I mean there was Beeple sold one piece this collage for 69 million. So he is an incredible artist first I should say. The guy is a machine and also virtuous in what he does.  And also insanely funny. Have you had Beeple on your show yet or no?  No no I have not.  The guy is just a riot. He is amazing.  And good for him because well people can look up his story but I mean created every day for what 5000 days straight something like that?  Was clearly not doing it for the money when he got started.  I could not be happier that people like him are doing well in this environment.  Here's the deal   Yes I have some graphic art ability. I could do something that was graphically inclined.  You basically have a few different avenues to explore. One I love putting it underneath the charity 100 percent proceeds go to charity. Fantastic boom. You check that box. No one's going to complain. The second thing is what do you do? Do you take existing media that you have? So maybe it is a portion of one of your episodes. Maybe it is something that you said one time that has resonated with a lot of people that is you want to kind of memorialize in an audio clip with cover art of your podcast. You can do anything you want.  TimTim TalkTalk episode one.  Exactly. I better get some royalties on that bitch. I interviewed you. So yeah definitely split the royalties with whoever else is on the show. But the other thing is you are an artist. I have seen some of your stuff. You can do some amazing things. Or you could get super artsy. You can mash a body part on a piece of paper and scan it in. You could do something like that. You would have hardcore fans.  I could get all Art Basel. Tape a banana on a wall smash a body part against it sell it for a few mil.  There you go.  Oh man. I mean a lot of people do not know this probably but I wanted to be a comic book penciler for probably 10 years. So I spent a lot of time looking at graphic art was an illustrator for a period of time. So I suppose I could do that.  Listen I love Gary V. I love him. He is a good friend of ours. You have seen his art out there. He is put out some NFTs. Dude I have seen your art too. I would say that you have the skills to put out your own NFTs. If Gary can do it you can do it brother. Seriously.  Yeah. And I am grateful to people who are experimenting and pioneering and trying all these various things in this space because not everything is going to work. Certain things will work and I feel like also it is really really hard to perhaps look at it through this lens but with NFTs yes there are going to be some amazing things. There is also going to be a lot of noise but it is kind of like tech companies in '99 or 2000s. Yes someone could say all of those companies were garbage but amidst all the noise you had the Googles and the Amazons. I do not know if it was in '99 or 2000 or shortly thereafter but it was in the same window. Those are world changers those are history changers in a lot of ways.  Yeah the thing is it is just a new canvas type. I do not see it as  there is a shit ton of  how many craft fairs have you been to where you go down it is like Oh the Sunday craft fair and you go in and you are like Oh my God. People are painting on canvas. You are like I would never buy that. So that is happening in the world of NFTs right? Anyone with Photoshop and export and save as a PNG file can create an NFT. So anyone and everyone can participate and I think that is a good thing and there will be some amazing kind of cream that rises to the top. We are already starting to see it. There is a handful of names out there that are NFT kind of native that are starting to gain a lot of momentum and serious collectors and followings. XCOPY's a great example of an artist that puts out these crazy almost seizure-inducing flashing NFTs. No they are insane. But he is been doing it since day one and now some of his one of ones are selling for over a million dollars at Christie's. They are going on some of the major auction houses and there is a handful of those folks that are doing some really unique things in this space. So it is not all crap I guess is what I am trying to say. I guess Art Blocks is another one too to check out on the generative side. To answer your question about how do you sift through all the crap I do not know if you had that question but I will answer it.  Sure I will let you create my questions for me.  Exactly. Essentially Art Blocks they have this editorial kind of board of other artists that then kind of vote in who gets accepted and put on the platform. So the curated side is only the people that meet that bar. And I think we are going to see more of that.  There is a lot of that in the curated marketplaces.  Right exactly.  What is the story with the artwork on your Twittah?  Oh my Twittah?  Woo man that JuneShine's going to my head.  Are you drinking right now? Are you really drinking? I thought you were just holding up the can.  No no no. I just skolled one. Yeah yeah no I am good.  That is amazing.  What is this artwork on your Twitter profile?  So what you are seeing right there is   Looks like a bunch of pills.  Yeah that is a squiggly. So this is crazy. Essentially  well it is funny we are talking about Art Blocks. So that piece of art right there is the very first project to launch on Art Blocks and it is this little squiggly and it looks very simple like a little tiny snake a multi-colored snake. And essentially what Art Blocks is it is a generative art platform.  Yeah you should define what generative is for folks.  Yeah let us define that. So basically if you think about traditional art it is always an artist they sit down they do something the mint it the paint it on canvas whatever it may be and the artwork is done. And then that is then sold. Generative art is essentially an artist that comes in and says I am going to write an algorithm that is a piece of math that will define the basic parameters of a piece of art but I am going to introduce some randomness to it and that randomness is going to be created by the end user. So when you click to mint a piece of generative art you are then putting that time code that kind of time stamp of randomness into the algorithm. And then that algorithm spits out your unique piece of art. So you have no idea what you are going to get until it actually arrives in your wallet. So what you are seeing there that little squiggly is something I minted. I did not know what it was going to be and some of them have more rare attributes than others different colors different thicknesses all these and people collect them because they love the kind of luck of the draw in what you are going to get. And they love the output because sometimes the output is even more interesting than what the original artist could have ever contemplated when writing that initial algorithm. So it is just a new  I think it is a really interesting new form of art that can be captured and helped by the blockchain because generative art has been around for a long time. People have been doing computer generative art and they would always you could go to showrooms and they would have computer screens or monitors up showing off this stuff. And it was always a computer-science-y thing over the last 20 years but there was never a way to capture that and save it. I mean you could save it as a file but then blockchain actually provided a way to say Okay the output is now captured and saved in the blockchain. It is a unique asset that could then be transferred and traded. So it is actually essentially a new art form.  We can give you title to this unique digital asset.  Exactly. So this is kind of a new form that is only possible or enabled by the blockchain which I think is really fun. So that is why it is getting a lot of traction. I will give you a sense of how quickly this market is growing. So Art Blocks two months ago did around two million in secondary sales of all of their works of art. This month sorry not this month last month because we are just getting into July now last month they did over nine million in secondary sales.  Wow.  So it is really taking off. I think it is third. NBA Top Shots CryptoPunks and I think Art Blocks is the third platform. They jump around but it is around that.  Say that one more time.  NBA Top Shots like the NBA collectibles.  That is number one.  It depends on the month because sometimes CryptoPunks or some other project will appear that is massive and blows up. But CryptoPunks is the OG original kind of not generative art but it was the original kind of randomly created I guess you could kind of consider it generative in some way but the random output was captured with all these different attributes.  People can check it out at larvalabs.com and LarvaLabs is amazing. I mean they do all sorts of fascinating stuff.  Really cool stuff. And do you know that Jay-Z set his Twitter bio to a CryptoPunk a couple weeks ago?  Did not know that. Wow. Let me take a look at that. That is a big deal.  That is a big deal.  Huh. Wow. Go Jay-Z. It is one way to add some value to the market you are participating in.  I feel that it is silly for people to say this is just all hype. And there is a lot of that out there. They are like Oh this is just going to go away. It is funny if you look at historically when these new mediums come out what happens and what people say I actually did a bit of research in all of this and I do not know if you knew this but back when canvas was first introduced before that was largely cathedral walls and mostly on wooden planks  oh you still there Tim? I lost you.  Well that was fucking crazy. My house got hit by lightning and the whole show came to a grinding halt.  Was it your house that got hit by lightning or not?  It is unclear. It is unclear but there was a massive thunderstorm and lightning and thunder all around this remote house at an undisclosed location. And I am in the middle of fucking nowhere for context. And everything just went out and I was like Oh yeah. This is why you have a generator. This is why you have generators in places like Austin where I was the only house on my street with power during the snowpocalypse. It is incredible. We will come back to Jay-Z and the CryptoPunks in a second but it is just incredible how fragile the infrastructure around us actually is.  Yeah. I mean I have the same thing. I lost power for seven days in Portland during this last winter storm. We had an ice storm and it took everything out.  Yeah. It is wild. It is wild. And I do worry about or think a good amount about attacks on the power grid cyberattacks on the power grid. And there is actually a book that I highly suggest people check out called Lights Out subtitle A Cyberattack a Nation Unprepared Surviving the Aftermath by Ted Koppel. And it will scare the shit out of you.  I feel like these types of things just make one more paranoid.  You have heard the expression Just because you are paranoid does not mean they are not out to get you which is not intended to be a justification for building spider holes in the back of your house and going really above and beyond the call of duty to ridiculous lengths to prep in any sense but having some basic provisions and basic backup plans in case of disaster I think it is pretty smart. I mean most of us have fire extinguishers. We hope never to use them but we recognize that having one for 100 or less 20 is worth the downside protection. Similarly wearing seat belts when is the last time you had a head on collision? Not recently probably but we all wear seat belts because it is relatively easy to do that and mitigate high levels of downside. I think generators fall in that category. I think backup water falls in that category. And it is just a very present reminder for me of just how if  we saw it during or personally I saw it during Hurricane Sandy when I was working on a chapter related to disaster preparedness in The 4-Hour Chef there is an extensive section on that which seems to not match at all with anything related to cooking or chefs. But in fact it does relate. It was kind of too long-winded to explain but I was going back and forth with my editor at the time. And they were like Look Tim. I am into prepping. And even for me this seems ridiculous. And then what happened Hurricane Sandy hit and everything was totaled and people in New York were going without power. And I just think it is a good  it is a pop quiz from the universe in a lightweight way. When your power goes out in this way it is like All right how much water do you have? How much ability do you have to charge your devices without access to the power grid? Just super basic stuff right? So I was thinking okay. We were going to record this because we were texting back and forth. But as soon as the power went out what happened? All the cell towers were overwhelmed. So my bars went from three to one immediately. And I was like well you suggest that we could record via phone have the conversation and just record locally in QuickTime which is what we were going to do. But that also you have to think out the tertiary effects of something like that. And   Sure. Up until a certain point where you are just like This is overkill. That is the problem I have is where do you draw the line?  Well do you have backup water at home?  I mean I have   Do you have a week of water for your family?  No I do not have a week.  It is a few hundred bucks man. You should definitely do that.  Well here's the deal. Do I need a week of water backup?  Well I will give you an example. So in Austin Texas there've been multiple boil warnings where there are high levels of rain some type of flooding. The municipal water treatment facilities become overwhelmed and they issue a boil warning. So you can drink the water as long as you boil it.  I have a HEPA  not HEPA but I have the equivalent of that on the water side that does 99.99 percent of viruses and bacteria. So I have the crazy over-the-top water sanitation coming into the house.  So you can just take your kids' diapers and recycle them   It does not matter.   and there is your drinking water.  I can just pee in the thing it just works.  So I just view these things. I am like Why not have a few hundred bucks of distilled water?  I have basically I would say probably about four or five days worth of water. And so   Just for you. Your family can fend for themselves.  Well I can get in a car and drive someplace where there is water. I do not think like   No. Well that is the thing though is I can  in Austin it was like within 24 hours all water at every grocery store was gone. So it just raises interesting questions for me because then you are like Okay. Well if that happens what are people going to do? They are going to think about driving outside the limits of Austin. Okay? So then what? And then what? And then what? But I do not think I am that crazy about it.  I do not think that is crazy no.  I am not walking around downtown in a ghillie suit or something. It is like I   Do you have a gas mask?  I do not have a gas mask. I had one in San Francisco and I do not have one. Do you have a gas mask?  I do not. Do you have any type of full body virus protection suit?  Like a hazmat suit?  Yeah.  I do not. Do you?  So you are not that bad! Yeah I have got a couple of those. No I am just kidding. I do not!  0000. It is pretty standard in the Rose household. No I do not have those in part because right now I am in a very rural environment. I am in the middle of nowhere. But you realize quickly also without the amenities of a city center how dependent you are on things that are easy to take for granted like power or telecommunications. And if a tree goes down and lands on the lines you are just out of luck until it gets fixed.  Yeah. I am on the waitlist for one of those Tesla Powerwalls.  Yeah those are cool.  They are all backordered.  Exactly. Right? And then what? Then the 0.1 percent of poop in your water is going to kill you.  Something has to get you man.  We drank it all taking all these life extension drugs and then the poopy water's going to get you!  Yeah exactly.  All right. So Jay-Z. I looked it up while I was futzing around and messing around. And for those who have not seen it Mr. Carter sc it is actually surprisingly hard to find on Twitter despite that it has three million followers and zero following but Jay-Z does in fact have a CryptoPunk as his profile pic is that the right term to use?  Yeah. That is right.  That is wild to me. When did that happen?  A couple of weeks back. Two three weeks ago.  Wow.  It is a big deal. It is a big validation.  It is a big deal. Big validation also. I am sure he owns one or 20 of those that he just three x-ed his investment probably. Or does that not translate? What types of things affect the pricing dynamics for the CryptoPunks? And people can look at this if they go to larvalabs.com and then go to projects and click on CryptoPunks. You can look at the top sales. These things have been covered everywhere. And like you said they are the OGs the kind of first edition. They are like the Model Ts of NFTs. So you can look at largest sales. So right now to give people an idea and when you look at these people are going to just end up gaping jaws falling to the floor looking at these things and wondering why on Earth an alien with a pipe in his mouth would be worth 7.57 million   That is outdated.  Dollars. Outdated?  Oh yeah. There is been an alien sale now at Sotheby's for 13 million.  Wow. That is crazy. I see. So off platform   Yeah. I mean these are 20 by 20 pixel little things too. These are not massive images. So they just happen to be the first.  Just imagine playing Spy Hunter or one of these Lode Runner one of these really old games and the graphics associated with that that is basically what you are looking at. Okay. So that is outdated. So I see. And I know these transactions have taken place off of the platform of Larva Labs?  That is right.  I got it. So this is not an accurate reflection at all of the top sales.  Right because the top sales are now going off to Sotheby's and Christie's and the traditional auction houses are stepping in and saying Actually we consider NFTs to be real art. We are going to offer them to our collectors which    Surprise surprise.  As you can imagine. Exactly. Surprise surprise. Turns out they also charge a 20 percent commission on every sale.  Very reasonable 20 percent commission.  Suddenly they are art. But no it is cool. It is cool that they embrace this and they put their stamp of approval. They have also done that with a handful of other projects now some other really top artists in the NFT space. So it is   Seems to be really on top of it. I mean they were kind of a curve with the NFTs for sure. I mean they are really able to capture a lot of that market very quickly at the high end so I have to give them credit for that. So it looks like now maybe you can explain to people because I know you have the explanation but we are looking at the largest sales at larvalabs.comcryptopunks. And you have got two aliens. So 7.57 million and 7.58 million respectively. Then you have got four gorillas then an alien then a something I cannot even identify. I do not even know   They are apes by the way.  Thank you. All right. We have got four apes and alien number eight just looks like a pediatric cancer patient. I do not know what this  I have no idea what that is. Then a bunch of aliens not aliens. This is what I get for having too many hard kombuchas on my Random Show.  So I am looking at the   Looking at the top 12.  Top. Yeah.  All right. So what is number eight?  What is number eight?  Yeah.  Number eight is   Number 6487.  So it just looks like a plain person right?  Yeah.  And the reason why that one is so valuable is because it has zero attributes. So there was nothing applied to it. So if you sort by attributes there is only I think seven or eight that actually have zero or something like that. So   Got it. Got it.  Yeah just looks like a bald person.  Yeah. It will blow people's minds to look at this and some of the transactions that are going on. So have all of the highest price transactions left this platform and moved more to the auction houses and so on?  Yeah that is right. Any time someone has one of these aliens now they know it is going to fetch double digit millions of dollars. And so they want to obviously get as many collectors bidding as possible. And what better way to bring in the old money into the game than to go with Christie's or Sotheby's and pull from that collector base? So that is been the approach.  Wild so wild. It strikes me as significant. Maybe I am overweighting it that Jay-Z has as his profile pic a CryptoPunk. Am I overstating that? I mean that is really pretty on the nose right? It is not subtle.  I think it also speaks to kind of what is going on behind the scenes. I mean Jay-Z has a music company called Tidal which is a big streaming provider on the music side. And they recently sold that to Square which Jack Dorsey is CEO and founder of and also obviously CEO of Twitter. Square is now I believe the number two largest purchaser of Bitcoin because people use Square Cash app to buy Bitcoin. As you can imagine there is been a lot of talk around how artists can potentially monetize songs using NFTs or other works of art using NFTs and Jack is in the middle of all that. So it would not surprise me that the Square Cash app eventually turns into a way to showcase and kind of purchase and trade NFTS. There is been some rumors now that Twitter is going to jump into the NFT game in some way. Jack famously auctioned off his first tweet for millions of dollars and turned it into an NFT.  That is cool. That is cool.  Jay-Z is in the mix of all of this. So I am sure he is kind of learning what is going on. And obviously you have to come back to the original project which defined the NFT standard which is CryptoPunks.  Yeah. So wild. What do you foresee as developments in the crypto or blockchain space? Or what are you watching closely?  Well I think it is funny because people get so caught up in these kind of bull and bear markets and watching these coins and saying like Oh it is crazy. It is down 20 percent. It is up 20 percent. And I think if you  I try not to get caught up in the weeds there. It just zoom out even further because I think once you do that the lines start to smooth out a bit and you understand that we are in the very early kind of first innings of this entire rewriting of the financial stack. And so that is probably the reason why I created the podcast to cover these things is because there is just so much going on right now. We need to bring the average consumer up to speed so they know how to get into this stuff early before it is on paypal.com which is what Bitcoin and Ethereum are now.  modern Oh my Twitter. Yeah just modern.finance.  Modern.finance. Modern Finance podcast check it out on the webs on the tweets on the Twitters. It is modernfi. All right. So you are tracking that. You are saying people get caught up in the microcycles.  That is right. And they think it is over.  Fair weather speculators are going to get their faces ripped off and panic and then end up in a bad position.  It is because they are always buying at the highs and selling at the lows. You know what I mean? That is a very common thing here. And I mean Tim you know this man. You bought in right when everything crashed or just before it crashed and you got decimated for about four or three years.  I did. Yes I did. I came in in probably what was it? Mid 2017? Something like that. And promptly got my face ripped off.  But you were smart. You did not do anything. You just sat there.  It is just like there is not a compelling  based on the thesis that I had I mean which is a fancy way of saying what I hoped would happen in the future based on a couple of assumptions there was no real reason to sell. Right? There are these really jagged acute short term moves. But if I actually had high conviction in the assumptions that led me to buy in the first place it would be hypocritical and self-defeating to sell at that point. So I did not sell.  Yeah. And that was great because that ended up it is probably what at least five X or more since all that happened?  It is up a bit. It is up a bit. Yeah. I mean it is not up as much as it was so I guess end of April beginning May but that is okay. That is okay. I mean I think there are just these sort of hype and deflation cycles that you see in everything. And my biggest regrets in all of investing are actually the times that I sold prematurely. It is not having invested in things in other words it is not having missed opportunities to invest it is having not held the things I invested in for a longer period of time.  Yeah. Shopify.  Shopify was a huge one. I mean that was my biggest misfire of all time was  but at the time that represented in absolute dollars a really significant win for me to try to get to the point where I did not have to be preoccupied with money. So it made sense. Look the logic of selling that actually made sense. Do I regret it? Yes. A better example would be in 2008 when I had one stock that I put a bunch of a very double digit percentage of my net worth into. Can you guess what it was? And I put it in maybe in 2005.  WordPress?  Nope. No. Although I am an advisor to WordPress or rather to Automattic and I am a big fan but   I am trying to think of what you would have bought back then. Maybe Amazon?  Yeah. I bought Amazon in 2005 or something like that. Maybe a little bit later. Taking a look right now but   So wait. You regret that? No you do not regret that. Obviously that is   I regret selling it. I sold it.  Oh you sold it three years later.  I sold it when the subprime crisis landed and everything was just going through the floor. And boy oh boy. That was a mistake should have held onto it. And I did not have clear rules for myself then. I had rules for buying but not rules for holding or selling. I think people at least I have gotten myself into a lot of trouble by having rules for buying which I sort of intuitively have a pretty good feeling for. I think you have an even better feeling for it honestly. That is absolutely one of your mutant powers. But then how long to hold when to sell having rules for that in advance is something that I have historically not been as good at. And that has been a big problem. Certainly with Amazon as sort of the textbook example of that selling 2008 on a panic and now it is  who knows? Five or 10 X. I have no idea.  Yeah. Oops.  But yes. All right. So coming back to blockchain or crypto. I mean there is sort of like the latter is contained within the former. What else are you paying close attention to? Of course you are observing the sort of mass behavior and misbehavior?  Right.  What else are you watching?  Yeah. I mean we do a lot of crypto investing at True Ventures where I am a part of.  At True Ventures.  Yeah. So we have probably deployed I would say 50 million or so so far this year just in crypto-related deals. So that is a pretty decent chunk of our fund. So it is something that we track very closely. And I would say that the problem for the average consumer is that there is just a lot of garbage in there. There is just a lot of crap. So I would say that unless you are educated and you are really deep in the space and you are listening to all the podcasts and you are reading all the different CoinDesk every morning. And if you are at that level then you can probably go out there and say I believe I see where the momentum is taking things. And so that is kind of what I do as a profession. Now I do not recommend that people do that with their everyday just random pick of a doggy coin because all of the  there is a lot of hype around these different meme coins that are appearing and those come down crashing as fast as they go up. So we have a problem similar to NFTs where anyone can spin up a new coin which is a few modifications to some of the open-source software that is out there make a meme around it pump it and then dump it and people get burned. So   KevKevcoin.  Yeah. TimTim. Yeah. We could do   TimTim Tokens and KevKevcoin.  I mean literally within an hour we could launch a new TimTim Token and it would be live. And then we could put some liquidity on Uniswap. We could get it trading. We could get people  I mean that happens every single day. It is really frustrating but it is what it is. It is an unregulated market. There is a lot of stuff going on. It is super exciting. There is a lot of innovation happening a lot of really high quality projects but a lot of crap too so buyer beware. So you just have to be careful on how you evaluate these different opportunities and definitely do not buy into the memes that are out there. It is just  those are silly. And I am not saying that one of them is not going to eventually  because there is this fine line between community support that turns into something real and a meme and something that is being used to kind of pump and dump. And so   Would you consider Dogecoin a meme coin?  It started off as a meme coin and I think that there are attributes of it that I really like.  Before the big E.M. started tweeting about the Doge.  Yeah exactly. Elon started pumping up the Doge. Well here's the deal with Doge. I knew the founder really well. I had him on my podcast seven years ago or whatever it was. And we talked about Dogecoin and it was a joke initially. It was just a fun  he set the supply super high. Everybody was using it to tip using these little bots on Reddit. And I had literally millions and millions and millions of Dogecoin because they were worthless and I was tipping out 10000 at a time here 5000 over here. It was just like  we all did it. It was just fun. And it was just kind of a way a tip of the hat to someone   Monopoly money. It was Monopoly money.  Yeah. Exactly. Monopoly money. So that has now evolved into  had a really strong community back then. It died down for a few years and then the community came back and then Elon jumped on top of it. But it is still lacking a few things like the underlying developers that are working on it  now this could be changing and I have heard that they are seriously considering refactoring the code base but it was just a dead project that had minor bug fixes applied to it. So there was no real  outside of it being a quote-unquote meme coin and being hilarious and watching it go up in price the technology stack that it was written on was not being well  it was being maintained just so that it did not break. There was no innovation happening there. And so that is not the future of currency. The future currency that is going to really be a real true utility has to have an active development community behind it supporting it and evolving it over time. And so that is happening on a handful of other projects not so much on Doge. But there is so much interest in Doge now and it is being listed on a bunch of the major exchanges again. I could see  it would not be crazy if you said Hey Kevin. Guess what? Five years from now they now have 5000 active developers doing all these really funky weird things on Doge. I would be like Well that makes sense because they had the community drive a lot of that. But outside of Doge they call them the doggy coins. There are a bunch of other doggy-style coins that are just basically   Doggy style!  Well I am sorry Tim. They are similar doggy coins. I am sorry that your mind went there.  Oh dude. Put that on me. Put that on me.  They are doggy-themed coins that are literally just out there to get people excited. The prices go up the whales sell and it ends in tears.  Ends in tears.  Yeah.  All right. So Dogecoin that is not a primary position in the True Ventures portfolio.  No it is not. Yeah.  Okay. How do you  well actually a number of questions. So since we invoked the name of the great Elon you spent some time with Elon I have really not. But there are those who attribute the recent correctioncrash to various tweets associated with Elon including one related to the environmental costs of Bitcoin. Some think that is overstated some think that is just something it is understated a lot of controversy around it. Then there are those who would say Elon is a small perhaps contributing factor. But really it is just an overall macro run from risk assets. So even though people attribute the correction or some people do to that type of coms from Elon it is not really accurate and that it is really a macro trend that happened to coincide at the same time. What are your thoughts? Do you have any thoughts on any of that?  Well Elon certainly carries a lot of weight. Or I think people more recently  even though he is tweeted a few times about cryptocurrency since all of this went down and it did not seem to really impact price as much as it did back when he first started doing it. So I would say he probably has a little bit less way and people really got pissed off when he did this. I think that listen we had a massive run-up over the last six months. So to see a sell-off or correction like that just totally makes sense to me. I do not know that I pin it all on Elon. I think that certainly his comments and pulling it out of Tesla from accepting Bitcoin it certainly sparked something that everyone was already thinking behind the scenes. And that is true. Bitcoin is a very dirty currency. I would say that I have read reports and I have talked to folks that are in the camp of  they will point out that the mining operations have really led to a lot of renewable energy. So a lot of these Bitcoin mines around the world are placed in places where renewable energy is there and in place and operating because it is the cheapest form of energy. Now granted there are other places where it is running purely off of coal. So I do not know that I fully buy that. So I think that I would have to set that aside. I do not think that the underpinnings of Bitcoin are going to be rewritten anytime soon. It is such a  the fact that Satoshi disappeared it is kind of like this I know they have folks that are in charge but it is almost like Do not touch it unless it is really broken. It is such a massive market cap and it does one thing really well which is just store a value. So while there is a lot of little additional add-ons that are helping it scale no one is thinking about completely rewriting it from the ground up in the way that say they are doing on Ethereum. Ethereum is being rewritten right now to switch to proof of stake from proof of work. So out of the dirty CPUGPU mining world into something that is insanely clean and more efficient and that upgrade will take place sometime in the next year or so. So there are other cryptocurrencies that certainly realize that this is an issue and they want to get away from the useless  well I mean it is a very  you are also in some sense when you do this proof of work operations that require a lot of CPU and GPU and are very power intensive that is how the security of the network is maintained. So they are useful in that sense. But I just think we have better cleaner tech now that we can apply to the same problem.  What are your hopes for Chia if any? And could you describe what Chia is?  Yeah. So Chia is a cryptocurrency that was created by Bram Cohen who is the inventor of BitTorrent. We all remember BitTorrent from when we were pirating movies or whatever it may be. It was the first peer-to-peer elegant way to swap large files. Bram went on to create Chia. Chia is definitely it is one of our investments at True so full disclosure there.  Me too. I am an investor.  Yeah. The reason why we backed Bram is because I mean there is a handful of engineers that if they raise their hand and say I am going to do something new. You just realize the caliber   He is an animal.  Yeah just one of the top tier engineers in the world. So you always say yes to something like that. So he is come up with a way to do a proof of space and proof of time a blockchain that uses hard drives for farming. So he calls it farming. And it essentially part of the reason why I was attracted to it initially is because everyone has additional hard drive capacity. And you can turn a normal computer into a farming rig that goes out and will actually plot and farm and do the same functions of a cryptocurrency meaning providing space as a way to protect the network rather than just GPU and CPU. And it is just so much more green. It uses like one 1000th of the amount of energy of say like using a Bitcoin CPU or GPU and potentially democratizes it in a much more broader way. And so what I mean by that is that if you were to compete and you were to mine Bitcoin today you would have to go out and buy a very custom kind of A6 custom processor rig or a really fast GPU if you are mining on Ethereum and spend thousands and thousands of dollars to go out and participate in the network. So you just cannot use an off-the-shelf computer anymore the way you could when it first launched in its first year or so. So now with something like Chia and Ethereum's moving this way as well with proof of stake you do not really need the hardware requirements. So you can go out and just use some extra hard drive space join a pool and then you could be mining or farming kind of instantly. So the number of active participants in the network goes up which means it is more decentralized which means it is better for overall security. So rather than just it being controlled by several thousand the hope is with something like Chia you get hundreds of thousands of people participating in doing this farming. And so far it is been working quite well. I mean they have got a lot of people. They had a warning went out. Several big publications wrote warnings that hard drives were being sold out everywhere. So you could not go to like an electronic store  like Best Buy was selling out of their top-end hard drives because people were using them for mining on Chia. And so there was going to be this massive hard drive shortage. So Western Digital stock went up because of it. And it was just crazy.  That is wild.  It is wild. It is wild but it is yeah. I would say just playing both sides of the coin obviously I said I was a fan because we are investors. But also it is early days for this. So I would not go out and say Hey buy a bunch of Chia. If anything I would say Just fire up an extra hard drive that you have sitting around and play with it and see what you think. None of this is investment advice but   To be clear there we go. We are not registered investment advisors or other professionals. This is for informational purposes only. Continue please.  Yes. Yeah. So I mean with all this stuff though Tim like when I walked you through some of that MetaMask stuff one time it is like the only way to learn this stuff and to get into it and understand what you are buying rather than just blindly buying is to play. Put a hundred dollars in. Go lose a hundred dollars on something crazy that you did not understand but by the end of it you do. And so that is where you learn. And I think it is the most valuable piece of all of this.  So in an ocean of options and again you and the other partners at True have significant informational advantage and many other advantages compared to anyone almost anyone listening to this. So this is not intended to be advice. But just so I have a better understanding how do you vet? How do you choose blockchaincrypto investments? Because there is so much out there. There is this paradox of choice. How do you choose things at this point? Are there any particular checkboxes or criteria?  Yeah. A hundred percent. So the way that I think about it is that first you have to say Where have we been and where are we going? And so when you start out the kind of Where have we been? When these chains first launched they had one utility. They were like a store of value and a way to send digital currency to and from one wallet to another. Right? That was Bitcoin for the first few years. And now when you think about where we are going there are just a whole slew of different arenas that this blockchain technology has been applied to. So you have decentralized exchanges. You have the NFTs that we talked about and marketplaces around that all of the Web 3 censorship-resistant communication protocols. You have insanely high performance protocols or blockchains like Solana and some of the others that are out there and that could do 50000 transactions per second. And so what gets unlocked when you have that type of speed operating on a blockchain? Then you have existing big behemoth blockchains like Ethereum and how are we going to scale Ethereum in the short term? So you talk about what they are called layer two scaling solutions. The entire financial stack is being rewritten from the ground up. So thinking about what is the future of checking and savings accounts? What does it mean to stream money to people in real time? How does that work? And so there is a world where a startup pitched this just recently where they figured out a way to stream money to people in real time. And so what that means is rather than going into work and like clocking in and waiting two weeks to get paid you clock in and money hits your account every 25 to 30 seconds in real time as it is being earned. And so there is just like this complete rethinking of the distribution of financial assets. So what once was let me pull up Wells Fargo right now but if you pull up like a big bank and you say Wells Fargo Wikipedia and you take a look at the head count that they have to employ to pull off a traditional  so they have 7200 branches in 2021 13000 ATMs and 268000 employees for Wells Fargo. So think about what that payroll must look like how much   A lot of mouths to feed.  A lot of mouths to feed. And that bloat that is in the financial system. And so what do you get in return? You have a checking and savings account. You get some FTSE insurance which is nice. And you get absolutely nothing. You get no interest. I get that it is nice that they handle fraud on the check side and there is a phone number to call and all of that. But all of that money that they are taking your money and lending it out on your behalf behind the scenes and their revenue for 2020 was 72.34 billion for 2020. So that money now in a decentralized fashion on the blockchain where now you have some of these people writing things like Aave some of these lending platforms or you have like a BlockFi that is partially centralized and partially decentralized. You have these new banks and new financial institutions and these new protocols that are emerging that take just a handful of people to write code manage and operate. And then all of that wealth creation is being distributed back to the individual. So I am excited for the future of finance because I think that for example you and I have talked about BlockFi before. It is a company that is providing   You and I have talked quite a bit about it.  Yes. And and BlockFi for example Zac I had the CEO on my show. We talk about what they are really good at is these interest accounts that give people real insane interest at right now. I think it is like 7.5 percent right now on stablecoins which is just nuts. What are you going to get from a bank? If you keep a hundred dollars in your BlockFi account  and I do not mean this to be an ad for BlockFi. I am not going to put any affiliate code anywhere in anything in Tim's show notes or anything. But it is essentially they are giving you seven percent on your money on these stablecoins which are US dollar coins which do not change. You do not have to worry about them going up or going down because they are able to go out and pass that savings. They do not have that massive overhead that a traditional bank would have. And they just pass it right back to the end consumer. And so a lot of these platforms whether it be Compound or Aave or some of these platforms you can go and bring your cryptocurrency in. You can lend it back to the platform and you will get paid interest back to your wallet which is just awesome. It is nice to see that finally going back to the consumers versus just being kept by the big banks.  Yeah. It is super fascinating to me. And you introduced me to BlockFi and have since become an investor. And I do not place a lot of bets in this space but the idea and who knows at the end of the day what the pie chart is going to look like. But the idea of a blockchain first banking or finance company is very interesting right? It allows you to do certain things like offer this seven or 7.25 percent or whatever the APY is on accounts that otherwise do not really exist. Because as you said there are all of these intermediate sort of cost centers including head count associated with traditional banking that are just simply removed when you shift to this type of technology.  Right.  The ability to say borrow based on your cryptocurrency assets or anything that is related these are new frontiers in a lot of respects. And that is part of what makes it super exciting. So obviously both of us are fans of BlockFi and many other things. What are the risks that you foresee on the horizon? And I know this is a common question. I am going to ask it because I think people will be interested in your answer. How much do you worry about regulatory overstep or shutdown? So we have seen what is happened in China. Of course China is not the United States. But how concerning for someone who invests a lot or for a firm that invested a lot in crypto and blockchain is the regulatory side of things?  Honestly I am very much looking forward to regulation. I think it is going to be a great thing. The lack of clarity around how to treat certain types of assets in this world is what is holding it back I believe. The big question to ask here is the one like you hinted at with China  does the US wake up one day and say Actually cryptocurrency is illegal shut it all down? And I just cannot see that being the case here. It is too far entrenched into everything that we are doing. Every major bank whether they like it or not is now embracing blockchain in some capacity. It is a fantastic underlying technology. So it would just be odd to say We are banning a certain type of technology. I just cannot see that happening in the United States.  Yep.  I hope that there is more clarity because a lot of it is very confusing right now. And to be fair a lot of it is being defined in real time. So we do not know how to handle certain types of assets. There is just weird things coming out of this. Like I will give you an example. There is a protocol called Alchemix that are these self-repaying loans. It sounds nuts. But in the world of DeFi   What does that mean?  It is crazy. So basically what   I could use some of those self-repaying loans.  Well basically what it does is it goes out and you come in and you take a certain amount of cryptocurrency. Let us just say it is 10000. Right? And they take that entire principal and they go invest it into yield-generating protocols that are out there in this world of decentralized finance. And they instantly give you half of it back into straight let us just call it a stablecoin like a US dollar stablecoin. So you take 10000 they give you 5000 to go do whatever you want with. And because of the yield that they are able to generate on the entire principal they take all of the interest payments and pay it back into the loan so that it pays itself off automatically. And at the current rates it is a little over two years and the loan just automatically pays itself back. So you are receiving your interest payments up front if that makes sense. But this is only something that would be possible in the world of DeFi where you are having smart contract work with smart contract and not in traditional lending. It just would not make sense because you are taking all of the benefit and giving it back to the customer. And in traditional lending when you have mouths to feed those mentioned with the Wells Fargo example they would never give you that full yield back. Right?  They cannot do it right. They cannot.  Right. Exactly. So but weird   They are only making a mere 72 billion.  Right. Exactly. And the odd thing though is like these repayments are happening in near real time back to paying down the loan in near real time. And so talk about like all these little microtransactions that are occurring over that two years and change. Now how do you treat those repayments? Who is paying them? And where are they coming from? And what is your cost basis? And you can imagine it just makes you go cross-eyed. No one in the IRS is going to tell you how to do this. This has never been defined before. How do you even file something like that with the IRS to explain to them what you are doing?  Even handling basic crypto stuff right now with filings is very challenging.  Right.  You can do it but it is very involved.  There is some very sophisticated financial just these new tools these new types of code that is being deployed in these smart contracts. And we do not really have a clean way to even report them let alone understand how to at what tax rate we should be charged. So I do not know. I am excited for some more regulation to come into place. I think that but you asked   Just to remove the uncertainty.  Exactly.  So even if the rules are stringent and punitive in some respect at least the rules will be clarified and defined.  Yeah. I want to pay my taxes. I do not want to go to jail. I just do not know how quite to do it. Right?  I was not implying otherwise.  No no no. I am just saying in the world of DeFi   Thou dost protest too much!  I am so much in the world of DeFi this is what people are running into is they do not know how to handle this stuff. So it is a very exciting space. But it is a very kind of bleeding edge enter at your own risk kind of world. To answer your question of what am I scared of? What are the risks that are out there? I think there is a few. One is you you mentioned the regulation side. That is certainly one that is off there lingering in the background which I am not so much worried about what is going to happen on the US. But I am worried about what if another country bans it? Because that causes some instability in the markets when other countries ban it.  Which would be the most impactful countries were they to ban crypto? Outside of China are there any countries that stand out that one might not expect? So outside of the US like who are the players who would really move the market?  Yeah that is a good question. I think China was the big one to be honest. And now that that is kind of over obviously the European Union would be huge. Anything with the UK would be huge. But I just do not see those markets cracking down. So there is nothing out there that is the big scary whale that we are just waiting for that to happen. I do not know of any other big countries. If anything we are seeing countries now embracing cryptocurrency and making it an accepted form of tender. So that is happening which is just fantastic. So okay. Let us put that regulation part aside. There is two other pieces that I always think about. One is the meme coins the shitty coins that rise to the top and people think because it is the top 25 traded coin they should buy it. That is a huge risk. The second thing is that people do not dollar cost average their way into the markets. So that means that they just buy a big chunk oftentimes too much. And then they panic sell. So dollar cost averaging is a very simple concept. You have a thousand dollars let us just say 1200 that you want to invest total in a cryptocurrency. And you are like Listen my chunk what I can afford for me is 1200. You take a hundred dollars and you do one buy the first of the first of every month for a year. And you dollar cost average your way in. That way you are never buying at the high never buying at the low. You are kind of getting that nice blend over 12 months. 12 months may seem like a long time. I personally would do something like that over like three to four months and just figure out what is that? Do not look at the markets in terms of trying to time it. You just say every this is the day second week of every month on every Monday or whatever it may be whatever your day is. And then you go off and you make that buy. And the third piece is that people run into and this is something that comes up a lot is that people take on too much risk. So it has to be something where if it drops by 75 percent you will not sell. So it cannot be so meaningful that you are freaking out and you do a panic sale. Because this is where the risk is. But also with risk comes the reward obviously. So when you are playing in these crazy waters these shark-infested waters there is going to be some really bloody days. And if that is the case you have to just be able to sit there and take it and not panic sell. Because you know and you believe in your heart of hearts that the future is digital currencies. And if that is the case the market is going to be bigger five years from now 10 years from now 20 years from now. And if that remains true back to that what is my original thesis around this market then you are going to be good in the long term but you have to be able to sit there and close your eyes on those really horrific days. And they will come. There'ill be multiple.  Lots and lots and lots. For me I have realized if I am not comfortable making an investment for at least three years I just should not do it.  Right.  Because I probably have not done sufficient homework to have strong conviction on my base assumptions that should underlie that type of decision. And if I am not willing to hold for at least three years you are going to get punched in the face at least a few times over three years.  Yes.  And if I have committed to that and I have only allocated so much that I can afford to easily have sidelined for that period of time and liquid you are going to end up panic selling. And just as I did with Amazon in 2008 which was a huge mistake right? I would taken too much I put it into an excellent company but I did not have rules for when I would sell or why I would sell. I only had my reasons for buying. But my reasons for buying are based on kind of present-tense evaluation not looking at long-term trends. So I did not have myself set up for success with that investment which was a bummer. And I ended up selling and then buying back in in early April of I guess last year. Yeah early April 2020. But man oh man it would have been a lot better to actually hold onto it for the entire period of time.  Here's the crazy thing Tim. I am curious to get how you think about it these days. But the one thing that is a little bit different than what you said there around stocks versus crypto is that the people that are the true believers will say If you really believe that the future of currency is digital then there is nothing to sell. Why would you   Totally totally.  What would you sell into? Because you are already holding the best form of that thing that you are holding currency.  Yeah.  You do not sell into the US dollar. Why when they are just printing more US dollars? That would just be silly.  Totally totally. Right. So I do not want to come out with like super strong opinions. But I am generally not selling the primaries right? Like the primaries being Bitcoin Ethereum. I have not sold any Bitcoin or Ethereum in years. And I do not have any plan to in the near future. There are other things I do not think we should name them but more speculative things that might on paper offer a market cap that just does not make sense compared to the utility and ubiquity of other things. In which case okay. Maybe you take some of that off of the table. Because there is just not an equally high degree of confidence in the durability over time of those things.  Yeah.  Or you just cannot find a compelling logic to be like Why is this worth X percent of the total market cap of Bitcoin?  Yeah.  Then I consider that. But I hear you. I mean there are definitely in the true believer camp it is like Look if you actually believe A B and C what you are saying you should never sell. Never is a strong word though. I would say given current information given what we know currently I do not have any plans to sell BTC or Ethereum.  Right. So in my mind what I think is if I think about Amazon of course Amazon is going to continue to scale and be the leader in that space. If I believe the same the digital cryptocurrency space but I am in a coin where I think to myself Gosh I really see this emerging player that is coming up that I really believe in as well then I might do a lateral move where I say Okay well I have a lot of gains in this one particular cryptocurrency but I also want to get a little exposure to this other one. I am going to sell part of this and then move into another coin. And that just diversifies my cryptocurrency basket a little bit more. Now one other piece is we talked about right-sizing the position that you are holding so that you do not freak out if there is a big dip. At some point because I believe this market will expand and continue to grow over the next couple of decades that position let us just say you put in 10000 over the next three months and that turns into a half a million dollars at some point you are going to look at that holding and be like Wow this is now meaningful. I am going to freak if it drops by 75 percent.  Yeah. Totally.  And so what do you do then? So my playbook is  and I am just speaking for myself  if cryptocurrency grows to the point where it is no longer whatever your number is 10 percent of your overall holdings 20 percent whatever you are comfortable with. And all of a sudden it is 40 percent of your overall net worth then my way of trimming is not to say Sell and grab some US dollars. What I do is I say Let us sell but then diversify into stocks and bonds and more traditional assets. So more of the Wealthfront style kind of fully diversified. That to me is more the boring old school hoping for seven percent a year type of style investing. But I am definitely not one of these people. You talk to Pomp or something and he will be like Oh I am a hundred percent Bitcoin. They are like What stocks do you hold? Oh no no no just that. Just Bitcoin. You are like Wait what? That is a little aggressive. So I am definitely a fan of having other assets as well. So it is not just all about crypto.  Yeah totally. And I should say also I mean seven percent sounds terrible. But if it is a decent number to begin with and you do not sell and rebuy and rack up all of these transaction fees and management fees and so on you could do worse.  Yeah. Totally.  A lot of people go to zero trying to chase like 40 percent annual returns. And actually I have a lot of sympathy for people who had the experience their first experience investing in this last run-up with crypto because they are just ruined forever.  Yeah.  In a way I am just like Oh my God. This is I do not want to say a non-recurring phenomenon but it is just like if your baseline is set at hundreds of percentage per year it will be very hard to convince you that it makes sense to invest in something with a reasonably predictable seven to 10 percent per year let us just say. And that is a tough position psychologically for people to be in.  Yeah.  You know?  Absolutely. The one hack I did want to share with the audience that I think is a really worthwhile one is well I do not want to  I will just say it. I think that the mistake a lot of cryptocurrency holders are doing today is that they are holding their cryptocurrency where they are not earning anything for their cryptocurrency. So a lot of people will have a Robinhood account. I am an investor in Robinhood. So I am slamming them right now. And I am sorry. I am not an investor. We invested at Google Ventures and I hold some of their funds. So I do not mean to talk bad about Robinhood. But they do not give you any interest when you are holding your crypto there. The same thing goes for Coinbase. Coinbase just now said If you have our stablecoin USDC we will give you four percent. But actually they do Ethereum 2 staking which is nice. But outside of that they are not really giving you any interest if you hold Bitcoin there. There are some places that you can go that you can transfer your cryptocurrency to. PayPal does not give you any interest that you can earn interest on your crypto paid in crypto so you are paid in kind so you are getting more crypto as you are sitting there holding it. So my strategy is that there' BlockFi which we already mentioned. They give you interest on Ethereum Bitcoin a whole slew of other coins. And then Gemini is another really world-class exchange that gives you interest on just holding your crypto there. So every time I launch my wallet I see that I have more crypto because every month I am earning interest on it and I just would hate for people to be letting their crypto sit there and not earn any type of interest. Now there are risks because they are lending your crypto out on your behalf. That is why actually to plug my show again I did an episode all around risk with the heads of risk of both of those organizations to talk about how they are doing it behind the scenes. And after listening to that episode I am confident and comfortable in what they are doing. I have been using BlockFi for years now and getting outrageous interest rates. It is a great thing to do when you are sitting on some crypto. Why not earn more?  Hear hear. What else should we talk about KevKev?  So we covered crypto pretty well.  Thank you for the we. I will take it.  It is a fun world man. You are doing fine Tim. Just keep holding your Bitcoin and Ethereum!  Thank you. I am just breathing while I listen. Yes thank you. I am doing great. Really great.  One thing I wanted to cover is a question came in from Twitter asking I guess we can wrap it up unless you have more  the most recent thing you have added to your daily architecture. Any new rituals? I was really curious when that came in because we have not talked about this in a while. What have you picked up both in COVID and then slowly coming out of ng new for you?  So the first thing that comes to mind is anything and all things related to sleep is a perennial topic. But in the last I would say month I have had probably 10 days at least of the best sleep I have ever had. And a lot of that stemmed from a conversation I had with a neurobiologist from Stanford named Andrew Huberman really interesting guy. And we talked quite a lot about sleep. He studies the visual system very intensely.  Was he on your podcast?  Yeah. Yeah. He was.  Awesome. He was on Darya's podcast too recently.  He is a smart guy. He is a smart guy. And we spoke a lot about sleep. We spoke about testosterone and increasing testosterone. We talked about performance the risks of increasing testosterone different methods et cetera. And in the sleep camp we or I should say he rather told me about increasing fish oil specifically EPA to at least one gram per day. And I have been taking fish oil but I had not been taking that quantity. I began taking fish oil and a number of other supplements including magnesium beyond just magnesium threonate which is very good for sleep. And on top of that paying more attention to circadian and cyclical cues that he and I talked about. So I have been trying to ensure as soon as I wake up that I go outside and spend at least five minutes in the sun. And I will do that by jumping rope and walking around with Molly my dog but to really ensure that to the extent possible I do not wake up and then brush my teeth and then check my phone and then check my calendar and sit inside dilly dallying or even doing important work for an hour or two before getting outside exposure. I have really been trying to very consistently get sun even if it is cloudy outside. Just solarsky exposure as soon as I get up and I have been having some of the best sleep of my life. It is really really really remarkable.  What are you using to track your sleep?  Right now because I shifted locations recently. I mean not full-time but I am outside of my usual home base. So I have an Oura Ring that is charging. I have not been wearing it. I do use Eight Sleep also on the bed which is incredibly helpful.  Yeah. We love ours.  Creating two zones and my girlfriend if she could sleep inside a sauna at 90 plus degrees she would probably do it. I really need to sleep at a surrounding temperature of 67 degrees or I have an incredibly hard time getting to sleep. So the Eight Sleep does provide some tracking. And I have found that Eight Sleep's I suppose inference or extrapolation from what they can sense in the bed is pretty good even when they are paying attention to HRV certainly the number of times that you are tossing and turning getting up et cetera surprisingly accurate from what I can tell. I was very skeptical. I do use the Oura Ring. That is going to be the primary for looking at sleep quality and HRV. So those would be the two tools predominantly but at the end of the day even though I find these tools very useful 00 p.m. if you had a good night's sleep or not and you probably know as soon as you get up. So it is a subjective feel as much as anything else. And I am a different person. If I get three or four nights of excellent sleep I am a different human being. Qualitatively and probably quantitatively in a bunch of ways I am just a different human being. So those are a few of the things that have changed.  Couple of questions.  Yeah.  So when you have a bad night's sleep and you look at your Oura data what does that mean for you? Does that mean lack of REM sleep lack of deep or is there anything that jumps out?  For me it is lack of deep sleep. It is lack of restorative sleep. And I do not know how deeply pun intended I should read into that but my deep sleep is very easily compromised. It is very easily compromised also if I have more than two alcoholic drinks. Of course not all alcoholic drinks are created equal so six percent is very different from like tequila shots but I have paid a lot of attention to that. And there is another reason why I was actually more than happy to have a drink or two this early 00 p.m. my time because if I drink a little bit earlier this is coming out really off terribly because I am not suggesting that people become day drinkers. But if I drink at say happy hour like an early happy hour which is not really my thing but just for the sake of illustration 00 00 p.m. my body is able in a waking state to seemingly metabolize a lot of that before I go to bed.  Right.  And I consequently do not wake up with the rapid heartbeat.  That is the worst man.  The alcohol night sweats? It is the worst.  I hate that rapid heartbeat where you wake up and you just get that like you can just feel it going.  It is terrible.  And you are like Ah what do I do? I am hot.  You cannot do anything.  It is the worst.  You cannot do anything. You just have a terrible night's sleep. So having even an additional three hours to metabolize before going to bed makes a huge difference for me. So I have been paying attention to that as well. But almost all of my changes recently have been associated with improving sleep quality.  Can I ask you what manufacturer of omega-3s do you take?  Yeah I can tell you let me grab it.  All right. Tim has left the room. Let us see if this makes the edit or not. I am betting it is Carlson Wild Caught Omega-3s.  Here we are.  You have another one.  These are delicious. Do not judge me Kevin. This is not my usual but in any case. All right. I have two here this is a Nordic Naturals ProOmega 650 EPA450 DHA. And that is right here this guy which I have been using. And then the second that I have is Thorne that is T-H-O-R-N-E Super EPA. And that is this guy right here. Those are what I ended up choosing. And the effect is really remarkable and it is difficult I would say it is impossible let me be clear. It is impossible for me to say that my sleep quality improvements are entirely caused by this. I am also spending more time outside. I am doing rucksacking. I am getting more exercise. I am getting a lot more sun exposure. I am in nature. My body tends to just down-regulate it is not the right word but my nervous system downshifts a lot when I am surrounded by nature.  It is huge.  So there are many factors and there are many environmental changes in my life that have taken place in the last few weeks. But I have spent a lot of time in nature at many other points and my sleep has not had this dramatic change. So it leads me to think that there are other causal factors. And this is the most obvious. This is the most obvious thing.  Yeah that is awesome. I have been taking a couple of grams of omega-3s for a while now. And I just find for me I actually see the benefits in the joint side.  Totally.  I just have less joint issues.  I have noticed that actually in my feet   It is like the old man episode. I love that.  This is the old man episode! But my family has a history of gout. So my family has gout on at least the maternal side. A sort of precursor indicator of that is often high uric acid levels. And I have been pretty loath to start another medication which will be a maintenance medication forever in this case would be allopurinol.  I too have been taking allopurinol for five years now.  Even though it is very very well-tolerated right? As far as drugs go.  Yeah.  It is very well tolerated. But I am like Oh God I am going to end up as that old guy with the pill case with 100 pills that I have to take every day.  It is too late dude.  I do not take that many things right now. I have really tried to minimize it although compared to the normal people I probably seem like a complete disaster. In any case the EPA or perhaps it is both including the DHA the higher levels of fish oil consumption unexpectedly I was stretching and I noticed Oh wow I do not have that usual stiffness which I thought might be some type of degeneration in the joint. Although in x-rays it did not appear to be the case the stiffness and pain that I feel in that big toe joint which is very often where gout first presents which I was very concerned about. I was like Oh I have gout. Really am I like some fat aristocrat from the 1700s in France? What is this? Really? How can I have gout? And some people think that is primarily caused by I think it is purines in DNA and that is associated with protein. And therefore people take by extension that to mean that animal protein should be decreased. It is not quite as simple as that. There is actually a chapter that I published on my blog tim.blog people can find it on gout and the understated culprit which is fructose as found in high fructose corn syrup and in fruit to a lesser degree. So it is not quite as simple as people might paint it to be. Nonetheless what I noticed is like Holy shit that pain in my toe was 90 percent gone after a week of doing it. And I cannot think  because this has been consistent for years now that I have had this pain.  Oh interesting.  I mean it is been a static level of pain. And after a week or two again maybe it is placebo who knows but I was not anticipating this as an effect. So it is hard for me to think that it is expectation. So like you know what? It is hard for me to come up with many reasons not to do this. So I am going to give it a go. If you take too much more is not better. And I think you could probably cause intestinal bleeding or all sorts of problems if you were just to chew these like gummy bears or something. So word to the wise talk to your doctor about things like this but I have certainly found it beneficial. What about you your daily architecture? It is very kind of   Open-ended kind of   Highfalutin way to put it but yeah your daily architecture.  The only thing I would say that I have really stuck with that  well a lot of people would want to know about our sauna routines and if we are still doing sauna that was a hot topic.  Hot topic! Doggy-style.  I got to tell you man sauna for me has been  it is just the best. It is the best money I have ever spent outside of having a nanny from time to time. Sauna is just so key. I just feel so much better. I mean there is all the health benefits and the studies. There is more and more coming out all the time. I will say one thing one pro tip do not oil your sauna. So I oiled my sauna.  What does that even mean?  So they have this sauna oil on Amazon. Like when the wood dries out you are supposed to put oil on it you know? So I buy this sauna oil on Amazon I oil it and then it literally off gases like smoke like smoky oil.  Oh that is terrible.  Listen to this dude. It is been   Like a skillet on the stove top. That is terrible.  Yes yes. And so I was like Okay this is crazy. So I went in I sanded it down like tried to get it all out. Scrubbed it with soap and shit and then dude it is still off gassing. So then I started wearing my N95 mask in there. And so Darya was like    to use your own sauna.  Yeah. Darya is like What are you doing? She is like I am not going in that sauna again. I am like Listen let me burn it out. But I still need to get my sauna on so I used my gas mask and then dude I go in there and my eyes when I walk out after 20 minutes my eyes are bloodshot because the smoke is hitting my eyes and my eyes were burning.  It is not the gummies?  No it was not the gummies. It is not your gummies that you handmake and send me.  My gummies.  So I ripped out my entire sauna had all the wood removed and had to buy a new sauna.  Oh what a mess.  So that sucks. Anyway. So routine wise architecture wise it is been one year coming up on one year of meditation. And that my friend is the biggest game changer I have ever had is when I decided to take it seriously and not just do it like an app but like really sit and do it really like real practice.  So what does real mean? This is an hour a day. What are we talking about?  You know what is funny Tim I never told you this.  And it is the Zen style? This is with your teacher or in accordance with his instructions?  It is Zen style. That is right. So what is funny Tim is one time I do not know if you ever remember we were talking about meditation. This was probably six seven years ago and you said something to the effect of like I think that most people they just close their eyes and think about things when they are meditating. It was almost like you did not believe it.  I still think that is true. I think there are benefits to meditating but I think most people are just thinking about bullshit with their eyes closed.  I was going to ask you have you ever found yourself in deep if you have meditated where you have been  I mean because you did the offsets you get really famous to talk about that.  The Vipassana.  Yeah pasta.  A psychotic breakdown yes.  Yeah. Your breakdown.  That was pretty deep. Having that full psychotic break I would say it is pretty deep. Yes I have had very very deep experiences. Some of the best experiences I had were actually  I am blanking on the style and the name currently.  Give me some hints.  Naval would have the answer. I will tell you the general approach and the general approach is having nothing to do. You actually sit there. You do not repeat a mantra you do not pay attention to the breath. You just sit there and this is going to sound paradoxical but you actively try to do nothing. You just sit there. Doing this in a group environment for a period of time did it with a small group. And this was one hour in the morning one hour let'00 p.m. 00 a.m. 00 p.m. And doing it in a group I do think there is a dynamic that is gained certainly a different dynamic that presents itself in a group. I do not have any explanation for this but there are theories certainly. Pet theories. But doing it in a group two hours a day for a period of even a week produce some very very very very deep states. And I would say in terms of kind of ROI in a short period of time I found that very interesting. When I came back to so-called normal life I did not sustain that twice daily cadence for very long. And I think in part because I was doing it by myself or with my girlfriend and not in a group having that accountability was very very helpful. But I have experienced some very deep states in meditation.  Have you found those to be pleasant states or like when you walked away did you have a smile on your face? Did you feel like you felt   Very pleasant.  Cool.  Very peaceful. Very pleasant and very at peace for sure. Oftentimes what I have noticed this can be for me at least facilitated by doing a very intense but short sauna session for say 15 to 20 minutes and then sitting outside and sort of air cooling and meditating for 20 minutes.  Yeah. That is nice. That is just a great feeling.  It is incredible. Found that to be very consistent. So to answer someone's question that you brought up I still do sauna very very regularly and view it as a key and simple lever that I am able to pull for mental health. Whether it helps me physically or not I do not know. I mean maybe sure. Heat shock proteins all of that. Yeah. Okay. Maybe. I am not going to know if it did anything until I am dead. So jury's out but from just a day-to-day psycho-emotional and mental perspective doing a sauna especially late afternoon if I do it too close to bedtime it interferes with my sleep. 00 00 then it seems to help and also dramatically increase HRV the next day.  Oh interesting.  Yeah. Yeah. I have noticed that as have a couple of other people. But coming back to architecture and your meditation so one year anniversary congratulations. That is the anniversary of what? Maybe you can describe for us.  I mean I have been like most people that have ever played around with meditation apps I would been dabbling and even help build one that is a free meditation app but I just was dabbling. I was always dabbling. I was doing the 10 15 minutes to maybe 20 minutes. Just those little sessions guided and they were fantastic. Very very great prescriptive meditation. You have something wrong you are feeling stress fear of flying whatever it is. Like there is all these courses for you. You can take them. There is not a lack of apps that offer this type of content. I think that the shift and the change was telling myself that this is a long road to practice to really train the brain. And Tim you know this way better than I do if you want to be really good at something it cannot just be an afterthought casual I am going to make time for this    When I feel like.  When I feel like it. Exactly. So I made that shift in my brain and said Okay I believe there is something worth pursuing here that a dedicated longer practice longer duration and a more serious discipline. So for me that was a form of Zen called Sanbo-Zen that I was   Sanbo.  Yeah. Sanbo is like the offshoot. It is more kind of a lay Zen.  Have you spell it.  S-A-N-B-O.  Sanbo Zen.  When I heard about this and was introduced to my teacher Henry got excited about it and really decided to dive in and say Okay I am going to read a few of the books that are out there on this type of Zen and then create a real practice that is 55 minutes of sitting a day. And I would say I did not   How much is it?  55 minutes?  Why 55 minutes? I like fives.  You 25 minutes of your first sit and then you do a five-minute walking meditation and then another 25 minute sit.  Cool.  Yeah.  And for those wondering so as I just looked it up Sanbo Kyodan. Sanbo Kyodan is a lay Zen sect derived from both the Soto and the Rinzai traditions. Sanbo literally means three treasures. I wonder what the treasures are. San is like ichi ni san.  three. Sanbo bo is like  like my darling my treasure kind of thing. Sanbo is three treasures. And then kyo well we can get into the Japanese at that time but yeah. Kyodan religious organization or teaching organization. That is cool. So 55 minutes. Do you know what the three treasures are by any chance?  Yeah. One treasure is the Sangha. So they the group. The other one is the Dharma the teachings. And the third one is escaping me right now. You can just type in three treasures. Three treasures apply to more than just Sanbo.  Here we go. Wait a minute. Three jewels are the Buddha the fully  three jewels three treasures so that you can translate it either way. At least in Japanese the Buddha the fully enlightened one. The Dharma the teachings expounded by the Buddha hence the term or phrase Dharma talks. Have you ever heard that? And the Sangha the monastic order of Buddhism that practice Dharmas but that is also colloquially thought it was the group that practices together. Roger that. So you have done 55 minutes a day for a year.  I will say that I have certainly missed a few days but nothing crazy. Not like where I am like Oh I missed that entire week. There'ill be a day or two where it just did not work out. There is been also a handful of days that are on the 25-minute side versus doing the 55. But for the most part I have been really consistent.  What is the practice? I know you mentioned it in brief already but what does a session look like and feel like to you?  Well it depends on where you are in your practice. When you are first being instructed the teaching is essentially counting or just following the breath. So very almost like Vipassana style just to get that base level of concentration honed. There is a teaching where they talk about the Zen master that was sitting and the concentration was so intense that they are sweating. You can see sweat on their brow because it is like a very active thing that is happening with the honed concentration.  They hit you with a switch if you are nodding off.  They still do that. If you would like to request it you can go in the zendo and you can request that that happen. It is not for pain it is for a jolt. It is not like a beating practice you know?  This is for you not for me.  Right. Exactly. So initially it is just that initial counting and awareness. And then eventually if your teacher and you feel you are ready for it you take on a koan which is one of these things to sit with like a Zen kind of saying or word to sit with that is used as a what is the best way to put it kind of like just a   Paradoxical cue right?  Right.  It is something like that. Paradoxical anecdote or riddle used in Zen Buddhism to demonstrate the inadequacy of logical reasoning and to provoke enlightenment. That is the definition that comes up for me.  Yes.  Koan.  So what you do is when you sit with that koan eventually you will be able to answer it. And there are hundreds of them and there are checking questions that are done with your instructor.  Checking questions.  That is right. So if you sit down with a Zen master and they ask you probably the most famous one is the sound of one hand clapping.  Yeah. Right.  You would then be able to answer that question through a series of checks and eventually you can go through and answer all of them.  So there is a right and a wrong answer to something like that?  Yes. More or less. Yeah.  All right God damn that is stressful.  But I mean you get it wrong a lot. So essentially like if you are going to do one of these they call them like a session where you go and do these multi-day retreats you will go and you will sit. And then you have a one-on-one session with your Zen master in the evening when you are wrapping up and they will sit you down and say What is the answer to this question? Whatever you are sitting with. Some people sit with  most common one is one called Mu and they will say What is Mu? And then you can either say I do not know and you can walk out and that is fine. They ring the bell and the next person goes in or you can try and answer it.  And what is Mu? I mean I am not asking you to give the cheat sheet for people but   I do not know the answer to that question.  But broadly speaking is Mu a character?  Yeah. There is a Japanese character for it.  Oh. It is like mushin. Mushin is like no mind.  No. Not. Exactly. So basically where that came from is there was a very famous Zen teacher Zen master named Joshu. And Joshu was asked by a monk one day the monk came up to him and said In all earnestness monk asked Joshu Does a dog have Buddha nature?' And Joshu's answer was just Mu.' They will tell you that answer was coming from a non-dual world.  It gets a little tricky.  Yeah exactly. So what you do   I can give you a breather if you like? I have got some stuff but yes. Continue.  Yeah. So you just basically sit with   Or not.  What are you talking about? What breather?  I am just saying if you want a moment to gather yourself because there is some pretty esoteric shit. I can read what I found on the St the checking questions?  You can give me the answers? No no. What you have found?  Read the answers like the   Just ruin my entire practice.  Like the mantras for Transcendental Meditation where they are just listed out by age.  That is right.  I could do that and just to really make everyone cry. I say that as someone who paid for the training and still uses TM. I still use it. So teachers may probe students about their koan practice using sassho or checking questions to validate their satori understanding. While I would debate the translation of satori there or kensho which is a really cool word. Seeing the nature seeing the phenomenon. For the mu koan and the clapping hand koan there are 20 to a hundred checking questions depending on the teaching lineage. The checking questions serve to deepen the insight of the student but also to test his or her understanding. That is wild that there would be questions. I am just trying to imagine. I am not asking you to spill the beans on the secret cult that you have joined but the questions that would be related to something like What is the hand of one hand clapping?  So it seems like it is unanswerable by definition because it is intended to show the inadequacy of logic.  That is right.  And so the best way it is been described to me and this was not by my Zen teacher but I have heard it described elsewhere is the answers are going to be something that you will only understand if you have had that kensho awakening type moment or you would only be able to provide. So your answers in the same way that when the monk asked Does a dog have Buddha nature? And Joshu's response was Mu that would make no sense make no sense at all. So your answers are also going to make no sense in this plane if that makes sense but your teacher will understand them because they will be listening from another plane. Does that make sense?  Kind of sort of. I mean oh right here. Let me give you an analogy. It is going to be terrible. You are going to love it. So it is like if you are trying to explain ejaculation to someone who is never ejaculated and you are like It is kind of like a sneeze in your balls. And they are like What? And they are never going to understand it.  This is a bad one Tim.  If they have had the experience of ejaculating and then there is no explanation needed and you can give a mu type answer and they are like Oh yeah. I hear you. Mu. It is so mu. That stuff is so mu.  I do not know that that is how I would describe it but I like it.  I mean you are welcome.  Yeah. You are practically a Zen master Tim.  This is three hard kombuchas later. I think I am enlightened I think.  That is great. No but that is the gist of it. Even if we read the answers   It cannot be a reading-based logic-based exam. It has to be something that you have a felt experience of through this thing that has given the label of kensho.  And that is why there is so many checking questions.  Yeah. Kensho.  Because they will be checking from a bunch of different angles whether or not you have actually felt or had the experience versus just being just a read response.  Yeah. That is super interesting. I think the  honestly I mean even though in some respects are very different there are similarities mainly in the psychedelic in the psychedelic ecosystem in the realm of whether it is psychotherapy assisted by different psychedelic compounds or otherwise either there could be a place for these types of checking questions. And actually in some of the indigenous traditions there are  I do not want to call them fact checking questions but there are standards and experiences that are thought to be representative of different levels of awareness within the context of say an ayahuasca experience. So they are not that dissimilar. They are actually very similar and I should correct something I said earlier because I was thinking of a different character kensho the sho is different than the  there are a lot of homonyms in Japanese a lot of things that have the same pronunciation. So the sho in kensho is a different character than I had envisioned. Its nature or essence is the sho. Ken is to see. Like kengaku if you want to go to say Judo school and observe but not participate you would ask if you could do kengaku. Gaku is to study so it would be visual studying. That is super cool man. I am so glad that you are digging deep into all this. That is really  it is great to see you stick with something for a year.  Yeah. Seriously. It is going to be a long journey man but now's the age to get started.  Yeah. Why do you think you have stuck with this? So there is a  ah God what is the expression? Since we are on  we I say just like we explained cryptocurrency and blockchain stuff earlier which was basically you talking. I am on this speaking in tongues Japanese kick right now but there is this expression I think it is  I think that is what it is. Somebody who is a native speaker of Japanese could correct me but there is an expression in Japanese which is like He or she gets hot quickly and gets cold quickly meaning they pick up habits and routines and various things and then they stick with them for very short periods of time. They get really excited about something and then they just drop it. Which I think you and I both do although I think you take it to a whole new level. So why do you think you have stuck with this for a year in the way that you have? What has changed in you? Or what is it about this particular thing that has grabbed you?  Well I would say that I told myself that I knew that the upfront work of just being able to sit for an hour and be comfortable with it was going to take some time. And to spiel the still the mind to the point where you can just get comfortable and it not feel like just this crazy effort that you are like Why the hell am I doing this? is a lot of work. But I said I am going to push through until I can at least get to the point where when I get up off the cushion I feel better than when I sat down. And I do not feel like it was just a waste of my time. Oftentimes it was a challenge initially to say Can I calm my mind to the point where I will actually consider this a net positive? And I would say it took about three months. It took about three months to get to the point where when I would get up after 55 minutes I would say to myself this is great. I feel really good. And it is funny how   How did you stick with it for that long? Three months is not I mean it is not the   Well honestly dude it was really   We are not talking about a hundred years of solitude but it is a non-trivial period of time for someone who operates at really high RPM. So why even have that as a goal?  Honestly Tim if I am being really truthful it was because I was really depressed. We had a lot of stuff going on both in the country and with the pandemic and having a second child and just having all of this stress hit all at the same time I just felt like I just needed something. I just needed something to be able to sink into that was not the news that was not what was going on around us. And it was right during the pandemic that I decided to  that is why I decided to do this is because I just could not  you are sitting at home and you are not really going out and doing anything and it is just like I can either drink or insert any other bad thing to do here or I can pick up something    Hey now hey now. I am just kidding. I hear you.  No but it was a lot of that where I was just like I thought we were all going to die. And I was just like I need to go deep here. And then luckily that was enough of a driver to get to the point where then it was tolerable and then enjoyable.  I am so happy for that.  Dude I am not anywhere close to being anything in this world in the world of Zen. It is going to be 20 plus years or longer for me to get really really deep but two things. I am glad I started because I am at a point now where it is enjoyable. And two I would say that the only thing I have noticed is that little things that just used to get underneath my skin really do not quite hit me as hard. And so those little edges have been sanded down a little bit those little rough edges and so I can take a sharp elbow with ease in ways that I could not before. So I think that is the one benefit and whatever else comes on top of that is gravy and I am excited for.  It is also super weird Zen Buddhism. And I think that is a more accurate reflection of what we call reality than the clean abstracted pictures we like to paint of reality that we would like to be the case because it allows us to grasp it and navigate it so much more easily. For that reason I think that the journey through Zen Buddhism actually has a lot in common with deep study of psychedelics. I think they are very similar because the further you get in the more you realize nobody fucking knows what is going on. This is actually very very  the more I know the less I know in a sense and I find that very liberating actually. I find it very liberating that nobody knows what is going on.  My goal is to eventually to get you to study some Zen. I think you would be so  you are the perfect person for it because there are actual obtainable things you know what I mean? In some sense the whole practice is about obtaining nothing so it is not like it is  but the fact that there just are checking questions is  I am the kind of person that wants to check a box. I want to   That appeals to me for sure.  Yeah. I could see that would appeal to you as well.  Yeah. Yeah. That is good. I mean it has always been of interest to me. I mean even when I was in Japan I spent time with  I remember passing these monks who would be  what is the expression? Asking for alms? I mean they would have to do a tour of duty where they would ask for money. They would have to beg for their food money to buy food. And I would always pass these monks. Not of all of them were necessarily Zen Buddhist monks but I would pass them every day as I was walking back from school. And I was 15 as an exchange student in Japan and have spent a lot of time recognizing that Zen is not uniquely Japanese although Zen the word that pronunciation is Japanese is a tradition that predates its introduction to Japan.  Yeah. I mean it came from China right? Initially it was called Chn before?  Yes. Something like that. I do not know the character that was used for that it was probably the same character actually. Let me just look it up. It is probably the same.  This is Chn.  Yeah Chn. Chn second tone. Yeah. So Chn second tone in Mandarin and then Zen in Japanese then in Korean I guess it is Seon. Somebody could tell me I am pretty rusty on my hungler. But looking at the Korean I think it is Seon. And then we have Vietnamese and so on. What I like most about Zen is that it embraces paradox because so much of our existence I think is paradoxical and so much of what we want and so many of our conflicting goals can be symbolized by this word paradox that it is such a fundamental aspect of our existences but it is so uncomfortable to look at directly also because it is not easily put on a shelf and organized and just slotted into some category that you can understand and figure out.  Dude I want you to have a Zen master on your show. Why would not you do that? Sam's had some great   I would do that.  You should have Henry on your show man. He is amazing.  I would be open to having Henry on the show. I mean I think part of it is that I do not feel like I am qualified to ask informed questions about it. If that makes sense?  He is had a lot of students also that have dabbled in psychedelics. So he has some good background there as well. And comparing senior students that also practice Zen and do psychedelics. It would be interesting to draw some more parallels there.  Yeah. And I am not even though I support a ton of the science and I am very involved with the policy and regulation and all sorts of aspects of the psychedelic ecosystem right now I am not a hammer looking for nails. I do not think that psychedelics are panaceas.  And I mean you are on mushrooms right now.  It would not be out of character for that to be the case but I am not on mushrooms right now.  Casually chewing in the background. Just   Just chomping on some mushrooms like trail mix. No no I am on the hard kombucha kick right now. But I would love to have somebody on.  I think that would be a really fascinating conversation because you are  I mean you have such a great background in all things Japanese and obviously the whole space with psychedelics and Japan all these things they are all interconnected in some way.  Yeah. Yeah. They are definitely interconnected. I mean and also I do not view these tools as mutually exclusive. And I was listening to an interview recently with Dennis McKenna who I am going to have on the podcast soon. Dennis McKenna is the younger brother of Terence McKenna who is considered the Irish bard of psychedelics very very smart guy incredible storyteller. Dennis is more of the scientist and the ethnopharmacologist phytochemist of the two. He is very scientifically literate and understands organic chemistry and synthesis and things like this. And one of the points that he is made and did make in this interview I heard was our experience of reality is mediated through chemistry and neuro-transmitters. So when you hear people talk about say getting to certain states naturally and arguing that it is better than augmenting or using psychedelics the argument rings somewhat hollow when you really start to dig underneath it. And that is not to say that one should not develop self-directed capabilities without the use of drugs or plants to achieve these states. I am not saying that. But the fact is when you practice something unless we are going to go into transpersonal psychology and some really gnarly terrain which I could do but what we are talking about is an experience of reality which is a hallucination that we are creating as the mind applies filters to incoming information to optimize for a few things like propagation of the species. And when you enter a non-ordinary state of reality whether it is through ingesting say four or five grams of dried mushrooms in the case of Psilocybe mushrooms psilocybin containing mushrooms or doing very dedicated Zen practice you are changing the cocktail.  A hundred percent.  And in that respect they are actually very close cousins. Although certainly some compounds in plants I think are better for achieving states similar to satori or kensho maybe than others like meth probably not. Okay? I do not think that anyone's going to suggest meth for coming to terms with some of these deeper realizations necessarily but I think there is more common ground than not at least for those who make a really deep study of it like Dennis as an example who I really encourage everyone to check out. Very very bright guy. I would love to have him on.  I think he would be great.  Henry?  Yeah Henry Shukman. He is done a couple Q and As with Sam. Sam has him creating a lot of content for Sam Harris' meditation app. So he has a whole dedicated Zen section there but yeah I think you will find him fascinating because he is also really well versed in all the latest science and studies going on. And especially some of the neuroscience that is happening around this study of emptiness which is this  Henry can speak to it but it is this state that kensho state of no thing non-existence.  Yeah mushin.  So I think you guys would hit it off.  I would be very interested. I think mostly and maybe this would not be the case with Henry and sometimes you can get into dangerous pop science territory unless you are talking to someone like Adam Gazzaley. How the hell does he say his last name?  Gazalley.  Gazalley?  Yeah Gazzaley.  Gazzaley.  who got crazy treatment somewhere in the Middle East because of his last name. Did he tell you this story?  No.  Yeah. yeah. There is an iconic figure in  I want to say Persia but it could have been actually in Saudi Arabia or somewhere in Middle Eastern culture and history was Ghazali. G H A Z A L I and they saw his name and he landed at the airport and they are like Are you Adam Gazzaley? And he is like Yes.  Oh my God.  Oh you do not need to wait in this line sir. You come with us. And he was like What?  That is going to be really awesome or really bad.  Really really bad. Yeah. So Adam Gazalley I should know this after decades of knowing the guy but is a world-class neuroscientist. Right? So speaking to him about science is one thing I would be most interested with Henry to just talk about his personal experience to see how well he can describe his personal experience. For me it is either you have got to choose one end of the pole or the other it is got to be randomized controlled studies or personal experience. Both of those I am very open to it. It is the stuff in the middle that gets wonky and McGyvered and hard to vet.  Yeah. His descriptions of enlightenment and waking up they are the best I have ever heard they are just  yeah.  All right cool.  You will be blown away and you will have some and you could ask him about the checking questions because he does that with the students. So he is clearing all the students and how many of them make it? That would be really curious.  Are those off limits? Are those the level 29 of Scientology where I cannot ask that until I have cleared a bunch of hurdles?  Dude it is not a Scientology type thing man.  I know I am just saying is that protected knowledge?  I do not think so.  Okay.  And he can always say I cannot tell you also.  Yeah yeah. Which is fair. I am not saying that is necessarily a bad thing. I am not comparing what you are doing to Scientology no disrespect to Scientology. I know you guys like to sue people do not sue me. Some of my best friends are Scientologists. But I am into it man. Yeah. Oh boy. Here we go.  I was just going to make some Scientology comments.  I love you guys. Kevin hates you guys.  I studied for a while and thought it was great. I had a good time there. A good good buffet on Sundays.  Oh God. All right. Here we go. Into the Thunderdome we enter.  We are both dead next week.  Yeah. We are both dead next week. It was nice knowing you guys. So long. Where do we go from here? Hard to segue.  Yeah.  I would be interested.  Sweet. I will do the introduction.  Yeah. Yeah. Email intro Henry.  I am excited for this one. This is going to be fun.  That would be cool. I would be into that. I mean it overlaps with so many of my interests.  Yeah.  And I am not averse to it. I do not have an aversion to it. The word enlightenment I am not going to lie bothers the shit out of me.  You have got to say that to him bring that up. I would be really curious to  yeah.  The idea because it creates this bifurcation between the unenlightened and the enlightened and it creates this priesthood. And I have some fundamental allergic reaction to this intermediate to the divine if that makes any sense? And I am not saying that is how it is presented within Zen Buddhism but I do see how that could be used to create power dynamics that are unhealthy.  Yeah. That is one of the things that I was concerned with having grown up in a religious household and later understanding that some of what I was told was not necessarily true but the one thing the reason I am so attracted to Zen when we were talking about earlier is just they ask you  it is not about believing what they say. They ask you to taste it for yourself. That is what they say.  Yeah. Yeah. I dig that. That is cool. I can get behind that.  Awesome man.  Well please make the intro and then I will chat with Mr. Henry.  What an episode this has been. We have had lightning strikes I almost threw up in the beginning.  Technology. Yeah. Kevin almost puked in the beginning. Technology was taken down by an act of God.  Right. We covered a lot of ground here.  Yeah yeah yeah. Good times man. Well it is good to hang. Good to spend some time together. Anything else that you would like to mention before we wrap?  I asked my wife what we should talk about on the show. And she said How about my podcast? So I should  I thought that was funny one.  Go for it. Go for it.  And yeah so my wife Darya Rose she is a PhD neuroscientist from UCF and she has a fantastic new show called The Darya Rose Show. She is covered some crazy topics dude. She has other scientists on so they can talk science but she is covering   You should give some background on Darya for people who do not know. I mean she has a lot of scientific training. So you should just maybe explain that for those who may be first-time listeners.  Yeah. We just talked recently about Adam Gazzaley in his lab over at USF. So she worked with Adam and  yeah. So she is got her PhD from there in neuroscience studied stem cell biology and anything above and beyond that is outside of my pay grade. But for her what she loves to do these days is really focus on how to take science and break it down. Things that we can actually trust and break it down so that the average consumer can understand it. So she has several episodes on how can we trust vaccines? Why should we trust vaccines? What does the science actually say? Who should we look for or to for that information? She is going to be covering birth control and what we understand in the science there a lot of women's issues as well how to raise children in a thoughtful way that does not damage them forever. She had Dr. Andrew Weil on recently and they talked about how to trust alternative medicine. What do you know is true out there? There is so much BS.  How do you vet that?  How do you vet that stuff? So I am just really proud of her. She is just kicking ass. She had Andrew Huberman on the show like you said about the whole episode on sleep. So many great takeaways there but yeah she is done a great job and yeah. Darya Rose Show. Yeah.  Darya is very legit and very very smart. Very good at translating without dumbing down also.  That is a great way to put it.  Which is very hard to do. It is very hard to translate without dumbing down. And she does a great job of that. I miss Dardar.  I know. We need to get together dude. We need to do a little couples thing.  Please give hugs to Darya and people definitely check it out. Anything else?  That is it dude. You can find me at KevinRose on Twitter modern.finance is the podcast or I should not say dot. It is called Modern Finance. But if you want to go to the website it is modern.finance on the web and yeah dude thanks for having me on. This was fun as always.  Yeah man. Super super fun. And yeah for me I do not have much to say you can find me on tim.blog. Everything I do is there. Twitter at T Ferriss two Rs two Ses at T I M Ferris at Tim Ferriss on Instagram.  Yeah. At TimTimcoin is the new coin. I am going to launch that. I think I am do a Solana coin. Can I launch a cryptocurrency under your name?  Please do not.  This is called TimTimcoin.  Oh that would be really great for my liability. Just when I do not want to think about it I am going to bed. By the way just launched two minutes ago 11 00 p.m. TimTim do not worry about it. I will take care of it.  Yeah. Put a Tim in your wallet you will be good.  No what a mess. What a mess. Yeah I will not do that but I may do some other   You should do an NFT dude. You really should.  Yeah. I mean why not? I mean people do not have to buy it and if you understand it is just a speculative experiment. I am doing something weird to learn more about it. Why not?  Yeah. I would definitely bid on your first   TimTim TalkTalk episode one. All right. KevKev. It is good to see you man.  All right brother. Good chatting.  And to everybody listening you will be able to find show notes links to everything. All the companies books compounds. God knows what?  Yeah.  That we mentioned Japanese terms. Sorry show notes friend. You will be able to find it at Tim dot blog forward slash podcast. And until next time thanks for tuning in.   