 Welcome to another episode of the Random Show. This is episode number 7496. 97   Kevin Rose.  .  It is good to see you my friend.  You too. You too.  It is been too long. When was the last time we actually saw each other in person? You were in Portland.  It would have been in Portland 100 years ago. Because it was simultaneous with I think it was AcroLove Festival where you had hundreds of people just smothering each other with body contact. One another with body contact. But that is a pre-COVID activity.  Yes.This was probably a year and a half ago. It is been about that long.  Yeah.  It is crazy. It is sad.  It is. It is wild. And what I am reassured to see is you have your Japanese podcasting robe on. And you seem to have new eyeshadow or mascara which really brings out your eyes.  It is called five hours of sleep dude. It is called babies is what it is.  Well I like it. You are converging with the raccoon gods that you upset so long ago by tossing one of their brethren downstairs. For people that want that security footage you can search Kevin Rose raccoon and it will pop right up.  You are determined to make that what is on my grave. Like what I am best known for is the raccoon toss.  Your Wikipedia legacy. I want it in the first paragraph. So we shared a Google spreadsheet that you created beforehand of things we might talk about. And I am sure we will talk about all sorts of stuff. Where do you want to start man?  Yeah. I mean we can start with the Bitcoin stuff because you were super excited about that which is odd because you are typically not the biggest  I would never seen you as a hardcore crypto guy.  I would definitely not self-describe as a hardcore crypto guy at all. I just happened to have this combination of ignorance and laziness which led me to hold on to the Bitcoin that I had.  Oh so you are stoked? That is why. I am Why is Tim so excited about this? Because you have a boatload of money right now.  Well I mean I do not know if it is a boatload but I have held onto it. I mean look anyone who is holding  just to put a timestamp on this. It is January 8th 2021 Bitcoin I believe for the first time ever just crossed 40000 per Bitcoin. Anyone   It was 41 this morning. Yeah.  Yeah. So anyone who has ever bought Bitcoin to the unexamined or unexamining eye looks like a complete genius. But it is not possible that everyone bought Bitcoin for the right reasons or through the right process. But nonetheless here we are and it is exciting to watch even if it may implode. And people are drawing comparisons and certainly pointing out the differences between 2017 and now where we saw this huge spike several years ago and then a consequent crash. Now I should also point out   It is happened several times now.  It is happened several times. And I should also point out that I got into crypto in a meaningful way right before that crash in 2017. So if I had consequently sold all of it I would have done so at a pretty massive loss. And I was Well look I am playing with house money in the sense that I can afford to lose whatever I am putting into crypto so I will just hold onto it. And the premise that I used or the set of assumptions I used to get into crypto ended up being totally wrong in a lot of ways. At least in the sense that I was investing in crypto as a hedge. Specifically against say a huge drop in the stock market since I had a few different pending IPOs and so on with   This was pre-Uber IPO basically.  Yeah exactly. And so I made a bunch of very tenuous leaps of faith in my logic to look for different ways to hedge against the possibility that a market collapse could drag Uber down with it. So nothing stock-specific. Meaning nothing Uber-specific in that case. And   I mean you literally could have just hedged the market though at the same time right?  I mean look I could have hedged the market. I do not know much about shorting or hedging or anything like that. And when I looked at it even in a cursory way looking at the stuff that is allowed no gray hat stuff it seemed very expensive to do it effectively. And so I decided to become involved with crypto also because if you are in certain social circles with certain very smart people yourself included I mean you have played a lot in the crypto sandbox so I want to hear from you more than me it is easy to get intoxicated. And it is easy to kind of walk into this reality distortion field where you are like The world is going to Mad Max in the next 48 hours and crypto will be all that survives I am not saying that is your argument. But the point I wanted to make is that if you look at the timeline so 2017 boom. The tulip bulb craze of crypto at the time sort of tanks or at least Bitcoin. And this time around with of Bitcoin bulls and so on were expecting that Bitcoin would be inversely correlated with these crashes and it would shoot to the roof. But that is not what happened. Not what happened with gold either. And I think what was underestimated was how many people would need cash. And when you need cash you sell whatever you happen to have. And if you have for instance there is a lot of people got themselves into trouble by borrowing against assets. So they took out say lines of credit based on the value of their stocks. And then when the stocks cratered those all got called. And bankers and everyone else calling up Joe Smith like Hey Joe Smith we want all our money right now. And they had to sell anything they could sell that was liquid. And that would include a lot of crypto. So it took a few months for crypto to recover to pre-s gold took off immediately after COVID. It did drop in the very short term the early March to early April and then picked back up.  Yeah it was not a big run-up though. We never saw massive the crypto-like gains that we have seen with Bitcoin. Gold's picked up a bit but not a ton.  No not that much. And I am referring to GLD specifically for people interested. But what are your thoughts right now on all this cryptomania? I mean there are differences huge differences between right now and 2017. Namely the entry of at least one of them is the entry of institutional investors and just a few months ago Paul Tudor Jones and some other legends kind of dipping their toe in the water and beginning to make some allocations in their portfolios. Fund portfolios which is a big difference. Not just personal I believe that is true. Somebody can fact-check me. But what do you make of all this? This is a terrain that you are much more familiar with than I am.  Yeah. My take is that with any new crazy wild idea come just a ton of skeptics. As there should be. And when Bitcoin was first launched and we were all playing around with the very early wallets and I remember just buying coins and picking them up. And I was not really early early. I was not in the pennies. But I was buying them around 10 12 a coin something like that. And it was the wild west. It was very difficult to do anything. To buy crypto to  we were all setting up mining rigs back then and trying to mine our own Bitcoin. And then eventually pools came out so you could join in with other people to do it more efficiently. But this is fresh new technology that had not been hammered and beaten up. And so anytime there is something that is directly linked to your finances it takes years or decades for people to get comfortable with a new emerging technology to where they will commit any serious capital to that technology. So I think largely what we are seeing here is well one it is there is a lot of stimulus money hitting the market. There is a lot of people buying on Square Cash App. It is much easier to purchase Bitcoin than it has ever been. It used to be you have to go to some shady exchange somewhere hold up a picture of your driver's license with literally your date written underneath it to make sure it was you. Shady stuff that I have been on some of these exchanges. My identification has since been hacked on many of these exchanges. Thankfully I do not live at any of those addresses. But I had those IDs I was holding up in front of the camera. But I do get text messages of people trying to phish me all the time. Trying to get me to   That is so creepy. It is so creepy.  It is crazy. It happens at least twice a week. It is insane. Because my information is out there. So whatever. But the point being is that it was extremely difficult to get to purchase Bitcoin. And now PayPal came online just a couple months ago and is offering the ability to purchase Bitcoin and Ethereum directly inside of PayPal. It is just insane how easy this is now. So you are unlocking massive customer bases. Hundreds of millions of users with PayPal. Square Cash is I think the second or third-largest buyer now of Bitcoin that is   This is on the retail side right? This is just on the retail side.  Yeah. So that is not even right talking about the institutional money going in. So I work at True Ventures venture capital firm several billion dollars under management. We have positions in Bitcoin. We have been doing that for a while. So   When you say you guys have positions in Bitcoin that means you have invested in startups that focus on Bitcoin or   No that means we actually own Bitcoin.  How does that work? As a venture capital fund you are operating a private endowment?  Yeah. I mean every fund is a little bit different. In our specific case we have allocated as part of our formation documents for the fund a certain percentage of the fund can be in cryptocurrency or cryptocurrency-related companies. So we can say  I am just throwing out a random number here. I would have to go look at the docs see what the actual number is. But let us just say 10 15 percent of the overall fund size. We have 600 million plus fund that you can only invest that much from this specific fund into cryptocurrency. And so if we are going to go into a purchase typically dollar-cost average your way in over a couple months and buy in a place that has really strong security. we do not hold this ourselves. It is not at our office. You are using like  there is big financial houses like Fidelity and Coinbase Custody and others that now provide these types of services.  You do not just have a bunch of hardware wallets sitting in your jacket pocket?  Yeah it is right here. Just at my house. No I do not. Actually I do not mess with that stuff anymore. I used to have wallets and I actually had a laptop that I bought specifically for cryptocurrency. And I wanted to keep it in cold storage. Meaning that back in the day when I was doing the craziest coins that you have never heard of on these weird exchanges I went out I bought a laptop. It was an Apple hooked it up to the internet. Did all the software updates. Just put the wallets on there transferred the funds and then immediately powered it down so that it would not be online anywhere hackable and then put it in a safe. And that was the way I kept my cryptocurrency. It is crazy. It is crazy. But yeah so there is been enough time has gone on. This current run-up though is just nuts. I mean the thing you have to do with all these things is just do not look at the last three months because it looks like a decent graph. And you are like Oh that looks reasonable. Maybe I should buy some. Zoom out to the five   Look at the last year.  Yeah. Zoom out the five-year view the 10-year view. That is when you see really what is happening here. And it is not even like a hockey stick. It is even more  it is insane how the run-up has been. And so I get nervous when you see  it is always a good tell around  well in this case it was like the virtual Christmas or Thanksgiving dinner when Uncle Harry is asking you if they should be buying Bitcoin. That is when my Spidey sense tingles a little bit and be like Huh everybody wants this now. And it is just  if I were going to enter the market now I would do it in a way that is you pick the dollar amount. Let us say it is a 1000. And this is not investment advice I am just telling you what I would do. Pick a 1000 and I would say Okay I want to own Bitcoin. I believe in the future of Bitcoin. I think this is not going away which all those things are true. And that there are things that I believe it is a proven technology now. Let us take that 1000 and invest it over six months. And so just divide it up by six and do those  I will say the first of every month and just go in does not matter what the price is you do not care. You just buy that set amount. And that way at least you are averaging your way in over six months.  How do you personally think about crypto for yourself as part of your portfolio or percentage of your total? I mean you are kind of famous for telling  not famous. Well you are famous to me for telling me when I should buy stuff and then not telling me when you have sold stuff which I appreciate. So   I love that call by the way. You are like Are you still holding this? I am like No I sold it for like at 10X like six months ago. And you are like I am down. Or something bad will happen and you will have been screwed by the fact that we did not talk.  Yep. That happens with some fair frequency. But what is your current thinking in terms of crypto?  Well honestly I   Are you steering clear? Do you still have a certain position? Is it an investment for you? Is it an insurance policy for you? Some people have drawn that distinction just sort of philosophically as looking at cryptocurrency as an insurance policy or hedge.  I think that over time as  well a few things. One let us just talk about the ecosystem in general. I think that 99 percent still today of the coins that you see on the market out there are just garbage. I think a lot of them  and it is hard for them really to go away. Just the volume in trades that happen just decrease over time. But they still have these somewhat impressive-looking market caps just sitting out there very stagnant developers kind of drop off. It is just kind of they are left for dead but they are still around. So there is a lot of that. A lot of interesting innovation happening in the kind of decentralized finance space. So they call it DeFi. It is mostly happening on Ethereum. So there is a handful of projects where I say That is really interesting. It is almost like an angel investment. Now I want to hold some of that but with the understanding that this could go to 10 percent of the value it is today. And so extremely high-risk. But still has the ability to have a 50X upside right? Or at least a 20 or 30X upside. If you just look at the market cap of a Bitcoin today there is not another 20 or 30X anytime soon coming to Bitcoin. It is just too big. Right? The market cap is just too large.  Why do you  now how do you come to that conclusion?  Well I mean first of all there is a few ways you can do it. I think that you just have to look at the market cap in general which I do not have in front of me right now. But I can type it in. The other thing is just look at the proxies for this. So what is the market cap of gold of all gold out there? And it is in the trillions. Let me see here if  I did this the other day. So Bitcoin right now the market cap is 82.49 billion. So where would we be at if that is at a 10X from now? I mean that is just insanity. I cannot imagine that happening anytime soon. It would just be   Now that is insane because of the comparables that you might put next to it like gold?  Yeah. I mean Apple is worth two trillion right? And so you just kind of have to  and I know it is not the same in that we are not talking about corporations here with cash flows and PEs and things that we would typically use to value a company. That is not this. The closest proxy that I think most people draw the comparison to is to just gold. How much gold has been mined? How much do we believe is there in the earth? What are people holding for an investment? How much of it is actually being worn? There is a lot of other ways. So there is a lot of potential upside in Bitcoin. But I do not think  for me it is not that I would not hold it. I would definitely hold it. I think it is going to be a rocky bumpy ride given the run-up that it is had recently. It is been forever. This has always been the case of Bitcoin. It is been very bumpy. But the new low is higher than the last low. And it just continues to kind of  it would not surprise me to see this drop down to 25 or 30 again. But I do not think it is going to get back to 10. And there is just too many institutional buyers coming in. So I like it because there are a lot of governments the US included are probably one of the biggest offenders just printing money right now. It is really hard to understand what the value of a dollar is or what it will be in the future. This is a fixed number of coins forever that will never change. It is universally accepted even more so every month all over the world. So it is kind of a global reserve currency that I am comfortable with. So I do like it for that.  Yeah if you   But I think there is a lot of new interesting projects that are probably have more upside.  That also require more due diligence and expertise right?  Absolutely.  Or attention to detail. So if we talk about Bitcoin just to continue on this thread. It is currently at let us just call it 40000 a Bitcoin. And you were saying well it is hard to see a 20X upside. If we look at proxies or comparisons to gold or certainly if we draw comparisons to Apple all that is a little bit categorically I guess a different comparison. But if we are looking at certain trends or growth trends that have been accelerated thanks to or due to COVID. If we look at say Amazon or Shopify or Peloton companies that we are both quite familiar with and or investors in. A lot has been accelerated and the growth trajectory of the graph has changed dramatically for a lot of companies SaaS companies adoption of remote work et cetera. Could someone make an argument that that is why in part at least we are seeing this adoption of Bitcoin and that it is on some level reasonable? Or I guess in your mind when you are thinking of how much this price can be explained via factors external happenings storming the capital et cetera certainly NMT and all of this kind of stuff versus just pure mania. Because the Bitcoin bulls will sort of lay out often regurgitated but sometimes cogent arguments for why this is explainable and reasonable. And then the bears will say Here's the tulip bulb craze of such and such a year. And this is exactly what is happening. It is just pure mania. There is nothing to it besides greed and human psychology run amok. Where do you fall in thinking about explaining the price? Because if you look at institutional adoption we are still super early super early in institutional adoption. And by institutional I mean there are wide ranges of institutions. And certainly I think at the more conservative end. If we are talking about endowments and pension funds and so on it is super early. Not to mention sovereign wealth funds and so on. The really gigantic kind of nation state players. So yeah. What do you think? I mean from an institutional adoption perspective it is super super early. That does not mean though that the tiny amount of adoption up to this point plus Square plus PayPal have organically produced 40000 per Bitcoin prices right? That is a lot of word salad I just threw at your face via Zoom. So maybe you can speak to that.  Well I think that it is really hard. If you look at the people that are actually looking at the blockchain and watching where assets are moving some promising and also some really scary things start to emerge. And so I think the promising side is just the average consumer now has access to purchase this with just a couple of clicks in Apple Pay and everything else. The ease of purchase has gone  as we mentioned earlier it is simple now. So that has unlocked certainly a lot of demand especially around the hype cycle. We know about the institutional side. I agree with you that it is very early days there. And there is been several proposals and there are new ones out there for a Bitcoin ETF. I think that happens and we start seeing these appear in people's 401k accounts and things just go bonkers. The scary side of things is some of the price manipulation that is going on. And so there are ways to manipulate the price. And this is  well I will bring it up with the caveat that it is being talked about on the internet so I am bringing it up here. It is not my view that this is happening but it is being talked on the internet so it is worth mentioning. So I say that from a news perspective not from an accusatory perspective. And that is that there is   That is a lot of preamble from Kevin Rose.  Well I am trying to say that because I do not want them to come after me and just sue the shit out of me basically. So there is a stable coin out there. When I mean stable coin for those people that do not know there are a bunch of coins out there that you can hold as cryptocurrency that are pegged to an asset like a fiat asset that we know. It is like say the US dollar. So if you hold a USDC is what it is called the coin. And you hold one of those coins it is worth 1. And that never changes just pegged at that price. And so there are a bunch of these. And one of the larger ones is called Tether. And so Tether is  we do not have  well here's the thing. There is been some analysis of some of these transactions. And Tether if you can imagine if you control  and it is centralized. If you control  the way that Tether is supposed to work is this. If you send Tether a 1000 they issue you a 1000 worth of Tether coins. That makes sense. If you go to redeem them they give you back 1000. And so it kind of grew. Well I should not say kind of grew. It is massive now and   Let me ask you a novice question. What is the use case for that? Why would someone do that? They want a mobile anonymized   They want stability.  They want stability?  Yes. So imagine you are sending your aunt in Costa Rica 100 and you want to make sure 100 gets there. Not 92 because Bitcoin dropped or maybe she would like it if it went up. But it is  you need the stability. And it can also be used for a whole slew of other things. They do lending with it we earn interest on it. That is what a lot of the decentralized finance comes from. Anyway. So a Tether coin for example is one of the first ones. One of the first stable coins. And it has a 23.93 billion market cap. Now there are currently some ongoing investigations into what is going on behind the scenes at Tether because there are some allegations that they are just issuing new Tether and buying Bitcoin without there being the reserve USD to actually back it up. So there is been a handful of articles. You can search Tether whatever you want to call it scandal or whatever you  maybe in Google news. And you will see that people are looking at this and saying Huh there  and there is several organizations like government organizations that are looking at this. And they are saying Okay we need to peer inside here and make sure everything is kosher. Because if it is not they could be just propping up the Bitcoin market and buying Bitcoin with fake minted Tether as stablecoins. And if that is the case and that comes out that is going to be a shit-show for a few days. It is the best way I can describe it.  Do you think  yeah that is probably a  description.    The shit-show. Do you think not knowing anything about it that they have sufficient volume to prop up so to speak the Bitcoin price or to inflate it?  Well I mean just to give you a sense in the last 24 hours they have done 114.31 billion in volume. So it is heavily used on some exchanges. Some exchanges will not touch it. There is some changes that you will not even  you cannot even purchase Tether if you wanted to. So it is the one piece that I look at and I just say Ah gosh. I do not like where this is trending and some of the people that are looking into this this could really put a big black eye on the market. It does not mean that Bitcoin is a fraud. It has nothing to do with Bitcoin. Bitcoin is a legitimate technology that works well. It is well secured. It is been hammered on there is  it does not mean  this does not mean Bitcoin goes away. But it does mean that   It could spook the hell out of lots of people.  It spooks the hell out of a lot of people and it also shuts down ETF talks and all those other things. Because a lot of the reasons why these ETFs for Bitcoin are not being approved is because of these claims of this type of market manipulation. So but if you really ask around What do you  how do you think of this when it comes to portfolio construction? And again I am a venture capitalist not a registered investment advisor. This is not financial advice. But for me personally I think   Informational purposes only. This is informational and entertainment purposes only.  If Tim says it it is .  Oh you bastard. That is not true.  You are going to cut that out.  You rat bastard.  So basically I would say for me personally I think okay maybe up to five percent of my overall portfolio and consider it super high-risk. But I like your strategy Tim. It is kind of one you have to take with cryptocurrency. If this gets cut in half or cut in three quarters you just have to say Okay bad day bad week bad month. And just ride it out for the next 10 years because in 10 years it will bounce back and the returns are going to look better than ever. So that is kind of how you have to play it.  Yeah. And it is a test of conviction and process also right? In the sense that I have been talking to friends and you sort of the kind of Uncle Harry equivalents are like I want to put money into Bitcoin and Ethereum. And I am like Can you tell me what Bitcoin is? And they cannot even hazard a guess. It is just something that is going up in value very quickly. And the sort of observation I have made because usually  is your uncle actually Harry? I do not want to throw this guy under the bus.  No. No.  That is made up. Okay good.  That is made up.  Okay. So okay. So Uncle Harry usually will have a story that is something like this. My friend Bob has invested in crypto. And over the last seven months he is made let us just make up a number 500000. And my question is always Did he sell all of his Bitcoin and pull out 500000? And the answer is No. And my follow-up to that is Well it all looks good on paper but if it is not enough to just buy something that is going up in value unless you believe it is going to go up in value indefinitely you also have to have a plan for if and when you are going to sell that asset and redeem. Now some pure believer or true believers would say You never sell Bitcoin. And that is one option. But unless you have deliberately conscientiously decided that and you have that as a bulletproof emotion-proof strategy you sure as hell better have a plan for if and when you are going to redeem to some type of fiat. And if you do not have a defined time horizon the likelihood of you losing money because you sell in a panic when it plummets is pretty goddamn high.  That is why I like the lower percentage points of your overall portfolio. Because it has to be money that does not matter. So you can hold it for the long term if you want to hold it for the next 20 years. But I guess what you are saying is it does get to meaningful money at some point right?  Yeah.  Because naturally if it does 5X from here or 10X from here then it is going to be no longer five percent of your portfolio right?  Yeah.  So in that case I would force myself to every year or every other year just rebalance.  Do you actually do that though?  100 percent.  Because there are   100 percent.  You do?  I did it with Peloton.  Okay. All right. So now you would do regardless of the duration of holding that investment? Or do you wait for long-term cap gains? Is there   I would wait for long-term cap gains unless it is something just absolute bonkers. So if it is absolute bonkers and you are just  I mean look at Tesla right now. Just look at that chart. Click on the five-year in your Apple Stocks app. It is just like  you are like How is it not bending over? It feels like it should fall backwards it is getting so high. It is ridiculous. And so if I am holding short-term cap gains there   I just want to point out that you are also a lover of Tesla products right?  Oh yeah.  So you are not saying this is as a Tesla hater. You love their stock.  Listen I have two Teslas. They are fantastic vehicles. They are my favorite. I have a truck on order. I cannot wait to get that thing.  And yet when it is a straight line  Yeah. So it is just one of those things where if it is getting an outsized percentage of your portfolio then it is absolutely smart to  and I kind of have this thing where  I mean we talked about  I think you and I traded some texts on this. But we talk about just your overall mixture of assets and everything that you have kind of put together. Like what does your allocations for multiple things look like? And most of my stuff is just fully diversified set it and forget it forever. Like Wealthfront style just put it in there and have it be fully diversified and safe. And then I have a category that is let us just call it 25 percent of my overall assets that I will say These are 5X capable stocks or greater. And those I know they are super risky. Well somewhat risky. And they have real cash flow and all that. But I am going to invest in those. And I will put  Peloton is in that kind of camp. Some of the riskier stuff like the Neos the Chinese Tesla a few other things that I have bought over the last couple of years. So but then I always go in and pruning and readjusting and saying Oh actually my 5X stocks are now 40 percent of my portfolio. Let us trim that back to 25.  Yeah I appreciated your strong buy recommendation on PornHub. That was genius. Thank you for that.  Well you are co-owner now which is odd but it is your thing. The AcroYoga.  I am on the team. I am on the team tab.  You have a masthead.  Free premium for the next two months. Use code TimTimKevKev. That is a   I really hope they make that code. That would be fantastic.  That is a joke people. Joke joke. Joke joke Kev Kev. Now I had a follow-up to that. The follow-up was really more a commentary because I think some people will be very interested in this conversation and others will find it inside baseball or just they will think that it is kind of rarefied error investment talk. I would on one level agree with that and on one level disagree with it because we are sitting here at the beginning of 2021. 2020 has been such a fascinating and punishing laboratory for looking at the consequences of good and bad decisions. And there are many places where it is difficult in many ways to quantify those upsides and downsides and risks. Certainly with COVID with certain information available other information unavailable or pending it is been challenging. But one of the playing fields in which you can look at decision-making as sort of a microcosm of the macro right? You get to see how decision-making that transcends investing shows itself with stocks crypto whatever it might be right? In other words if you are able to observe and hone your decision-making with even very small investments I believe that if you are self-aware that can transfer into better decision-making in other areas right? Because we are all investors of time energy capital. And you can choose to become better at those things or you can remain blissfully unaware. But one way or another you are making decisions about investment every day. That is another reason why I have paid attention to this a lot in the last year. I mean I think there've been some incredible opportunities also in the last 12 months. But more than that it is just a lens through which you can look at how rational you are how subject to emotional swings and corresponding bad decisions you are. And it tells you a lot about how you might make decisions or more concretely make rules for yourself in 2021. So you   Can you give me an example of that? I am really curious outside of finance how have you applied this to other areas of your life?  Well so for instance in 2020 one of the biggest lessons or takeaways that I had for myself in investing then I will talk about how I would apply that is that  this is going to sound so rudimentary but I have been very lucky and also I think very good at picking things to invest in over time right? If you just look at the last 10 years 12 years net net things have worked out pretty well. And there are a lot of circumstances. There are certain trends that I accidentally took advantage of. Some that I deliberately took advantage of. But blah blah blah blah blah. I am pretty good at placing bets. I am very weak I would say on exit strategy and knowing when to get out of positions. This past year I realized that three years looking at a three-year time horizon for anything publicly traded seems to be incredibly comfortable for me in the sense that I cannot predict what things are going to do what companies are going to do what in the next three months six months. I have no fucking idea. No idea. I mean there are just so many curve balls that can be served to any company. Five years? I mean geez five years. Now we are talking about Google starting to usurp Yahoo right? I mean that is a long enough period of time especially with exponentially developing technologies that five years is very hard to call. But like three years if I am looking at certain types of companies that I feel like I understand pretty well. Amazon Shopify would be two examples. I think Spotify also. I am an investor in all of those. And again this is not investment advice. I do not know how many times we have to say this to cover our asses. But your mileage may vary. And I only invest in things that I feel like I really really understand deeply. And   I am the same way.  Yeah so three years I am looking at certain trends. I have an audience fortunately and a lot of friends who are kind of the tip of the spear with early adoption. Not all of those things work out. But when you see then it begin to kind of hop the fence from say my friends or my audience to people one degree removed I am like Okay that I think is worth paying a lot of attention to. So that has been a new rule that I have established for myself specifically for publicly traded equities. The way that that is applied to my life more broadly and do not worry folks we are going to get to other points besides crypto and investing is looking at doing a full review of 2020 and then looking forward to 2021. Thinking out three years as opposed to just 2021 and thinking about what types of sort of regularly occurring practices I want to have and I can give some examples when we get into it over a three-year period is really calming for me. Yeah   I think   Yeah 10 years is kind of like I do not know man. I mean there is just so much that could change. I mean who knows if Texas is going to secede along with  maybe Texas and Montreal will become sister cities or whatever sister provinces and they will secede from the nation. I am being a bit ridiculous with that. But like 10 years is a long long time and a lot can happen. Three years I just find that to be a very calm place for me when it comes to planning now but also thinking about personal development and building a family and so on and so forth. So it is kind of like if you were to paddle out in the ocean at a surf break right? When you first paddle out let us just say it is a beach break for simplicity you are going to have to get through these first sets of waves and then you are going to have some calm and then you are going to get to the outer breakers and you are going to be in the impact zone again. It is going to be exciting but it also can be really stressful. And I find like three years for me is just kind of comfortably in between those two.  Yeah. I like what you said about also doing these kind of thematic investing where you say Okay I do not know you just named off the exact same companies that I pay attention to around e-commerce because obviously we know e-commerce is  well it is more so online these days than ever but it is still a fraction of in-person commerce right? So if we believe that trend is going to continue which it will who are the players in that space? So rather than say Well actually I think it is going to be Amazon and not Shopify or Square it is like I just would rather own the entire bucket right? So I go in get Amazon Shopify Square PayPal and I think that pretty much covers the future of payments when I think about mobile payments and just happening on your phone. And eventually when Coinbase goes public I will probably pick some of that up as well. But just having that and sitting on those and then just watching and kind of as leaders start to emerge kind of dollar cost average and a little bit more to get a little bit more upside in the clear winners if there are going to be any. That is kind of what I have done historically that is proved to be pretty successful.  Yeah and we are talking about kind of pickaxes and shovels right? I mean in the sense that a lot of these companies not all of them but a lot of these companies offer services that other companies capitalize on or other creators. My choices also were based on different scenarios related to COVID. So it was like Okay let us say  magic wand it gets solved tomorrow. But we were decimated behaviors changed growth trajectories changed for let us just call it severely for like six to 12 months. Okay what does that look like for an Amazon? What does that look like for a Shopify? Okay. And then let us say COVID continues. Let us say there is a new strain and A B and C happens. And rather than best case it is certainly maybe not worst case but a terrible case. What does that look like for these various companies? Okay. And just came to the conclusion personally that in most scenarios you could play out as an exercise these companies still seem to do well. And in the case of say   Right. But you also have to play out the other side too right? What happens once the vaccine happens and COVID subsides? This is why I am not holding Zoom right now. Zoom may be a great  it is a great company great product. We are using it right now. But it is like I just do not see  when people sort of return to work what gets hit the hardest? So that is part of the reason why  I mean I missed out on a ton of upside with the climb of and rise of Zoom but it does not pass that post-vaccine test. I want to have to believe in my heart of hearts that I will close my eyes and hold this thing for five years before doing an investment. Otherwise it is just gambling at that point.  Yeah well I mean it depends on how you define your time horizon and if you have the skills and the emotional control or stoicism to be able to stick to your plan right? So for me one of the reasons I came to three years is again five years I just do not have confidence that I can look into the crystal ball and understand where technology is going to be in five years. There are companies I expect will still be around certainly. But let us just take in the case of Spotify for instance. I looked at Spotify really closely and I am on Spotify. I understand the technology. I use the product. I saw them investing incredibly heavily in non-music audio content. And certainly at the top of that list in terms of their capital expenditures would be podcasts. And you have Rogan you have got all these different folks. For Spotify compared to say Amazon there are people who would argue that podcasts are an existential priority right? They have to really heavily invest and be the A player high bidder for a lot of this core talent and these teams who can create content because their economic model is in some respect dependent on the improve margins through non-music audio right? Amazon sells everything right? Amazon sells a million things. And Amazon Music and the team who is on podcasts with Amazon is a fantastic team. But within Amazon itself it is hard for me to imagine that that has the same level of urgency and priority that it would have for Spotify just given the range of options. So for me   Yeah but what about Apple?  Yeah Apple is huge. But Apple also is  I think Apple is amazing. They have by far the most market share right now. They have I would expect certain constraints right? I do not think they are going to pursue anything incorporating advertising models at least not in the short term right? They just have not had a lot of luck with that. They do not seem inclined to pursue it. Also again just because the  what is the lion's share of Apple revenue? I have to imagine it is hardware and AppleCare and so on. I mean the sort of incremental revenue add is pretty nominal when it is compared to say a Spotify who absolutely has to make this work. So for me I am like All right Apple Amazon are going to be really deliberate. They are not going to rush. They have endless powder in the keg right? Once they find things that work they can make them ubiquitous. I think that is going to take time. Is it going to happen in one year? Maybe but I think pretty unlikely. Which is why I think Spotify will continue I mean if I had to guess to invest very heavily in trying to solidify their position as the go-to platform for sort of talent and content creation within the kind of predefined parameters of non-music audio. This is not the only reason but for that reason  also looking at potential upside right? I mean in the sense that if you want Amazon to double what needs to happen for that to happen? Right?  Yeah.  And then if you look at Spotify for Spotify to double what might need to happen in order for that to be the reward that the market and retail investors sort of bestow upon it? The answer is  I mean I feel like a lot less needs to happen for Spotify right? I am not saying Spotify would ever do this but if Spotify were just to redomicile and avoid all of these various problems that they have with their current situation not that they would do that but certainly there are steps they could take if they needed to that would dramatically change their financials. And again what the hell do I know? Right? I am not an analyst but   Yeah but this is your world though. I mean podcasting is  that is your DNA. So I feel like you would know a lot when it comes to that.  Yeah. Yeah I mean and I also see and you and I have texted about this where people you would not have expected to use Spotify are now using Spotify.  Yeah.  Right? And it is made that hop over the fence in the United States. In Europe the behaviors are very different. In Spanish speaking countries and regions Spotify is extremely dominant it would appear based on polling my own audience. And there is just   Yeah the    a lot of room. There is a lot of room to grow I think.  Yeah I agree with that. I think Spotify is interesting from that standpoint. It is a really crappy razor-thin margin business on the music side. Any time they can get you anywhere away from one of the major labels they are making money right?  Yeah.  Because you are paying that 15 a month or whatever it is 12 a month. I just found out they have a  I downgraded from a family plan to the duo plan which is just for two people. So my wife and I just use the duo plan and save myself three bucks a month.  Well done.  Thank you.  Well done Kevin.  Thank you. Anyway yeah so it is a great product too. I love the technology.  It is. Yeah.  I think that they have invested heavily on the kind of AI and machine learning side of things to get recommendations better than anyone has which is so key for music discovery. So yeah I am a fan on that front as well.  Yeah and   I was going to say    one more thing. One   Yeah I was going to say one more thing on the finance side as well.  Fire fire fire.  We should close off finance and move on to that because I know we had   Yes I agree.   a few more topics to hit. But I spent a crap ton of time researching and doing my due diligence on the various financial applications for tracking finances. So I just wanted to share this with people because I let my work benefit you in some way. I feel that what I have done is I  all of us or most of us we dabble in a bunch of things whether it be cryptocurrency or a little bit of ETRADE or whatever your broker is or Wealthfront or have a little bit of stuff here. Maybe you have a home or not or a car payment or not. And I want a universal dashboard to bring all that stuff together. It is like one place where you can see holistically what is going on with all of your finances everywhere credit cards all that stuff. And I have tried all of the stuff out there. Real quick Quicken sucks. It is horrible. It does not work with half the crap out there. It will not tie to Wealthfront. It will not tie to a bunch of stuff. It is just horrible. So avoid that at all costs. Even though that is the old school one that sounds like Maybe Quicken's better now. It is not better. It sucks. Now I have this theory that a bunch of the Quicken engineers got together and were like Yeah this place kind of sucks but let us go create a new product. So Quicken came out with a new product that is actually quite good. It is called Simplifi. It is simplifimoney.com. S-I-M-P-L-I-F-I. You can just Google it. Do not try and spell that. Anyway Simplifi it is by the makers of Quicken. It is actually a fantastic product and it is somehow competing against Quicken their own product. Which is very weird. I think what happened is as with any old piece of software you have got an old school audience that is been baked in for decades that if you change any user interface element they go apeshit and they freak out on you right? That is the case with why all these software packages like Word and Excel and all these others they just turn into bloatware. You look at them and you are like Why so many icons? It is because people will complain if you remove anything. It is always hard to take features out. So this is just a really streamlined beautiful  it is like three bucks a month. It is fantastic. Now if you do not like this  one thing I do like about this I will just tell you one of the features I thought was really cool and I used this over the holidays. You know how you go and you return something? Like you got a sweater you return it. But you never know if it really hits your account again. You do not pay attention. There is a way to say I returned this and notify me when I get the credit back or not if the credit does not come back.  That is cool.  Just some really cool little features like that. Anyway I was pretty impressed with it. It does link with a lot of the stuff. It is very confusing why it links with a lot of the places that Quicken does not even though they are the same company. But anyway that is that. I think Personal Capital though is the best one that is out there. Have you used Personal Capital before?  No.  I do not use them on the investing side. I do not put my money with them because they also have an investing thing. I use Wealthfront for that. But Personal Capital in terms of the interface the holistic interface to bring together all the accounts it is completely free. You do not have to spend any money on it. And it kind of brings everything into one dashboard for you. So anyway and I have looked at like 10 others that I will not even bore you with but those are my picks for the show.  Sweet. Now you are  how would I put it? You have a financial dashboard fetish. Some people   I do.   like tentacle porn. Some people   Some people like shoes.   like Japanese coffee which you also like. But you have a financial dashboard fetish. So what I am curious about is does it just tickle your balls and you get a little feeling in your  butterfly in your anus. Makes   I wish we were having wine right now.  Yeah it makes you really happy to look at this? Is it just like a Zen garden for you? Or do you actually learn anything? Does it inform your decisions? Has it changed how you behave in any way?  It has because what it does is it does a pretty good job at kind of categorizing everything that is going on in my life. So it has a beautiful cash flow feature where I can see I have spent this much this was my budget and this is how much income I have coming in. So I like to kind of track that and watch the trends over time. And overall net worth is cool because it lets you tie in your house in there lets you put your cars in there. Anything else that you may have any jewelry anything. And you can kind of watch as certain things appreciate or they do not and they go down. I like the idea of being able to pull all this stuff together into like one interface. Because if you think about Okay now I have got to go log into Coinbase. Now I have got to go log into Wealthfront. And now I have got to go log into my bank to see my checking account. And I have a credit card over at Chase and I have an Apple Pay card. And there is a bunch of stuff to check. That means in terms of transactions as well. I mean I have caught some fraud on these and it alerted me to things where I was like I did not buy that and I went and canceled the card. So just having a way that I can go and every couple days just see that and just do a quick gut check like Is everything sane here? It is nice. And I do not have to log into multiple places and it is free. So I do not know it is cool.  So you avoid logging into multiple places by giving all of your login information to one entity or is there some type of auth that allows you to circumvent that also producing centralization? Which would make me nervous.  Yeah so Plaid it powers all of this on the backend. Plaid is a company you may or may not have heard of. It was one that we invested in when I was at Google Ventures. They work with all the financial institutions to connect and provide data to apps like Personal Capital. So you are actually not sharing your login credentials with Personal Capital you are sharing them with Plaid. Plaid secures them. They issue a token to Personal Capital. So Personal Capital never actually has your credentials. And then they can view your data through that one secured vault. So   Cool.   it is nice like that. Yeah I was worried about that as well.  I will add one more thing on the finance front which is I am fucking tired of thinking about anything related to finance or investing or   That is been you forever dude.  Yeah I know I know.  That is been you for five years.  Yeah that is true. That is true. But especially in the last I would say six to 12 months. One of my goals is to do as much possible in terms of batching activities or setting rules for myself strict rules like you cannot eat bagels. I do not eat bagels anyway although they are delicious. But making very binary rules for myself because I think it is very easy. And if we look at just human behavior I think it is very natural but often harmful to one's health. If you have something that is moving up or down or up and down if you have something easily quantifiable that to your mind seems like points on the scoreboard whether positive or negative it is really easy to spend a lot of time being distracted by these things and looking at these things. I am thinking a lot more about energy management over the next year than time management. I feel like time management should be a downstream decision based on your energy management priorities and roles. That is how I am approaching it. So I am hoping to do effectively zero investing unless I have to make defensive moves or disaster befalls me which I hope will not be the case. So that is all to say I kind of crammed a lot of decisions. Because as you know Kevin I was mostly sitting on the sidelines since I do not know 2015 with the exception of that crypto position. And I do not enjoy it in the same way that some of my friends do and maybe you do just the tracking of all of it. I feel like it is kind of a leaching of energy for me even though it is very addictive. So I am looking forward to doing things that have nothing to do with investing. We were in prep for this conversation talking about  or I guess in the Google spreadsheet talking about this year meaning 2021 new year's resolutions last year. And I do every year for the last handful of years a past year review where I go through my calendar week by week from the previous year and look at the things that gave me the most energy took the most energy. Some of them are worth it. Most of them are not. And trying to identify the kind of peak emotional experiences positive and negative and who the people and activities are on both of those lists. I am sorry to say Kevin you ended up on my negative. No I am kidding. That is how I then go through and look at scheduling things and spending time or not spending time with activities and people for the next year. The most consistent energy giver was time in nature and activities in nature. Just part of the reason I was so thrilled and we can kind of go in any direction but to get as a gift this book which is Of Wolves and Men by Barry Holstun Lopez. It is probably the best nonfiction book I have read in the last five years. It is so   Cool.   unbelievably good. I have highlights on almost certainly in every chapter. I had to modify the way I highlighted because I highlighted so much. His writing is as crisp and clear as Michael Lewis the structure of his writing and is right up there with John McPhee. And the beauty of his prose and just the wordsmithing and use of metaphor is right up there I would say with Mary Oliver. I was blown away. I kept stopping my friends and wanting to read them paragraphs and chapters and they got pretty annoyed after a while. But it is a spectacular nonfiction book and   Very cool.  Yeah it is   It is funny Tim. I do not know if you remember telling me this but you told me I do not know maybe was it six months ago you were like I am not reading any new books. What was it? You were saying something like that. What was the deal with that?  Yeah. Well for 2020 I read no books that were published in 2020. So I was reading books but I put up a blog post as a policy. And I think the title of the blog post was Making the Single Decision that Removes a Thousand Decisions. That relates to the burden of getting hit up by hundreds of people a year who want me to read their books that are coming out a week later or two months later. It is not that they are bad people but they very often have a book coming out. They want to be on the podcast. And I end up oftentimes or I have ended up with just stacks of hundreds of books. The fact of the matter is we do not have that much time on the planet unless we figure out how to recycle 20 year old blood like vampires like some people do who shall not be named or whatever using fancy drugs rapamycin metformin et cetera. Maybe you eke out a few more years. Okay that is possible. But if I look at the average age of death of males in my family going back many generations as far as I could easily do the math it is about 85. It does not really matter what you do. As long as you do not get hit by a bus or fall off a cliff you are probably going to die around 85. So I am 43. That means I have crossed the 50 percent mark. I think it is helpful to just assume that. And you can sit down and do the math. How many really good books do you read per year? People do the math and maybe they end up at five maybe they end up at 20. It is hard to read 20 amazing books unless you are really deliberate about it. You probably read a fair amount of garbage. So you figure out like Okay this book took me a long time to find and it was gifted to me. Even though it had been recommended many times I still did not read it.  You said a long time to find meaning you just had not heard of it or it is out of print?  No. No no it is not out of print. It is a long time to find  it took a long time for it to happen I guess is what I am saying. It had been recommended many times but we get bombarded with reading assignments all day long right? Maybe it is just something on TikTok or Instagram or Twitter or whatever. Although I deleted all of those from my phone.  Good. Same.  Yeah all of those have been deleted from my phone for about six months now which is great.  Wait I saw you posted on Instagram the other day. I did not   Okay there is a workaround.   see your post. Darya told me you did because I do not go on Instagram.  Yeah yeah. How did you know?  No no she   No it is okay.   told me because you posted the chocolate bar that we got you.  I did yeah. I have a workaround. The way that I post to Instagram without using Instagram is I use   Your assistant does it.  No I use  well I mean that sometimes happens too. But I use an app called Onlypult. Onlypult like catapult but Onlypult P-U-L-T allows me to post to Instagram without having the application on my phone. So I am sure there are other things that allow you to do this. Maybe Hootsuite or others. But I have used Onlypult and it is really kind of a  it is not a Swiss Army knife. It is for a specific posting.  What is it? It is just Instagram in ASCII? You are scrolling  I like to   It is a    think that   Yeah it is a strict    your assistant is calling you up and being like Kevin is wearing a red shirt today and Darya seems to be holding their dog describing you post by post.  Yeah I am like Take out the semicolon. Who uses semicolons? No. I use Onlypult. Think of it as a Buffer for Instagram specifically. So you can schedule social media posts or post immediately using this application and it posts to your Instagram account for you. So what that allows me to do is I can take a photo of something I think is beautiful or useful put it on Instagram and do so without ever being exposed to my feed in any way. So in other words it is write only instead of read only.  I mean you could just unfollow everyone too and then when you go there is a blank feed.  Yeah I mean I could do that but I   But then you do not get the DMs and stuff I guess.  I do not   Well how do you look at your DMs?  I do not really use DMs.  Yeah I do not either.  Yeah it is just over  the volume is not manageable. So the point being with these books is look at your track record of reading books. I remember Tim Urban wrote about this the creator of Wait But Why in an amazing piece called The Tail End which everyone should read. It talks about how precious time actually is. Everybody listening to this if you have not read The Tail End by Tim Urban read it reread it. I reread it regularly. The fact of the matter is I do not know maybe I have a few hundred books left to read like good ones. So I do not want to be reading stuff generally speaking that has not stood some test of time right? This guy Barry Lopez won the National Book Award. He was nominated for the National Book Award for this book Of Wolves and Men. I mean this is a very high bar right? They just published the 25th anniversary edition. It changed how people wrote about nature or how people thought about constructing nature writing in non-fiction period. The guy completely reshaped an entire genre of writing. It is incredible. If you have that high bar there are still too many books. So I am trying to be much more purposeful about my reading. That was why in 2020 I am not reading any books published this year which I am going to extend for 2021. So I am not going to read any books published in 2021 either.  That is awesome. I love that.  Yeah it feels good. Once you make the rule it depersonalizes it. This is really important because it is hard to say no when you are making one-off decisions right? If somebody comes to you and they are like Hey can you contribute to my GoFundMe because I lost my shoes and I want to buy a nice pair of shoes or whatever you just get hit up with so much stuff. If it is a personal no it is hard for people to receive. If it is a policy and you can point them somewhere even if you say it is a policy it often takes the sting out. But I can just point to if you go to tim.blognew books I think it is it is a short URL. It takes people directly to that post on the finding single decisions that remove hundreds or thousands of decisions. Yeah there it is. Yeah. So if you just go to tim.blognew books then it takes you to finding the one decision that removes a hundred decisions. And so if I get hit up via email via text via fill in the blank by someone I actually know who wants me to read a book I am just like I wish I could but I cannot. I have set this public policy so I do not have to choose among friends. Boom. And I send a link and that is it. That is the template response.  Can I ask you how you  well I will tell you why I am asking this question. I am asking this question because as part of the training that I am doing with Henry who we talked about on previous podcasts who is a Zen master that I study with one of the things that I do is when I go for walks in nature and you mentioned enjoying nature is one of the big highlights the easy thing to do is to put on a podcast or an audio book right? On top of that is to set it at two and a half speed so you can get through it as fast as possible. My instructions have been to take out my headphones and just treat it as a way to listen just listen to nature just let it all come in and put your focus and attention on the sounds that are happening around you. I found that to be a much more  it is like an amplifier on top of the already awesome walk just this idea of really being there rather than try and do extra things while you are on that walk right? And so my question is when I have been listening to audio books I have actually said Okay 1X speed because if I am going to do a book I am going to give it my full attention. Are you doing anything like that? Or do you jam through books? Do you read them at night? How do you consume?  Well so there are a few things I would love to reflect on that you just said. The first as far as nature goes I would say that  and I try to think about much like the energy management leading then to time management I think a lot as you know about the sequencing of things. Like what is the natural waterfall cascade order in which these things belong? For me spending time in nature is about cultivating a very detailed awareness of nature or acute awareness of nature first and foremost. If I do that the enjoyment or the contentment that I feel in nature automatically goes up dramatically. Part of the reason I am thinking about this so much because I have had a very hard time reacclimating to Austin. It is not because of just all the swarms of locusts aka Californians descending upon this fair city although I am hypocritical to say that obviously. It is because it is a city. It is a city. And I spent a lot of time in the wilderness on a farm I do not want to mention locations but for the entire summer. So I spent several months walking through the woods every day where there are black bear and coyotes and so on and seeing the changes. I would walk for hours and I got to recognize these very minor or I should say minute changes on my walks. I would see which trees changed color first as we got closer to autumn. I would see how tracks presented themselves in certain places at certain times of the day dependent on weather. When I came back to Austin I want to say one thing also. One of the ways that I increased my appreciation for what was around me because I think if the walk is not interesting enough for you you are probably just not interested enough. So I asked and I am going to be finding someone to pay to help me with this in Austin found wildlife biologists and specialists or even people who work at say garden shops and things like that to walk with me through the woods to identify things to point things out to me. The recommendation they gave me at one point was start with the trees because flowers and wildflowers are very complex. There are going to be dozens if not hundreds of different varieties. Start with the trees because in any given location you might have at least where I was let us just call it eight to 12 trees. If you learn the classifications and how to tell them apart and how to describe the different characteristics that separate them or distinguish them you are going to be able to identify 90 percent of the trees that you see. How cool is that? Before that point in time they are just trees. You might identify a maple let us say because the leaf looks like something you would see in Canada. But by and large it is just trees. It is green stuff that is really high. After that you suddenly click the dial a few notches towards high-def and your experience of the walk changes tremendously. So I would occasionally take phone calls when I was walking but I spent I would say at least 70 80 percent of my time listening to bird calls learning to identify birds. There is   You are a birder now. Are you a birder?  I am not a birder. I am not a birder but if   It is okay if you are.  No no I am not a birder. Someone will be able to find this. There is actually an app on Android  sadly last I checked it was not on iOS  that is Shazam for bird calls. It is amazing. In other words you can hold your phone up click a button and it will identify which bird is calling which is awesome. I do think   Are you doing this? Are you doing Shazam for birds out in the forest because   No because I use iOS. I use iOS. So I had to do it the old-fashioned way and go online and listen to different bird calls and try to compare them. The other thing that I found really fun to do because not everyone's going to have access to someone who can point out different plants is to use the Google app to do image searches on different plants and it is incredibly accurate most of the time. I was stunned. It is so cool. Just walk around your house how many people and I am going to plead guilty here know the names or the types of all the plants they might have in or around their houses? Very very few I would guess right? Using the Google app and image search which is very easy you can pretty quickly identify the vast majority of plants trees and so on. It is awesome. I have used it on walks here in Austin to identify trees.  I love that.  Yeah. So those are a few of the ways that I think about nature of which we are part right? It is very easy to feel separate from nature and I think that feeling of separateness is intensified if you have earbuds in and you are listening to something at rapid speed. Nature does not really rush right? So to meet it at its own cadence without listening to anything but what is around you I find really therapeutic. As far as reading these days I definitely do not rush. If I am rushing through a book I should generally just drop the book. It is not good enough. You should only be choosing books that you are sad to see end right? If you are not Oh man what am I going to do now that I finished it? Oh no I have to find another book. If you do not have that feeling then you are not reading the right books. I will give you another example. So this book is one that I was given by my girlfriend for Christmas and it is an awesome book. I had not read it in probably 20 years. It is this. It is called Exploring the World of Lucid Dreaming by Stephen LaBerge L-A-B-E-R-G-E and Howard Rheingold. This is an incredibly detailed tactical how-to book about lucid dreaming and developing the different skills related to lucid dreaming. Lucid dreaming I was really dedicated to a lot of these practices towards the very end of high school or certainly the first few years of college. I actually reached out to Stephen LaBerge or his team when I was in college. I could not get a hold of him but I did get the attention of his team because I said You may want to look at if you have not already Huperzine A. Huperzine A is a supplement. You can get it anywhere but certainly online which acts as an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. This just a very long-winded way of saying   It sounds bad.  Well I mean it is not just   Is it choline in the brain?  Well it is not turning off acetylcholine production but it has anecdotally the ability to help one induce lucidity. How and why that happens I do not know. At the time I had a very well-developed pet theory for why this mechanistically and plausibly why it worked. But the point being that Stephen LaBerge came out of Stanford. Lucid dreaming to define that is the phenomenon of realizing that you are dreaming when you are dreaming. So you effectively wake up in your dream and you are like Holy shit I am dreaming. Normally you get excited and then you wake up.  In Zen they call that enlightenment but it is not when you are dreaming.  There you go. Yeah.  You are awake and then you wake up and you realize this is a dream.  Yeah. So you could start with the lucid dreaming.  Yeah exactly.  Yeah you do with that. But this is actually a phenomenon that can be demonstrated in laboratory settings because your eye movements during REM sleep correspond to your eye movements in dreams. So you could hook someone up to I suppose it would be an EEG in a sleep lab. You will know when they are sleeping and in REM states and so on based on brainwave activity. And then if they have agreed with the experiment or on a predefined set of eye movements let us just say like right right left right right left or something like that and they become lucid in their dream they could look in that following that pattern and indicate to someone who is in the lab that they are in fact aware they are dreaming. It is pretty cool.  Or they could just be closing their eyes and doing that?  Well they would not be able to pull that off because   Because the EEG would not show it right?  That is right. The EEG would just show that they are being dickheads and trying to fool people.  Right.  But the lucid dreaming it makes you more aware in your normal waking life because you develop the habit of doing what some people might call reality checks and that is asking yourself the question Am I dreaming or am I awake? while you are awake. And then you would test it. The way you would test that for instance if you had a book cover like this with text on it in a dream you looked at the cover at the text you look away you look back the text is generally going to change because your brain is producing the entire experience moment by moment. So that would be one test. You are looking at text looking away looking back. Another would be looking at patterns like I am looking at the wall in front of me in my kitchen and the tiles are laid a certain way. If I looked away and looked back at those tiles they might be running the opposite direction or at a diagonal.  Are your dreams that vivid? My REM dreams are just kind of like I never really believe that they are real. Do you actually like   Well if you never believed they were real you would always be lucid right?  Right. But I do not think I do not ever remember picking up a book and being like Oh it has text on it. I do not get to that high fidelity like you.  You work on dream recall first so you would cultivate dream recall. It is your grasp on the coattails of details of these dreams is so tenuous that there is definitely a protocol and an etiquette to maximizing dream recall. If you do not do it immediately upon waking if you move around if you brush your teeth if you go take a piss it is gone. All of your dreams are gone. You have to be really methodical and strict about it but it is incredible how quickly your dream recall ramps up and you get to the point where you are remembering oftentimes three four or five dreams at night and taking them down. There are ways to improve that. You can wake up in the middle of the night stand for two three hours go back to bed. I mean there are all these different techniques that are outlined in this book that really really work. So in high school when I first became reasonably good at this I am not going to say great but I could usually induce lucidity in dreams at least every other night and I was in my final wrestling season and I would manifest this guy John Smith who was a famous gold medalist and at a particular type of wrestling with low leg attacks. I think he was out of Oklahoma. I would train with him. I would never met him and I never have met him but I would train with him. I would seen a lot of his video footage. I would train with him in my dreams and wrestling and found that to carry over into my normal practices. So there are all sorts of things. Let us say you have stage fright. There are all sorts of anecdotescase studies of people who will then create Inception style right? They will create the environment of performing in front of a crowd. They practice this in their dreams and it gives them an opportunity to rehearse facing their fears right? So I am really interested in lucid dreaming. There are some commonalities between the neurological or biochemical responses to REM sleep as compared to the effects produced by LSD-25 right? There are some really spooky similarities. So this came back to me. This is a book I read many times in late high school certainly early college my own copy which is covered in highlight to somewhere. And then it was just gifted to me again. So I have many books in my house now that I would willingly read a second time and I think that should be the bar for reading anything once. It has to be that good.  Mm-hmm . That is awesome. Yeah I have many books that I have never touched.  Yes me too.  You must have but I want to get to. It is just like I tend to clean out all the  because I know what you mean. If anyone that has a podcast that has more than 10 viewers that you just get books sent to you. You get on some publisher's list and all of a sudden a new book.  Of course.  Yeah it is crazy. So I tend to get those mostly away to friends and whatnot. Cool. So what else were we going to cover today? There was a couple of things I wanted to hit. I was going   Yeah. I mean I would be curious to know how you are thinking about 2021 and what kind of resolutions you have if any or how you think about planning for the new year?  Yeah. I mean I think there was two things looking as similar to you in that I spent a good chunk of time looking back on the year. I did not go through a calendar but I did look at my New Year's resolutions from last year which were  that I failed at all of them. I mean I look at what I want to do differently this year. And so I have set up some procedures in place. And then there was some things some wins that I did have mid year but they were not resolutions because I did not know we were going to be in COVID. And so I think that t did for me is immediately caused me to start drinking more. It was very easy to finish a bottle of wine with my wife and where you typically were like Oh we had some left over from last night. Should we pour a little? It is like no we cleared a bottle out no problem and then went for a beer or something because we were like We are going to die. It is like If I am dying might as well drink. So I was basically just freaking out there for the first couple of months. That kicked off a point to where I got to and I said I am fat. I feel like I have drank too much and I need to of course correct. And so if I am honest with myself I felt really depressed not in a clinical way but in a just this really beat me down. I miss my friends. I miss traveling. And then part of me is like Well we have clean drinking water. We have food. We have jobs. Life is good. But I think it is impacted everyone a little bit differently. What I immediately went to is said Well how can I stop and cut back on drinking? And then given that I only have so much free time with two little girls what can I introduce that is new that gives me some relief and brings my spirits back into a positive place? And so I tried a bunch of stuff. I tried walking through the forest because I live in Oregon and I have got a forest in my backyard. I have tried sauna tried cold plunge meditation Pilates working out lifting weights all those things. I would do a couple of weeks of them and say Okay which one of these if you had to stack rank them which ones are having the biggest impact on me? Because I cannot do them all. Which ones can I do that are having the biggest impact? Without a doubt I would say the two things are walking and sauna. Those are the two things that are just so key. I walk every single day now. It is a no phone no AirPods kind of walk. It is crazy what 45 minutes in the forest will get you in in terms of just a mood boost like swinging the arms moving the legs. It is fantastic. So that is been huge. Also in being totally transparent I did some couples therapy which I thought was fantastic. It is not because I thought I was going to end my marriage. I would never got that crazy but it is just suddenly you are cooped up with somebody else with a couple of little toddlers and it gets chaotic sometimes. It is like there is no work escape. Work is in the home. There is no way to have that natural break that you get whether it be grabbing a beer with another friend and then coming back to your spouse. There is none of that. You are just on top of each other. And so we had done couples therapy back before and after we got married to give us a toolkit to deal with issues and it is fantastic. I highly recommend it. Every single time I have done it I have never been pissed that I did it. I have always liked   What recommendations would you give to people who are listening to this and considering it as an option? Any best practices or recommendations for people?  Well I would say at first I was curious like are there any new tech plays that I can get into here like these talk spaces and some of these other things that are out there? And I find that those are really kind of like lightweight not really meant for couples. It was just like text your therapist. I was like I do not need this. So I found someone that I could actually meet with over a secure Zoom type connection that is a real licensed therapist. Not that they are not on that but a dedicated person to you that is going to give you a full hour. It is not texting back and forth. I would say I have another buddy that did the same thing and he had to get to a second therapist to find the right one. So it is not just because you find one that you go to and you are like Oh this is not what I expected it does not mean that the idea of the practice is wrong. You might just not have the right person. And so we found a fantastic woman that is just really good at driving me back to the source of why am I feeling this way and just opening up the lines of communication to let us and remind us that we are both on the same team. We both want what is best for each other and to support each other and help each other because we are coming from a loving place but sometimes we get caught up in other things and other loops and cycles and score keeping. I am a big scorekeeper because I have always avoided confrontation. My dad was a very verbally aggressive abusive guy to my mom and had many many many good traits. I always like to say that about my dad because he did but definitely not teaching me on the relationship side. Fantastic father horrible husband confusing for me as all hell as a kid.  Yeah. Yeah totally.  But I think that I tend to avoid confrontation and then just keep track of things. Then I get upset and I have something that is like all of these things just come out. And so just trying to address things in more real time has been a big help for me. Yeah there is been a ton of little things that I picked up. But anyway I just wanted to tell people out there if you are going through rough times because I hear divorce rates are through the roof right now. The courts are backlogged. It does not mean necessarily you found the wrong person. You might just need a little help and that is okay.  Yeah I think the real time versus dropping the motherload of 17 complaints and freeze framed infractions is really important.  Would you share that line that you told me that you use that I think is really helpful?  Which one?  The one that you said   Oh yeah. I mean so I owe my girlfriend for all of these because certainly I did not come up with these on my own. I think she is very conscientious about how she uses wording and language. You would expect that I would have that as a writer or supposedly. But when I get upset I think I tend to throw haymakers right? Not literally but I am less careful with my wording when I am upset and it usually escalates or damages things more than it helps. I am not a yeller. I never yell but I can be very blunt. The wording that she used and I noted it and I have also used is really simple. It is just The story I am making up in my head is Right? And then you have The dishes are left in the sink because you expect me to clean them up and when I believe that thought I feel vexed right? So you are not a   It disarms it quite a bit does not it?  Yeah it is really  and it is not just being nice. I mean it is being more effective because as soon as someone is put on the defense it is game over. You are not going to get where you want to go. This is also something if people wanted to study Nonviolent Communication. I think Marshall   hey Toasty. I think Marshall something or other you can find it. If you just search Marshall Nonviolent Communication I cannot remember the last name but there is an audio course that is quite good. That is one structure. And you would think as I did I was like well if we are constantly both saying The story I am making up in my head is that it is going to be so formulaic that we are going to be like Come on. What the fuck? It is not going to work. I have not found that to be the case. It just continues to be really helpful even if it is   But it is true though that is why because it is a story you are making up in your head right? I mean it is always what it is.  Yeah. I do not know a lot about couples therapy. My girlfriend and I have worked with people before. We are going to likely work with someone again just because I have phone calls on a weekly basis with someone who looks after me. My girlfriend has phone calls at least once or twice a week with people who look after her. But there is no one currently whose sole priority is to be a sort of midwife even if male for the relationship right? The cultivator of the relationship us together. My feeling is even if they are not the Jedi master of relationship coaches just having someone who can create a neutral safe space where each person can get whatever they need to get off their chest off their chest is a huge service so that it does not bottle up bottle up bottle up and then explode into this 20-exhibit assault on someone which they just cannot easily recover from. They cannot easily defend themselves against and it is really jarring ultimately for everyone involved. And it can force people to just throw their hands up and be like Well fuck I do not feel like I can win here. I just cannot win. Right? I think this has happened a lot during COVID. I know that my girlfriend and I have both felt that way at different points. It is like Well shit man. This is set up in a way I do not feel like there is any way I can win here. There is nothing I can do that is going to lead to me feeling like I am being successful. I think that is much more likely to happen when it is bottled up and given out as a massive dosage of 10 or 20 things instead of on a weekly basis having someone else say Well Tim is there anything else on your mind or anything on your heart that you are withholding right now? And then I am responding to a question as opposed to snapping over something stupid and then letting all this stuff fly out of my face.  Yeah that is great. Yeah I think that the thing that she is helped me with that I forgot to mention is that really just identify who the cast of characters are in your head and how they react to certain situations because we all have triggers. We all have these little rough patches that if you just poke the right way it is going to put you in an angry or upset or frightened or scared state. I certainly have those as well. And so I can come at something defensively or offensively from a place that is one of these cast of characters that has taken over my brain at that moment. When you can name them define them their wants their needs their fears their hopes you can say Oh that so-and-so appearing that has a fear of this and she is triggering that right now. So just that bringing awareness to that just like if you can catch yourself a little bit not that it makes it go away but you are like Oh okay. Here's who is making an appearance. I know how to deescalate this person this type of my personality a little bit better than before and have a rational conversation where you actually have an outcome. That is one that puts that person away for good or at least for that time.  Yeah definitely. There is something. It is not helpful for everyone and there are different formats for it. Some of it I have found very clunky. Some of it I have found depending on the facilitator quite helpful for couples and that is Imago therapy I-M-A-G-O. People can look it up and very quickly decide whether it is helpful or not but it does help you to convey in a non-violent non-aggressive way some of the parts work that you are referring to that certainly for my girlfriend and I was very impactful. Kevin if you had to choose a word for 2021 for you like a theme   Patience.  Patience.  Yes.  Okay.  It is something I am really trying to cultivate.  I feel like you are a pretty patient guy. Are you an impatient guy?  Well I mean I just think about what we have ahead of us in terms of vaccines that who knows when we are going to get them the crazy scariness of potential mutations of a virus new incoming administration all the anxiety and unrest out in the streets. There is a lot of things where I am very anxious. And so I want things to be resolved and I want matters on the problem-solver. It is like I just need to have a little bit more patience just slow down and just let things unfold the way they are going to unfold and stop trying to project my mind into the future into some crazy scenario you know?  Yeah.  That is a big one for me. The other thing for 2021 is just really asking myself like for the drinking thing. I have been really really good lately. This is COVID drinking so it is like I am not going crazy but it is more than I would like to drink. Well my new framework that I have put together for myself has been   Blackouts only on Tuesdays.  Tuesdays no less than 10. No. Yeah no. So what I am doing is no more than two. I have found that anything above and beyond two drinks just does not serve me well. I am too old. I wake up hot in the middle of the night for no reason.  It is the worst. So bad.  Hot red wine sweats. Then the other thing is never two nights in a row.  That is a good one.  So I may say to myself I may be on night number two and I say or I want to drink the second night I just tell myself Can you go one day? Oh of course I can. Then you go one day and it turns out the next day you do not want to drink so then it is two nights in a row. So it is funny how just separating drinks by a night will help a ton. Then the last thing and I think this is the most important and the one I do not have a good answer for but I am working on. This is part of my Zen friend who is coaching me on some of this stuff is really asking yourself when you are having a drink like really Who is getting nourished right now?  That is a good one.  It is a really good one because what is happening? What part of me? Because there is something inside that is getting nourished. I do not have an answer for that yet but it is a deep one to sit with.  Yeah. I like that. I like that a lot. So a question for you when you look at your graph of drink consumption as it goes down is your consumption of edible gummies going through the roof?  No. Although I will tell you I did try something new called CBN. Have you heard of this?  CBN I have heard of actually from a grower but I have never consumed.  So there is a here in   You should describe it for folks. Yeah.  Yeah. So there is a gummy manufacturer out here. And by the way Tim is saying this but you know I am not a big user of gummies. I am not   Oh I am just fucking with you but I do find  when you have had gummies it is exceptionally clear in our text messages.  That is probably accurate. There is probably pictures of me eating pizza.  Fucking typing with your elbows.  Yeah exactly. So basically on the gummy side there is a company called Wyld W-Y-L-D. They make fantastic   Wait. W-Y-L-D?  W-Y-L-D yeah. I think they have them all on the West coast. They are starting to spread all over the place but they do a CBN. It is not really psychoactive but it really makes you sleep. I am telling you it is the closest thing I have had to  I do not know it just feels like you took a sleeping pill or something. It does have a little bit of THC in there. They do put some with it but Wyld makes a sleeping gummy. So for me drinks especially when god man the news over the last few weeks and the months it is just been insane so when you are stressed out that is the nice thing about a glass of wine that but a gummy with either CBD or CBN but CBN more so these days fantastic sleep with it. And I wear the Oura ring and I just got the Fitbit to try out the new sleep data on here. So I am tracking all that stuff to see how it is doing.  If you have more than a few drinks you see it so clearly in your Oura data. It is irrefutable. It turns your sleep into such garbage. It is unreal.  Well resting heart rate goes up by 10 points and it is elevated all throughout the night. HRV goes down. There is just so many bad things that happen. Speaking of which in terms of awesome little finds that have been helping us get through these times this right here. I am going to send you some of this Tim. You have got to try this.  All right. What is it?  This is Hinoki wood in here. Hinoki wood is one of the seven sacred trees of Japan. When they talk about all the health benefits that come from forest bathing in Japan because walking in the forest can be prescribed out there from a physician it is typically attributed to a lot of the fragrance from Hinoki and this is Hinoki oil right here.  Cool.  I found a fantastic manufacturer in Japan of high quality cold-pressed Hinoki oil. I will tell you what it is. I have zero  I do not know any of these people. They are all in Japan. It is Hinokilab.com. H-I-N-O-K-I lab.com. These oils they smell so  you have been to a Japanese proper bathhouse where they have the essential oils. This is the stuff's gold. Oh I put it in the sauna too. So you can put it in some water and then pour it over the coals in the sauna.  Yeah. Awesome. Yeah it is a type of cypress. It is a beautiful tree. Really dense foliage. Cool.  Yeah I planted a few of them here in my yard actually.  Oh no kidding?  Yeah. So I got some. I had some brought in.  Jesus Christ. I love it. It is good to be Kevin Rose.  Not from Japan.  Well you do not have to qualify it. You can say you brought them in.  I flew them via freight from Japan.  Hey man. All that crypto gold I do not know where it goes.  Exactly. I can almost 100 percent guarantee you that you have more crypto than I do. So if you are looking to ransack a place   Oh Jesus Christ. Well that is not saying much because you divested yourself on a lot of things.  For sure. I am definitely more  I am scared the markets are just super overvalued right now so I tend to go safer.  Yeah. Yeah. I think there is a good argument to be made for that. If I were to pick a word for 2021   Yeah what is it?   right this moment it would be mischievous. I think that I have taken a lot of things and myself way too seriously in 2020 and I think I want to bring more coyote energy and prankster mischievousness into 2021.  Interesting. What does that look like in you? Like no mask-wearing kind of thing?  No no that is just being a dick face. I do not want to do that. No a coyote   I was joking.   it is more. Yeah. It is more I think a playfulness and an irreverence not taking things too seriously. I will give you an example. I just the other day threw up  I love the original Willy Wonka movie with Gene Wilder. And so I threw up this animated GIF that is Gene Wilder eating candy saying The suspense is terrible. I hope it will last. And I just threw that up and it was hilarious to see how people responded because it is so kind of oblique and vague that it acts as a Rorschach test for   Wait a second. Did you throw this up during the Trump Capitol takeover today?  No no I threw it up right afterwards.  Oh geez. Fuel on the fire dude.  Yes. I mean you say terrible timing. I think that I want to cultivate an insensitivity to a kind of personality-by-consensus. What I mean by that is if you look at a lot of people I am not going to name names but if you look no no I am not going to name names.  Manicured. Manicured feeds and stuff.  Well you just look at personalities online over time who spend a lot of time on social and they become caricatures of themselves because they have certain behaviors rewarded certain behaviors punished certain behaviors left unapplauded and they start to warp and bend their behavior to fit the most applause. And they turn into these kind of creepy caricatures. And I think that that ends up inevitably bleeding over into their real lives right? I mean their off-screen lives. And I think that is really something I want to be hyper aware of which is why I do not have social on the phone I am using these workarounds like Onlypult to post stuff and I want to kind of hold up a mirror that allows people to look at their own reactions also right? So I think that a lot of what I will put up in 2021 will be Rorschach tests. And for people who do not know that those are the inkblot tests where they would put lots of ink fold a piece of paper show it to someone and say What do you see? And they might see a murderer they might see a butterfly there might be something else. And then that is used as kind of a jumping-off point for psychoanalysis. And that is not going to be everything I put up but I just think that life is too short to take yourself too seriously. And so first and foremost it is for me but doing things that do not seem to have a point doing things that are beautiful just because I think they are beautiful. They do not need to have some targeted outcome ROI or fill-in-the-blank right. And just to kind of loosen my grip on whatever I think my identity is that is been constructed over such a long period of time and let us not kid ourselves identity can be revealed but it is largely constructed. And it is just I think we get so attached to our labels of what we are and what we are not what we do and what we do not do that it is just a  I think it is a very socially reinforced trap that kind of constrains your awareness and sensitivity and openness to the world. So yeah more coyote.  That is good. I think the problem that we have fallen into with social media and part of the reason why I do not like having an account there is it just becomes it makes me sad in some sense and that I see it is always the best version of someone's self. It feels very manufactured oftentimes and it is like it does not feel authentic in the way that  it is always about good times. There is never any  I guess there has been more lately with some of the protests and some of the stuff that is come out on there but I mean people myself included tend to put just the best version of yourself on there versus just letting it all hang out which I guess is kind of what you are saying in a sense. You are just going to have more fun with it than just trying to create the Tim Ferriss image up on social media.  Yeah. And I do not feel like I have done too much of that. I mean I do. I very deliberately put out stuff that is true to me that I think could irritate some percentage of my followers just because I want to have some countervailing force against becoming this dancing sock puppet on the internet. So I do that to not become too attached to social feedback but not to turn this into a discussion of The Social Dilemma but if you are constantly exposed to these technologies you are completely outgunned. You are completely outgunned by engineers and neuroscientists and research and development teams who have for all intents and purposes infinite resources to turn you into a little rat in a Skinner box.  So you are just going to keep me guessing?  Well yeah I want to keep yeah.  I love that the AI's going to look at your feed and like I think Tim would like this. They are like Oh shit. He posted a yellow pony. What the hell does he like now? Oh damn it. You will really keep them on their toes.  Well I want to keep myself guessing too right? I do not want to follow   I love that dude.  Yeah. Follow less of a script and   You have always been good at that though. You have always been  like one in every 10 of your Instagram posts everyone's like What the hell is he? Why is there a picture of that? It is clearly not that manufactured feed which I have always appreciated.  Yeah. Well what was it? I cannot remember the  I do not even remember what it was but back when we were both on the apps I remember one of yours was like And deleting in three two one. To your credit sometimes when I get a little far afield you are like Oh I think you should probably delete that. And I get a text from you which I appreciate.  Well I can just tell speaking of like you said about my gummies I can tell when you are a little ham too every once in a while one will sneak out there.  Yeah. It is true. Yeah. It is true. It is dangerous. Dangerous to drink and to drink and post that is a dangerous habit. Well it is good to see you man. It is been too long.  Good to see you too. Last little thing. I know we always like to throw a bunch of nuggets out there for people to check out. I want to recommend a documentary since we have still so much time and months ahead of us at home. My Octopus Teacher I thought was great.  Great great. Yes. Second that.  Cool.  Fantastic. Beautifully shot.  Netflix.  What else you got?  I liked The Last Dance the Michael Jordan series. I know it is a little bit old now but it was fantastic.  Timeless though. Oh my God if you are like Yeah I am a competitor. Okay. Watch that. Watch that series.  Yes exactly.  Yeah. That is one of the best miniseries I have seen in years. If you want another documentary which is actually very uplifting does not sound uplifting based on the name but it is called Crip Camp and it begins with the story of a summer camp for crippled I guess young adults. And it won I want to say the grand jury award at Sundance a year or two ago and it is really outstanding. So that is one I would recommend Crip Camp. Also it just puts a lot in perspective also. So I really enjoyed that. Hamilton's Pharmacopeia or Pharmacopeia just has a season three coming out now. For those who do not know Hamilton Morris he is been on my podcast exceptional biochemist really good at synthesizing all sorts of things. Also a very good storyteller and a hilarious hilarious character unlike any other. Also happens to be the son of Errol Morris of Fog of War fame. And he is a really really good narrator and editor of the series called Hamilton's Pharmacopeia which you can find on Amazon Prime. You can find it on I want to say Vice and season three just came out. And in each episode he describes the history of the culture and the biochemistry of a psychoactive drug. So it could be meth it could be angel dust it could be LSD. It could be 5-MeO-DMT ketamine ibogaine. And in each episode he also then consumes or administers each of these drugs to himself or has them administered and records the entire experience and describes the entire experience. So it is a really well-done series.  That is crazy.  Well certainly also put some fear of god and healthy respect into the conversations around these compounds too. Not everything turns out well. And although he is usually fine he is very seasoned but there are also other people who agree to have their experiences filmed and they do not always turn out fantastically well.  That ibogaine stuff man that scares me.  Yeah. Yeah. I think you should be very very very very very exceptionally cautious with ibogaine and iboga. It is one of the few psychedelics that can kill you with cardiac complications. So that is definitely as far as I am concerned personally off menu although it does have some incredible possible applications to opioid dependence and addiction.  Yeah I have heard that. Yeah. That is exactly it.  Yeah. If you want to see there is a documentary called Dosed D-O-S-E-D. I saw early versions of it which I want to say came out in the last six to nine months which does a good showcase in a sense or provides an exploration of specifically opioid addiction and possible intervention with psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy things along those lines. And ibogaine or iboga I am not sure which they used. Iboga would be the root I want to say the root bark itself. Ibogaine would be the isolated alkaloid or synthesized depending on how they approach it. So Hamilton's Pharmacopeia is worth a gander if you are interested in such things.  Cool.  Anything else?  I think that is it. That is all that I have. Oh no I have one more. Have you seen the new jazz movie? The cartoon. Ah why am I drawing a blank?  Jazz movie?  You know what I am talking about? The cartoon that everyone's talking about.  Jazz movie. I have no idea what you are talking about.  Hold on. Cut out the extra space on this on the audio side. Hold on.  No no. I want it to be as awkward as possible.  No no. Jazz cartoon Pixar.  Soul.  Soul yes.  Excellent. Yes. I wholeheartedly recommend people check that out. Yeah. It is really good.  I mean that is a must it is fantastic.  I twisted my friend's arm into signing up for Disney to watch Soul because it is the only place that I believe you can watch it.  That is right.  And we watched it and then I ended up watching The Mandalorian and I was like If I had had the forethought to just use Disney I absolutely would have invested in Disney when it got smashed post-COVID.  Yeah. I mean talk about the franchises they own it is just insanity.  Marvel Nat Geo Pixar. I mean Star Wars. The lineup is just absurd.  Yeah. It is crazy.  So also a lot of fun. Yeah. Mandalorian. Jon Favreau congratulations everybody involved congratulations.  Fantastic show yeah. That is a great show.  And let us see I will also mention if you are looking for a healthy snack I will mention a company that I am involved with just because I love their stuff and have had a chance to spend time with the co-founders who are husband and wife Jake and Kuulani Muise in Hawaii who run Maui Nui Venison. So if you are looking   I do like that. Thank you for the box by the way.  Yeah. You are welcome you are welcome.  Tim-Tim sent me a box and I have been I highly recommend the jerky. It is fantastic. Not the dog jerky. Toaster likes the dog  I almost broke into that because it came with everything else and I just saw jerky and I almost went for it and it looks good enough to eat but I   The dog treats are Molly's favorite. The human jerky the bars and everything are fantastic. And the leg medallions are just incredible. So it is   I have not eaten that yet but I am going to. How is the bone broth by the way? Because I have not tried it yet.  Bone broth is exceptional. It is extremely high protein and it is all outstanding. I mean this is the as far as I am concerned and as far as I can tell the most nutrient dense meat you can possibly imagine. It is all wild-harvested. Although it is for those people who might be worried about game harvesting on public lands it is all done on private lands on these large ranches because excess deer in Hawaii are massively damaging as an invasive species. And they actually not just destroy the vegetation where it looks so bad that people think it is caused by wildfires I mean that amount of destruction that leads to erosion and runoff that also damages the coral reef and the marine life on the Hawaiian islands. And this is specifically Maui. So the ecological cost is huge. So they work with USDA inspectors. They hunt at night at long range with rifles. They only take head shots to make the kill as stress-free as possible for the animals. The entire operation is like something out of special operations. It is unbelievable.  It sounds like it. They are like night-vision snipers with headshots.  Yeah they use infrared cameras.  Have you hunted them?  I have. I did not   Oh so you went out there?  I did. Yeah. I hunted with bow. Also with rifle but I feel and I do not hunt often but I think it is a profoundly profoundly profoundly impactful way to reconnect with food.  Oh dude if you kill an animal and you  sorry if you eat an animal but you will not kill it you are way disconnected from nature. You know what I mean? I have always told myself I have never killed a cow but I do eat cow so if there was a way that I could do it in a humane fashion at a place that  I would probably have to do it just because I would feel like a hypocrite otherwise.  Oh you should not have said that. I am going to find you a cow.  I do not want to do it. I do not really want to do it at all. But I am just saying that like I just I do not know. Do you know what I am talking about? It would feel awkward saying I am willing to eat you at someone else's hand but not be willing to do it myself.  Yeah. Hunting's not for everybody. I was strongly strongly militantly anti-hunter and hunting up until I worked on The 4-Hour Chef. And I decided for a portion of it that I wanted to do my best to learn to hunt and forage to consume only those things that I procured myself. And had the opportunity while doing that deep dive to spend time with really hyper-intelligent responsible hunters like Steven Rinella who is written books on the American bison. He is written all sorts of incredible books on multiple topics to see that it as far as I am concerned can be approached in an extremely responsible extremely eco-aware and thoughtful conscientious manner. It really can. So the meat that I have here and the meat that I ate when I was hunting in Hawaii was from what we got that day. And I feel very good about that. I feel very good about it.  Yeah. I mean that is  the evil side of hunting obviously is built on the species that are in low numbers which obviously is just a massive no-no and then also for the trophy of it. I really respect the people that have learned how to do the full nose-to-tail processing of an animal and to make use of everything they possibly can. It is really quite cool.  Yeah. So if people are interested check out the video on MauiNuivenison.com. The video is incredibly well done. It is done with an award-winning cinematographer and it shows the kind of ethos and mission and how they approach all this stuff. It is incredible. So Maui M-A-U-I Nui N-U-I venison.com and people can check it out. It is the startup and you know Kevin I have made basically no direct startup investments in the last handful of years and been helping these guys. It is a very tough business. It is the best product in the world as far as I am concerned. And I am so enamored of this company and the family and the people behind it and the ethos it is just it checks all the boxes for me.  That is awesome.  Hopefully you check it out.  Your food investing is hilarious to me by the way. Because like I would say on tech fantastic track record then the cricket protein. Remember you did those bars? But the funny thing about that is then they went and started a new company.  Yeah. That is killing it. Magic Spoon.  That is killing it Magic Spoon is killing it. And you unfortunately missed out on that one.  I did. I did miss but I am doing okay with food man. I am doing actually really   That is the only two investments I know you have so maybe you have a handful more that I do not know.  Well Blue Bottle did fine for both of us.  Oh there you go. That is right.  Blue Bottle did fantastically well and Hu the chocolate makers were just acquired I think the announcement was last week by Mondelez and I was an advisor to  well I suppose I still am an advisor to Hu. So that was also really fantastic.  That is awesome. I am just giving you shit. I mean literally 90 percent of the deals that we do go to zero then that is totally fine. That is the name of the game on the early-stage investing.  Yeah. But if I could choose one that I really want to not just survive but thrive Maui Nui would be at the very top of the list just because the sort of benefits to community and ecology and the way that they are walking the talk in a beautiful philosophical sense is just it is rare. It is super super rare.  That is awesome. I will say that with the product that I have tried so far I have not tried it all. If you are scared of the idea of venison you should not be because it is very damn tasty jerky.  It is not gamey at all.  You would be surprised. It is not gamey at all. And then I will say Magic Spoon for people that like old school cereal like FruityLoops but want a keto-friendly snack.  Do you say FruityLoops you 90-year-old?  No they have FruityLoops flavor type cereal.  Froot Loops. Froot Loops.  Oh sorry. You know what? FruityLoops was the DJ software. Do you remember that? It was how you could make  it was how you made loops. It was something like that.  Okay. I got it. Yeah. So Magic Spoon. I mean I have an entire pantry full of their stuff and I am really thrilled for the founders. They have done an extremely good job of making a great product. So yeah if you liked Cocoa Puffs Froot Loops these types of cereals as a kid you can have cereal that tastes very much the same that is basically zero carbs super low net carb with high protein and enjoy it with your real milk or fake milk of choice. And it is fantastic. My favorite is the chocolate. I really like the chocolate flavor.  Yeah the chocolate. They had one too that was like a cinnamon one that was quite good. Anyway. Yeah. Good stuff. Cool.  Magic Spoon. Coolio coolio man. Well do you want to tell people where they can find you?  Yeah. I mean eventually this year I am going to start up on the Instagram again. That is probably the best place. I am just KevinRose. You can find me there. And I also have a podcast that I put out one episode about every three months. It is not that regular but I do have really good guests. I just had   You have some great ones.  I had Andy Rachleff on most recently who is the founder of Benchmark and also Wealthfront Benchmark Capital being one of the most successful venture capital firms of all-time and fantastic interview about the importance of diversification. And yeah he is a brilliant brilliant man. Have you ever had Andy on your show?  I have but I had it via Mike Maples' show and he did an episode where Andy was featured. And so we published that audio on my podcast.  Gotcha.  Yeah. Smart guy extremely smart guy.  I wish he would write a book man. He is one of those guys you could sit down and talk to and everything that you throw at him he has a different take on and most of the time he is right. And you are just like this needs to be some  you know how Ray Dalio put out his Principles book? Andy needs his version of that. One can dream. I tried to talk him into it. He would not do it. He said he does not want to do it.  Books are a pain in the ass but he could get a ghost writercollaborator. And that person would just interview him like a few hours a day for a week straight and then they would have all they needed.  So there we go Andy if you are listening make it happen.  All right Kev-Kev. Well it is lovely to see you.  Yeah. Good to see you as well. Let us hang in person this year man let us make it happen.  Let us make it work long road trip. I will get in my armored Marauder vehicle and make my way across country to visit you in the forest. Maybe that is the next move.  Do some forest bathing together. Just need a walk in the forest.  Sounds exotic and erotic. I cannot wait.  I mean we have done some of that in Japan.  That is true.  We need to get back to Japan. That would be fun.  Man. Well step-by-step let us figure out domestic travel first and then we can figure Japan.  Fair enough.  Yeah absolutely.  Okay man. Well to be continued and much love to you and the family my man.  Same to you and everyone out there please stay safe and healthy and take care of yourselves.  Bye-bye.   