 I am Tim Ferriss author entrepreneur angel investor and now TV host. I have spent my entire adult life asking questions then scouring the globe to find the answers. On this show I will share the secrets of pioneers who have faced their own fears. Dig into the hard times big mistakes tough decisions and how they got through it all. The goal is not to be fearless. The goal is to learn to fear less. Welcome to Fearless. I am your host Tim Ferriss and on this stage we will be deconstructing world class performers of all different types to uncover the specific tactics and strategies they have used to overcome doubt tackle their hardest decisions and ultimately succeed on their own terms. By show of hands how many of you guys own a few pairs of shoes? That is everybody in the room? How many of you own around 10 pairs of shoes? All right more than half. How many of you do not own a single pair of shoes? All right that is a big fat zero. My guest tonight has built a company that is given away more than 60 million pairs of shoes to those who need the most. During a trip to South America he recognized the unique opportunity to blend business and philanthropy. Since its founding TOMS has given away millions of shoes helped restore eyesight and provided safe drinking water to those in need across the globe. So ladies and gentlemen please welcome to the stage the founder of TOMS Blake Mycoskie.  It is been a few years man.  Yeah. So Blake and I met quite a while back and we will get to the origin stories of all that but I thought what we could do is take a look at one of the ways that I was not necessarily introduced to but reacquainted with Tom. So we have a video that we are going to start with.  Okay great. Speaker 3  It is incredible to think that five years ago what has now become a global event started with a simple idea on a college campus. Speaker 4  I am going without shoes so I can know what millions of children go through every day. Speaker 5  You do not really realize what a luxury we have to have shoes on our feet all day. But it is actually painful. Speaker 6  One day without shoes.  So why would I start with this video? Well there are a few reasons. The first is that clearly I think it puts in perspective as one event the good that Blake and his company and all the people involved have done. Number two this is a master of positioning and PR and events and a lot in between. And we are going to come back to that and take a look at how it all came to be. But the apple does not seem to fall too far from the tree. Butter Busters.  Yeah.  Let us talk about Butter Busters. This is going somewhere. Bear with me. What is Butter Busters?  So Butter Busters is a cookbook my mom wrote on a word processor in 1993 literally in our kitchen that went on to sell millions and millions of copies. And it was this crazy experience for me being 15 years old seeing my mom who was married to my dad he was a doctor. He was the breadwinner all this. The next thing you know she is getting royalty checks from millions of dollars from the mail because she wrote a book mainly because she wanted to help people lose weight and keep their cholesterol down.  Because she had high cholesterol.  She had high cholesterol. And so basically the story was she went to the doctor and came home and had high cholesterol. And the doctor suggested her cutting some of the fat out of her diet. And so she started doing that and she started losing weight as well. And she wanted to share what she learned with others. And I think I learned two things from that. One at that very impressionable age I just saw my mom had an idea that could help people and she acted on it even though she had never written a thing in her life. Did not graduate from college just did it. And she did not think about it she just acted. And the second thing was you can start something from nothing and a fortune can be made out of literally your kitchen and a typewriter.  And did she go to a bunch of New York publishers and they had an auction and one of them bought the book or how did   Yeah. You will appreciate this with your story. She felt so connected to helping people and really reaching people directly that she did not even go down the publishing route. She self-published it. And actually the first time that she published it the publisher was a crook. And her and my dad lost like 50000 which was a ton of money to our family back then. And so she got a loan from the bank to publish it again the second time. And she started selling them literally out of our garage. And her big break was she landed the Sam's Club part of Walmart. And next thing you know she was selling hundreds of thousands of copies. And we had to get a little warehouse next to our house which turned out to be a great business thing because she sold over a million copies before she had a publisher.  That is a lot of envelopes.  Yeah. So I had no idea that is where we are going to start this conversation but I think it is actually a wonderful place to start because so many people after you have had some success as an entrepreneur asked you where did it come from? Where did the drive come from? And for me the drive came more from my athletic background and all the lessons I learned trying to be a professional tennis player. But the understanding of creating something from nothing and doing it to help people clearly came from me seeing this experience at age 15 to 18 with my mom.  Let us talk about SMU.  Okay.  All right.  I was only there for 18 months.  Right. So we will not spend too much time on it but you chose philosophy. Is that right?  Yeah.  Why philosophy?  Well I started because I originally majored in archaeology because my goal was to become Indiana Jones. That was my career path. No it is like I was never really that into school. I was a tennis player that is the thing. But I thought Okay if I do not become a professional tennis player what would I want to do with my life?  Indiana Jones.  And I was like I think Indiana Jones is the best job. So what did he study? Say archaeology. But no one told me and I set up all archaeology classes freshman year. And I am in these classes and they are more like chemistry and we are studying the compounds of rocks. And it is the most boring stuff in the world. So I was like   No whips.   yeah no whips. So talk about tribes and cannibals and all the stuff I was excited about getting into or learning how to stay away from. So I dropped out of the archeology classes because it was like watching paint dry. And I thought Okay. So what else could I be interested in? But part of my fascination I think with Indiana Jones and this idea of traveling the world and discovering people and ancient ruins and all this stuff also came with this idea of understanding world religions and how we got  why some people think this way and other people think that way. And so then that led to okay philosophy can be a great place to really dig into from an academic standpoint and learn why people think different things how we have evolved as human beings. Once I got in the philosophy classes I actually really loved them because they were pretty quickly into stuff that I felt like was relatable to my experience as a human. And so I really enjoyed philosophy. To this day when I have time for free reading I read a lot of philosophy.  Any favorite philosophers or books on philosophy?  Descartes I like a lot. It is one of my favorites Plato Aristotle the classics  they have been classics for hundreds of years for a reason. And so I feel like you can read some Aristotle and it is literally as relevant as another book you might read to improve some part of your life today.  For sure. Yeah I have been infatuated with and obsessed with these Stoic philosophers when it was 2000 plus years ago in some cases with Marcus Aurelius.  Marcus Aurelius. Yeah Meditations that book is like if you really allow yourself to slowly read and allow those words and allow those phrases to be imprinted in your mind that book has more  you could read only that book and have all the wisdom you need probably to live a virtuous a successful an adventurous life. That is one of my favorite books of all time.  So Meditations just to put it in perspective for folks. Meditations was written by Marcus Aurelius at the time the Emperor of Rome. So he is the most powerful man in the world. And they are effectively entries in a war journal. So they were never intended to be published. So it is his notes to himself which makes it very interesting. And actually on that point do you have a journaling habit?  I do.  When did you start that?  When I was about 15. And   Why did you start doing that?  It goes back to tennis. I wanted to chart my progress. That is how focused I was. I wanted to understand if I was really getting better. And I had read when I was young about other successful athletes that part of what they did was they journaled and they wrote positive affirmations. Pregame by journaling it it was more imprinted in their mind. And it is fun to go back and read some of those journals when I was 15 how serious I was as a 15-year-old. It is also a little scary. But yeah I started then. And then very quickly it became a form of therapy for me as an early entrepreneur when things were really tough and if you are going to make payroll and you did not want to tell anyone because you realize had to show this error of confidence and everything is going to be great. So then at night I can be scribbling about how concerned I was and confessing a lot of things that were bothering me or I was worried about. And journaling has been probably the most constant habit in my life. I do it every single morning. Sometimes twice a day. But it is interesting one of the things I always say to people about journaling is I think it is one of the most powerful habits you can create. Because a lot of the journaling too is goal setting. And really having the goals and then writing about how you are trying to achieve them. And then going back and seeing which ones you are achieving and which ones you are not and understanding that. But the other thing is you can learn so much about the things that end up working and not working. You can go back and see what led to the success or the failure of that idea through the journal path. And you can also see those things that you thought were so important end up not being at all especially with girlfriends and things like that in the early days. So it is really interesting. I think you can learn a lot from journaling. And it is something that I tell people all the time. If there is one thing that can help get your life on a more positive path journaling is it.  So this is going to be a bit of a left turn from this   From journaling.  EZ Laundry.  Yes.  Tell me all about it so EZ Laundry.  Well EZ Laundry I guess was my first real business. I am playing tennis chasing my dreams at SMU I partially tear my Achilles tendon. So that injury is six to eight months leg cast and already I was the last guy on the team. So eight months of no playing and new freshmen that are more talented coming in. I started to realize maybe my life path is not to be a professional tennis player. It was not until a couple weeks later when my roommate and I were discussing my huge pile of laundry that was growing in our room because I could not do it because I was on crutches. And so the laundry facility is down in the basement and I am on crutches. And so it was piling up and this is back and hard to believe when we looked in the Yellow Pages for stuff right?  Oh I remember.  And you remember that.  I remember.  Some people listening or here today might not remember the Yellow Pages.  The internet of yesteryear yeah.  Yeah. So I looked in the Yellow Pages for someone to pick up my laundry. And there was   The slowest Google ever by the way.  Yeah. And so there is nothing that does that. And my laundry is piling up. So it is a real problem. And I think this is where a lot of entrepreneurial ideas are born out of necessity out of some of the service you want that is not offered. And so I went to school at SMU it is a private school in Dallas and there are a lot of kids who had plenty of disposable income and did not like doing their laundry too. So I thought What if we had this pickup and delivery laundry service and we call it EZ Laundry. And the idea is we would basically pick up the laundry take it to a facility get a bulk rate with them and then deliver it back the next day or two days later.  Was it true that you guys would do fake deliveries to dorms to try to create the illusion of having a successful business to drum up demand?  This is true.  Okay. So can you describe how that works?  So no one wanted to be first and be like Oh I am too lazy to do my own laundry. I am going to have someone else do it. For whatever reason the psychological herd mentality in college is very strong. And so we have somehow and how we realized this but we did. We thought okay if we start delivering even though we do not need to deliver all day long and all people see is our truck driving around campus and me or our employees going into dorms out of dorms they are going to think everyone's doing this and they are missing out. And that also led to more customers because they are like Man I see your truck everywhere. I am like Yeah business is great. And business did become great because they thought that Man if everyone else is doing this service then I should be doing it too. So that worked pretty well and it really did.  And by the way this is not uncommon at all.  No.  So case and point Benjamin Franklin. So most people think of him for the kite with the key and so on whatever might be diplomat maybe who knows? But he was very famous as a printer. And in the beginning days to try to drum up business he would go up and down the street with a wheelbarrow full of all sorts of different printing equipment back and forth to show how busy he was. To try and get people to come in and to drum up business. Turned out very well for you.  I think it is such an important point. Because the best ideas in the best companies start always come from an entrepreneur who wants a service that he cannot get a product that does not exist. It is a frustration. And the solution is not a business actually. It is like a crusade to get rid of that frustration. And it really is. And so I always caution people say You can study entrepreneurship and you can read books about great entrepreneurs. But if you think you are going to build a great company it is got to start with a dissatisfaction a problem an issue and a scratch first and then you build the business. But do not think about Okay I want to build a business what am I going to build?  So what happened? 18 months your tenure was up.  Yeah. Well and then what happened was is all of a sudden we had so much demand for this laundry service we started. And we had customers and not just to SMU but we started to expand to University of Texas TCU Oklahoma and it was clear that there was all this demand. And I was like trying to do my homework at night running the business during day. I think we had 30 employees at that point. It was just too much. But yeah I dropped out. And there were so many days after I did I was like Oh my God I want to go back to college so bad it is so easy. Because all my friends are going to a few classes and drinking beer and goofing off. And I am like dealing with these 15 people's lost jeans every week. And so it was not glamorous by any means. It is only glamorous in hindsight when you are like yeah he is a college dropout. Bill Gates is a dropout Michael Dell is  it is a nice badge to have now but it definitely was not then.  I have to ask because I honestly do not know the answer. How did reality TV come into all this?  In 2001 my sister and I were on the TV show The Amazing Race. I was 25 at the time. And this is the beginning of the reality TV craze and we are still frankly in. It is hard to believe all these years later. And really this 15 minutes of fame. This is a real thing. So all of a sudden we are being invited to be on all these talk shows late night shows Jay Leno invited to Will Smith's birthday party just this weird stuff. Because everyone was watching the show and we are really one of the interesting characters on the show. And what I found was as I was thinking about this thing was that after the 15 minutes they moved on to the next season there was still value and the entertainment value in the public's interest in these people. The network has had to move to the next one because it was time to promote the next show. So my idea was is why not have a cable television network that would be 100 percent focused on reality? And now I knew we could not get the big-ticket shows but I knew we could get the stars after. Because there is nothing worse than losing your 15 minutes of fame. You will do anything to keep it going. So I could get these people to come on shows for nothing just for their own  it would be exciting that people to be interested in them still. And then possibly you can even create shows that are based off the characters and then we could  well I knew we could do is we could buy clips of the shows. The part that I did not know anything about and which reason this business became a huge disaster was there is only five or six companies in the country that controlled the distribution of the content. And so when we went to Comcast and Time Warner and DirecTV and all the different ones and they are like Well we have 500 channels right now. Even if people love your channel it is not going to change our business but we are going to have to pay you for this content. So we are not that interested. And it was amazing. It is such a great business lesson that look we had a product that the end customer wanted. And we could make amazing content that they actually really probably cared more about than the other 420 channels. But because the person who was controlling what they saw did not have a business reason to do it we could never make it work. And so after a couple hard years and running through millions of dollars and a lot of it is my own money we had to go out of business. But I was not done. Even though I shut it down and paid back investors and fired 40-something people which was horrible. I wanted the community go. And so I went into the note first and only time in my life where I have had actually some real depression and got on antidepressants and things that I never thought in my life I would experience. It was not because of so much that we had failed and that we had lost money and we had to fire people and all that. It was because I still wanted to do this but I could not. I could not solve a new way to do it. And so that was a tough four or five months afterwards which I ultimately got through. But man what a great lesson. The thing is   Where were you at the time? You were in L.A.?  I was in L.A. And so I think the lesson is you are thinking about business ideas. It is definitely when I think about any new thing even within TOMS now is like no matter how good your idea is you have to make sure that if your success falls in the hands of a few companies that you do not even start to go forward unless you can make sure that at least you get one of those companies as a customer. And that is why I think it was so great. We started TOMS and shoe business or apparel or whatever. There are thousands of stores that could potentially buy your shoes. So it was not like I had to get one of the big guys early on. You could just get a couple and then build from there.  Yeah you do risk a whole lot. Now I want to come back to if you do not mind just that period of depression. So I have had extended bouts of depression. It runs in my family. And not going to blame it on that but that is probably a component. What was it like in your darkest periods during those five months?  I think the hardest thing was is like not wanting to get out of bed. I am a very energetic person. I like usually jump out of bed with both feet on the floor well before the sun has come up my whole entrepreneurial life. And not having a business to go to having just lost a lot of credibility with potential investors or because I was now a failed entrepreneur not just a successful entrepreneur and having run through a lot of my own financial resources it was like What am I going to do today?  What did bring you out of it? What were the things that helped get you back on your feet?  At the time I was reading a lot of Richard Branson stuff. And I read Losing My Virginity which was a great book if you have never read it.  Yeah. It is a great book. It is one of the books that kickstarted me.  Yeah. And I loved his approach to taking businesses that had been around forever and turning them on their head by basically just making them fun sarcastic sexy et cetera. And so I looked at the driver's ed business and this is something that is been around since my parents learned to drive. And they were brick and mortar buildings. They were usually connected to a sewerage or something. And they did not try to accommodate their students. They just pushed them through this like cattle. So I did two things it is called Driver's Ed Direct. And this is how I got the swagger back because I really got excited about this idea for a number of reasons. The first is we were going to have no classrooms. So we are just going to eliminate that cost and all the classwork would be online. Now they would have to learn to drive in a car but the online part they would make it fun and then we would do it online and we would make sure they are paying attention because they could not get to the next part of the class until they pass real time quizzes. But the second thing I did and this is where I think was the thing that really made it take off is I recognize in Los Angeles you have a lot of models and actors that need part-time work. And they need flexible schedules. Instead of these teenagers learning from old ladies what if they are learning from Abercrombie  Fitch models? That is going to keep a teenager girl's attention. If this girl has this hunky guy teaching her to drive she is going to pay attention to him. And she is going to tell all her friends on MySpace how hot her driver's ed teacher is. And this is the same thing for the guys. And so we hired the hottest models and actors who needed part-time work in between auditions we were totally flexible with their hours. And it went crazy on MySpace. Every kid is like I think people signed up who would already completed driver's ed just because they  it was crazy.  So we talked about Driver's Ed Direct.  Yeah.  Then in 2006 you went to one of my favorite places.  A place well you know well.  Argentina.  Yeah.  Why did you go to Argentina?  I would take the month of January off every year no matter what. No matter what was going on business wise I would take a month I would go somewhere that was totally different have a totally new cultural experience get away from work and then come back and then just immerse myself for 11 more months and have that month to look forward to. And so I decided that for my month this year in 2006 I would go to Argentina. One thing that I had already noticed and already had a big impression on me and this started when we were on the Amazing Race but even more so in Argentina was just how much poverty there was only an hour outside the city. And there were kids on the street not wearing shoes   The shanty town.  The shanty town.  Yeah. It is like Slumdog Millionaire.  Exactly. It is exactly what it looks like. People living in homes built of aluminum siding no electricity no water. I could not believe it. And it was on the third week that I was there that I was in this caf this wine caf and I heard some women speaking in English. And they had been doing volunteer work. They are working with this nonprofit in Argentina. And one of the things that they were doing was a shoe drive. And they explained to me that it was getting time about time for school again the next semester. And there were many kids that were not able to go to school because they could not afford the uniform or the shoes. And shoes is part of the uniform. They had to wear a closed-toe shoe. And so I agreed to go on this trip. Man and they picked me up a couple days later and we got in a van and we had a big U-Haul full of shoes. And we went to this town. And at first not having ever done anything like this I was a little bit just standing back and watching. And these girls they were just right on their hands and knees and putting shoes on kids and giving them hugs and it was just like this joyful thing. So I very quickly just jumped in and started trying to figure it out. And I remember that night I came home I am staying at the polo camp still and my polo teacher Alejo he asked me where I was that day because I was not playing polo. And I said Actually I did this. And he is like Did that on your vacation? And he says to me Blake it is awesome that you guys gave them shoes but you are leaving like in five more days. And these women are going back to their countries. Who is going to give them their next pair? And I was never prepared for this question. And when he asked this question because he is like kids' feet are going to grow fast or they are going to  it is the only pair they will wear out of them. And if they need them for school you have now given this pair but who is going to give them the next pair? And at that point I actually questioned whether we had done anything good at all. Maybe what we did that day was just made ourselves feel great because we got this great feeling and Oh my gosh we did something nice for someone and they loved on us and we left feeling so full. But if we just set up a future disappointment we would actually cause more harm than good if there was not a way to sustain these kids in shoes. And so talk about some difficult moments in life I remember going to bed that night having that joy and excitement almost ripped out of me and thinking gosh I do not know what the answer is. But there is got to be something a way to make sure these kids get their next pair of shoes. And so the next morning woke up got the journal out I have my cup of coffee sitting on the farm where the polo camp was. And I was just writing in my journal and I was saying maybe I could go and ask all my friends to donate 50 bucks a year and that would buy four pairs of shoes. And that way every three months they get a new pair or we all have too many shoes in our closet. I am sure we could all get rid of half of our shoes and we would not have any effect on our life whatsoever. Maybe I could get those. And I started thinking but adult sizes are different than kids' sizes and all these things. And I just quickly got to the part of like I do not think charity is the answer. I do not think asking for donations or handouts is really going to sustain this. Now this might work for a year or two. But then it is going to be even a bigger problem if I do not get the donations or do not get the handouts. And then that is when my mom   And not only that but you have to spend all your time fundraising and not focusing on building out the organization and so on.  Well yes. But at this point I am not even thinking about an organization. I am thinking about 250 kids. I am only emotionally connected to 250 kids not in the world thinking about anyone else or the fact that there is kids in Cambodia that do not have shoes or kids that have frostbite in Mongolia or kids that have Podoconiosis in Ethiopia man I know nothing about any of this at that point. But I do care about these 250 kids. I spent all day with them I connected with them I saw the joy that they got. And so in my journal that morning I just turned in a pretty natural flow to business. Every year of my life for 10 years I am now 29 years old. So I have been an entrepreneur for 10 years. And I had used business to solve problems. That is the way I looked at entrepreneurship. Something I do not like as we were talking about earlier or something that I do not think is fair or right in the world let us see if we can change it with business. And so I was just writing in my journal. I said What if we started an actual business that had a very simple model. You sold shoes to people who wanted them and you gave shoes to people who needed them. And we would caught one for one. And that was like just literally this much of one of hundreds of journals. But as I am finishing that thought the great Alejo and he is one of the greatest human beings you will ever meet most enthusiastic people I have ever met. Comes up and he says It is time for breakfast before the polo match da-da-da. You are running late. Let us go let us go. And I said No Alejo I think I have an answer to your question. I said Instead of a charity what if there was a business that sold these shoes that you guys all wear here in Argentina and that we do not have in the United States  Alpargatas.  Yeah the alpargatas. You remember when you were there. And every time we sell a pair we give a pair. And over a month we got the first  it was 250 pairs were the initial prototypes. Because there were 250 kids in this village that we wanted to come give another pair to after we sold them. And we stuffed them in three duffel bags we bought at the local equivalent of footlocker and put them in check them in and got through customs somehow without getting confiscated. And literally got them back to L.A. in my apartment in Venice.  How did you get your first retailer your first key retailer if that makes sense?  So I was going just cold calling these stores. When I found out really quickly if you emailed or called a store and said you wanted to sell them shoes that they did not know anything about the brand you never got a response. You had to go there in person. So I was going in person but very often I was going to person on the weekends because during the week I am running the Driver's Ed company still. And so there are not usually shoe buyers working on the weekends. It is just staff. But luckily I got on American Rag on a Saturday. Courtney was working that day. And so she is like Yeah I will look at it whatever. And she is a pretty curious cool interesting person. And I started the shoes. And even before I get to the story she thought This is cool. They are a very progressive fashion retailer. They like the new thing. And she is like I will buy. She would say How much inventory do you have? And I was like Well I have got 210 pairs left. I have sold 40 to friends and family a couple online at a little rinky-dinky website that my parents are reordering from from Texas and stuff. But she is like I need a way to tell the story. And so I showed her a picture and she put it by the display. And on a piece of cardboard we wrote what we thought was our mission and that was with every pair you purchase we will give a pair to a child in need one for one. And we put that there and she bought I think 85 pairs which was a third of my inventory which I was super excited about. And the funny thing about that and that led to so many other things. But the main thing that led to was a woman from L.A. Times saw these shoes. And saw on the cardboard that we are going to give away a pair for every pair we sold. And this woman's name is Booth Moore. And at the time she was the leading fashion writer at L.A. Times and one of the most syndicated fashion writers in the world. Everyone read her columns. And so she asked Courtney for my information and Courtney gave it to me. And I did the interview and was super excited. But I did not really have an idea of what this would potentially do to what we were calling this at the time as a project. We would even call it a business. It was the TOMS project. Because I had a business it was the Driver's Ed business. This was the project. And so I did not know what was going to happen with the project when this article came out. But two weeks after the interview on the cover of the L.A. Times there were two headlines. This is the calendar section. It was Da Vinci Code Opens with 300 Million in Box Office Sales which people in L.A. care about these things. And then the second thing is TOMS Shoes. Listen to this. We sold 2200 pairs on our website before noon that day. Now I only had 130 pairs in my apartment. So this is the first of many supply   This is the good newsbad news.  Yeah this is the good newsbad news. So it was crazy. Had this little article it was not a big article had this response of people in Los Angeles to go on this little tiny website and somehow trust it and buy shoes. And the website says you would get your shoes in four to five days because we are just shipping them out of my apartment one at a time. So now I have an order for 2200. We have already charged people's credit cards by the way because it just automatically goes through. I have no idea if Alejo and Juan can make these shoes. I do not even think they think they are ever going to see me again. And so I literally landed at the airport I have got a little duffel bag they are like toiletries maybe two things of clothes and the L.A. Times. And I would take a taxi directly to Juan's house they are both there drinking their mat like everyone does in Argentina just totally chilled out. They are like no problems in the world. And I right come in like bat out of hell. And I am like Muchos zapatos rapido. That is all the Spanish I knew. And that is all the Spanish I needed. And I shared that article and they just could not believe it. And so Juan calls his friend and their friend and next thing you know there is all these different Argentines making these shoes as fast as they can in the garages which ultimately became a Barnes became our first factory down there. Two weeks later and let me just preface this because it is important to understand get a picture of what our apartment's like at the time. So we had this apartment in Venice and I have three interns. So two weeks after that article comes out I am walking by it was in the kitchen. I am walking by the kitchen area and the phone rings. So I pick it up and say Hello this is Blake TOMS Shoes. And there is this guy on the airline. And you can tell he is a little bit agitated from the first minute. And he says Yes yes. I need to order 100 pairs of women's TOMS. I need red I need blue I need natural. And I need them to go out tomorrow. Now I am like Whoa we have had people maybe order two or three pairs but 100 pairs one person this does not make sense. Because all we are doing is selling online at this point. And I say Well gosh. First off this is amazing 100 pairs who is this? Where are you calling from? He says Oh yes. I am the assistant women's shoe buyer at Nordstrom in Seattle at the corporate office. Now I do not know a lot about shoes but I know that Nordstrom is the Holy Grail of shoes at this point. People had been talking to me about Nordstrom Nordstrom. And I know that they do not call you at your apartment. You beg to get a meeting with these guys. So I am a little bit like Is this real or is this a prank? But I can tell this guy is really focused on this order. And so as I am thinking about this I realize we have no shoes. We sold out. So I had said to the guy Okay this is awesome 100 pairs. We can do that. That is probably going to be about two or three weeks. He is like No no. I need them tomorrow. My boss wants them yesterday. I need them tomorrow. And I am like Well we are sold out. And he goes No you cannot be sold out. Just bump someone else's order. This is Nordstrom calling. No one tells us we are sold out. So I am like Okay sir. But I do not think you really understand this situation. I cannot bump someone else's order. I literally do not have any shoes to send you. And at this point the guy gets pissed off. This is what he says to me he goes  and my phone is about to start beeping. And he is like he goes Listen buddy if you cannot help me put me in touch with the sales department. But the best part of this whole thing is while this conversation is going on my three interns are sitting there eating breakfast tacos that they just got from Rose Cafe. And one of the girls Lina is laughing because she can overhear this conversation. And after that I did not really know what to say. And so she is like Blake give me the phone. Give me the phone. So I literally  it is about to start beeping so I just toss it to her anyways. These are my favorite moments in the history of TOMS without even blinking or hesitating. She just goes Hi this is Lina head of sales.  We are going to pull up a photo of early days. Some TOMS I think in one of your original apartments.  I have a funny story about these bags too.  Let us hear about the bags.  So these bags almost sunk the company. Literally we were almost out of business because of the bags. And most people do not know this. And I am glad you showed this picture because it is something that never comes up in interviews. I actually had two big ideas of the TOMS. The first idea is that we were going to give a pair to a kid for every pair we sold and we are going to help kids in Argentina who needed shoes to go to school. That is the idea that became famous that people know us for. The second idea is we were going to be the first shoe company to eliminate the horrible waste of cardboard boxes. Think about when you buy a pair of shoes. What do you do with the box? You throw it away. And most of you probably do not even recycle it. It is hard. It is not easy to recycle sometimes. And especially 10 years ago very few people were recycling stuff like the boxes. And I hated the fact that there were so much waste being created by the shoe industry. And so I got these recyclable bags linen bags that were made of materials that can be repurposed. And also it can be used for something you could put stuff and whatnot. And so we are going to be the first company to own these bags. So that worked great when our initial sales were online because someone would order a pair you stick the bag in the box or the FedEx envelopes or whatever you sent and you send it. And you did not have to waste another box. But then when we got into Nordstrom they said okay  we were just trying to get some press were in Vogue it is exciting. They are like Okay we are in and we are going to give it a shot. We are going to be five stores in Southern California. And they said But we need boxes. And I was like No there are no boxes. And they are like Yeah but you do not understand. The way that our business works is we have stock rooms. And every brand gets a stock room and they have boxes by size. And so when someone wants a seven they come and get the seven it will not work with bags. And I am like Well then we are not going to do business. And they are like What? And I am like Well we are not going to create waste in the world with these boxes. So we are going to use these bags. And the buyer was just like first off I do not think anyone ever told Nordstrom they are just not going to do business. But once again I was not thinking of it like a business. And I was adamant about this bag thing because I was getting really good feedback because people love the fact that  they connected with this idea. So anyway the guy who was a buyer said Fine. We will try it. But I am telling you this is going to be really   Hard to stack bags.   really hard to stack bags. And if our associates who make money on commission have trouble getting your shoes they will not sell as well. I was like Well let us just give it a shot. So the first week it is actually pretty easy to stack bags. Our sales of the first week are doing great. I am calling I am so excited whatever. Second week it is like an abrupt halt. I do not think a pair sells. And I am like What happened? And he goes Go to La Brea and Nordstrom and look in the stockroom. I go in there it is a tangled mess because each bag has a string and then a tag on it and they get caught. And literally you cannot pull these bags apart. So now when the customer comes in and says I want a size seven. The person is not going to waste their time and lose commission. It is like Well how about a pair of Vans instead? We are sold out. That was the thing everyone was saying they are sold out. They are not sold out they are in there. And so literally Nordstrom said Until you get boxes no more business. And so we actually got kicked out in Nordstrom's. It took us about six months or so before we finally got into boxes because it was not so easy getting any old box we want to design the box and all this. And so literally it is so interesting because I feel like in business breaking rules sometimes leads to innovation and new companies and all those things. But you have got to know which rules to break because there is some rules that you just cannot break. And we have boxes today. And it is funny. Those early memories are so great but hopefully it shows other entrepreneurs and people thinking about businesses. They all start in a garage in an apartment with an idea with a group of people who believe in it before anyone else you struggle with all these crazy things. And then if you just keep at it long enough enough good things start happening.  So what I want to do we have  there is so many things. We could go for five-hour talk here. But before we do that what I like to do is take some audience QA.  Great.  So we have some questions that were gathered during the break. And so I am going to start with as an entrepreneur we all face fear. What was your greatest fear in business? And then part two what does failure look like to you?  That is a really good question. So I had different fears of different businesses. But I want to stick to TOMS because I think it was probably the most motivating fear. I think sometimes fear can paralyze you in business or in life or in relationships. And sometimes it can be the greatest motivator and the greatest catalyst for success. So I go to Argentina after that first giving trip. We have given 10000 shoes. We originally try and do 250 kids. So 10000 is amazing right? But also what I created now is 10000 kids need another pair of shoes. So the very problem that I was trying to alleviate through the business idea actually was exasperated with that initial success. Because I was not thinking about 10000 kids when I had 250 shoes made. I was thinking something that seemed very manageable. And that is these 250 kids getting them shoes. But now once we sold and gave away 10000 I left that trip not as excited as I should have been. I left thinking Oh my gosh I cannot let these communities down. They think we are coming back in four months and giving another 10000 pairs of shoes away. So I have got to make sure that I can sell the shoes and frankly I did not know how I was going to do it. We had had some luck with this media and we got some momentum but there was no guarantee that anyone was placing more orders for 10000 shoes. And so I remember I was barely sleeping I was definitely not healthy in terms of the hours I was working. And it was not because I was loving it or it was fun or I was having the high from the joy of the kids. I was literally afraid of having to go back there and be like We do not have any more shoes and we only sold 2000 pairs. So only 20 percent of you get shoes. So fear really was a motivator. And has been in many different chapters in TOMS not because I was afraid of failing as a business I would already done that before with my reality channel. But failing other humans is a much heavier burden to wear especially when they have so little and they are expecting so much. So that is really how fear has been a great motivator for me.  What are two to three books you cannot live without?  The 4-Hour Workweek.  I did give him a 20 earlier.  I did not have the mental toughness to get to The 4-Hour Body. But in all seriousness that book was a huge influence as I said before which I am super grateful for. I would say the books that have had the biggest impact on me in the last few years. One of them is called The Art of Power by a Vietnamese Buddhist monk named Thich Nhat Hanh. And the great thing about it is it talks about the  when he is talking about The Art of Power it is definitely not the way we think of power in the West. But really the power of mindfulness and really of being able to be present in the moment in everything that you are doing. And I found that that book which I have read multiple times now is that a huge huge huge influence on just how I try to approach my day my business parenting my marriage everything. So I highly recommend that book if you have not read it. Meditations we talked about earlier.  Marcus Aurelius.  Marcus Aurelius is another really really great one. I think depending on where you are in your journey I think both of Howard Schultz's books are amazing for entrepreneurs. His first book was called Pour Your Heart Into It it is the early story of Starbucks and how it was created. And I think it really illustrates a lot of amazing things that entrepreneurs can learn from. And then his second book which was a really important book for me to read at a point in which I actually left the business for a while and then came back to it was called Onward. And that was about some of the struggles that Starbucks went through and how they rebuilt the culture in the company in the last 10 years. And so I am really thankful that Howard was so vulnerable and open with that book because I think it answered a lot of questions I was having at the time as well. So those are a couple of good ones that I would recommend.  And note on Thich Nhat Hanh the Vietnamese Buddhist monk he was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Really fascinating guy. And his first book which was like Meditations in the sense that it was not intended to be a book called I believe it is Peace Is Every Step.  Peace Is Every Step yeah.  It is fantastic. It was actually a guide intended to be given to new monks and visitors to his center in I guess it was at the time perhaps it was in Vietnam. He is   It is in France.  It is in France right. Fantastic fantastic book.  Oh one more just because we are in California. And it is someone I have also looked up and learned a lot from is and it just came out with the I think maybe the 10 or 20th year anniversary version is Yvon Chouinard who started Patagonia Let My People Go Surfing.  Great book.  It is a fantastic book about company culture. It also shares some really tough times in the Patagonia ups and downs that I learned a lot from. And also I think it was interesting because when he wrote the book 10 years ago it was the beginning of internet sales. And it really shows how they did not risk their business by having too much of their sales in one place. They have a wholesale business they have retail stores they have online they have a catalog. And that is something that we have done with TOMS over the years is to move away from just online to now wholesale and now we are spending a lot of our energy building our own retail stores.  This next one is if you lost everything today what would you be thankful for?  Well the truth is it is impossible for me to lose everything today. Because everything that I have has very little to do with what I have materially. The experiences that I have the memories I have the friends the family that is what I have. And that literally cannot be taken away. And no one's really asked me a question but I could respond that quickly because that is immediately what I think about when I think of the greatest memories and moments in my life. And that is why this has been so much fun is I am getting to go down memory lane. And those are memories that even if the business blew up tomorrow I would still have those memories.  Have your experiences let us just say at TOMS but it could be across the board  and I also want to highlight one thing for folks which we  well I glossed over there. I did not dig into. So you mentioned all these businesses that seemed to have nothing to do with one another but what are the meta skills that you are developing? You are learning to negotiate you are learning how to attract and manage talent. You are learning how to mitigate or evaluate risk. So even though the businesses the industries seem totally unrelated the skills he is developing do carry from one to the next. They are not domain specific. So how have your business experiences affected how you parent?  Yeah. I am really glad you asked this question because it is something that I have a lot of personal energy around right now. One of the big things is me and my wife have is a monthly calendar date. I say date it is really not a date sometimes a battle. But it usually ends pretty good because we drink enough wine to like   Smoothen the edges.   compromise yeah. But the calendar is king. If you have a busy life if you are driving hard and work and family the calendar is the king because we put things on the calendar they stick. That is our thing. And so we make sure if I want to say my goal right now is to spend either two mornings or two afternoons every week at home with our son just me and him. Not with my wife. Just we either take him on a hike in the backpack take him to the beach just play in his room whatever. But that is my goal. And it will never ever happen if it is a goal in my journal. It will only happen if in my case my wife my assistant and I all put it on the calendar. Because if it is on the calendar you are accountable to it. She is like You put this no meetings and then nothing is scheduled. So for me the way that we do it is very much focusing on booking things and scheduling even little things which might seem ridiculous. You put play with your son on the calendar that could seem  they could come off like really I do not know just off putting. But the truth is if it is on the calendar it happens. And even if that seems ridiculous as long as it happens that is what is the most important thing. Yeah. And that is also beyond just time with my son. One thing that I have always had is a lot of hobbies. I love to surf I love to snowboard I like to fly fish I have lots of friends that like these hobbies we climb together in the summer. And so it is the same thing. Just as I am planning that business trip to Asia to do a press tour because we have opened in a lot of stores there. If I am going to give two weeks to that I am also going to make sure I am giving two weeks to doing stuff with my buddies and making sure I stay connected to them. Because one thing you find as we get older and especially unfortunately this happens more with men I think than women is we really lose touch with our guy friends. We focus on our family. We focus on our jobs. And that is one of my dad has always said one of his biggest regrets is he is had this amazing life. He focused so much time on his family in his jobs and my mom that he did not  when he got older in his 40s and 50s he looked around and he did not have guys to really depend on. And so that is another thing that I have always since learning from my dad that have placed an importance on. It did not have to be a lot of time but it has to be quality when you do it. And that usually comes from once again scheduling it on the calendar.  Yeah. If it is not on the calendar it is not real.  Yeah.  For sure. If you had a gigantic billboard or a side of a building and you could put any message on it meaning getting it out to a lot of people what would you put up there?  It is the easiest question you have asked because it is something that has been  it is really been my mantra since I was 19 years old. And that is Carpe diem. Seize the day. Because we have very little control whether we will be on this planet tomorrow. I could die in a fatal car crash on the way home and that is it. And so if I do not literally live every day as if it might be my last then I am not doing a service to the life I have been given. And unfortunately that became my mantra after one of my best friends died in a plane crash when I was 18. And I realized I could do nothing to get him back but I could honor his life by living every day if it was going to be my last. And so every email you have ever received from me there is never a yours or a thank you or truly I signed every email every letter carpe diem and I have since I was 19. And some people that do not know me feel like that is a little cheesy that is a little too optimistic that is a little too much to think of like seizing every day. But I believe that is the mantra that has served me so well because I have committed my life to doing that. If I do that then I am giving the most I can to what I have been given.  Ladies and gentlemen Blake Mycoskie.  Thanks. Interview with Blake Mycoskie on Fearless with Tim Ferriss Illustration via 99designs A master in the art of living draws no sharp distinction between his work and his play his labor and his leisure his mind and his body his education and his recreation. He hardly knows which is which. He simply pursues his vision of excellence through whatever You cannot lose everything when what you care about are the people and the memories you have. - Blake Mycoskie This episode of the podcast features Blake Mycoskie . Blake is the Founder and Chief Shoe Giver of TOMS and the person behind the One for One business model which   