 Correct.  So once you are up to speed on that this one will make a lot more sense but we are going to get right into not what is crypto or what is Bitcoin we are going to get into what is Ethereum. So how do you describe it today Vitalik?  Sure. So the one-sentence explanation of Ethereum that I sometimes give is it is a general-purpose blockchain. So this of course makes more sense if you already know what a blockchain is. Right? It is this decentralized network of many different computers that are together maintaining this kind of ledger or let us say database together. And different participants have very particular ways of plugging into that. They can sense transactions that do very particular things but no one can tamper with the system in a way that is outside of the rules. And Ethereum expands on the Bitcoin approach basically saying well instead of having rules that are designed around supporting one application we are going to make something more general purpose where people can just build their own applications and the rules for whatever applications they built can be executed implemented on the Ethereum platform. So one explanation that I heard one person give is that Bitcoin is like a spreadsheet where everyone only controls their own five squares of the spreadsheet but Ethereum is a spreadsheet with macros. So everyone controls their own accounts which is their own little piece of this universe but then these pieces of the universe can have code and they can interact with each other according to pre-programmed rules. And you can build a lot of things on top of that like Bitcoin builds a monetary system on top famously Ethereum can build decentralized domain name systems again various decentralized financial contraptions prediction markets non fungible tokens and all different schemes that people have been coming up with. The limit for what you build is basically your own creativity but the core difference between building an application on Ethereum versus building it on some traditional centralized platform is this core idea that once you build your application the application does not need to depend on you or any other single person for its continued existence. And the application is guaranteed to continue running according to the rules that were specified and you do not have any ability to irregularly go in and tamper with it.  That is a great overview. And I liked that Excel analogy of it is a spreadsheet with macros instead of a spreadsheet where you control your own cells. I will also try and articulate in a few ways that I understand it around the edges because I think Ethereum is one of those things that is now quite a bit bigger than you. It probably has evolved in ways that even you did not fully anticipate. So in some sense we are discovering Ethereum and no longer just building it. I also like to think of it as an unstoppable application platform. So a platform for building unstoppable applications like a world computer where let us say that we want to run very very important computer programs where we do not trust the computer itself and we do not trust the other people to execute code on our behalf. Then we create a single world computer where we check the code on the machines of many many different people all around the world who are properly incentivized to maintain a single computing state. So if Bitcoin is a shared ledger then Ethereum is a shared computer for the entire world to run its most important applications. So some of the applications that people are building on it are among possibly the most important applications of the future. So let us talk a little bit about those applications about what this trustless world computer is doing. What are the applications today that are the most common and that you are most excited about?  So first of all I think ETH the asset is a cryptocurrency and in itself is an application and the first application of Ethereum. Going beyond financial things a bit I mentioned ENS the Ethereum Name System. So ENS you can think of it as a decentralized name system. For example when you go to ethereum.org there is DNS Domain Name System which has this big table that maintains this mapping of well if a person enters if you are on .com the server they actually have to talk to it to talk to the website like some particular IP address. And this DNS system that maintains this public relationship is a fairly centralized system with a very small number of servers running it. So ENS is a fully decentralized alternative that is running on the Ethereum blockchain. And you could use it not just for websites right? Like you can use it just for accounts. So for example there was a messaging service called Status. In terms of what it feels like to use it it is a messenger it is similar to Telegram or Signal or WhatsApp or any of those but the difference is that it is decentralized. And so there is no dependence on any single server or like there is still a dependence on Status the company which is nice because it makes the whole thing much more censorship-resistant. It makes the whole thing just a much more guaranteed to survive regardless of what forces wish for its existence or wish against its existence in the future. And the like ENS this is really an important part of it because well if you have a chat application I need to have sub name by which I can refer to  like the users that I want to talk to. Right? Like I wanted so I could type in and say I wanted to talk to the Naval and things like Telegram and Signal and WhatsApp that mapping is generally like basically authenticated and controlled by a server. But whereas in Status it is all just done by the Ethereum blockchain. Right. So that is one good example. I think of it like not financial but still very important if you are in an application. Now going beyond those two cases there is a lot of more complicated things. So there is the DeFi decentralized finance space which is this big category that has all sorts of interesting contraptions in it. So for example there is a prediction market. So a platform for where you can go in bet on different outcomes like who is going to win some sports game or who is going to win some particular election. And there have been very successful prediction markets running on the Ethereum blockchain. There is just the markets for trading between different kinds of assets. There is what is called synthetic assets. So if you want to have access to some mainstream real-world asset like it is all or it could be one example but you do not have to tell us. There is lots of other examples as well. There are versions of this that are purely virtual sort of simulated versions that exist purely within the Ethereum environments. So now there is this entire kind of a very powerful financial tool kit that exists within the Ethereum ecosystem. On the whole there is just a lot of these interesting things that happen. I mean there is even games that are based on Ethereum. There is a whole bunch of different things.  Yeah. And DeFi decentralized finance is this gigantic new category in which entire companies and protocols are being built in a decentralized way that allow you to do a lot of things that would have required Wall Street along with bankers and judges and lawyers and accountants to handle. But now is done through smart contracts that are living on the Ethereum blockchain. And these smart contracts are at the core of the Ethereum blockchain. And we talked about these in the Nick Szabo podcast but he famously described it as like an automated vending machine is an example of a smart contract where you put in money in a certain slot and there is a certain set of rules and you press certain buttons and you get certain products in exchange. But these smart contracts obviously now are getting far far more complicated can actually be used not just to compose financial applications but even applications that we do not normally think of as financial. One way to think about it for those of you who are into computer programming is imagine if every piece of a program every function had an address from which anyone in the world could reach it a unique identifier address. And it had a slot into which you could insert money. So you could call any function wherever it is in the world. You could insert money into it and it would do something on your behalf. And so that gives Ethereum applications this very interesting property called composability where you can use them almost like LEGO blocks each one builds on the rest. And so the final product in DeFi ends up very very advanced. In the traditional world when let us say like Robinhood builds their application and then Schwab builds another application and Wisdom Tree builds a mutual fund or an ETF. Those cannot combine with each other but in the Ethereum world of DeFi all of these apps by default are open source permissionless programmable and can connect right into each other. They can be identified called and paid for in a permissionless trustless kind of way. So the infrastructure that gets built in DeFi and Ethereum although it is very difficult to build and it is complex once a piece is built it is available to everybody and stacks onto each other almost to create one of those Japanese-style Voltron robots that just gains in power. Yeah.  May I? Naval let me jump in here just as a proxy. I am not even a proxy. I am a listener literally in this case and I am happy to be the listener. So I am both a proxy and an actual listener but how does one think about intellectual property if all of these otherwise separate or previously separate applications and so on are now LEGO pieces that are natively interconnected? Is that a silly question? I am just wondering if   No it is a really good question. I mean my high-level view on it is that what blockchains do is through consensus they protect the data. So the users own their own private data and then the public data that is needed to make the blockchain work. It is integrity is protected by the blockchain and that is what blockchains do. They get a whole bunch of people to cooperate on what the canonical output should be. But the code itself is completely open. It is kind of backwards to what we are used to. We are used to closed source companies capturing value but here all the value is created by open source. But yeah Vitalik I am sure has a different view on this but there is lots of copycats and clones and there is attacks and forks and so on. And it is a wild west out there but generally so far it does seem like the original products and the best products are succeeding the best. And they are always in the scoreboard of market cap and transactions and usage but yeah it is a wild west out there.  Yeah I know and I think like the blockchain environment is definitely one that operates under somewhat different rules than the traditional environments right? Like just one example of this is the idea of forking right? So the one story that happens at around the beginning of last year that I just love to tell because of how it combines together with the values of the space so nicely is there was this platform called Steem and In Steem there is Steem the platform and then there is Steem the company right? And Steem was its own blockchain and Steem the company they did have some Steemit tokens but they did not have the right to just do whatever they want with this Steem of the platform because it was a decentralized thing but they had some tokens and then Steem the platform had a voting mechanism as holders of Steem tokens could vote on changes. But then the Steem the company got bought out by Justin Sun the infamous Tron person and Justin Sun like basically started to do some things to increase his control over the Steem platform. The community was very unhappy with him. And then he even took advantage of some of the voting mechanisms and some coins held at exchanges to seize control of at least the formal rules of the platform even further. But then what happened was that the users rebelled right? What the users said is Well we are creating a new platform called Hive and Hive is just a fork of Steem it is going to have a start with the same  or mostly the same rules as Steem. And we are either going to copy over most of the balances of the Steem tokens except if you participated in the attack then your balance goes to zero within the new fork. And most of the users basically collectively just moved over to this new fork. And Justin Sun had this full control of an empire but then nobody cared about that empire anymore because everyone now cared about Hive right? So like forking is this  that exists. And because of it you do have this ability for just community is to exert collective agency and basically protect themselves from being exploited. But at the same time if you as a project team are good to your community then like those same effects work in your favor right? So those effects work in your favor because a community is willing to support your project. If someone makes a copycat then generally very few people are willing to support and provide any assistance to that copycat project unless of course you do something to betray the community's trust in which case you know that  like those kinds of situations are the situations that the copycat is for. So I think legitimate developers have plenty of ability to build projects to gain from those projects becoming successful. And there is a lot of ways in which the crypto space does end up assuring that. But at the same time it is also not in environments where anyone's level of control is infinite. And in some ways that is the other beautiful thing about the space.  Yeah. Vitalik had this great line in his blog where he said we wanted digital nations but we got digital nationalism. And there is a lot of truth in that. But basically these are like digital nations. And one of the analogies that I use for DeFi is that these are like crypto castles made of math that are freely trading with each other. Just imagine people are building applications on top of Ethereum they are protected by mathematics those are the walls and those castles and their moats which are rivers of cryptography. But then they have free trade policy with each other. So that creates a lot of innovation but if one of them starts misbehaving then its people can leave and go to the next crypto castle or this is where the analogy breaks down. They can actually replicate it just create a copy and move to that one like in the Steem and Hive example.  Well that also is  I mean it has comparables outside of the world of blockchain and cryptography in so much as if we look at say WordPress as an open source project you have companies like Automattic and Matt Mullenweg. And people may notice that M A T T in the middle of Automattic which layers then these for-profit services on top of an open source platform. And technically someone could create a competitor but like you said there are these questions of viability value add and moral leadership and so on. Right. So there are certain elements that contribute to the Ethereum ecosystem so to speak that you can perhaps compare to other things to help educate people as well. I was just sort of connecting some of those dots.  Yeah well that is a good analogy with WordPress. The place where the analogies diverge is that WordPress is a single-player game. Like each person owns their own blog whereas in Ethereum world you could use Ethereum to build a Twitter that everybody owns and it requires social consensus to operate but multiple people can put their data in. So it is this really weird thing where it is decentralized it is open source but it is still used to coordinate and bring people together. Blockchains combine this really weird combo of individualism and individual control and the ability to leave along with consensus and community and cooperation and build this giant public good. So it is its own thing. It is hard to figure out but it is worth figuring out because this is the next phase of the internet after mobile.  Yeah. Let me  if I could jump in just to be the kid in the back of the class asking questions. I would love to hear from you Vitalik what was the initial vision for Ethereum? And what has most surprised you if anything. I was doing a bit of reading just on the genesis story. And first of all I mean maybe separately maybe for another conversation it seems like a lot was done right in the beginning. And I was reading a quote from a Wired piece in 2016 and please feel free to fact check if it is not accurate but it says When I came up with Ethereum my first first thought was okay this thing is too good to be true and I am going to have five professional cryptographers raining down on me and telling me how stupid I am for not seeing a bunch of very obvious flaws but  two weeks later I was extremely surprised that none of that happened. As it turned out the core Ethereum idea was good fundamentally completely sound. So I would love to hear what the core idea was. Maybe we have already stated it and it is redundant but the initial vision and if anything has been really surprising to you that has transpired since those early days.  So I think the core idea is to make a general purpose blockchain and to open the gates for people to build what they want to build on top of it right? Like the background story for when Ethereum was starting to be formed was that this was just the time when the idea of a blockchain beyond Bitcoin was just starting to gain legitimacy. And people were just starting to realize that there are these applications for blockchains other than just running a currency and in the end would be nice to build a platform that can actually support them. And so at the beginning right you had single purpose blockchains you had Bitcoin for currency you had Namecoin for domain names. You would have like single purpose protocols like colored coins for issuing assets. The second step is what I call the Swiss Army knife protocols. So a Swiss Army knife protocol basically says well here's a list of 25 different applications that we have identified as being important and let us build a blockchain to support all of them. So like Mastercoin was one example of what I call the Swiss Army knife protocol. And the problem with Swiss Army knife protocol is that two weeks later some 14-year-old teenager in Finland comes up with a 26th application and then you have to go hard-fork the protocol. So the next natural step is this general purpose approach where instead if you are a blockchain supporting 25 applications your blockchain supports a programming language and whatever system with whatever rules you want to build you write that in a piece of code and the nodes in the network can all execute the code. And so the network kind of helps to collaboratively enforce the rules of this code for the objects that are in your particular application. So that was the technical perspective. And then there was also the perspective of well what did I envision people building on top of it? It is actually surprising how it has not changed that much. I remember some of the very earliest applications included financial gadgets. So contracts for difference for one example of which is one very particular subset of the thing that today we call it DeFi decentralized file storage like pay people to store a gigabyte of your data was one thing I was excited about. Decentralized name systems was excited about those decentralized trading between different assets. A lot of the examples of just things that people wanted to do in the  or with blockchains at the time like they are just the same as what people are doing today though there are also new applications right? So like non fungible tokens that I briefly mentioned NFTs. The idea here is basically you just create a token that represents something other than a financial asset. One example of this could be that an NFT can represent video game assets and NFT could represent like a digital work of art where you want to sell like basically bragging rights as being the original owner of it. And there is a lot of these different use cases. And these right now the NFT ecosystem has been extremely successful. About a week ago there was a Nyan cat NFT that got sold for the equivalent of about 580000. And so that is an example of a new thing. Another example of an old thing is that DAOs decentralized autonomous organizations. And so the idea here is well let us build an organization where the rules for the decision-making in that organization the equivalent of shareholder or a board voting or whatever he wants to use get just be written as rules in a smart contract. And then the program that executes those rules can be directly in control of whatever assets the organization is supposed to control. And we have seen a couple of examples of simple DAOs in action. MakerDAO which maintains DAI the stable coin that algorithmically targets a price of 1 is one example. Now there is also RAI. There is a lot of examples of this. So a lot of things that we expected from the beginning. Prediction markets some also have been part of what we were excited about using blockchains for since 2014 and they are still around today. So a lot of old things and also some new things as well.  Thank you. Extremely helpful.  Yeah. I mean yeah some of the ones that Vitalik just laid out like I think your recent guest Katie Haun mentioned NFTs as Nifties is what she called it.  Oh no I did because I wanted to try to force that into the lexicon!  Got it! Okay. Well you won. It stuck. So Nifties are this crazy idea that like owning a digital copy of something and having your name stamp to it somehow gives it more value but it seems to work. It works with collectible trading cards. It seems to work with digital art. And then because of the composability of the Ethereum infrastructure you can reuse these Nifty items across different games different museums different virtual worlds. And so you own it in one place and you own it everywhere which is a very powerful concept. So digital scarcity was born with Bitcoin but now extending into things that are not fungible that are not exchangeable with each other. And that is been frankly for me a surprising thing that has emerged in Ethereum. Ethereum it is funny because you are asking Vitalik like what did he expect and what did he not expect? I remember when Ethereum first launched that a lot of computer scientists I spoke with privately said it would never work because it is this crazy idea that the way we are going to get a trusted computer in the cloud is we will each run a copy of all the computations on all of our computers and then we will sync it up and make sure it matches. So that is the recipe for building the slowest computer in the world. But somehow we have gotten away with it. And so I think the big debate now about Ethereum has shifted from will it work to will it scale. And when I talked to my friends in the crypto community and say Hey what do you want me to ask Vitalik? They send me a list of many many questions but the center piece is always the same. And like how the heck is this thing going to scale? And I would like to get in that conversation that is a more complicated conversation. It is technically sophisticated but basically we are saying Hey we are going to have one giant mainframe computer in the cloud running everyone's applications so that we can all trust the computer instead of trusting each other. But how is that going to scale? Is not that going to be the slowest computer of all time? And so now we are in a situation where Ethereum it is actually cleverly named it runs on so-called gas and there is a limited amount of gas per block in the Ethereum blockchain. And frankly the gas the price of gas has gone up. These decentralized finance applications they can be very lucrative. They are trading large amounts of money and people are eager to use them but the price of each of these transactions is going up. I was trying to do a small DeFi transaction the other day and it was a hundred dollar transaction and the price was 25 just to execute the transaction. And that is a very very high transaction fee. And I know Vitalik's crew have been working for years on the Ethereum 2 project to bring that cost down. By the way as an aside that is one place where Ethereum really differs from Bitcoin. Bitcoin is saying we are digital gold this thing is immutable do not change it. And the fights in the past have been about changing Bitcoin or not there was a big famous schism over that. But now with Ethereum the question is  the philosophy is we do change it. We do improve it. We do make it better but in the process there is a greater chance that things can go wrong that it can break. So now we are entering Ethereum 2 which is the scalable version of Ethereum. So Vitalik you want to give us a quick overview of Ethereum 2 at a very high level and then we can dig into the pieces.  Sure. So I think one other thing that is important to add just to give a complete picture of scaling is that there is these two families of scaling layer 1 scaling and layer 2 scaling where layer 1 scaling basically says well let us make the blockchain itself better. And the layer 2 scaling says well let us come up with protocols that sit on top of the blockchain and that use the blockchain in more clever ways to provide the same kinds of security guarantees that a blockchain has but that provide a much more scalability because you are not just kind of doubly sticking like literally everything and doing everything on a blockchain directly. And so like Bitcoin for example especially after the scaling war is focused exclusively on layer 2 right? Whereas like say Bitcoin Cash is very layer 1 focused.So   And this is a classic thing in computing. Like say so for example when I go to a website the Domain Name System is at a different layer the DNS servers and then the HTTP servers serve up the webpage or another layer on top. And then there is a caching layer where some of the data might be kept closer to me. And then on my own computers where I run the JavaScript because I do not want to run that JavaScript way back on the HTTP server or the DNS server. So there is a long rich history in computing of stacking layers upon layers. As you get closer to the point of the user that is the point at which you use more compute and you execute more and more of the code. So basically the idea here is decentralize only what you need to decentralize. And so Ethereum is going to split into or it is going to have multiple layers. And I think what you are saying is layer 1 is really Ethereum and that is the least scalable part but that is where the security comes in. And layer 2 is where the code is run. And that has different properties which you are going to get into.  Right. Well the way that I would describe it is like in comparison to Bitcoin which is very layer 2 focused and Bitcoin Cash which is very layer 1 focused. Ethereum takes a moderate approach. So we do both kinds of scaling right? So there is the Eth2 effort which you mentioned which  it is layer 1 scaling right? Is basically saying well we are going to make this big upgrade of the Ethereum blockchain and we are going to move it from a proof-of-work to a proof-of-stake where proof-of-work is this current consensus mechanism that keeps the blockchain secure that broadens on having a large number of computers just constantly cranking out these kind of mathematical hash solutions and it is 247 and proof-of-stake is a much more energy efficient alternative. There is also sharding which is a layer 1 scaling solution that says that instead of every node in the network having to download and process everything every node in the network only has to download and process a small portion of all of the data. And the blockchain protocol is designed in a clever way that still ensures sign of safety despite having that constraint. So think of it as combining at least some of the advantages of a Bitcoin-style blockchain in BitTorrent. BitTorrent is very layer 1 scaled. Like there is there is nobody who downloads every movie or even like an index of every movie.  Yeah. So before we get to layer 2 so layer 1 is you are saying is proof-of-stake which is moving from proof-of-work to proof-of-stake and sharding which is breaking it into pieces and having different pieces do different things and then try to reconcile them. On the proof-of-stake side I mean that itself is a whole big debate that could take up the entire podcast.  So the proof-of-work I am familiar with proof-of-stake could we just define what that means?  The core idea basically is that in any decentralized consensus system where you do not have a central registry that keeps track of who the different humans are you need some way for people to basically vote on which blocks got and which transactions got included in the network. And you need for that vote to be secure against what is called a sybil attack. A sybil attack is when one attacker just pretends to have one million different accounts. And normally in Reddit and Google accounts and Twitter and all of these centralized systems this is done using centralized mechanisms right? They sometimes require a phone number verification and then phone numbers themselves often end up having some KYC on top of them. There is various AI techniques to try to detect bots but in a decentralized system we do not have this set of centralized registry of who gets to be an actual user. And we do not want to have that. And so to prevent this sybil attack right? To prevent one person from just generating a billion accounts and outvoting everyone else the solution is economics right? The solution is basically that the extent to which you can vote on just this very limited question of which transactions get included in what order is proportional to how many economic resources you put in. So in the case of proof-of-work those economic resources come in the form of computing and hardware that you are running right? When you are running this mining software on your computer you are cranking out these hash solutions. Every hash solution gives you the right to generate a block. And the number of hash solutions that you can generate is proportional to how many computers you put in. In proof-of-stake it works a little differently but the core principle is that your ability to participate in creating the outcome is proportional to how many coins that are in the system that you are staking. And so the reason why proof-of-stake is efficient is because in proof-of-work the way that you basically prove that you have a computer to the system is by just running the software on that computer 247 and generating half solutions right? That is the only way to safely do it because if you did not have to run the computer 247 if you only have to run it 127 well then you could have one computer that just pretends to be two different computers. But with proof-of-stake if you have coins those coins are saved in an account. That account has an associated public and private key and you can just make a digital signature with the private key. So you do not have to run any computer for longer than a few milliseconds. And that is the core principle.  Yeah. I will say this is extremely helpful. Thank you.  Yeah. This is beyond the scope of this podcast but it is actually hotly debated how much more efficient proof-of-stake is because there is also these blockchains they have to issue coins in exchange for the security to the so-called miners or validators in the case of proof-of-stake and people will spend a dollar to get a dollar so to speak. If you are giving out free coins on the blockchain and then people are going to hustle in any which way possible. And in proof-of-work they will do it by buying more computing equipment to run more hashes to get the new coins coming out. In proof-of-stake they will have to lock up funds or they will have to obtain funds to do it and there is a cost to doing that to obtaining those funds. So there is no real free lunch but there are arguments for efficiency with proof-of-stake especially as you get to securing very large amounts. So in any case   Yeah the way that I would just briefly summarize the proof-of-stake case there is that proof-of-stake can actually survive at least in the opinion of proof-of-stake supporters with much lower rewards than a proof-of-work can. And the reason is and because of how proof-of-stake works the ratio between the cost of attacking a system and the cost of just running it becomes more favorable. But this is a long debate. I have written on it. I have a post on vitalik.ca but if you just scroll down to the most recent one called Proof-of-Stake and then proof-of-work proponents have their own posts as well. So I encourage you to read all of them.  So going back to this is all layer 1 scaling switch from proof-of-work to proof-of-stake start sharding the blockchain and this gets you some tens of times improvement like 20 times 25 times improvement   100 times.  100 times. Fantastic. So then there is layer 2 which stacks on top.  Yes. So layer 2 as I mentioned is about creating protocols that we have on top of the blockchain that only use the blockchain in very particular ways. So there is lots of techniques for this right? The simplest layer 2 to explain I think is a very special purpose layer 2 called a payment channel. So the idea behind a payment channel is let us say I am selling you Naval an Internet connection and you are paying me per megabyte. Let us say you are paying me one cent per megabyte. Now if we want to do this over the blockchain the naive way to do it is every time a megabyte of data passes through the connection you would just make an on-chain transaction and you send me one cent. The problem is this requires lots and lots of transactions. And the transaction fees are actually much more expensive than one cent. So it is just completely economically non-viable. So here's what we do instead. You put 10 into a smart contract right? So you send 10 on the blockchain to an address where according to the rules of the Ethereum network once those funds are at that address those funds are controlled not by a human but by a computer program. And that computer program will then have some rules that I will explain later right? So at the beginning you send 10 to this contract. And so far you actually have not made any payments because as I will explain the contract has rules that will allow you to get your money out. Now here's what you do after one megabyte. After we have one megabyte worth of Internet data passing between us you will create an off-chain message and you digitally sign that off-chain message that just has the number one cent just written on it right? So you just write the number one cent and you attach your signature and you send this to me. None of this goes on-chain. Then one more megabyte happens. You write out an additional message that has the number two cents and you digitally sign it. You send it to me. Sometime later every time a megabyte happens you just send me one more of these messages. You keep on incrementing the number. And let us say after a few hours of this in total we have had 347 megabytes worth of communication and you have sent me a message that says 3.47. And you now no longer want to use my Internet. You are signing off for the day and so we are done. So now here's what happens. I can then take your message and your message that says 3.47. I can attach my own signature to it and I can publish it as a transaction going to the smart contract that you have your 10 in. This smart contract has a rule that says if I send one of your off-chain messages I call them tickets. If I send one of your tickets if I wrap one of your tickets in an actual transaction and I actually publish your ticket through the blockchain then whatever amounts of money is on your ticket goes to me and the remainder gets refunded to you right? So I get my 3.47 and you get your 6.53 back. Now it is actually incentive-aligned right? Because I always have the ability to use the most expensive ticket the most recent ticket that you sent me and I do not really have any reason to use one of your older tickets right? So I am always going to pick your later ticket. And so I am always going to claim all of the money that I am owed and you would get your money back. Now if I disappear then after some period of time you have the ability to just to go in and take the money back for yourself right? So the idea is that it is this contraption where in reality you have made payments to me 347 times right? We have had 347 interactions during which the amounts of money that is entitled to me goes up and the amount of money that is entitled to you go down but actually there was only two actual blockchain transactions that are visible to and needs to be processed by the rest of the network. Right? So we make 347 payments but the blockchain only sees two of them. And that is a factor of 178 to improvement there. Right?  Yeah. So if I can summarize this for a second for our listeners. Basically what you are saying is let us say that you and I have a long-lived contract for some service rather than publishing every little aspect of that contract under the Ethereum blockchain and flooding it we go off to the side we do a whole series of transactions but every time we do a transaction each of us stamp it and say Yeah that little piece was done. And we update the transaction between the two of us. And then when we are finished either one of us can go back to the blockchain and submit the record of all the transactions and say Look it is signed by both of us. So this is valid. But either one of us can submit it and the blockchain executes it. So the blockchain only needs to know when we left with how much money staked on this transaction and when we came back and what the total change was. It does not need to keep track of all the intermediate pieces.  Exactly. Yes that is a good summary. Now channels are I think the simplest layer 2 but they are also the least powerful layer 2 right? They can only do payments but they have a hard time doing many kinds of smart contracts and so the channels exist and they are being used for more and more things and there are great but the thing that the Ethereum ecosystem is the most excited about is something called rollups. Now I do not want us to actually go in and fully explain the rollups because they are even more complicated than channels but for those who are interested I do have an article. Once again go to vitalik.ca. Scroll down I think it is called An Incomplete Guide to Rollups. And so I describe channels and also this thing called plasma and then also rollups. And rollups are really powerful because they can support not just payments. They can support the full generality of applications exactly the same applications that you can run directly on the Ethereum blockchain itself. But if you do those things inside of a rollup they become 100 times cheaper. So it is this very powerful scalability technology and see Ethereum community and the Ethereum community loves rollups because they are very easy to upgrade to because if run an application on Ethereum you can just run the exact same application inside of an Ethereum virtual machine compatible rollup of which a couple of projects exist. And actually I think a couple of days ago Optimism are now instead they are going to launch their main fairly soon.  Rollups are fascinating. I have been looking into them a little bit and they are worth learning about. It is basically the idea is just that there is these very complex machines that are not on the blockchain that are off the blockchain that are running the transactions but then they are submitting different kinds of proofs back to the blockchain to say Do not worry this was a valid transaction. And the two different approaches Optimism is optimistic where basically optimistic rollups say We assume people are doing the right thing but we are watching. And if someone commits fraud or makes a mistake then they get punished for that fraud. Whereas there are these zero knowledge-base rollups pioneered by StarkWare and others which are basically saying Hey actually we are going to submit proofs which are much shorter than the actual computation that the computation was done properly. But I think these give together what? Another 100X speed up?  Mm-hmm . Yes.  So if you combine the Eth2 layer 1 speed up and the layer 2 rollup speed up then you get the 10000 times speed up.  Exactly. You are going to get some were over 100000 transactions a second and one other really nice feature of sharding by the way is that it is quadratic right? So if the efficiency of computers increases by a factor of two then you can support twice as many shards and each shard can be twice as large. And so the capacity of the whole system increases by a factor of four right? And so we actually expect that capacity to increase going even far beyond 100000 over the next couple of decades   So is it a stretch to say that sharding increases capacity as a square of Moore's law as opposed to just at Moore's law?  Yes this is the  mm-hmm .  So now if we get to 100000 plus transactions per second that is a lot. I mean to give it a comparable metric. There is about 100000 tweets per second at Twitter during peak times and obviously these transactions are going to be much more sophisticated and or could be much more sophisticated than a single tweet. They can actually be arbitrary computer programs running on the side. So that is quite a bit of scalability. So then I think the question comes up well where is it? A lot of people I know who are building apps on top of ETH have now had to come up with backup plans. There are competitive blockchains that are coming up which trade-off decentralization security for speed. So what they will do is they will say Well we only have 20 validators run by our friends or maybe like 100 people that we know and trust but an exchange is a lot faster. Now we do not have to get consensus from unknown people all over the Internet. We do not need these complicated contraptions and then they can basically run much faster. So a number of projects we are looking at these as backup plans but I know that they do not necessarily want to use these because these are less decentralized. They do not really fully live up to the original promise of blockchains to the same extent. So the real question I think in everybody's minds is is there a timetable for these? Can we reliably target a date for certain kinds of improvements because people are betting their businesses on this.  Great and very important question. So I mean I will start off with the progress of Eth2. So I think it is important to reiterate because I think a lot of people have not fully absorbed this. The Eth2 chain is already running right? So there is already a proof-of-stake chain. It does not yet have sharding but the proof-of-stake system is running. The thing that has not yet happened is the event that we call the merge which is where we basically actually take the existing activity on Ethereum and we fully move it over from the proof-of-work chain to the proof-of-stake chain. And then the proof-of-work changes basically becomes irrelevant from there. The reason why we took this multi-step approach where we first start the proof-of-stake system and then we let both run in parallel for some time and then we merge at the end is just to give proof-of-stake sometime to prove itself before the entire ecosystem is asked to upgrade over. But basically the proof-of-stake thing exists has been stable running ever since the launch and at some point fairly soon we are going to actually go and merge all of the proof-of-work activity onto it. So sharding is also going to happen. And sharding right now there is a spec there is prototypes of parts of it. I will admit that we were actually prioritizing the merge even more than sharding recently. The reason why for this actually has to do with the other thing which is rollups right? The thing to remember is that if you have rollups but you do not have sharding you still have 100X factor scaling right? You still have the ability for the blockchain to go up to somewhere between 1000 and 4000 transactions a second depending on how complex these transactions are. And so with rollups as I mentioned the optimism fully EVM capable rollup is likely to launch an initial being that release in around a month or so. There is also a project called Arbitrum which has also an EVM capable rollup. There was actually simpler rollups that are only capable of processing simple transactions that are exchanging between assets unlike Loopring and zkSync. And those rollups have already been running stably for about a year right? So rollups are not even theory. They have been a practical part of even  a scalability of Ethereum for a few users for almost a year. And the thing that is left is basically taking that same model and just fully extending it to not just support transactions but also arbitrary applications. Right? So rollups are coming very soon and we are fully confident that by the time that we need any more scaling of that sharding will have already been ready for a long time by then.  So you are basically saying fully very confident that something like an Optimism or a ZK based rollup will be solving a 100X scalability problem within the next few months.  Yeah I think so. I mean I think there is definitely a lot of people who are not going to be comfortable moving over just because it is new technology and new technology always has risks but I expect there there'ill be plenty of applications. I mean possibly even nonfinancial applications like the Nifties and domain names and so forth to start off just because the risks are lower if things do break and then creeping up to higher and higher value things as people become more comfortable over time.  So do you think that Ethereum could have a scaling schism like Bitcoin did? Bitcoin split famously into Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash or the block size debate a few years back which is all around scaling and some people were saying Bitcoin should be digital cash and so therefore it needs these big blocks and it needs to handle more transactions. And other people said no no Bitcoin is a Swiss bank account. It is digital gold and it needs to be secure. And lots of small nodes have to be able to run it. So we care more about security than we do about handling small transactions and the small block people won. And so Bitcoin forked. And now of course what we call Bitcoin is a small block Bitcoin that won that debate. Do you think that there is a possibility that some miners and people will stay on Eth1 instead of Eth2?  I think so except I do think that the risks are much lower. A big part of the reason why is because we have been very open about proof-of-stake and sharding being the vision of basically from the first day. And I mean Ethereum did already have this schism right? Of Ethereum and Ethereum Classic. And a lot of the proof-of-work proponents did actually move over to Ethereum Classic already because they recognize that Ethereum Classic community and ideology was one that is more aligned with that continuing proof-of-work forever. And so why stay on the chain where the core developers and lots of people are eagerly expecting a proof-of-stake change if you can just move on to a platform already that accepts your values? So I think that was one of the factors that did actually end up making the Eth2 transition a bit more secure. Another thing also is that I do not really think there is a deep schism of ideologies within Ethereum in the way that there was in Bitcoin right? I think in Ethereum everyone is roughly on board with the idea that you have some layer 1 scaling and you have some layer 2 scaling. There are some longer term disagreements like Justin Drake one of our researchers for example is much more into making layer 1 more powerful whereas I am more in favor of a simpler layer 1 and having layer 2 do more things. But that is not an extremely deep and fundamental disagreement. Either approach is going to have lots of scalability and it is going to deliver great environments for Ethereum users.  So that is interesting. You do not even really run Ethereum. You have disagreements with developers and they could even change it in a way that you do not like. Has that happened yet? Has there been a case where something has been implemented into Ethereum that the community or the other developers wanted which you disagreed with?  There is definitely been changes that I have wanted to push forward that I gave up on fairly quickly because there were not enough core developers or the community ended up disagreeing on them. There is been changes that were pushed forward by some people who are not myself. And then where I just kept completely silent. So block reward decreases for example I was completely silent or mostly silent. ProgPow was mostly silent. It was obvious that the ProgPower side was losing. Things that I was trying to push forward. I mean those are harder to find just because I tend to just naturally understand what the community would accept and I do not really try to push things that I do not think would be successful. I mean there is some minutia around scaling strategies and statelessness and state management strategies where myself and some other core developers have some different opinions. And so there is a lot of back and forth where we try to satisfy each other's concerns.  Yeah. My sense from afar is you are more coordinating than dictating and you are doing what? Are you running the Ethereum Foundation? Is there an organization you are a part of? Or are you just a roving individual with a laptop and a few friends who just writes blog posts and submits proposals?  Some of both. And I do the proposal submitting I do some writing proof of concepts and in Python I do some trying to coordinate people. The Ethereum Foundation as an organization exists. So the executive director of that is Aya Miyaguchi. She has been doing a lot of the logistical things for about the past three years and has done an amazing job. And I ended up coordinating and working with her quite a lot on various things. But even the Ethereum Foundation it has an important role because it has this large pool of capital and this high level of public legitimacy but it is not nearly the only organization within Ethereum right? There is a lot of proposals that got initiated on the outside. There was a lot of proposals that got a really huge amount of community support coming from the outside. Even organizations other than the Ethereum Foundation that have a lot of resources within the Ethereum ecosystem. So for example for the first few years ConsenSys did quite a lot and ConsenSys is still doing a lot but now there is also Uniswap whose treasury has just grown a huge amount and they are even wealthier than the Ethereum Foundation is. So and I think in practice it does end up being this loose collaborative effort between a lot of different groups.  So Uniswap is interesting. Uniswap is for those of you do not know it is an application built on top of Ethereum but it has its own token. And it is one of the first automated market makers and decentralized platform for exchanging cryptocurrencies with each other without having to use a centralized authority like a Coinbase or a Gemini or a CoinList instead you just go on to Uniswap and it is a smart contract. It is not owned or run by anybody except the community and a few developers and there is a token associated with it but you can just automatically trade with this smart contract to turn say your Ethereum into a stable coin to get the equivalent of dollars or back. And so this shows how the Ethereum ecosystem is very different than the Bitcoin ecosystem. In the Bitcoin ecosystem there is only one coin there is Bitcoin. And they do not really tolerate other tokens in their orbit. Whereas with Ethereum you have a lot of other tokens in the orbit and you will see blockchains that are competing with Ethereum that are making different trade-offs and whether it is FLO or AVA or NEO or whatever there is a whole bunch of those. But then there is also people who are built on top of you like Balancer and Curve and Uniswap and whatnot. And so what is your view on all these other tokens? How many tokens are they going to be? How do you determine which one makes sense and which one does not and do other blockchains make sense at layer 1 or should other tokens only merge at layer 2 now that Ethereum exists?  No this is definitely a very important topic. Tokens are one of those things that is really like playing with fire right? On the other hand fire is crucial to human civilization but on the other hand fire is very evil. It can burn up your family if you are not careful. So the thing with tokens right is that the crypto is space is not the only space that tried to build decentralized things right? There were a lot of decentralized projects that are outside the crypto space like Diaspora the decentralized alternative to Facebook that people tried to build around 2010 is one good example. But the challenge with this pre-blockchain or non-blockchain decentralization or crypto is that it is harder to align the incentives and motivate people to actually want to participate in building and growing the community at a large scale. You can get idealists but the problem with idealism is that idealism is not very socially scalable. And so cryptocurrency on the other hand can appeal to universal values right? Where the real universal value is getting rich for a lot of people.  And it seems with ETH you have been a bit of both. You have got a bit of both.  Exactly.  You have got people who have ETH to getting rich and then there is also a movement.  Right. Exactly. And I think that balance is important right? I think the failure of a lot of non-blockchain crypto shows the inability to do things at scale without that financial incentive. But at the same time a lot of the more at least in my opinion a moral project within crypto that just care about the pump and the volume and getting a powerful and expensive token that they can get rich off of. Those projects end up not really doing well in the long term either. Right? And there have been plenty of projects where just VC funds gave hundreds of millions of dollars of capital to them but the reality is that hundreds of millions of dollars of capital just cannot buy you a soul. Right? And so I think a lot of people end up stumbling and falling on that to some extent. So crypto yeah.  I was going to say I think some of that is just driven by the pre-mine phenomenon where Bitcoin had a so-called fair launch although you can debate how fair it was but how fair the distribution is today. But everyone started mining at the same time or everyone who was aware of it. Whereas a lot of coins that have come subsequently the team has a pre-mine where they get a bunch of the coin in advance. And as the amount of the pre-mine goes up and the competition moves from hey let us mine as much Bitcoin as possible to hey let us just create the winning blockchain and then get the big pre-mine. So it is just move the competition from mining to creating or forking. So it is almost inevitable once pre-mines became a little bit accepted that there would be so many different blockchains.  Yeah no I think that is definitely fair too. Ethereum once again that is fairly moderate there. There was a pre-mine but no the pre-mine was only about 12 percent actually about 10 percent of the total supply. And people did have the opportunity to mine or to get by in the sale. And so a lot of people had the opportunity to become part of the ecosystem. But I do think that the less monetary the movement aspect of this is important right? If you will just go to CoinMarketCap and you will look at some of the top 10 coins other than say Bitcoin and Ethereum you cannot always give a good answer for what values does that token represent. Whereas for Bitcoin you can for Ethereum you can for ZCash for example I think you can. So I think that there definitely is this complicated balance between different factors. Basically the coin can help but too much emphasis on just a coin can hurt. And it is challenging. I think Uniswap actually did really well with their coin because on the one hand you could criticize and say Oh this was only just a measure. That it was reactionary. That it was reacting to SushiSwap trying to swoop in and basically try to push everyone to quickly migrate over and they had a coin. And so people got into SushiSwap because they just wanted to get rich off of it. And so Uniswap reacted by making their own coin. But at the same time they did this one really cool thing which is a big part of the initial distribution was this very egalitarian airdrop right? Basically if you had used the UniSwap even once before the airdrop how it began you would get 400 UNI tokens. So at the time those UNI tokens were worth about 3.50. So the joke was Uniswap actually delivered on giving everyone a stimulus check. And people really loved that. And the supply distribution of UNI was very widely dispersed and the whole thing was this DAO where a lot of people could participate in decision-making. So I think there is ways to do tokens well and there is ways to do tokens poorly.  Yeah. The backdrop on SushiSwap is Uniswap was this automated market maker this decentralized exchange that launched and then they got attacked. They got cloned by this other one called SushiSwap. Joke on UNI Sushi. And then they tried to steal the Uniswap community by saying Hey come here and we will pay you more by giving you tokens. And then Uniswap was forced to actually create a token which they then gave away to their community which are called airdrops. It is like helicopter drops of money except now it is in made-up tokens. So there is all this interesting stuff that goes on in crypto where trying to build and maintain communities you have to figure out how to distribute the spoils but contrast how this is compared to say Facebook or Twitter you do not see Mark Zuckerberg airdropping Facebook stock on the users and you do not see Jack Dorsey airdropping Twitter revenues on the users but that is exactly what happens in blockchain land. And Ethereum might have had a small pre-mine but I do remember early on looking at Ethereum and I think I talked to Balaji Srinivasan one of your other guests about it Tim where we were looking at ETH back in the day when it was first launching. And we were just really confused because it seemed like there was this one brilliant technical guy surrounded by 15 other people who all had the title co-founder and it was very confusing to evaluate as an investor. So we ended up not investing to our detriment. But that is my way of saying that this was not a Vitalik get rich quick scheme. I do not think Vitalik was even the single largest token holder. I think there were many other people who frankly had a lot less to do with Ethereum's success who ended up holding a huge number of tokens. To the extent that Vitalik is the one who was working on it and pushing it forward it is a labor of love. And I have always been super impressed by how his team is very altruistic and really wants to make the world a better place. Maybe they are young and naive but it is refreshing to see that. I think in terms of branding a lot of people look at Ethereum as Lyft to Bitcoin's Uber right? There is a crypto right-wing libertarianism versus a crypto left-wing libertarianism.  Naval let me jump in for one second here if I may ask a naive question a novice question maybe. And if I am completely looking at this the wrong way I would love to be corrected. Thinking of Ethereum and comparing it to say Bitcoin and considering the possible regulatory threats to Bitcoin and I think probably a stronger focus on cryptocurrency than blockchain by regulators. And just by extension if we are thinking of Ethereum on some level as both cryptocurrency but also as a world computer maybe as if Amazon had its own cryptocurrency right bezonians or whatever they might call it. And then AWS that even if there were a crackdown on currencies that Ethereum would have some resilience and antifragility in that respect. Does it mean that Ethereum in its entirety is less subject to regulatory threat or that it can thrive in the face of regulatory threat along the lines of that which Bitcoin could face?  Comparing the regulatory situation of Ethereum and Bitcoin I think both benefit from being highly international right. Bitcoin has a strong community in the US it has a strong community in China. It has a strong community in the EU and lots of other places. Ethereum is very similar in that regard. In other words these very strong communities in lots of different countries including countries that are not geopolitically on the same page with each other. There is a lot of resiliency in that sense. Now of course the other aspect of politics is that it is not just about what they can do. It is also about what they want to do. The reality is that regulators have cracked down on cryptocurrency significantly less than they theoretically could right. They theoretically could make something like Coinbase illegal overnight.  Right.  And I think the reality is that they do not in part because they do see a lot of the positive value that is coming out of these platforms right. There are even regulators that want to use public blockchains and even things like Ethereum to build applications on top of them. They see value in some of the advantages that the things like stablecoins for example could provide and non-financial applications of various kinds.  Yeah. If you wanted to build a fraud proof voting application you would probably do it in Ethereum.  That would be interesting.  Yeah. Cryptocurrencies are inherently designed to be sovereign resistant right. They are designed to be stateless. And so the geographic redundancy is one aspect of it. And some countries try to ban it. I think for a while people think China tried to ban it and that failed. And right now India is talking about banning it and that will end in tears right. That is not going to go well when you leave your country out of the innovation in the next 10 years so hopefully they do not do that. But there is also redundancy in terms of design. For example going to proof-of-stake is a different kind of redundancy than being just all proof-of-work. You are not subject to the same kinds of attacks I think being used for all kinds of applications.  Naval could you speak to that?  Yeah. Proof-of-work is you shut down miners and miners of hardware and equipment where they live right. They need a physical presence whereas proof-of-stake as validators we just need an internet connection. And so they are harder to stop and harder to find in theory. And then you also have just what applications are running on top of these platforms? If you are just running DigitalGoal that is one application but if you are also running as Vitalik said functioning prediction markets public goods financial systems voting systems gaming systems nifty tokens art galleries right and all those kinds of things then it gets very hard to shut it down. And I actually think eventually all internet traffic will be encrypted and all of it will require cryptocurrencies to just allocate scarce resources. Even today there are things that we do on the internet that are centralized like caching and routing and spam filtering that should be decentralized and involve crypto payments for efficiency. And once we start getting to those applications it will be very hard to turn off crypto without turning off the internet. It is the native money of the internet. And so if you take away value transfer from the internet the internet as we know it will be stunted at best and more likely to cease to function at some levels.  Thank you. Back to you Naval.  Yeah. Oh. Yeah yeah yeah. No not at all. No. Yeah. There is an infinite number of rabbit holes we can go down. Just coming back to Ethereum for a second. There is Bitcoin which is clearly digital gold. There is Ethereum which is the world computer. And with digital gold high price is good. You want your gold to go up in value except to the extent these days digital gold Bitcoin has been going up but it actually gives me some trepidation. I tell people it is like my insurance policy it is becoming more valuable my life insurance policy right. I do not know how I feel about that. But with ETH it is not clear if the price going up is always that good for adoption. It is good for the people who are pumping and holding but is it so good for the people who are trying to use it? Do you have any thoughts on the price of ETH and how much  for example we do not even know exactly how much ETH there is going to be the future right. The supply curve is a little bit undefined and some people say Oh it could be too big. This thing will get inflated. Whereas there are other arguments saying No there are certain applications we are going to have for which you have to lock up ETH or even destroy ETH to use these applications. ETH may end up being more valuable. Do you have a  what is your current point of view on where the ETH supply heads and what the ETH price means for the ecosystem?  Yeah. One thing that I think you alluded to a little bit is that there is this proposal called EIP-1559 which redesigns how their transaction fee market works. And there is a lot of very wonky economic math for why the specific changes that it makes sense but one of the consequences of that change is that the majority of fees instead of going to the miner or corporate creates the block we would get burned. It would just literally get deleted out of existence. And so if demands to use Ethereum is high enough then there would actually be more ETH being destroyed than is being created. And so the joke that I would sometimes make is if Bitcoin knows if fixed supply is sound money then if you have a decreasing supply does that make us some ultrasound money? And actually it is not even that far-fetched a possibility. If you look at the transaction fees for the last month they actually have been on a lot of days greater than the block rewards for that day. It is interesting because it basically creates this more direct connection between people using the Ethereum blockchain and ETH having some value right. At the beginning the way that ETH was even described when we were doing the sale is that this is like gas. You are buying this token that you need to use if you want to span transactions. And if the token is actually a consumable right then it actually behaves even more like  well I guess gasoline as the original metaphor right. If people want to use it they would actually have to consume it. And so ETH  the value of it is actually something that depends on the Ethereum network being useful. And it is a bit of a difference a guiding principle that something like Bitcoin right where Bitcoin just derives value from  Bitcoin the currency derives value from Bitcoin the currency and Bitcoin the blockchain is this thing off in the side that Well okay. Fine. It has to exist. Whereas in Ethereum it is much more of a system where the blockchain is the point and ETH the asset gains value from the blockchain doing its job successfully.  It is interesting. Bitcoin the value is in the currency or in the Bitcoin itself. Whereas in ETH the value is in the blockchain being used and the ETH is the by-product of it. Yeah to use my strained castles made of math analogy I think of Bitcoin is the big impregnable citadel the Fort Knox into which you are putting your gold and the thing has high walls and is guarded really well. And they do not change much. And it is the same as it was in 2009 or 2011 so that no one can break in but ETH has this dynamic network of little city states that are trading with each other so the more trade there is the more free flow of information and goods the more valuable the whole system becomes but no single point of it is necessarily as impregnable. For example I do expect that we will see more hacks and break-ins and failures in the ecosystem as a whole not in ETH itself but in the ecosystem around ETH than we will in the ecosystem around Bitcoin necessarily but at the same time ETH is dynamic and growing and adaptive which just makes it more of an evolving creature.  Yeah. I would agree with that with one reservation which is that I think the Bitcoin ecosystem does have its own ticking time bomb demons too like Tether is one example.  Yeah. There are pieces around the Bitcoin ecosystem that are semi centralized or of unknown trustworthiness and do rely on trusted third parties I should say but as the Bitcoin people say Not your keys not your coin. Right?  Right.  And trusted third parties are security holes. They are aware of that. I think the Bitcoin maximalists which I believe is a term that you co-coined the Bitcoin maximalists would say Well that is not Bitcoin right. That is something else.  Right.  One of the things to think about here  and I think you care about this more than most people in crypto which is nice is that you do seem to care about wealth inequality the Gini coefficient and the distribution of coins. And one of the criticisms about crypto that I see a lot is like Well okay. You are getting rid of the old oligarchs for this new financial system but you are just replacing them with new oligarchs who are the original Bitcoin and ETH holders. And how do you think about the distribution of wealth in a crypto run economy as opposed to a fiat currency aka the US dollar and the Euro run economy?  This is definitely I think one of the challenging questions for the community to grapple with. This is actually one of the reasons why I really like Ethereum's more multicurrency welcoming ecosystem right. Sure okay. You have ETH and there is a limited set of opportunities to get new ETH directly from the tap. And at some point the supply is going to stabilize and if you are buying ETH you are buying ETH from previous people but at the same time there are these new applications that are launching. You have your UNI as I mentioned where the distribution was I thought quite egalitarian right. As I mentioned the 400 UNI stimulus checks that just go to everyone who ever used the application at least once and they could try really hard to not favor wealthy users too much. And then Tornado Cash had an airdrop a couple of weeks back. There is more of these assets coming in. And I think that kind of churn is healthy. It breathes new life into the ecosystem and it breathes new life into the wealth distribution and it does create opportunities for new people to be able to come in and participate on a somewhat level footing as well but then if we want to compare all of this to the fiat ecosystem it is a difficult comparison to make just because the institutions are so different and it is difficult to match one up against the other right. Fiat currency is  they basically get created by a combination of the central bank and the commercial banking ecosystem. And in terms of where the newly generated value comes in both sides of that get some share essentially. And there is bad things that come out of it. There is also good things that come out of it. I know this is a controversial position along the libertarians but I actually like the idea that if you have a fiat currency then the government can print it and just use that as a source of government revenue. The reason why I like it is because I think if the governments could get money through unobtrusive means that reduces the extents to which it has to rely on getting money through more intrusive means and rely on taxation and more direct   The problem is when it is unobtrusive it is very easy to do it very sneakily.  Right.  And these taxes have to be collected now whereas printing can kick the can down the road for the next person to solve.  Right right. This is the argument in the other direction.  There is a moral hazard there. And I think we are watching it play out. Where we printed 8 trillion last year and who is going to pay for it?  Right the nice thing about cryptocurrency of course is that the ecosystem is much more transparent. And so it is easier to analyze and understand what the rules are. And within the context of a crypto ecosystem as I mentioned you can still do very egalitarian things. You can still reward people who were very important early contributors to things that ended up being very important. You could still do all of those things. And we do have a responsibility to get the balance right but the environment is just inherently a more open and honest one just because these are decentralized systems and everyone does just  they see exactly what is going on.  Yeah. It is certainly more transparent. You can tell what the money supply of ETH is at any given point good luck doing that with the US dollar money supply. Or you can tell what the inflation on ETH is at any given point. And as you say there is opportunities to build more applications on top of ETH and maybe ETH is the app store for decentralized applications but some of those applications can go on to capture just as much value and create just as much value as ETH itself.  Yeah.  I think that'ill be  the really interesting development in the last year is just to see applications on top of ETH really creating and capturing and building lots of wealth and value. And so in that sense this 2021 and 2020 run-up seem a little different to me than the 2017 run-up which was based on just a lot of hype frankly. As we see crypto playing out you have also had some very interesting thoughts on everything from radical markets to political philosophy to what happened in 2020 and so on. And we could spend a whole podcast on that but just at a very high level you had a really good post on your blog saying Endnotes on 2020. And it was about a lot more than just crypto. What else are you really interested in these days? Is it AGI? Is it life extension? Is it public goods? Is it different kinds of voting schemes? What is really on top of mind for you that is not directly crypto related?  Some of all of those. I think the changing way in which economics works is definitely one of those really important topics right. There is a couple of different changes that is happening. One of them that I talked about is just public goods becoming more important right. A lot of the ways that people had thought of economics 50 or a hundred years ago they are just focused on private goods like cars houses food things like that but there is also public goods right which are projects that benefit a large and unselective group of people. And so no individual person who benefits has the incentive to personally fund the whole thing and it is hard to push people to pay for it because you cannot deny the benefits of the thing to people who do not pay it for it for example right. And so scientific research is one example of a public good. My blog is one example of a public good. Open source software is an example of a public good. And on the internet public goods are even more common than private goods are. And so our economics just has to just take that fact seriously. And a lot of what is been happening in the blockchain space in some ways just is the crypto world trying to grapple against those things.  Basically these public goods are aware that the costs are concentrated. If I want to fund scientific research I do it out of my own pocket but it benefits all of humanity. The benefits are distributed.  Exactly.  And so these tend to be undersupplied. There tend to be too few of them.  Yes.  And so there are schemes out there to tackle some of them. I think you have talked about quadratic funding as an example.  Yes.  What is quadratic funding?  Quadratic funding is this interesting mechanism that basically says anyone can donate money to public goods through the mechanism but to compensate for this under provision that you talk about the mechanism provides a subsidy to every public good. And that subsidy depends not just on the amount that was contributed but also on the total number of people who contributed right. For example if there is two projects they both got a hundred dollars but one of them got say 80 from one person and 20 from another person. And the second project just got 1 from each of a hundred people the second public good is much more public than the first public good. And the tragedy of the commons on the second one is much greater right. And so the facts that the second one managed to get to a hundred dollars despite the 100 way tragedy of the commons implies that it is a really important project. And so the quadratic funding mechanism actually gives a much greater subsidy to the 1 from each of a hundred people project than it does from the project that got just a hundred dollars from a split between two people. And so we have been experimenting with quadratic funding. There is this thing called Gitcoin grants that happens a few times a year and that is had about seven or eight rounds by now I forget the exact number just for public goods within the Ethereum ecosystem. And that is worked really well. That is been one of the interesting experiments that I have been following.  A question on quadratic funding just to hop in here since I am involved with a few different types of scientific research. Are those funders in those experiments that you have run anonymized or de-anonymized because I am thinking through the example you gave and how there are other plausible explanations for why there might be two funders. I am just thinking about for instance reputational risk associated with certain types of scientific research.  Right.  There are other plausible explanations but those largely hinge on named names versus them being anonymous.  Yes right.  How do you think about other contributing factors depending on how you are conducting the experiments?  Sure. First of all in quadratic funding unfortunately you do need to have some kind of model for identity because you need to prevent the two people from just pretending that they are 100 people.  Right.  But with cryptography you actually can do fancy things that give you most of the benefit from having anonymity despite needing to have an identity system. Basically you can have a system where people can make all these contributions and they are done in such a way that the system identifies how many unique contributors there are for each project but where the system does not get an idea  nobody actually gets any idea of exactly which particular person donated how much money to which particular project right. And this is done using this really important and fascinating topic of a zero-knowledge proof cryptography. And zero-knowledge proof cryptography  basically the idea is that it allows you to make cryptographic proofs that some statement that is true. I can make a cryptographic proof that says that I have 100 coins or that you assigned a message that contains some facts about me and it was signed with your key and you can make these proofs but where the proof does not reveal the contents of the thing that it is proven right. For example I can prove that I have an account that has at least 100 coins but I do not have to prove which account it is. I do not have to prove exactly how many coins I have. And there is a lot of this very fancy mathematical magic that basically creates this protocol where if you give me a proof then I know that the statement is true because if the statement is false you would have had no way to generate the proof but if I have just the proof I can learn nothing else beyond the fact that that particular statement is correct. This is incredibly powerful cryptography it is behind Zcash for example. There is also Ethereum's applications like Tornado Cash that are using it. Zero-knowledge proofs also have these really nice scalability proofs. The proofs are very quick to verify even if the statement that they are proving is incredibly complex and ZK-Rollups like some of these scaling solutions end up really benefiting from using them. Very powerful technology. And I think it is also very significant from a social perspective because we have this broader anonymity versus accountability debate right of the benefits of privacy versus the benefits of basically persistent reputations and zero-knowledge cryptography is really powerful because it may in a lot of cases allow us to get both good things at the same time. It could get us the benefits of things like persistent reputations while at the same time getting a lot of the benefits of anonymity.  Seems very powerful. Just to follow up on that thinking of scientific research I am going to ask you what areas you might have particular personal interest in. I know you have some interest in life extension as evidenced by the dragon slang parable on your website or that you link to from your Twitter bio but it strikes me that the quadratic funding experiments would also be heavily dependent on equally simplistic or simplified communication of competing not necessarily competing but contrasted scientific studies right because there are some instances just in my experience where scientific studies that require a lot of scientific knowledge or due diligence would have fewer funders compared to others but that does not necessarily reflect less importance or impact potential.  Yes. No this is also a very important point. And I think the solution to this is that quadratic funding by itself does not solve all the problems and you have to combine quadratic funding with other mechanisms. I can give two examples. One example of how you could do this is you could just set up an organization where the organization has some smart people and those smart people do a good job of picking who the scientists are that are really worth funding. And then that organization gets a five- or 10-year history. And people see that Oh. Yes this organization does have a surprisingly good track record of funding studies that actually do end up turning out to be meaningful five years down the line. And then people will just contribute through the quadratic funding scheme to this organization and the organization will be able to leverage its own reputation. Now if that organization ends up doing bad things and abusing this public trust that it is earned then people could very easily just stop contributing to it and start to contribute it to another group. That is one approach. Another approach is that there could be clever ways to combine quadratic funding with venture capital. The idea here is that imagine if when people make a public good they create a coin associated with that public good and they just let people buy the coin. And when people buy the coin the revenues just go to the people who issue it. And then what you can do with quadratic funding is you can basically collectively buy out these coins right. You can just say Okay this coin is a coin that represents a project that gave the world say a million dollars worth of value. And so we are going to quadratically fund a million dollars into the coin. And so anyone who bought that coin would be able to benefit right. And so the idea is that if there are intelligent investors that are able to recognize that something will be valuable 10 years in the future then basically they will be able to make a profit off of this. And over time if the market becomes more efficient then  if anyone could has something that is maybe difficult for the wider public to determine its valuable at the beginning but then is likely to lead to some importance outcome that just everyone recognizes is really valuable sometime in the future then these investors can fill the gap right. You have these two approaches. You can either rely on reputation and do it retrospectively or you can rely on this combination of quadratic funding with tokens and investments and do it prospectively. I think both of those are really interesting.  I love this possibility to combine also right. You could potentially have all of the elements that you described combined.  Yeah.  And Naval you sound like you want to jump in.  I was just thinking that campaign financing works a little bit like this. Maybe accidentally maybe the system has just navigated to it through a complex systems level intelligence but if you look at campaign financing for when people run for office there is a maximum limit they can get per donor right. And so an individual can only gift a certain amount to a congressman or to a senator or a presidential candidate. And then the feds also have matching funds on top of that. It is a combination of these schemes because by limiting the amount that any one person can give you are creating a quadratic  although it is not truly quadratic. Someone very wealthy I guess they could give a lot more through a side vehicle but then that is less efficient because they are not allowed to coordinate with the main campaign. There is a really badly implemented version of quadratic funding with matching dollars already in existence in federal campaign finance.  That is a good point.  Yeah.  Vitalik what areas of scientific inquiry or research are on your short list of most personally interesting at the moment?  Yeah no. You brought up life extension. Life extension is definitely really important to me. And the coronavirus has actually even had the positive side effect of speeding this along in some ways but there is a lot of extremely promising things happening in biotech right. And I think there is a very significant chance that where we are standing today is basically  is for biotech the equivalent of where computers were in 1950 right. And so if you imagine the difference between the ENIAC and a modern laptop or smartphone that is the difference that we are going to see between the biotech of 2020 and the biotech of 2090. And so if right now we can already come up with vaccines for a virus  well it is a year from deployment to start but really the whole thing actually happened much faster. And most of the delay can be blamed on bioconservatism but that is a whole other discussion. If you go from even there and then add 70 years of progress to that it is very easy to see it. Just even the process of aging turning into something that just becomes reversible and it being a regular thing for people to live one and a half two centuries and then go even further from there. No I think there is just a huge nice humanitarian outcome that can come from that. Basically the concept of your grandmother dying is just going to slowly leave the public consciousness the same way that the concept of getting lost in a city slowly left the public consciousness over the last 25 years as we got better cell phones and I think that is a really lovely and much better world to spend a lot of resources to shoot for.  Do you think that is realistic though given all the three-letter agencies that slow down experimentation development? Because I worry it is more like nuclear power where they cannot tolerate a single death so the innovation is not really allowed.  Right so this is where I say a controversial thing which is I think I am very happy that the coronavirus has helped to de-legitimize bioconservatism to the extent that it has.  Yeah I agree with that. The Moderna vaccine was ready on January 13th.  Yes. And even things like human challenge studies like the default I think bioethics opinion around a year ago was like Oh my God this is unethical. And now like in the UK they are actually happening. No this is great.  Yeah it is good if it breaks down bioconservatism to some extent because the pace of innovation is too low. It is like what we have done to nuclear power if we do that to biotech and we kind of have already to some extent but if we do it even more then there is no chance of grandma living forever there is not even a chance of me living 50 years longer let alone grandma living forever. You are 27 I would love to see where you are at 47. You are going to be a really interesting guy. You already are but you are going to be an even more interesting guy.  Even more interesting at 447.  But I hope you guys can both come to my thousandth birthday party.  Well are you on some kind of caloric restriction or intermittent fasting?  So far I do the poor man's intermittent fasting which is that I just usually do not eat breakfast. I do again the usual exercise nothing too fancy. I eat kind of at least a couple of the basic supplements that the life extension cool people are recommending. Nothing too much fancier than that so far though very closely watching this space and then I am sure I will end up doing much more things so 10 or even five years from now.  Do you take rapamycin?  I do not take rapamycin. Metformin is the one that I take. Ashwagandha is another that I take  And just for those people listening who should know this. Number one none of this is medical advice. Number two metformin just as an example none of these things should be taken without advice of a medical professional metformin is used in the treatment of type two diabetes glucophage but I am also familiar with it. How do you decide what to implement versus not implement for yourself personally?  I just ask around a lot of people in the life extension community. I read the studies as I look at just what are some of the high level results and then just kind of narrow it down to a couple of things.  It is remarkable how many people in various sub-communities have been using a lot of these interventions longitudinally. I remember when I was working on my second book looking into trans-resveratrol and finding  even at that time this was 2008 2009. People who had for years been using want to say 500 milligrams per day. So you were able to identify certain long-term effects and side effects granted anecdotally but still having an N of I do not know maybe a thousand people on this forum. So there is a lot to be gleaned from these groups.  Yeah there is even a new one making the rounds. Glucagon-like peptide GLP one. I am sure you have seen some study floating around in that but yeah these things are very unknown I wish these were more out in the open and that there was a very very strong anti-aging research community that was functioning out in the open that was trading notes on what works and what does not and able to run some kind of human trials more efficiently because fighting aging is a very time-sensitive task.  It is yeah. It is literally half the deaths of World War II for every year that it gets delayed or however that number of lives saved for every year that gets brought earlier.  One analogy I heard that I liked was We are all born time billionaires with billions of seconds of life. And then we spend those and now you get to someone like Warren Buffett and I am sure he would trade a hundred billion dollars for more billions of seconds but he cannot right? In fact healthcare is the ultimate inelastic good. On your deathbed you will spend any amount of money to live even an hour longer. So certainly the economic incentives are there the personal incentives are there but because of this concept that people who do not know what they are doing are going to hear something and run out and ingest some substance and then die drink bleach or take too much rapamycin because of that kind of fear we are not allowed to do any real innovation or discovery and it is literally killing us outright. And if we just reframed it as well no it is not that we are dying of aging we are dying because you will not let us do the innovation do the research it might take on a different take. But I was actually a little disappointed with the coronavirus response because I thought we would have had faster trials of the vaccines but the fact that they were still kind of slow and even now the deployment is being held up because we have to create these perfect vaccine delivery packages instead of just a kind of quick and dirty vaccination. And we have to go through these very regimented protocols rather than just saying Everybody just line up and let us just go as quickly as possible. Because we insist on doing things in kind of this bureaucratic overly controlled way we are still slowing things down. And if coronavirus would not get us to accelerate our normal processes into a wartime footing then what will?  Yeah I also just want to add that I think given my experience with a highly stigmatized field of scientific research which is psychedelics and psychedelic compounds for intractable or difficult to treat psychiatric conditions I think that life extension or the community itself and proponents thereof could spend a lot of their oxygen and calories trying to convince regulators and three-letter acronyms to classify aging as a disease and therefore allocate funding and I think that that is going to be very difficult and possibly wasteful compared to decentralized or distributed funding from citizen philanthropists or donors of various types. I think a lot of it is going to come down to independent financing since that has been the case even all the way up to phase three trials for compounds that show tremendous effect sizes in the treatment of depression and PTSD and so on.  Yeah. I think that another important thing also is just kind of international outreach and more connections because ultimately the US is not the center of the universe and there is plenty of very smart people in the EU like Singapore China India Canada whatever other places. And there is a lot of great talent there that I think could also benefit help all of humanity solve problems faster. So if we can just work together on the problem more hopefully prevent kind of like stupid nationalism from adding too much friction between things.  Yeah I think a lot of the newer generation rather than just being patrons of the arts they are trying to figure out how to become patrons of science. And instead of just doing venture capital we would all like to figure out a model for venture research because we need more science right? Science is upstream of technology and the faster we can move science the more it will benefit us across the board. So I do not know where else you want to take this Tim but I have some kind of more of the closing questions type for Vitalik. If you are ready for those.  I want to take this where you want to take this Naval.  Okay. Yeah so one question I kind of have is given all the tumultuous change in 2020  because coronavirus was a trigger but it was a trigger for accelerating a lot of things that were already happening  where do you think the world heads in the next few years where maybe your peers might disagree with you? What are your contrarian views or your kind of uniquely held individualistic views on how things are going to play out that are not yet consensus? And this is unfair because aging was a good one. You made a solid you went out on a limb on it.  Well aging is an example that is like it is the contrarian in the world but definitely not contrarian among my circles I guess.  When I went through your writings the idea that there will be many blockchains and many tokens right is quite different. The idea that the internet has increased the number of public goods rather than the number of private goods is actually quite contrarian because we think of it as going more and more private property but on the internet it is one-to-many so there is all these public goods. And I think you were the first one to really hammer that point home in a big way. And then I think this aging thing is another one. So I am just digging seeing if there is any more.  Yeah no another thing that might have been iconoclastic two years ago but is very much not today would be a kind of just geographic decentralization right? Even with Ethereum we took a very active effort of not making it too centralized in any one country or any one city in any one place. And I feel like we have benefited a lot from that but now of course everyone is geographically decentralizing and Coinbase has announced that none of its management live in San Francisco and so forth.  Yeah. It is very hard to associate Ethereum with a single country. I think it was created by mostly Canadians and your blog has a .ca on top of the domain.  Well it depends. I am a Canadian but then my blog has a .ca the foundation is Swiss and now there is a Singaporean entity as well. A lot of the initial developers were German. A lot of developers are from the US as well one of the most efficient Eth2 clients is based in Australia. So I feel like we kind of actually took those values seriously and did it well.  And the Foundation has spent a lot of time in East Asia. I think I have seen you kind of go conference to conference in East Asia and Korea and Japan and places like that spreading the word so it is quite decentralized geographically what advice do you have for someone who wants to get into Ethereum and does not just want to go and buy the token right? Who actually wants to dive into the ecosystem what is a person to do to get involved in the Ethereum community and the ecosystem? Where are the points of leverage?  I think one is learning to build an application and actually trying to build an application is I think one a great place to start. If that is the sort of thing that interests you even if you do not turn it out as a full-time developer it is like forcing yourself through the process still helps you just understand what are the different pieces and actually what function do they serve? Another approach there is  well now obviously they are kind of temporarily suspended but generally there is a lot of local communities that kind of in-person meetups and all that that people can be part of and that is often a great opportunity to get to meet other Ethereum people. There is a lot of materials online. Although generally I am a much more big fan of hands-on learning. So kind of learning by doing instead of learning by taking in information. So I highly recommend just trying to build one application for a lot of people. And then otherwise there is just a lot of different communities and you just have to go in and start taking part in them.  Yeah for those of you who are curious I think Vitalik's blog has spawned quite a few of the things in the Ethereum secret ecosystem. I think it was one of your musings that led to the creation of Uniswap. And recently you have been talking about roll-ups and social wallets and all kinds of other things that we built on top. Although maybe this is the first year where I feel like the community is outpacing your ideas like with Nifties and with some of the games that are coming up on top of ETH and so on. it does seem like there is a lot of innovation going on. It is hard to keep up. It is very very hard to keep up but that is a good thing. For those of you also looking for what is next down the rabbit hole Vitalik briefly mentions zero-knowledge proofs. I would say that the beginning of the rabbit hole the entrance is Bitcoin. Then you go a little further down you find ETH but then when you find zero-knowledge proofs that is the big mind blowing moment when you realize just what crypto is capable of. And there are analogs for what crypto can do that almost cannot be done in the real world. It is sort of like when you go into physics and when you encounter quantum mechanics it sort of makes you rethink that no not everything necessarily maps onto exactly how I observe it the same way when you get to zero-knowledge proofs you realize that the levels of creativity and crypto that enables are greater than what we might have had pre-crypto. So that is also an interesting space to kind of learn about. And I think zero-knowledge proofs have probably been incorporated into an emerging Ethereum ecosystem even more than we expected right? Because a lot of people called it moon math early on. It was considered too hard to be practical but people have been chipping away at it.  Yeah the moon math is definitely significantly less moony than it was even one or two years ago even Zk-SNARKs another term for zero-knowledge proofs have just become considerably simpler sometime around one and a half years ago. I might even try to make another post. I might modify my most recent ones on vitalik.ca where I tried to talk about like how roughly Zk-SNARKs work. And I actually feel like I need an explanation that at least the high school version of myself would have understood which is it is still not perfect but it is significantly more understandable than any of the previous ones have been. So I feel like the ideas are definitely trickling down. So I do have another answer to the question of what contrarian things or what things are you thinking about that other people are not thinking about yet? I think this is kind of taking a kind of cultural and social context a serious way right? Which sounds obvious but in some ways it really is not right? Even within the crypto space I feel like a lot of people insert in their models of Is Bitcoin going to beat governments? Or Are these things going to be censorship-resistant? They tend to look at it purely from a technical point of view and they basically are kind of implicitly assuming that governments are going to try as hard as they can. And the crypto space is going to try as hard as it can. And it will be a battle and one side and that person's preferred side is going to win. But the reality is that governments are not trying as hard as they can. And a big part of the reason why is that government is not even so much an entity as it is a battlefield right? And like what are the soldiers fighting on the battlefield? A lot of it is just the cultural movements and a lot of the success of cryptocurrency and blockchains I think really have to do with the way that they have kind of interplayed with a lot of the important cultural trends of the last 10 years. Including things like people's distrust of financial institutions after 2008 I think people's distrust of centralized tech companies after 2020 is also going to play a big part. Also just another fascinating thing I think is one thing that surprised me is how cryptocurrency managed to appeal to a lot of people who would not normally think of themselves as libertarians. And that is something that I think did end up even blindsiding a lot of people. And the reason why that happens has to do with kind of very deep and specific aspects of how people think and kind of how people think ideologically right? A lot of people think of say authoritarians for example as just people who hate freedom and want to restrict things. But the reality is there is lots of people who are in favor of very specific restrictions or even in favor of restrictions that benefit their own team. But they are very easily flipped to being very pro-freedom when they know it is their own team that is being threatened. Or even when you just kind of take things out of the cultural context of what should the governments do and into the cultural context of how should technology work? So there is a lot of these kind of very subtle effects that determine whether blockchains and some of the ideals behind blockchains that kind of succeed and fail. And these are kind of very subtle properties of how humans think and even how humans interact with each other are just extremely important in a lot of ways. And the reason why they are important is they just determine that the effectiveness with which people can coordinate right? Humans are naturally very attuned to a kind of social trend and humans have a lot of motivations that have to do directly with what position they have within social trends and contexts that are made up by other people. And this is just a space that the blockchain and cryptocurrency space is going to navigate well. And if it navigates it poorly then I think blockchains will be stopped by governments or they will not be stopped entirely but the amount of usage can easily be more than 90 percent lower than it otherwise would be. But on the other hand if blockchains can successfully show to a kind of large enough coalition that this is valuable and this is a good thing for the world then they can be very successful. This is just something that the space needs to have a better understanding of and take seriously.  Yeah. I think there is a lot of good points you just made. One I like is that government is not an entity or an enemy on the battlefield. It may just be the battlefield that all of these factors can kind of win simultaneously. I think you made this point in your blog in one place where you said that in 2020 big government won big social media won big centralized applications won but decentralized also won. So you can have multiple winners. These are not necessarily either or you have also made an argument in one of your blog posts which is also beyond the scope of this podcast. But I think it is worth digging into for people interested in game theory where you basically point out that a lot of the toy models that we consider when we are evaluating how these things will end up have a so-called Nash equilibrium. They have a solution in game theory because a lot of individuals making decisions independently but because majority coalitions rule and people can collude or they can form coalitions that you end up in these unstable cycles where you a majority win one round and then the definition of the majority reshuffles and then they win the next round. And so we see this in politics where it seems like okay now the Democrats are in charge forever. Oops no. Now the Republicans are in charge forever oops no now the Democrats are in charge forever again and subtly underneath what is going on is a definition of Democrat and Republican is unstable. They are just coalitions that are being formed and reformed as needed. So yeah these are lots of great thought-provoking points. I would really love to touch base with a Vitalik who is 37 the ripe old age of 37 out of his thousand-year Methuselah-like lifespan and see where you have gotten to.  So Naval I do not know if you have questions remaining. I really just have one question and that is a pet curiosity of mine. It is really the language learning. So you have studied quite a few languages. I looked at a clip of you answering questions in a Q and A at some point I do not know the year in Mandarin. And I was very impressed. I went to two universities in China and  So I wanted to ask if you could give advice now having tested many things used many approaches for someone who wants to learn Mandarin what would your current recommendations be to them?  Sure. So for any language my usual approach is  I think at the beginning you do need some kind of explicit program. So one thing that I have used is the Pimsleur podcasts. So that is P-I-M-S-L-E-U-R so it is just a series of these 90-minute  sorry 90 30-minute podcasts or 2700 minutes or about two days in total that you will listen to one of them every day and they just help teach you the language from nothing up to some very basic level over the course of these 90 episodes. So you start from that but then even after that you do not have nearly enough to understand anything. So from there sometimes you can find other podcasts and eventually you graduate to just regular podcasts in that language. So things that are not even optimized for language learning. Well at the beginning you do want to find resources that are optimized for learning. Flashcard apps have helped for Chinese specifically for memorizing the characters or at least the first 500 or a thousand or so. And there is plenty of flashcard apps. They are all about equally good. And then once you kind of get past some level then you get to a level where the best way to get even better is to just talk to people. Another kind of path that works somewhat at the beginning actually is if you just go into a city and you just start by reading various signs on the street and you try your best to just understand what they mean. I mean if you see a word that you do not understand you will look it up. That is often useful. I also use Duolingo as well. That is been helpful in some cases. So it is just a combination of these techniques. And you have to  when you start it is difficult and then when you get past some points you get to a point where you can just kind of level up just from talking to people from there.  Yeah great advice. And I will just add to that Google translate with image translation can be an incredible savior in lands where you do not understand the orthography. So in Japan my brother does not speak Japanese but we traveled there and he was able to more or less accurately translate kanji hans and the Chinese characters using Google Translate  it was remarkably accurate. It is improved a lot. And as I understand it another thing that you have done is watching  now I would like to clarify here is it watching films in other languages or is it watching English language films with subtitles in your target language which is also something I have done.  It is watching films in other languages. Sometimes with subtitles in English.  Got it. Thank you. Naval would you like to wrap up would you like to   No thank you. Thank you Vitalik it is really been an honor. I think along with Nick Szabo and Hal Finney and Wei Dai and a few other very influential people and Zooko and so on you have just been incredibly influential in the development of blockchains. And I believe that blockchains are the third wave of the internet after the web and mobile. And they are quite fundamental to how the internet does and will operate in the future. And you are actually you are probably the youngest one of that group. So you are going to be involved in it for hopefully a very long time. And it is going to change computing as we know it I am betting on it. I know many people are. And so thanks for your work and thanks for taking the time to help bring this to a broader audience.  I think I am not even the youngest already. I mean like Hayden from Uniswap is even younger than I am. And you know the Uniswap treasury has more funds in it than the Ethereum Foundation treasury. And so this revolution proceeds fast man.  Yeah. When I was first starting out my first company I remember I was 25 and CEO and company was valued highly. And the CTO of the company he was in his mid-thirties he said Huh. He said So you are used to being the smartest young guy in the room right? Just wait till you get old. And here we are. Thank you gentlemen.  Thank you.  Interview with Vitalik Buterin on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Trusted third parties are security holes. - Nick Szabo Nick Szabo  is a polymath. The breadth and depth of his interests and knowledge are truly astounding. He is a computer scientist legal scholar and cryptographer best known for his pioneering research in digital contracts and cryptocurrency. The phrase and concept The Random Show! Bitcoin Pros and Cons 2021 Resolutions Fave Books Lucid Dreaming Couples Therapy and More   