 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show. My guest today many of you will know the name and those who do not will know much more about him shortly. Professor Yuval Noah Harari is a historian a best-selling author who is considered one of the most influential public intellectuals in the world. I know that is setting a high bar but his popular books might ring a bell.  A Brief History of Humankind  A Brief History of Tomorrow and 21 Lessons for the 21st Century have sold 27.5 Million copies roughly in 60 languages. I will let that sink in for people. 27.5 million copies. That is a lot of square footage or cubic feet cubic meters. They have been recommended by Barack Obama Chris Evans Bill Gates and many others. He' A Graphic History which we will talk about a brand new graphic novel series in collaboration with comic artists David Vandermeulen I think co-writer and Daniel Casanave the illustrator. This beautifully illustrated series is a radical reworking of his book Sapiens subtitle A Brief History of Humankind. The series will be published in four volumes starting with volume one The Birth of Humankind which is available now. His website Y-N Harari H-A-R-A-R-I dot com. You can find him on Facebook Twitter Instagram. On Twitter HarariYuval. We will link to all the rest of them at tim.blogpodcast. And Yuval so nice to finally see you.  It is good to be here. Thank you for inviting me.  We are going to start in an unusual place perhaps. And that is with correcting my pronunciation on a word M-O-S-H-A-V. How do you pronounce that and what does it mean?  M-O-S-H-A-V. Oh that is actually a mistake on Wikipedia. It is a moshav. It somehow got around that I live on a moshav which is some kind of socialist collective community less radical than the kibbutz but one of the experiments of socialists in Israel like decades ago. And it is just not true. I live in a kind of middle-class suburb of Tel Aviv.  So this is an example for those listening of something that some people call the Wikipedia echo effect because I actually  Yes. I tried to correct it so many times and it is just I gave up. It is stronger than me.  Right. So at some point it got into Wikipedia then it ended up in The Guardian. Then other people cite The Guardian and it just will not go away. So it just keeps coming back. Let us go to something that I think is more of a firsthand report. It is a paragraph from your wonderful profile I should say answers to questions in Tribe of Mentors which is my last book from a few years ago. Here's the paragraph I would like to read and then we will explore it. Since that first course in 2000 I began practicing vipassana for two hours every day and each year I take a long meditation retreat for a month or two. It is not an escape from reality. It is getting in touch with reality. At least for two hours a day I actually observe reality as it is while for the other 22 hours I get overwhelmed by emails and tweets and funny cat videos. Without the focus and clarity provided by this practice I could not have written Sapiens and Homo Deus. So the missing piece here is the first course. Would you be open to describing how you ended up going to your first vipassana experience?  Yeah. I was doing my PhD at Oxford at the time about medieval military history. And I was also looking for the meaning of life and reading lots of philosophy books and thinking a lot and nothing really clicked. And a friend nagged me for about a year to try a meditation retreat instead of reading all these books. And finally I gave up and said Okay I will try. I will see how it is. And it was really fascinating because the very first evening the instructions that I was given by the meditation teacher was very very simple instructions. I guess many people heard them that you just focus your entireyou sit down you close your eyes and you just focus your entire attention on your nostrils on your nose. And you just feel try to feel whether your breath is coming in or whether your breath is going out. Sounds like the simplest thing in the world. It is not even a breathing exercise. You do not need to control the breath. Just let it be what it is and just feel what it does. And I could not do it for more than 10 seconds like most people. That for 10 seconds I would be focusing on my nostrils on my breath and after 10 seconds my mind would run somewhere like to some memory some stories some something I forgot to do something that happened years ago. And I would roll in that for minutes before realizing that hey I am missing my breath and come back. And this was an extremely humiliating and important experience because it made me realize for the first time in my life that I have almost no control over my mind that I was doing my PhD at Oxford. I thought I was a very intelligent person very smart. And my mind is my tool and I have absolutely no control over it. I give it this very very simple task and it cannot do it. And also you realize how overwhelming the stories that the mind produces are. This was not on the first night. But gradually over time it made me realize that if you cannot focus on the simple reality of your breath coming in and out of your nostrils without being overwhelmed by some story generated in your mind then how can you hope to understand I do not know the financial system of the world the geopolitical system what is happening in Israel in the Middle East some much much bigger things if you cannot do that. No matter what I try to do these stories generated by my own mind get between me and reality. And most of my life I just spent on these stories. So it was ever since then it was one of my main practices in life is how do you avoid being overwhelmed by the stories that your mind generates?  Why did your friend nag you for a year? Was this a friend who was nagging everybody to go to a class? And the teacher as I understand it maybe it was in video or maybe in person S.N. Goenka. I do not know the lifespan.  Yes. Mm-hmm .  Did they nag you because there was something about you that told them you would benefit in particular? Or was it a general nagging among their friends?  I think this guy was nagging everybody in a good way. I am still good friends with him. And I think because I was really looking hard to understand life to understand what is happening here then he thought I would be a good candidate. And then he was absolutely right. Yeah.  Now vipassana clicks for some people. It does not click for others. Some people gravitate to transcendental meditation and repeating a mantra. Other people might find a different type of mindfulness practice but it clicked for you. What did the before and after look like? If we let us just say go back to that point in time your first experience and then we flash forward six months. What had changed six months later? Or how did your perception of the world change?  Some things changed dramatically most things did not. You have this kind of false enlightenment experience that you think you realize something very deep and now everything is going to change. And over time you realize that the deep patterns of yourself of your own mind are much much stronger than one course of meditation or practice of six months. And so it is a very long way. And again for some people it does not click at all. When I came out of my first course I thought Oh that is easy. You can send anybody there it will have the same effect. Later on I realized it does not work like that. Different things work for different people. But all the time there were changing on so many levels. I am not sure which of these levels is most interesting to you or to our listeners. I can talk on several of them. Everything from simple peace of mind and better mental health to big change in my working methods in my professional life. As I wrote in that passage you read I do not think I could have written Sapiens or Homo Deus or any of these other books without the practice of meditation because you need a tremendous amount of focus to do something like that. And you need to be able to see through the mass of details. And you try to summarize the whole of human history in 500 pages. So the most important button on the keyboard is delete. That is the big thing. There is so many important things. What is really important? That is the big question. And I do not think I could have done it without the kind of sharp focus that meditation gives.  Many people have heard of Sapiens. Certainly there was a point in Silicon Valley when it first came out and nearly all of my friends seemed to be reading the same book. And I think there is a revisionist's grand delusion among many readers that Sapiens came out and then like the snap of the fingers 20 million copies or however many millions of copies were sold worldwide in 60 languages. Now that does not seem to match the story exactly. What was the title of the original English version of Sapiens and how many copies did it sell?  Yeah. It was a long story. The original English version was titled From Animals Into Gods and it was a self-publication on Amazon and it sold something like 2000 copies. They now go for I do not know thousands of dollars or something because they are collector items. But yeah. It was a long way.  It was a long way. And you brought in then at that point the number of professionals. I believe maybe it was your husband who found a literary agent?  Yeah. That was the main thing. I think I am quite a good writer but I have very little skills in terms of publication negotiations or anything to do with the business side of life. And I tried for some time for maybe a year or two to find a publisher by myself and it was a complete failure. And then my husband came in and he has much much better business skills than I do. And he immediately fired the agent that we were working with at the time and let us go back to zero. And he was the one that found the best literary agent in Israel Deborah Harris. And she opened a lot of doors for us and we worked on it too. We did the translation again in severalbecause originally it was in Hebrew and several rounds of editing and eventually something like three years or more than three years after the Hebrew version the real English version came out in 2014.  What were the biggest changes that were made aside from the title? I would be curious to hear the story of Sapiens the title itself but what were some of the changes that were made in the editing process before the grand debut of the new version if anything? I do not know if it was just fine-tuning the language.  It was fine-tuning nothing major changed. All the major themes and ideas were already there in the Hebrew version. We just really redo the translation and edit it. And shortening here and there a few things but there was no major revision to the content. It was mainly issues of style and the entire business approach of who to work with and how.  You will correct me if I am wrong because you never know what you read on the internet to the degree of veracity but that it was based on lectures you had given previously. Is that true?  Yes. That is correct. I gave for five six years previously I was giving a course at the Hebrew University which was basically introduction to the history of the world. And at some point after working on it for a couple of years I began handing out my notes to the students because I wanted them to focus on what I was saying and be part of the discussion instead of just scribbling down whatever I say. So I told them Forget it. You do not need to write anything. I will give you my notes. And then the notes started circulating not only among the students of the class but also other students at the university. And this gave me the idea that well maybe there is a larger audience for this. And I began working on turning these lecture notes into a book. Again it was a long way but a lot of the major ideas were there in the lecture notes.  I wanted to hear more about this because I have seen in some books that I have quite enjoyed like Zero to One by Peter Thiel and his co-writer also came from lecture notes originally at Stanford.  It is a good method because the students take no bullshit. When you write a book and it is only you and the screen and the computer the computer suffers everything. Whatever you write the computer is fine with it. It is too long it is incomprehensible it is boring the computer does not care. But the students give you immediate feedback. If you stand in class and you talk and you see that the students have lost interest then that is a sign. Or they just do not understand what you are saying. And the great thing about this course it was really an introduction to first-year students and Israeli students. If it was I do not know in Oxford then maybe it would not work. But Israeli students they tell you exactly what they think about you and what you say. So I got immediate feedback about everything. And maybe the most important feedback is thatand I was trying to explain the really basic concepts of human history. What is religion? What is money? What is capitalism? When you talk with professors or doctors you can talk in a very very complicated way so nobody realizes including yourself that you do not really know what you are talking about. But with first-year students you have to use very simple language. And that is a big challenge. The simpler the language the bigger the challenge. It really shows you and your listeners whether you know what you are talking about or not. You cannot hide behind professional jargon and very complicated I do not know language. And so it forced me. I was trying to explain what is money and I had to go back again and again to the core ideas and to the lecture notes and ask Do I really understand what I am talking about? If I really understand I should be able to make it simpler. I should be able to give a straightforward example.  Makes me think quite a bit about Richard Feynman a physicist who was a very very esteemed teacher and felt very similarly that professionals could hide behind the labels right? Pointing at the bird and knowing the name is very different from understanding the bird. And if you have to describe it in simple terms it is a real challenge of competence and clarity as a teacher. You mentioned the term suffering and I again want you to fact check me but it seems to me in doing homework and reading your work that you are very attuned to suffering whether that is in the animal world whether that is in the human experience whether that is in your own experience say with the endless cloudy days in Oxford at one point. Could you speak to how you developed that sensitivity if I am not imposing that on you? Because I am looking behind you right now and people might not be watching this video but you have some calligraphy behind you which is I believe it is  which is Buddhist heart or Buddhist mind and suffering is  I do not know what it is. Somebody gave me a present. I hang it there.  Okay. All right. Yeah it is beautiful. So that is what it says. Suffering and the concept of suffering is also central to a lot of Buddhist thought. Could you speak to how you think about suffering or why that is something that you are so cognizant of?  Yeah. I realized both in my personal life and in my work as a historian that this is the big question. The big question is not the meaning of life. And the big question is not how you satisfy some gods or how you achieve this or that goal. The big question is how you liberate yourself and others from suffering. And this is also I think the main kind of for me the main theme of human history is most historians are focused on the question of power. If you take most history books and also most economic books and so forth they are about power. They are not just a guide to how to get power but about the history of power. Conflicts about power between two kings between two kingdoms between two gods between two religions between two classes. These are most history books are about that. And it is an important part but it is not the bottom line. I think the bottom line okay what does all this mean in terms of happiness and suffering? So okay. The Roman Empire rose to power. Did it actually make humans happier? Did it make them more miserable? If it had no noticeable effect on say average happiness in the world what does it matter whether they won or lost? And in my work I try to always keep both of these perspectives at the same time the perspective of power and of suffering especially because humans are very very good as a species not all humans but as a species we are very good in acquiring more power but we are not good at all in translating power into happiness. For me the big paradox of history is that it is obvious we are thousands of times more powerful than people in the Stone Age but it is not clear whether we are at all happier than they were. Maybe we are happier a bit but not thousands of times more happier. So something is wrong. It is like a car which you press the fuel pedal with all your strength but your gear is in neutral. We have so much power it does not move anywhere. And it is also often the case in your personal life that you can achieve so much and then you look inside and you ask Am I actually happier than I was 10 years ago or 20 years ago? And maybe not. And one of the things I also realized personally and collectively as a historian is that we just do not understand suffering very well. One of the main problems is that people think that with regard to suffering it is obvious what suffering is. The big problem is how to make it disappear. I know that I do not know pain is suffering or I do not have enough money. That is the cause of my suffering. So now let us focus on getting more money or getting a medicine. And the mistake is that you do not really understand the deep causes and mechanisms of suffering. You see just part of it. Yeah obviously pain is suffering. That is true. But there is much more to it. And if we spent a little more time on understanding the deep mechanisms of misery and dissatisfaction in life then we can act far more effectively in trying to alleviate it.  Can you speak to the test of suffering to determine what entities are real and what are not what are illusion and what are not? I should not say illusion maybe abstractions.  Ah-huh. The main way that humans gain power is through collective cooperation. As individuals we are not particularly powerful animals. In a match between a human and chimpanzee the chimpanzee will easily win. The big advantage of humans we can cooperate basically in unlimited numbers thousands millions today even billions cooperate together. Chimpanzees cannot cooperate more than say 50 or 100. That is about the limit. And then what enables us to cooperate in very large numbers? This is our ability to invent and believe in fictional stories and fictional entities. All the big heroes of history almost all of them are fictional entities that exist only in our imagination only in the stories that we create. Nations gods money corporations states the only place they exist is in the stories that we invent and tell. They are not physical or biological realities. Again the United States or Israel the only place it exists is in the story that millions of people believe. And it is the same with money. Money has absolutely no objective value but as long as millions of people believe in the story about the dollar or the story about the Euro it works. Now when you say that sometimes people go to the other extreme and think that what you are saying is that nothing is real. That the entire world is just one big illusion but that is not the case. There is still reality. There are still chimpanzees and elephants and humans. And there is a very very simple test to know whether the hero of the story that you are telling is a real entity or a fictional entity invented by humans and existing only in the imagination. And that is the test of suffering that a human being can suffer. A cow can suffer an elephant can suffer but a nation cannot. If a nation loses a war it does not suffer. It has no mind. It cannot feel pain or sadness or fear. The soldiers who are fighting for the nation the citizens in that nation who are being conquered by some other nations they can suffer a lot of things but the nations cannot suffer. It should be obvious. And it is the same as corporations. Even if the corporation loses a billion dollars it does not suffer. If it goes bankrupt it does not suffer because again it has no mind. It cannot feel pain it cannot feel anything. So it is a very very simple test that we should remind ourselves from time to time what is real in the world and what are these fictional stories? Now I am not against the stories. We need them. They are the basis for cooperation but we should always remember we created them as tools to serve us. We should not be enslaved by them. If a story enables people to cooperate well and thereby improve their lives that is wonderful. But once you forget it is just a story and you begin entire wars just in order to protect to defend the honor of the nation or to increase the profits of the corporation something went wrong.  What is the story if there is one or stories that you have around money yourself? I was reading the New Yorker profile from not too long ago and you probably know the paragraph that I might be thinking about where you and your husband might relate to money differently. What are the stories that you have for yourself in your life  Aboutmm-hmm . money.  Well in essence money is just trust. It is the most successful and universal system of mutual trust that humans ever came up with and therefore I do not think it is bad. It is very common for historians and philosophers and people like that Oh money it is the source of all evil in the world. I do not think so. Sometimes it causes a lot of bad things but in itself it is a wonderful thing. It is just a system of mutual trust that 50000 years ago to trust somebody you needed to know them personally. You needed to know their personality what they did in the past they like you they do not like you. And that makes it very very hard to cooperate in large numbers because you cannot know a lot of people personally. And it also makes it particularly hard to cooperate with strangers and foreigners that you do not know. Now you look at today I can go to a supermarket and a complete stranger that I never met in my life would give me food that I can actually eat which was grown by a couple of other people on the other side of the world and was transported from that field or plantation to the supermarket by a bunch of other people none of us knows. So how do we cooperate so effectively? How do we trust each other? Money makes it possible. And money is really it is just trust. In the beginning because people did not have a lot of trust that money had to be made from something with an objective value which does not depend just on human belief. So the first money that we know about was simply grain. You paid for things with grain. And grain you can eat them if nothing works. But gradually the trust increased. And today most money in the world it is just digital data being passed between computers. Most money is not even banknotes and coins. It is I do not know like 5 percent or something of the monies is physical money. Most of it is just digital. During this crisis in the recent year governments and banks in the US in Europe elsewhere created trillions of dollars. They did not even bother to print the money. You just have some official in some bank goes into the computer adds a zero somewhere and poof you have a trillion new dollars emerging out of nothing. And it works. I mean it works because people have so much trust in the banks in the governments not only of their own country. That is the amazing thing. I mean you would have thought well you can only use the money of your government. No. You think about even I do not know Islamic fundamentalists ISIS that they hated America they hated American politics American culture American religion but they had nothing against American dollars. When they conquered I do not know Mosul and entered the banks they did not burn the dollars that were there. They took them. They used them. So that is amazing that you can have such a level of trust even between complete enemies. And in my personal life therefore I do not have a negative attitude towards money. I think for me also I am not chasing it a lot but for me the best thing about money is not to think about it. I am now much wealthier than I was 10 years ago just a young professor back then. Not that I was ever poor but I am now much more wealthier. And the thing I like most about my wealth today is I simply do not have to think about money. I go to the supermarket and I know in Israel pineapples are very expensive. So if I want a pineapple I do not even look at how much it costs. I just Oh I want the pineapple. Okay let us take it.  You have mentioned the alleviating of suffering and getting a better understanding first of defining the problem as opposed to just rushing to solutions and getting a better understanding of suffering. Are there ways in which your life in contrast to say not thinking about money has been complicated or made harder to navigate with the tremendous success of Sapiens and becoming more publicly visible? In other words was it as just an example easier to find sort of tranquility and connection with bodily sensations as a way to integrate yourself back at Oxford compared to today?  No but I have 20 years of experience now in doing that. So I do not know maybe if I remained an anonymous professor of medieval history I would have much deeper experiences of meditation today. Maybe not. It is impossible to know. I still have time. I am not so busy. I have now a large team. Again thanks to my husband to kind of set it up. We now have a team of 15 people working for us. So I get something like I do not know 15 20 emails a day that is it. And like this conversation I did not have to do anything. I just had to come like two minutes before it started and just like plug myself in and that is it. Somebody organized everything. So I am not extremely busy. I still have two hours every day to meditate. I still go every year for a long retreat of say 30 days or 40 or 60 days something like that. Yeah I mean I think a lot. There are a lot of things to think but I thought a lot even before that. So I mean the content of my thoughts changed but I do not think the intensity changed. One of the things I realized from now being this famous public intellectual and meeting all these famous people and leaders is that everybody is basically the same. When you are prime minister or president of a superpower you cannot be more worried than when you run a small business. It is impossible. It is the same brain. It is the same mind. So if you have a small shop and you are the only worker maybe and it is now corona time and you have to shut it down and you have to pay your mortgage and whatever and you worry about it all day it is basically the same with the prime minister or president that worries about the economic crisis of a war. Now of course objectively they have to be much more worried but they cannot. They have the same brain that you have. So it really depends on you know maybe they are even far less for it than you are. If you are an extremely neurotic person I do not know if Woody Allen had a small shop I think he would be much more worried about his shop than certain presidents and prime ministers today in the world are worried about their countries.  So I read a quote from you. This was in The New York Times. If I was a  my superpower would be detachment. Feel free to correct that if need be but assuming there is some grain of truth to that could you expand on that please?  Yeah I think it is true that I can keep a kind of distance from situations from development in my personal life or in world history. And even though I have my opinions and my preferences I have a certain ability to keep a distance and say look at things from different angles. And also it makes me very skeptical about my own positions that maybe I just do not know maybe I am wrong about it. It could have been debilitation that I cannotlike how can you write the history of the world if you are not sure about what you are saying? But actually I just do not take myself a hundred percent seriously. Okay so maybe I will write something and it is nonsense so okay. When I wrote Sapiens initially I had no idea what would be a big success. So I kind of had this defense that I thought nobody's going to read it. Like maybe my students at university would read it and maybe a couple of other people but that is it so I can write what they want basically. And later on when I became very successful it was the other way around that it does not matter anymore. But if I write something and I am not a hundred percent sure about it then I can take the hint then okay so people will find out that I wrote something wrong and that is fine that is part of the business. I mean if you really want to write these kinds of big books you have to accept to some extent that you will make mistakes and that you will not get everything right. If you are a perfectionist then it is better to write the history of kind of one battle in the Middle Ages then you are on safer grounds.  So this is going to seem like a strange question perhaps and if it goes nowhere that is totally fine but I am curious what do your close friends come to you for when it comes to advice? Like what type of advice do your friends come to you for? Is there any pattern to it or any particular stand-out?  It depends on the friends I think. I have a core of very good friends that go with me for years I mean from long before. I think that since I became kind of famous I made maybe just one or two new good friends. Almost all my good friends are with me from years back. And I have different relationships with each of them. It is like each one of them holds a different part of my inner world or of my life and I hold different parts of their world. So they do not come to me for advice about history that is for sure. Maybe they will ask me Well what do you think will happen in the US elections? and I say I do not know. But I mean if something really big happens I do not know during the height of the terrorist wave in the world so they would come at least some of them and I would say Look from a big historical perspective this is not so important. I mean every person that dies in a terrorist attack has their entire world destroyed but looking at the big picture from the history of the world this is a very small affair. I mean I can explain to you why terrorism gets so much attention. It is basically theater. These people are experts in theater not in war and they are very good at it. So they get so much attention but you do not need to worry that the terrorists will take over the world. It is not going to happen. Most of the things it is like somebody breaking up with their boyfriend girlfriend somebody is just having a lousy day at work and the usual things.  The usual stuff. What would they say your superpower is? If you said it is detachment which we could dig further into but are there any other observations that they would have. If we gave all of your closest friends two drinks and we said Okay Yuval superpower what is it? what might they say?  First they will say different things because they know different angles of me.  Right.  I think some of them will say I suppose that I am a good listener partly because I talk so much during my work that when I meet these friends I like to be quiet and just let somebody else do the talking for a while which is a very good thing. Because very very often when people come to you for help they just want you to listen. They do not want you to solve their problems. It often happens that somebody comes with a problem and you do not have patience for them. So you think what is the fastest way to get rid of them? To end the phone call I will find the solution of their problem then they will go away. And this really is the last thing they want. They really just want to complain and for somebody to listen to them and I am quite good at it.  Right. You spend all your words during the day  Yes.  And then you have the space to listen.  Yes.  How do you relate to happiness? You have spoken about some of these contrasts.  Yeah I usually prefer to talk about suffering or misery because happiness is far more difficult to nail down. I mean when you are miserable you know it.  Right.  When you think you are happy you are quite often just deluding yourself. It is not so easy to really understand what is happening there. It really goes down to the level of the body. This is something that I know from meditation. When you have a pain somewhere in your body it acts like a magnet. It just throws the attention there. There is no way you can miss it. And you try to observe other things and you cannot. It is justIt gets drawn back to the painful sensation in the knee in the stomach wherever it is. But when you have pleasant sensations in your body they have usually the opposite effect. They throw you out. You kind of float a couple of feet above the ground. I mean sometimes people come in meditation and they say I never have any pleasant sensations in the body I just have pain and that is never the case. What is true is that when you have pleasant sensations you do not notice them because the usual effect of feeling something very pleasant it throws you out. You start kind of imagining Hey what if I win the lottery and I will have a million dollars? I will do that. I will do that and you lose connection with whatat the time that you are having these very pleasant thoughts you are having very pleasant sensations in the body but you do not notice it. And I find it is harder to work and to see what is actually happening there but it is even more important than kind of noticing and working with the painful sensations. I mean in the end I would say the really difficult problems they begin with the pleasant sensations that we become so attached to them that the moment they are gone most of the time people do not have very painful experiences. Most of the time if you are dissatisfied it is because you are missing or craving for some very pleasant experience which is just not there and you are not willing to settle for the kind of ordinary boring thing that you did.  I want to rewind to your description of your current life compared to your just say pre-frame life which seems to be similar in many ways. You have been able to preserve the space to do what you do best. You have this team you have this husband who is very good at saying no you have personal assistants who are very good at saying no. And to many people listening who have achieved some modicum of success I think they will listen with great envy because very often whether they are artists whether they are business people what made them successful is often the first thing to get crowded out by the new attention and success that they receive. Aside from luck because perhaps there was some luck and chance involved in meeting the person who then became your husband were there any decisions or are there any decisions or frameworks or anything at all that has helped you to preserve the space that you have?  I think a very important decision was to keep the meditation first that like when I plan my day when I plan my year it is the first thing I put in the calendar is the meditation retreats and everything else has to find space around that. And it was a conscious decision and a very important decision that really worked. And in a bit similar way also to keep time for my old friends to keep time for my family and understanding that this is kind of a marathon race and not a sprint. And okay something very important happens the new book is coming out. There is a lot of important things. Okay so I can change my routines for a while but over the long run you have to keep these kinds of basic blocks intact. And this was a very conscious decision. And I think at least in my case it worked. Also to kind of remember I do not know what is really important for you in life. For me I think maybe on the personal level I really want to understand life to understand the world. What is happening. And I noticed quite early that most of kind of the big events that I am participating in like conferences and so forth and the important people I meet they do not really contribute much to that. They do not seem to understand the life or have some particular insight. In the big conferences they never talk about these things. They talk about the global economy they talk about climate change. They are important things but in on the deeper level of what is actually happening here I will not get any answers from there. I do not think it is a coincidence if you look at the whole span of human history and almost none of the important political leaders of humankind made a significant philosophical contribution to human thought. You have a few exceptions I do not know Marcus Aurelius or something like that but generally speaking you would have thought that from their vantage point they see something that ordinary mortals do not. Maybe they reach the top because they have some very keen insight into human nature. And if they have some keen insight they keep it very very secret.  Who are some of the people you respect it could be past or present for really seeing or seeking what is going on on the deeper levels?  Well I can tell you I mean some of the names of thinkers and writers that influenced me.  Great. Let us start there.  Yeah. So Charles Taylor the Canadian philosopher really influenced me a lot. His book Sources of the Self is I think one of the most important books I read in life one of the most difficult books also. I mean if people take this as a kind of reading recommendation they should be warned it is really tough going. It is a very big book very dense but if you make it it is really worth it. Of course I was very influenced by my meditation teacher S.N. Goenka. Again not necessarily by any books he wrote just by the guidance. I mean I remember sitting in my first vipassana course and having thisThis guy really gets it. He really understands what is happening. This was something quite surprising for me to see that. Some of my good friends have some insight into what is happening here. Again I can give a list of books that influenced me. I am not sure if this kind of answers the question but  We are free to meander. We do not have tight constraints.  I think one of the problems I realized it is that it is extremely difficult to share the really deep insights you have about life that very often they are on the non-verbal level. And in any case my impression is that most of the inner world of most humans is never shared. They never talk about it because they do not even have the words and do not have the audience. I mean most of what happens to you deep down during the day your spouse probably does not know your parents do not know your children do not know your friends do not know even you do not know if you do not really make the effort. One of the qualities of great art not just writing but different kinds of art that it really gives words that you feel something maybe for years and you have no idea how to communicate it. And then you read a poem or you see a TV show and Yes this is exactly what I am feeling and I never knew how to communicate it. So that is why it is also very difficult to kind of know. You meet somebody and you do not really know what is going on inside them and to what extent they understand or do not understand their life or life in general. So it is very very hard to say.  Well you also underscore something that I have thought about a lot recently which is it is quite unfair to expect other people to understand you fully when you do not understand yourself fully on your own. It is quite an unfair expectation of people sometimes.  Yeah. But this is basic expectations. Because we have trouble understanding ourselves we have this hope that somebody will lend us a hand. And we have the experience at least most of us if we came from loving families that when you are kids there were people there like our parents who did exactly that for us. Even on the most banner level that a child is crying and the mother would say Well you are just tired. Just go to sleep and you figure it out You should know that you are tired but no. It is amazing that sometimes people are tired or hungry or whatever and they do not know it. And then somebody who really understands them comes and says Well just go to sleep. And in my writing I engage a lot with the issue of the future of AI in surveillance and I think one of the key fantasies with AI in surveillance is that the algorithms will do that for us.  Well this ties into one of the books that has had a big impact on you if I remember correctly right? Aldous Huxley and Brave New World.  Yeah Brave New World it really had really really deep impact on me because I think he really got it. The interesting thing about Brave New World it is on the surfaces of dystopia but when you kind of ask yourself Why? What is wrong with Brave New World? It is very difficult to say it to find out. Everybody seems to be satisfied. Everybody seems to be happy. There is a system in place that understands you very very deeply and makes sure that you will never be in great pain or suffer any great misery. And in this sense 1984like its brother book 1984 it is a very simple book in this sense that 1984 describes a terrible terrible dystopia. The only question is how do we avoid getting there? But Brave New World you read it and at least for me I kind of think Okay so what is really wrong with it? And it is not easy to answer this question.  Yeah. This sort of uncanny feeling that something is not quite right that you cannot put words to. It is very similar to the feeling of something that is quite right that you cannot put words to that then gets reflected in good art. I think it can go both ways.  Yeah.  A number of the things that I have read in preparation for this from various profiles there was one that said you prefer television to novels. There was another that gave the example might have have been the same profile of you swimming as part of your routine in the summer and listening to nonfiction books via headsets. But I guess they are resonant they deal with the vibration of the skull the jawbone.  This is some really nice gadget I came across and I tried to listen through usual earplugs and water would seep in somehow all the time and would ruin it. And then finally I came across this gadget that you can just put it on your forehead and in some mysterious way it works better. And you actually hear it better than when you put it in your ears. So yeah I would swim back and forth back and forth listening to I do not know. I listened say to Shoshana Zuboff's Surveillance Capitalism while swimming back and forth in my pool.  With the dolphin headset for the resonance. That is amazing. So it is a forehead headset perhaps. Do you recall what type it is by any chance? I know this is getting into the minutia. If not we can figure it out later.  I can go and look for it if it is very important. It is just in the next room. So it will take me a second if you want.  Yeah sure. Let us grab it. Why not? I do not want to say this is the most important thing in the world but I am curious.  It will take a minute. So this is how it looks by the way.  Oh wow. All right. So it is connected to the dorsal snorkel that goes across the forehead so you do not have to rotate or it holds itself.  I do not have to put my head back and forth all the time from the water. It is by Finis Duo. Finis F-I-N-I-S.  All right. We will find it and put it in the show notes. Thank you for grabbing that. In those examples in these profiles it seems like you are not consuming much written fiction but Brave New World is fiction.  I think it is philosophy.  Yeah fast becoming reality and maybe also like you said philosophy disguised as science fiction. Are there other fiction books that you have found to have an impact on you or your thinking or do you consume much in terms of fiction?  Yes quite similar to Brave New World think Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.  That is a great book.  I also listed it as a philosophy book. I think that it had an impact not just on my thinking but one on how I write or work that I am not saying it is a kind of metaphor or something they are philosophy books. They just are written in a different way. And this is one of the ideas that gave me the inspiration to kind of turn Sapiens into a graphic novel which we might discuss later on if we have the time. That you can play with the form. I think that Aldous Huxley when he came to write Brave New World he had these philosophical issues he wanted to discuss. And maybe I am inventing maybe it was not like this at all but my impression is that he thought Well it will actually be easier and more interesting and engaging instead of having these formal logical arguments. And instead of having these thought experiments which philosophers love so much why not have an entire book which is one long thought experiment and see where it takes me? And I think that The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is basically something similar that it explores a lot of deep philosophical issues but in a much more fun way than your typical philosophy book.  I could not agree more. I just literally a few weeks ago listened to The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy narrated by Stephen Fry who is an incredible narrator for the first time. And you are right that it has so many what otherwise could be very sterile thought experiments and concepts embedded into this entertaining narrative. And I remember one line they are talking about the I want to say he is the president of the galaxy or something along those   Zaphod Beeblebrox.  That is right Beeblebrox. And they talk about how successful he was and how people have the mistaken notion that the job of the president is to wield power but that is not the job of the president. It is to distract from those who are wielding power. And just these short nuggets contain so much to chew on. And it is really an effective way of providing people with footholds in a way toeholds.  It is the same with TV. I think that Black Mirror at least some of the episodes in Black Mirror are some of the best discussions that I have seen of certain dangerous tendencies in current technology. Some episodes are just fun. San Junipero I think it is an extremely good episode but it describes the reality which is so far away from us that it is not really relevant to any of the discussions here. But if you look at Nosedive and maybe the Chinese got the idea for their social quality system from Nosedive but it is such a powerful and important episode. If you look at the one with the cartoon figure that became president that almost became an MP the blue bird or something. And this is before Trump this was before this whole wave. This was so prophetic. When I watched it for the first time in 2013 I thought Well what are they talking about? And then I watched it later like five years later these guys are just geniuses. How did they see it coming?  Yeah it is a real sweet spot of near-term or not-too-distant future kind of technological extrapolation. I love Black Mirror and I always encourage people to watch at least three episodes because I would say maybe one out of three or one out of four just completely miss. For me they do not strike a chord. So your sample size has to be a few episodes and you will usually strike on something.  A Graphic History because I have got a lot of questions about it. Before we get there I will stick with one question before we get there and that is any other television series could be documentaries also or movies that you think are intelligent examples of philosophy or thought experiments in disguise?  Again going back to the usual suspects of science fiction I thought that Her was a very intelligent and low-key exploration of some of the potential of AI. I do not like these movies when the robots rebel and kill everybody. It implants the wrong fears and it encourages the wrong discussions. I do not think that in the next 20 or 30 years the robots are going to rebuild and kill everybody but there are other dangers much more some more or less subtle whether it is the job market whether it is surveillance and equitability related to politics or whether it is changes in human relationships. And I thought that Her was a very in this way a very intelligent movie that avoided the usual traps. And it goes back exactly to what we were discussing earlier that we have a deep yearning that somebody out there in the world would understand us. Like we go about life and we hope that our parents would understand us that our teachers our lovers our kids somebody please understand me. And it for many people it never happens. And to some extent somebody understands them but there are many hidden corners within themselves that they are unable to communicate and maybe they do not understand them fully. And there is nobody out there that reaches out and engages those corners in them. And there is now with technology on the rise which could fulfill that dream. And this is extremely attractive and extremely frightening at the same time. And Her is spot on what happens when there is an algorithm that constantly observes you not just what you do but also what is happening inside your body and really understands your personality your moods your likes your dislikes. You come back home from work and you are grumpy and your husband does not notice it but the computer does notice it. And what kind of world is it? What kind of relationships will there be when computers and objects understand you better than the people in your life? And that is a fascinating and frightening question and I think a very realistic question. Unlike the robots rebelling and killing everybody the moment that your smart refrigerator knows you better than your husband is not very far in the future. And we should be talking more about that and I would like to see more movies more TV shows more science fiction novels that explore these kinds of questions.  Yeah. If you have not read any of Ted Chiang's work C-H-I-A-N-G. He has a compilation of short stories called Exhalation and he has another collection of short stories. I think you would absolutely love them. One of his short stories was turned into I believe it was Arrival about the protagonist who is this female linguist who decodes the graphic language of these aliens who arrive on Earth. And it is about temporal perception. These are really really really incredible stories. So Ted Chiang C-H-I-A-N-G and Exhalation. I think you would enjoy it. Let' A Graphic History. Well before we get to that I just want to say that the word understand and the concept of understanding is also fraught with difficulties. And I think that that is part of what AI will also demonstrate that knowing quite a few people who work on AI what does it mean for let us just say a computer or a refrigerator to pass the Turing test so effectively that you feel understood.  Well it is not. I do not believe they will be conscious. I do not believe that we are near the point when they will have consciousness. And if by understand you mean the kind of inner feeling that we have when we understand that is not the case. I think we are not near there but understands in the sense that able to predict our behavior and response unconsciously in a way which will be more appropriate than the people around us.  Yeah.  So that is what I mean by it. Yes it is weaker definitely. I am not thinking about the conscious experience of understanding. It is about just predicting could be manipulating but most importantly just are kind of reacting to us in a way that we will find appropriate more appropriate than the way thatwe will get so used to having these computers and robots that are very attuned to how we feel that we might become even more irritated with the humans who do not feel who do not react who do not understand how we feel and not reacting in the right way. And then part of the problem is that so many people like everybody are often self-centered. So I do not get what my husband is feeling because I am too focused on my own feelings. One of the reasons that computers could be better than humans in this is that they do not have feelings. The refrigerator does not have any expectations in life from you. It has no dreams no fantasy nothing. So the refrigerator can be a hundred percent focused on what you feel. It has no feelings of its own. So it cannot be insulted cannot be angry. Nothing.  Sounds like you have an episode of Black Mirror to write. And to that point on some level we were talking about philosophy disguised as fiction or thought exercises embedded into say Black Mirror in a way that are not just fascinating but also prophetic in some respects.  A Graphic History. I want to talk about this because I actually have a long history with graphic novels and comic books. I wanted to be a penciler a comic book penciler for about 12 years. Used to be an illustrator a long time ago and then I lived in Japan in high school. Went to a Japanese school. And in Japan unlike in the US there is a long rich history of comic books and graphic novels for adults and also comic books and graphic novels for teaching difficult concepts telling history. And these are extended expansive collections of graphic novels. And I have seen how effective it is because I read some of these when I was in Japan on the history of judo and other things. And I would not have consumed 500 pages of pure text certainly not in Japanese. And I think it is an incredibly powerful format. How and why did you decide to take Sapiens and create this piece of art but also an effective vehicle for perhaps teaching in a different way?  Well actually the initiative did not come from me. It came from David and Daniel the two artists who collaborated with me on this project they came up with the idea. They brought some initial suggestions and I really liked it. It connected to something that I did want to do for a long time which is to reach new audiences. I see my main job today as bringing science and history to more people people who would not necessarily read a traditional science book. Even if it is popular science they still will not read it like 500 pages of text with footnotes. They will not touch it but they might connect to a graphic novel. And yes it is for adults and teenagers. Many people in the West have the idea that comics are for kids but no it is just a different medium. It is a different language. It enables you to dosome things you cannotyou need to cut down the text but there are many things you can do much better in a graphic novel certainly to show things like much of the graphic novel is about the life of hunter-gatherers. So you can just show it in images instead of long descriptions. An image is worth a thousand words in many cases. It also enabled us to and for me it was the most fun project I ever worked on because it wasokay let us take all the academic conventions of how you write history and throw them aside. And let us experiment. So it is kind of a series of experiments in how to tell history. So one part about the evolution of different human species that sapiens Neanderthals and so forth it is told like a reality TV show that there are different competition between different human species. Then you have an entire chapter about how humans caused the extinction of many of the large animals of the world as they spread from Africa over the world. And this is told as a detective movie. We created this fictional detective Detective Lopez like a Sherlock Holmes or Agatha Christie kind of a person. And she goes around the world and investigates the worst serial killers in history who killed all these big animals. And the invention of the first religions is told according to the conventions of superhero action movies. So we created this superhero in Doctor Fiction who embodies the human ability to invent fictional stories and mythologies. And it was really fun working with David and Daniel on that and just saying Well why not? We can try that. We can do that. It is allowed. It also forced me and actually all of us to answer many questions which we can just ignore in the text. When you draw you have to draw specific things. When you write you can write in obstructions. When you draw you cannot draw obstructions. So if for instance you talk about the connection between Homo sapiens and Neanderthals and we now know that some sapiens and Neanderthals had sexual relations and even had children because most of us today still carry some Neanderthal genes in our DNA. Now in a book you can just write that sapiens had sex with Neanderthals end of story. But in a graphic novel if you want to draw it you have to make some decisions. Who is the man and who is the woman? Is it a Neanderthal man with the sapiens woman or the other way around? And what about skin color? What about hair color hairstyle? All these questions you cannot draw a general human. It must have some skin color must have some hair color. So we have to go back to the literature the scientific literature and investigate. And sometimes you find answers. Sometimes you do not and then you have to take into account all the ideological and political issues of race and gender. And so it is a huge huge thing to engage with all these. And I found it that it is not like Okay let us just take sapiens and add some illustrations. It is a completely fresh project.  How did you problem-solve when there was a conflict or some tension between the literature and what might dictate a drawing and the sort of political sensitivities that exist today? How did you think about that or think through those types of decisions?  We had a lot of discussions about these things and it was a balancing act. You cannot ignore science just for the sake of being politically correct. On the other hand you have to be aware of the political implications of the choices you make. You hide behind scientific objectivity because there is no such thing as a completely objective narrative just choosing what is the opening scene and what is the ending scene it does not come from reality. It comes from your political ideological or religious beliefs. Reality that the real reality it has no beginning and end. No historical event had a beginning and an end and no historical event had a focus. It is even easier to think about it in terms of movies. When you watch a movie let us say about the Second World War. So the camera is somewhere and something is in the focus of the shot something is on the side and many things you do not see them at all. Now in reality there is no camera. There is no camera hanging above planet Earth the camera of history which points in a particular direction and this is the center of events and this is the sidelines. You can tell the Second World War with Churchill as the main hero Hitler and Stalin appearing in a few scenes and millions of Chinese that died in the war never appearing at all. And you can do an entire World War II movie just about a single Chinese village. Now both are true and what do you choose it is not forced on you by the reality. It reflects very often political and ideological and also artistic choices. Now when you go back to the Stone Age it is even more complicated because there are so many things we just do not know the basic things. We do not know what family structure was like. You have all these discussions about what is the natural human family. Lots of people believe Well it is obvious. It is a man a woman two and a half kids and a dog. This is a traditional family. This was always the case but we know that even in recent history this was not always the case. It is not the case today. In many countries close to 50 percent of children do not grow in such a family today. You go back to the Middle Ages it is not the structure of everybody. You go to biology to other apes. Chimpanzees do not live like that. Gorillas do not live like that. Orangutans do not live like that. So how did humans live 50000 years ago? The answer is we do not know. We have evidence from the Stone Age. We have tools but the tools do not tell you what was the family structure. You have cave paintings but one of the interesting things about cave paintings we have found thousands and thousands of cave paintings from the Stone Age. There is not a single image of a family. There are lots of mammoths. There are lots of horses. There are lots of ibex. There are some humans or so mostly stick figures. But there is not a single image from the Stone Age that you can say Look that is how they depicted a family. And what does it mean? Why do people draw all these elephants and never bother to draw their own family? I do not know what it means. But it is interesting and it gives us a lot of artistic freedom about how to deal with these issues. So I do not know. We have this one scene about Neanderthals and Neanderthals had a big revolution in the last 10 years. Of course they are dead but our understanding of them has completely changed in the last 10 years because of so many new evidence we have. Both from genetics but also from artifacts and archeological records. Whereas 20 years ago maybe they were still these archetypal cave people primitive and brutal and things like that now they have a very positive image. Not only because we have the genes DNA but also because we have evidence that they took care of wounded people of elderly people of disabled people. They had a much more sophisticated technology and maybe even art and culture than we assumed. So we depicted in the graphic novel this change in image in the scene that you see these two Neanderthal guys sitting in the office of a PR consultant. And the PR consultant has on the wall this old-fashioned image of a Neanderthal a brutal Neanderthal with a big stick dragging a female by the hair. And there was a big X over this image. And the PR consultant says Well this was a good brand for the 19th century but this is the 21st century. You need to lighten up your brand. And the two Neanderthals say Yes well actually we two are gay. So obviously we do not have any evidence that there were gay Neanderthals. I mean our scientific understanding of sex and gender today indicates that it is very likely that there were gay Neanderthals. But if you ask for the smoking gun Show me a grave from 50000 years ago with two men together. Only then I believe. Then of course we do not have this. But we do not have a lot of direct evidence for sex in the Stone Age. We have a lot of indirect evidence like from genes. So we know that sapiens and Neanderthals had sex but maybe also there were cases of a sapiens man having sex with a Neanderthal man. Could be. No evidence in the genes of course. But could it have happened? Maybe. And we have this artistic license that we can show that. It makes sense.  Well also I mean this is maybe going down a rabbit hole. But if you look at the behavior of chimpanzees and others I mean there is some evidence to suggest that that type of interaction certainly exists. I mean if you are looking at the current-day precursors in a sense. What is your hope for these graphic novels? And they are coming out in four volumes. What do you anticipate or hope the spacing to be of those volumes?  Oh we hope for one every year. The main challenge is the drawing. I mean this is Daniel's job. I draw like a five-year-old kid. I mean they cannot depend on me for anything when it comes to the drawing. And it takes a lot of time to draw these hundreds of images. Also it goes back and forth because Daniel draws an image or a couple of images and send them. And then I go No. The archeological evidence indicates that actually the spear points were not like you depicted. And then the political issues. That Okay well we need more balanced gender relations in this image. And it goes next to Daniel and he needs to draw it again and it takes a long time. So I guess it will be one volume each year. And the big hope that it will reach new audiences that may not read a 400-page text about the history of humankind but would be interested and would find it fun and engaging when it is told in a graphic novel.  I mean I have seen the graphic novel and it is really well-done I have to say. I have probably 5000 to 10000 comic books that I have saved and polybagged over the years. I have collected everything from Sandman in the US to dozens of different graphic novels in Japan. It is very well-done.  Thank you.  So yeah. You and your team deserve a lot of credit for that. I would love to ask a question about your mission statement. Now I do not know if you would call it a mission statement but maybe it is. So this is from the New Yorker profile from this year and it describes how your mission statement reads as follows. And this is on a bulletin board in your office. Keep your eyes on the ball focus on the main global problems facing humanity learn to distinguish reality from illusion care about suffering. And I guess there was previously embrace ambiguity but that got scratched out.  Yes.  So could you explain the origins of this mission statement please?  Oh it is a couple of mission statements. As we expand our team it becomes more difficult to get everybody on the same page. To make sure that everybodyeach person has a different personal and professional background. So when it was just me or just my husband and me there was no need to write down these official mission statements. But when you have 15 employees then it becomes important. We had a long discussion and a back-and-forth also with all the employees and we came up with these as several kind of general guidelines to keep in mind. Maybe the most important thing is that we see our task is helping to focus the global conversation on the most important issues because one of the big problems of the 21st century is people are flooded by enormous amounts of information. It is not like in the past when information was scarce and the problem was how to get it. Now it is the opposite and you just do not know what to pay attention to. It also goes back to my practice of meditation of how to stay focused. And it is kind of link the personal practice with the global project of again we do not see ourselves as providing solutions but just kind of helping to steer the global conversation in the most important directions.  You have such a historical context for determining the relative weight to assign to different events or phenomena in the world as indicated or described in the example of terrorist attacks and their sort of culturalor I should not say cultural but his historic significance. Yes they are horrible. Yes the theater and graphic nature of it is very compelling to the human psyche. Which would also be true of say a shark attack. Right? If a 12-year-old boy were attacked by a shark on the East Coast of the United States it would be in every newspaper and there would be a huge response. Probably a dramatic over-harvesting of sharks so on and so forth. But in the sweep of human history its importance is close to zero. Negligible. What are some of the more important the main global problems facing humanity from your perspective?  Well as we speak I think the three big ones are nuclear war which people tend to connect with the Cold War. Yeah there was something there about nuclear weapons but they are still here. I do not think we will see nuclear war in the next few months but if tensions in the world continue to grow then it will become again a major issue. And it is an existential issue. Other things cannot destroy us but nuclear war can. So we have to keep it in mind all the time. The second big thing is ecological collapse. It is not just climate change that gets most of the headlines lately. It is many other things also like loss of biodiversity and destruction of habitats and so forth. But generally speaking yes we are seeingwar as nuclear war it is just a future possibility. Maybe it will happen. Maybe it will not happen. Ecological collapse has already begun. It is all around us and it threatens. Again it is an existential danger. It threatens the foundations of our civilization. I guess that some people will survive it. But if things really go bad with the economic and political implications of it it could cost the lives of billions of people. The third big one and I think most complicated is technological disruption. The consequences of disruptive technologies especially artificial intelligence and bioengineering. It is the most complicated challenge because with nuclear war and climate change and ecological collapse you can disagree whether it is true or not but everybody agrees what needs to be done about it to stop it. Nobody thinks that having a nuclear war is a good idea. Nobody thinks that climate change is a good idea. Maybe some people deny it but they do not say it is good. Now with technological disruption it is much much more complicated because it has a lot of positive potential. A lot of people positively wish to see greater and faster technological disruptions and there is no agreement whatsoever about what we should do with technologies like AI or like bioengineering. The dreams of some people are the nightmares of other people. So it is very complicated. Again like ecological collapse it is not a future scenario. It is already happening all around us. And I think the pace is such that to some people it sounds crazy but I strongly believe that given the technologies we are now developing within a century or two at most our species will disappear. I do not think that in the end of the 22nd century the Earth will still be dominated by Homo sapiens. I think given the immense power of the technologies we are developing there are two scenarios only. One scenario is that the technology will destroy humanity. I think it is less likely but still possible. The more likely scenario is that it will change humanity in a profound way. That we will use AI and bioengineering to change Homo sapiens and to create new kinds of beings that will be much more different from us than we are different from Neanderthals or from chimpanzees. To give just one example I think it is possible that we will create the first inorganic life forms after four billion years of organic evolution. So again it is not the destruction of our species. It is the changing of species into something else. But what kind of thing it will be we have to be extremely careful about that. It will not necessarily be a better version of us. It could be much much worse.  Could you give a bit more detail around the new inorganic life form? And in your mind's eye if we change for the worse in some tech-enabled way deliberately or by accident what might that look like to you?  Well I will start with the second question of what it could look like. You could use whatever technology to increase the efficiency of people the intelligence of people at the price of things like artistic sensitivity or like spiritual depth. I mean if you ask armies if you ask corporations if you ask governments What do you need from your employees from your soldiers? They will say Oh we want people to be more efficient. We want people to be more logical. We want people to be more disciplined. And if you have the technology then you engineer such people. Even if it comes and it always comes at theI mean usually when you improve something it tends to come at the price of something else. Things like I do not know spiritual depth. What kind of army needs its soldiers to have spiritual depth? So if you leave it to the corporations and armies it is very likely that once you have a technology to change humans it will I would say downgrade them and not upgrade them. It will make them more efficient soldiers or employees or whatever but it will make them kind of poorer beings. Lesser beings. So that is about just one scenario of what does it mean to downgrade people. Now with regard to inorganic life forms for four billion years all life forms were organic. Whether it is a bacteria or a mammoth or a tree or a human it is organic. It obeys the laws of organic chemistry. Now with the rise of AI we might have a chanceI tend to be agnostic about it. I am not sure. But it is possible that in a couple of decades we will be able to create either completely inorganic beings or at least part organicpart inorganic cyborgs. This will be if it happens it will be the biggest revolution in the history of life since the beginning of life. Much much bigger than the creation of mammoths or the creation of mammals or humans because it is a completely different game. Once you are no longer subject to organic chemistry we cannot even begin to imagine what it means because our imagination is the product of organic chemistry. So if you have a kind of intelligence which is not based on organic chemistry it can be anything.  If you look over the nextso you were talking about I guess the 22nd century and the prevalence dominance or existence of Homo sapiens. If we look over the next 50 years just to choose an arbitrary timeframe of nuclear war ecological collapse or these unforeseen accidents or mistakes of high technology which scares you the most or which do you worry about the most?  I worry most about the third because of what I said earlier. That it is the most complicated. That it is not enough to be kind of I do not know good and wise to deal with the first two. It will be very hard to deal with the first two as it is but the third one is really complicated because there is no agreement on the goal. With the first two at least there is an agreement on the goal. That makes it very very complicated. Also the first two nobody is actively working to make it happen sooner. Even the people who deny climate change they are not in favor of climate change. They just say It is not real. It does not happen. But with AI and bioengineering some of the most powerful people and organizations and governments and corporations in the world they are extremely busy making it happen faster. It is also we do not have a framework even to think about it properly. So again as a thinker and a politician I think this is where I can contribute the most is in trying to untangle this kind of completely new threat.  So just a few more questions. Then I will let you get going because I know we are separated by quite a few time zones. When you are thinking about these threats perhaps hearkening back to your times reading Aldous Huxley's work and here we are talking about Brave New World and not Island right? Very different descriptions although some parallels. When you feel the potential for these various types of collapse or disaster what keeps you going? Where do you find the light?  It is a good question. If you are able to deal with your own mortality as every person has to on some level then you should be able to deal with the potential mortality of your entire species. I mean it is still part of biology yes. Individuals come and go. Nations come and go. Also entire species come and go. 99 percent of the species that evolved on planet Earth are gone for one reason or another. Homo sapiens also is not eternal. Again even in the best scenario I do not think Homo sapiens will be around in two or 300 years. The best scenario is that Homo sapiens will disappear but in a peaceful and gradual way and be replaced by something better. I do not think there is any chance whatsoever that people like us will just continue to have lives like us in 200 years. That there will be in 200 years a professor of history sitting and having a podcast talk with somebody. It is not going to happen. I mean the changes are going to be too big. So maybe it goes back again to the practice of meditation and the realization that change is the only certainty in life.  So you might as well tune in to the changes so that you are at least aware that you are responding to your reactions to things outside and not the outside itself. Well Yuval this has been a lot of fun for me.  Thank you. For me too.  It is nice to connect with you. Of course I will link to everything in the show notes for people. The volume one of your series  A Graphic History is out now. Volume one can be found and I will include links to that in the show notes for everyone at tim.blogpodcast. Your website is ynharari. Facebook is Prof.Yuval.Noah.Harari. Twitter harariyuval. Instagram yuvalnoahharari. I will provide all of those so people do not have to remember them. Is there anything else that you would like to say to my audience ask of the audience suggest to the audience before we wrap up?  No just thank you for your time. I know that time and attention are the most valuable resources today for most people so I hope you benefited from investing them in listening to us.  Likewise and I can certainly speak for myself in saying that I enjoyed it quite a lot. Definitely check out Ted Chiang Exhalation. I think you will love it.  I will.  I have a bunch of notes for things that I will be checking out. And to everyone listening until next time. Thank you for tuning in.   