 Henry welcome back to the show. I promised everyone a round two. I promised myself a round two because I have all of these notes that we did not even touch in the last conversation which was wide ranging. And I want to focus on koans and delve deeply into many remaining questions about Zen and practices and so on. And I thought we might start as I mentioned before we started recording with a live example our real world case study and that is I am coming down with some kind of cold. I have got a scratchy throat. I feel turbulent in my internal state right now because I was feeling a little sick also got agitated earlier this morning and that has continued to the present moment. So I am wondering when you have a lot going on or life has thrown you a curveball or who knows you just wake up on the wrong side out of the bed assuming that still happens occasionally what do you do with your toolkit and training and so on? What happens? Okay. Thank you so much for asking that. I like it a lot and it is dear to my heart because alas I do have to deal with that. It is not gone as perhaps it ought to have in some marvelously awakened practitioner or something but I am evidently not there yet. So I can definitely I think I can offer a few tools. But actually I want to just say I have got to say this Tim thank you very much for having me back. I am bowed over actually amazed. I mean I know you said it last time but I thought somehow it will just get postponed and will not happen because I mean the people you have on are just so sort of amazing and I am unknown and weird. So it is a real   Sort of my sweet spot actually. I kid. I kid in part. It is great to have you back on and thank you for saying that and had to have you back on. I promised it.  Well I really am sort of humbled and very grateful. So let us see. Yeah so I can totally relate to your question about where you are at right now. I mean actually to be honest I can relate because I am in a slightly sort of a  I am in the situation I am in right now first of all talking to Tim Ferriss my God but then secondly actually I have got to do a teaching tonight to something like 400 people as a guest teacher and so that is a little bit sort of in my system. And tomorrow morning my wife and I are flying back to the UK for just under two weeks the first time in two years or more to see our aging aging parents who we have not been able to be face to face with in person. And so my system it knows all that is going on. So now you have got a cold or something coming on you had some kind of should we call it sort of a triggering event or some kind of activating event?  A kerfuffle earlier today.  A kerfuffle. A kerfuffle happened. Yeah. Right. So the system got sort of a little bit riled up and has not fully settled down again.  Has not settled down at all.  At all. Okay.  I appreciate the generous phrasing but yes.  Okay. Well look I mean first of all let us acknowledge clearly that that is the situation. There is a system here with a little bit of upregulation.  Mm-hmm .  The sediment is churning in the bottom  right? Okay. So that is the first thing is just to know it to state it to be clear about it. This is what I do. Okay? And then the second thing I mean really the key to the whole thing is letting it be that way. It is letting  it is like okay here's a highly sensitive creature human being and among human beings some by temperament have more sensitivity than others. All of us have fluctuations in our levels of sensitivity. And some of us do I mean in a sense do the kind of inner work that leads to more sensitivity. So let us note that in a way to be sensitive to things is a good thing. It means that we are more aware of life put very broadly. But with it comes the possibility of getting more easily riled up. Those of us who have had for whatever reasons and whatever shape traumatic elements in our childhoods especially also if we are of a sensitive nature. That sort of comes into us. It is a wound that is in us. So when we are allowing ourselves to be in let us say an agitated or a somehow distressed state when we are allowing that it helps to also allow with compassion that well somehow things have made us be sensitive like this and we still know. We know that we still have wounds and maybe in some sense there is a kind of core wound and we do not want to close that off. And one way to not close it off is to be ready to accept and allow our states of agitation and distress in the present moment. And if we can do that and see how in a way if it is allowed it becomes a kind of opening to perhaps a sort of deeper wound or at least there is some recognition that that is there too. And both are allowed that we have as well as having that stuff we also have  all of us come pre-installed with access to a sort of wider more loving in this case really meaning more self-loving awareness. Our hearts have the capacity to love ourselves and we need to tap into that.  Henry may I jump in for one second?  Please please please.  I would love to be a dork and ask some technical questions about this word allowing. So when you allow these feelings to exist or you allow yourself to recognize and accept your current state so allow and accept these are the two words I have questions about how would you describe how that manifests? For instance what is the self-talk or what do you do with the feelings? In other words if you were to try to describe for someone what not accepting or not allowing looks like and what allowing and accepting look like on the other hand what are the characteristics of those two things practically for people listening? If they are like Great I want to allow and accept how do I do that? What does it look like?  Yes. Okay thank you. That is a really good question. I will tell you again I will tell you what I do but remember this is on the back of decades of being still a bit each day because really I would say the ideal is like this that we can be still. We might close our eyes and be still and first say Wow I am agitated. I am distressed. Maybe I am a bit overwhelmed if that is appropriate. Acknowledge it. State it. To declare it. What do they say? To name it is to tame it.  I have never heard that. I like that.  Yeah. It makes it a little bit easier if we can just identify what is going on in a clear kind matter of fact internal voice. Ah I am feeling a bit overwhelmed. I am feeling a bit agitated. I am feeling somewhat distressed. Okay so the first thing is stating it. Now there is forks in the road all the way along so there are lots of ways of doing this. But let us say for somebody who is got a certain amount of sort of somatic awareness that is to say we can find feelings in the body. I have actually heard you on a podcast saying I do not know how old the podcast was though you get the throat and not much else kind of thing. So have you done work on the somatic stuff at all? Feeling things in the body?  I have. I feel like for all the sensitivities that I have in so many other places I do not want to say I am physically insensitive but when I am in say a Hakomi therapy session which is really a if I could simplify it a somatic focused mindfulness practice it is constantly answering the question What are you feeling? but in great detail. And I do not think I have a great vocabulary for it. Maybe that is part of the handicap.  Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah.  Because someone could say I feel like my friend is being unreasonable and it is like Well it is not really a feeling. Right?  Right. Correct.  Or the actual kinesthetic sensations and I would say I am probably a step broader than just tightness in the throat. There is more to it than that. But I would not say  I have seen group sessions where exercises are being done and someone can go on for five minutes in a mini TED Talk of their bodily sensations. I do not do that.  Okay. Okay. Okay. Well look let us just see. Like right now and I do not know if you would be happy to close your eyes but it is usually a bit easier if you do.  I will I will. I will close my eyes. Yes.  Okay.  I can comply with that.  I hope everybody's sort of okay with this. And by the way I suppose if anybody's driving do not follow along.  Yeah. I mean if we have to tell you that also seriously be careful with natural selection. But yes if you are driving do not close your eyes. If you are operating heavy machinery do not close your eyes. In other words consult with your closest common sense PhD please. Yes I will close my eyes and share my experience with the audience.  Okay. Okay.  We will keep it to that.  So let us say so we are sitting you can feel the seat of the chair. Let yourself just feel that let yourself feel your feet on the floor. Whatever your hands are doing just feel them as well. It does not matter whether they are free floating or holding each other or resting on the sides or something it does not matter resting on a desk. Just feel them. And again feel the feet and again feel the seat. See if you can feel all three zones at once hands feet and seat. And you do not have to do anything special. Just kind of recognizing that they are there as sensations. And just let me check in is that sort of working for you? Are you feeling them?  I am. And I should probably clarify that one thing I feel very capable of I have a lot of sensitivity for is feeling different parts of my body. So if I wanted to take the locus of my conscious awareness and put it in my right big toe or in my left Achilles tendon this type of practice that we are doing right now it comes very easily to me.  Okay.  And I do not want to interrupt the flow so please keep track but when people usually ask in a therapy session What are you feeling in your body? They are wanting to sort of tie it to some emotional tenor and that is where I have a harder time. But yes I can feel. I can easily pay attention to the sensation of my hands on the table my feet on the ground and my ass on this very very hard white chair that I am sitting on.  Okay. Well that is I mean honestly that is probably nine-tenths of the battle so to speak.  Sweet.  That is the key thing. So let us just we will keep on with this. So we have got feet we have got hands we have got a seat. If you have got any back to the chair maybe your lower back or something is just touching that as well. Just feel that if it is. It is fine if it is or is not. And now let us go to the shoulders. Just feel them. Let them settle a bit. Let them as they were sort a slump on their sockets kind of thing. Let us feel the jaw now. So here's a key thing. It is really great to slacken the jaw. It is a common thing in our fast-paced world our sort of hasty world to have tightness in the jaw. So see if you can let the jaw sink about an eighth of an inch probably forward and down and see if that at the same time brings some kind of softness into the throat. And you might also just bring your attention to your tongue because the tongue is a massive muscle that is incredibly  it is full of micro muscles. It is incredibly busy. Let it rest right now. And I know you are going to have to be talking shortly but it is okay to rest it. Let it settle on the floor of your mouth. And maybe you get a sense that it sort of lightly expands like if you are camping and you leave your down sleeping bag in a sunny tent all day it inflates. Let your tongue do that just for a few. So maybe you are getting a sort of little enveloping kind of just little taste of softness like almost a soft cloud around tongue around throat jaw all of them easing becoming easier. So I am just going to check in. Are you getting anything like this?  Yeah. I am following along definitely.  Great. Great. Okay so we are still with that softness in that area. Now we are going to let it melt down. So it melts down into the shoulders and the arms by the way become really limp. And it melts on down into the upper chest middle chest lower chest and then right through and around the midriff the solar plexus area right in the middle of the body either side of it and whatever to some extent through it down into the upper belly middle belly lower belly seat upper legs lower legs feet all becoming quite maybe a bit warm and soft. So now already we are getting a bit more balanced in ourselves probably already a little bit calmer likely we hope.  Yes.  Yeah yeah. And a bit more sort of easy. And in a state of mind where we have managed to sort of diffuse a certain ease all through the body and we under other conditions we might take longer with this and go a little more minutely just to really tasting the quality of ease. And now we can bring our attention to sort of the whole atmosphere around the heart. Do not go for the middle of the heart. Just sort of the whole area around the heart. If the chest was a kind of snow globe and the heart was a little structure in the bottom in the middle of a snow globe we want to be aware of the whole snow globe. Those little things you shake and snow falls. You know what I mean?  I do.  I hope you do. Yeah good. Okay. So that whole area so just feeling how is this whole area? And it might be that much of it is relatively sort of clear maybe sort of spacious and that parts of it are a bit contracted and tight with some tension in them. Could be that there is also if we go a little lower in the body like the solar plexus right in the middle above the belly and below the chest kind of thing around there there is often some tightness some contraction. So we are going to be aware of any tension contraction we are finding and we are not going to try to change it. Instead we are going to be soft around it. We are just going to get a sense of the body the fabric tissue of the body actually softening to the sides of the chest the sides of the flanks and whatever there may be by way of tension in more in the middle of the body or the middle the trunk the intention is to allow it to be there. This is the allowing in a slightly more somatic sense. We are softening around it and welcoming it and allowing it meaning yes you are welcome. You are welcome to be here. That is the kind of vibe. I welcome you. I want to treat you tenderly. I want to be kind to you. I know that I am a sensitive creature. I know that I am a suffering being. And my intention is not to try to eradicate that or deny that or banish that or exile that no or reject that no. My intention is to welcome this and I know I am maybe imperfect at it but I am trying and I want you little tension little tightness little contraction to know that I am welcoming you. And maybe there is just a little more ease in finding that at least there is a sense of vague possibility of doing this. In other words you do not have to be rejecting your feelings. Now we are looking at feelings right now in a very somatic way. We are not so interested in any of the storylines any of the cognitive side of emotion. We are really just feeling it out in the body. Okay. Now Tim I have been going on quite a while. How is this going? You can stay in it as you are reporting or you can just pop out whichever you prefer.  Oh it is great. It is like a therapy session that I do not have to pay for. It is fantastic. And without the cognitive overlay of the story so this is I imagine we are about 20 minutes in. This is 20 minutes that I could listen to very regularly and I could use your what is the right word mellifluous mellifluous. This is a word I have to find. This is a word that my fancy GRE friend used once mellifluous. Yeah mellifluous.  Yeah. I think you nailed it.  That is the one. Sweet or musical pleasant to hear. The voice was mellifluous and smooth. So as I was saying without any type of hesitancy in my vocabulary listening to your mellifluous voice for 20 minutes but moreover the kinesthetic focusing and relaxing without story is actually really effective for calming my system. And it is a contrast to what I struggle with which often exacerbates the situation which is for instance perhaps I am asked which of the five dominant emotions are you feeling? Joy anger sadness et cetera and there is a list.  Mm-hmm .  Now where are you feeling that emotion? Those are questions that are the second in particular very hard for me to answer. But the sequencing sort of boot up or boot down or scanning sequence that we just did really call my system without any labeling of emotion.  Right. Well I mean part of me wants to just say sort of welcome to the male gender because I mean we are notoriously poorly socialized or poorly educated in our social  in having any emotional literacy at all. I mean I feel that by the time I was cognizant that there was such a thing as emotion. All I knew was I am feeling okay and I am feeling awful. And I could not pause out whether I was  I like mad glad sad afraid. I find that very easy to remember. There is four primary emotions. I do not know. I know people have different lists. I think four is quite good because it is just so easy to remember mad glad sad afraid. And I would not have a clue what  I mean of course if I was feeling glad I would know that I was not feeling awful but that was about the extent of my emotional literacy. So I mean God I think for many guys I mean I hope it is okay to talk like this it is a journey a discovery.  I will take this episode and I will put it on my new podcast which is actually called Poorly Socialized so it will be okay on that podcast. Please please continue.  So it is not surprising for many of us that we really have to go on a journey that might take some time to start to understand in any sense really understand our emotional life. And it is so critical because how can you sort of  what can you do with emotions negative emotions difficult emotions if you do not know what they are other than try to banish them? And if we try to banish them inevitably we are banishing part of ourself or part.  It just does not work. It just does not work and it is the type of realization that I would have thought by now I would have translated to consistent reliable self-relating. Do you know what I mean? I know that divorcing a part of yourself and stuffing or refusing feelings does not work. I know. I know it just leads to more problems. And yet here we are again. The dog chasing its tail once again.  Right. But we have to sort of compassionately bear in mind what happened to us in childhood because for many of us that lays down some kind of a template for how we are going to handle difficult emotions. And if we have things that are really basically too much for us to handle in childhood and we are alone trying to handle these difficult feelings without support without being sort of met by anybody without connection to anybody it is overwhelming and there is no choice. It is either I die and often for an infant especially it seems like it is life or death or I somehow have to make it so I do not feel this somehow. And then we may have caregivers who chastise us for showing emotion and we may have stressed parents who just cannot handle it and they do not need another screaming toddler or infant. They have got so much on their plate already and who knows what? And so I think it is not surprising that we would ongoingly have to be working on this stuff. But I mean the good news as far as I am concerned is that inside of these difficulties I think there is ways to access  well I do not know. I am going off the deep end again like last time. But yeah   I think that is why I am having you back on.  Okay. Well that is good.  In for a penny in for a pound. Let us go for it.  Okay. I guess so. Okay I will go on. Inside of many of us I believe there is some kind of deep primordial wound. There is some deep ancient grief. I do not know. Partly it is probably part of the human race and all the things it is been through over thousands of generations and all the killing and famine and slavery and the most painful things that have gone on endless loss of children. So many difficult things human beings have been through but somehow I think most of us probably I mean I do not know whether you could ever scientifically prove this but I suspect that anyway a lot of us have got some deep grief inside us and actually there are various methods and I think a lot of good therapists somehow tap into that or can find ways to kindly gently give us opportunities to sort of open up to that and it can be incredibly cathartic and incredibly healing actually to open in that kind of way and find that grief is not an enemy. Because I mean personally I feel that some of the most significant important sort of pivot points in my growth so far as a fallible ailing fucked up human being has been through things like that when suddenly a gate of my heart opened and I could feel all this grief but somehow in that grief I could also feel just great love. And I do not know. I do not know how this works exactly but my hunch is that grief and love and hurt and love and pain and love they are joined at the hip somehow. And so our acts I mean I have gone deeper with how to handle and know emotions but yeah it all relates really. If we allow our emotional sort of challenges and tightness and reluctance to feel if we are given a supportive framework where we can open to that then we might open to this sort of deeper well of grief and it is so beautiful because then we find wow in the depths of this somehow I do not feel so alone there is a truth in this that somehow joins me to the human race or something like that. I do not know maybe I am getting off the rails here. Not only off the deep end but off the rails. But there is something here for us. I really think this is a part of our healing. That is been anyway my experience. And so not being afraid of feelings is a really important starting point. And that is I think part of the allowing piece is that instead of feeling this way being wrong and bad and I got to not feel this way flip it. No I am going to allow this to teach me something. I do not really know what it is and it is probably quite hard for me to believe it could teach me anything it just seems wrong but actually maybe it is not wrong. Maybe it is just that my map of myself has got a lot of terra incognita unknown lands in my map of myself and hey why do not I allow myself to be on a journey of discovery of not knowing all of who I am and being willing to sort of let parts of myself show themselves that I did not think I wanted to know or did not even think were there to be known but maybe they are. I was listening to you of course one would hope just now. And what I heard you say was given your more sophisticated accent the Queen's English and such I heard terror incognita and I thought to myself that is actually  then I realized of course that you are saying terra incognita as I would say it. And I was like well maybe to get to the terra incognita the undiscovered territory or the unexplored territory where one reaps the rewards you have to go through the terror incognita which is the fear in the middle. But I am starting to really  I am grasping at straws here. So let me try to land this plane if that is okay.  Yeah totally.  Just so we can pile on as many mixed metaphors as possible. This has been extremely helpful. I want to sit with this. We may come back to it but I want to make sure that I cover a topic that is of great interest to me. It is of great interest to our mutual friend Kevin Rose and there are a number of words that you brought up that led me to think about it. Framework truth especially framework is not something that most people would associate with koan the word koan or the what people might think of as koans. And I think we should start from scratch because not everyone will have heard the first episode but before ever speaking to Kevin about some of what he is learned I did not know that koans which we will define in a minute have checking questions that there may be such a thing as passing or not passing a koan which kind of blew my mind because for me and perhaps you could you could give an example but what is the sound of one hand clapping that may or may not be a real example that there may be some nuance to that or one that I had kind of bookmarked for myself which is somewhat different maybe which is not knowing is most intimate which again may or may not be a real koan. You could tell you can certainly clarify but these are statements of paradox that are intended to be meditated upon as a way of perhaps stepping outside the confines of logical rational sort of hyper intellectualized existence. Right? Maybe that is how I would look at these types of things. What is a koan? Proper definition.  Yes yes yes yes. Well I will try my best. I mean okay. So a koan is a phrase. It may be a few words or it can be a few lines long it may even be the longest two that I know about a page long each but in even in those ones we just kind of pull out a phrase here and a phrase there and that is really the heart of what the koan really is. And these phrases generally they sort of do not make sense to our normal rational mind. And it varies a bit. I mean not knowing is most intimate it is but by the way it is a totally bona fide koan. Yeah absolutely koan. it is with this master called Hogen. It is supposed to be the moment he had a great awakening actually when he heard another master tell him that. And maybe I will come back to the story in a moment but that is almost a bit more you could kind of wrap your head around some idea of not knowing as most intimate. Well actually it is a little bit hard but you could sort of think well actually Tim and Henry were just a moment talking about not knowing like going into unknown land as a sort of like reclaiming parts of the self by recognizing that there is limits to what I know of myself. So maybe there is some aspect of not knowing that is connected with personal growth of some kind. And actually I think Tim your comment about terror that was great. That was great because actually we know that we are moving into not knowing if we get a little bit afraid. Fear is a hallmark of that because it sort of is scary nearly always. You could kind of maybe think about not knowing is most intimate as like not knowing will help me know something about myself that I do not yet know or something like that. You could sort of rationally approach it a little bit but what about this sound of one hand? Actually the real sort of really I do not know the old formulation of that hand of that koan is like this you know the sound of two hands clapping but what is the sound of one hand? In other words you know what two hands clapping sounds like. What does one hand clapping sound like? Or do you know what the sound of one hand is? That is kind of meaningless really? Is not it? I mean some people try that. I have had people sort of snap their fingers or something because only one hand to make a noise. No. It is not the basic thing with koans is as the sort of a frame I think I have got to give to understand what they are sort of for and why they are beautiful and why they are not just often seemingly infuriating little riddles that cannot be puzzled out. They are not just that they are actually so the origin of them and almost I think in every single case is something that one of these deeply awakened masters said or in some cases did some koans are somebody just does something weird. And most of the people doing or saying the things in them these Zen practitioners or perhaps we should say Chan practitioners because Zen was called Chan in China where it really comes from and the Japanese kind of took it on about 1800 years ago and did a great job of sort of passing it conveying it and practicing with it and passing it on so to speak you know? But the original practitioners who gave us a lot of the koans most of them were Chinese and they were mostly in this period of Chinese history called the Tang Dynasty which was like 600 to 900 approximately. And that is when Zen is sort of said to have had its first real flourishing. There were just a lot of people around apparently at that time who were really doing this practice and got kind of really helped by it and clarified in certain key ways. And the key way that koans sort of pass on or allow us to maybe taste is in a dry way of putting it is we could say nondual experience. But that is sort of a bit boring really to put it that way. It is to realize through personal experience that there is actually there are actually sort of other dimensions to our experience than we normally experience. And what they are like is a kind of incredible overwhelming sense that somehow everything is one thing that is one common experience that koans are trying to convey. That all these separate things in this world just like they seem to be there is a table there is a cup there is a tree outside there is Tim  and are you still on the east coast Tim somewhere?  Yes. Yeah.  So Tim on the East Coast Henry in New Mexico Santa Fe and they are obviously quite separate but at the very same time there is actually also a level of our experience of our reality where nothing is separate. And this is not an idea. It is an actual experience that quite a number of people through the ages and today still attest to being something they have discovered and found to be real that does not in any way sort of impair their functioning as a normal human being. So it is not psychotic and it is not delusional. It does not generally sort of take us off into dysfunction quite the reverse. It can actually lead to better mental health than we have had before. And it is kind of good for us apparently to find this and koans are little invitations to that side of things. Now how they work is actually shall I give you a chance to say something and not just rant away? Would it is there anything so far I know that it sort of does not make sense or anything or am I going in a direction instead of interest do you think?  It is of interest. Let me just share a few things that may be of interest to folks. And I want you to bookmark you are just about to get into the way they work which is a hell of a cliffhanger. So I want you to remember that that is where you are. I had a bee in my bonnet about the actual term koan and I had to look it up cause it was really bothering me maybe because the characters are super strange for the association that I have with the meaning of koan. And I pulled it up on Wikipedia and the etymology if you look at it the origin as you mentioned of this expression is Chinese. Gong'an gong'an? It is the two or gong'an depending on whether it is first or fourth tone on the second syllable. And then koan are the same characters in the On'yomi in Japanese. But it literally could be translated as Public case.  Yeah.  Like gong I guess this would be gong'an. Yeah. Fourth tone. But if you hear that gong'an first tone it would be like public safety like public security. It is public like you would see that on the people's liberation jackets in Beijing these huge green jackets that in some cases you would see that. So I was looking at this and I am just like what the hell does this mean? Because it is public and then case or plan. And I was just like where does that come from? And so it turns out that that is exactly according to Wikipedia what it is. It is referring to a public record and the terminology came from the Tang Dynasty in China. And thus the koan serves as a metaphor. I am reading directly from Wikipedia for principles of reality beyond the private opinion of one person and a teacher may test the student's ability to recognize and understand that principle. That is the thing I really want to dig into. But suffice to say that as stated here and Wikipedia Zen koan collections or public records of the notable sayings and actions of Zen masters and disciples attempting to pass on their teachings right? So whether or not we agree a hundred percent with that I just had to get a better understanding of why these characters are used for this because it is not obvious at all why they are connected. So let us jump back to where you were in terms of how they work. And I just want to tease this for people and that is and I am going into the abyss here because I do not know the answer but the idea that a teacher may test the student's ability to recognize and understand that principle seems on its face just absurd right? Because it just does. So I cannot wait to hear you tie it together. I will also say that this experience of unity or nonduality all is one et cetera sounds really abstract. And I suppose it is for those who have not experienced it. These are experiences that can be captured or reflected at least in on some level functional MRI scans with the administration of something like psilocybin at a sufficiently high dose. So you see and it is much more complex than this but some downregulation or decreasing activity in what people might consider the default mode network this constellation of neural components thought to be associated with among other things conception of ego and self-referential thinking and so on. So even though it sounds very woo woo and how would anyone ever document this? This is a phenomenon that is routinely documented and assessed with questionnaires at places like Johns Hopkins when they are working with psychedelic compounds not to say that the experiences are identical but it is just to point out that it is not completely outside the reach of experience and observation although Zen or Chan Buddhism had a head start of a few thousand years perhaps.  Yeah no look all of that is fantastic. I am so happy to hear you say that. Both I mean it is both parts because my own little sort of hobby horse these days kind of thing is that I am so happy about the psychedelic research because it is given it is giving us new tools for once again resuming the study of meditation at deeper levels because a lot of the study of meditators brains over the last 30 years or whatever it is been has been about mindfulness it is been about quieting the default mode network and just getting into maybe more compassionate states of mind or just more equanimous states of mind but it has not really tapped into the capacity or it is minimally tapped into the capacity of meditation to yield to bring to these nondual states which are really what the heart of the matter you know? And so now the psychedelic research is opening that up again and it is creating like new ways of measuring longevity of change in people who have been through experiences like this which was so hard to do before because you could not you cannot really get somebody in an MRI and say have Kensh Kensh being the Zen name for awakening to the principle which is nondual. So psychedelic research is really helping with that. And it is actually it is funny that Zen had a real popularity in the west back in the '50 '60s '70s '80s even still in the kind of heyday and then aftermath of psychedelic culture. That people recognized wow Zen seems to know about what I tasted on that last acid trip. It seems to have some congruence with that. And maybe meditation is a way to sort of get there in a more stable way kind of thing and without having to take a substance and maybe that is the case really. And so I think now Zen got a little bit sort of I mean it was almost kind of mainstream really for a while. You know?  Yeah you had like J.D. Salinger Allen Ginsburg Jack Kerouac right? I mean not to mention Alan Watts and so on. Right. So it was in the zeitgeist for sure.  Totally. You know and I think maybe it is due for a reappraisal at the moment and maybe and koans can be a part of this. I am so convinced because now okay. Public case. That is exactly right. Now one interpretation that I have heard of what the term public case means is that actually it was taken from Tang Dynasty legal processes. That they would so essentially a public case was a public record of some point of legislation or some what we would call a legal precedent today.  Case record of a public law court at least according to Wikipedia.  Right. Okay great so I am not off track there. So basically meaning that you could point to actually it was a master called Echu who was an amazing master in the late seventh early eighth century if I remember right who said The single hand does not sound without reason that was what he said. The single hand sounds so that is a little obscure of course it is very obscure but actually he was trying to express his experience of awakening. In other words he is trying to use language to convey what is basically a non-linguistic experience and even an experience that we do not really have language for but it is a very vivid and real experience in which the sense of self has been swallowed up by everything kind of thing. And so what we feel we are is everything. And koans are records of that in a sense it is a great practitioner expressing through words what he or she has realized and therefore the idea is the ordinary way of constructing reality where I am a self in this body and everything else is outside of me that way of constructing reality will not understand the koan cannot get at what the koan is getting at. The koan is a little kind of drill bit that is drilling into the wall of my house of self so to speak. It is trying to actually puncture my the membrane of my sense of self switching metaphors. It is trying to I sometimes have talked to them of they are like little explosives. We take them into the psyche by sitting with them. You kind of do best with them if you have a meditation practice. You let them sort of somehow simmer away inside you and they will possibly do something to deep assumptions that I have. And one of those deepest assumptions is that I am me in my body in my mind and I am not what is outside of me and that is a deep assumption. And the koan can kind of blow a hole in it in the assumption. And suddenly I discover that is not true or it is true but it is not the whole truth. There is another reality that is real. I mean it is a dimension of reality where there is not separation between things there is not distance between things. Somehow there is one fabric one sort of tissue one. That is what they mean by the way. And when you were quoting the word principle that is what it means. It means a single tissue single fabric. That is what everything's made of.  Henry may I jump in here for one second?  Please please please!  No no no. I have a tendency of saying no no no and what I really mean is yes yes yes. So some psychoanalyst or therapist can really do a deep dive on that I am sure. But returning to the point I wanted to make there are no doubt going to be people listening who are like What the fuck these people talking about? So what I would love to do because they might assume you have to do a lot of drugs or like lock yourself in a room in a robe until you basically go crazy for any of this to make sense let me ask some super specific questions. And if you would not mind I think this will be a way because this is the itch that I want to scratch for myself also. And it is related to the extent that one exists the system around or that includes koans.  How many koans are there and how many have you passed? So give me the short answer to that and then we can go from there because I think people will be like What? Okay. It might pull people in. So how many koans are there that you are aware of and how many have you passed?  Okay I am aware that I have read that there are 1700 that are kind of classically recognized koans nearly all from that Tang Dynasty period. And a few from way earlier actually a few have come out of the Indian phase of Buddhism way back in the fourth century BCE. So apparently 1700 but in practice what happens is there are these different sort of schools of Zen that will use certain collections. So to my knowledge no school uses 1700 koans. No training involves that many. In a school that I am part of called Sanbo Zen we use something like I believe it is around 420 is what I have heard. Fairly recently actually from one of my colleagues had sort of counted it up and they are in five collections of kinds. So these koans got collected in mostly Song Dynasty China. That is around 1100 1200 and these sort of classic collections were compiled and there are several of them. There are there are maybe three really major collections. The earliest was put together in 1028 it is called the Blue Cliff Record and that has a hundred koans in it. And then there is another one called The Book of Equanimity that is also got a hundred and there is another one called The Gateless Gate that has 48. And actually there is quite a bit of overlap among those volumes. And then there is another volume that we use. And there is a preliminary kind of volume of just a sort of hodgepodge of koans that one of our teachers in the lineage put together called The Miscellaneous Koans because they are just miscellaneous. And and so what we do okay so this is how it works is that if somebody is really kind of got a steady meditation practice and they have found ways to get to the point where they are kind of like meditating whether there is a reason   Henry hold your thought. But if I had to answer Kevin's question maybe it is a bad question. I do not know because I do not know what I am talking about but how many of those 1700 or 420 have you passed? Because I think that is a concept that is going to be interesting to people.  Okay. So I can modestly and humbly say that I have been passed on all of the ones that we do the 420 at least sort of two at the minimum times in some cases multiple times. The reason I say multiple times is because I first went through them all with one teacher and then actually my teacher John Gaynor Roshi in the UK. And then I moved to New Mexico and picked up with my teacher Joan Rieck Roshi and sort of carried on with her and so between those two teachers I did one go through them all. Then I did another go through all of them with my teacher Rubin Habito Roshi who is a professor of comparative religion at SMU in Dallas they are all fantastic fantastic people by the way. And also I have done many with my current teacher Yamada Roshi. And So I mean I have done a lot of them at least three times and I have probably I would say hazard that I have done just about all of them three times. But definitively probably three and three quarters of them two and three quarters of them you know?  You know I thought that I would have a set a finite list of questions but now I just have more questions about questions of all things. So if I may just dance with me here a little bit so there are there are these many koans but there is for practical purposes subsets that are practiced by different schools.  Yeah.  You are in the Sanbo Sanbo Kyodan. Sanbo school the Three Treasures is that right?  That is right. Yeah.  And you have been passed and we yet explained what that is on these various koans. Some of them two or three times. Now in my head I am thinking like once you have it answered do not you just kind of have the answer? What does it mean to pass two or three times? And then I am going to give you another question from Kevin and then I am going to let you run wild.  Okay okay.   What are the checking questions? What are the checking questions? Because when I first had these sent to me from Kevin I thought to myself well this is interesting because in my head I am imagining this koan using your earlier description as this sort of Trojan horse software that puts a little snippet of code in your head and your computer cannot run the program. So you basically just like beach ball your way into giving up on rationality and then somehow poof you have this Kensh unity experience because you break your computer and whether that happened or not is kind of your word against somebody else's word. Right? So the idea that there are checking questions and passing I am like okay. I want to know all about that. With that please go crazy.  Yeah. Well it all ties into what you just said. It is your word against somebody else's as to whether you have had Kensh that is the point really. It is not it is really not. And the reason it is not is that if somebody's had Kensh the way they experience the koan will have changed utterly. And the way they are when if they meet with a teacher if they do I mean bear in mind that this is not the only way of working with koans actually there is nothing wrong with somebody just deciding they want to sit with a koan. Fine. I have got a friend who does not even sit with them. He likes reading them. Fine. There is no ban on that. You know that is totally up to you. But this system of training you can actually I mean like on Sam Harris' app for example we go to these koan meditations and you just sit with it. And it is a bit like for example in the Zend when we are open or even when we are I mean in life but when we are on zoom people come and they just they hear a talk on a koan and they get to sort of bask in the weird waters of a koan for a while while the teacher's giving a disquisition on the koan. It may be opaque and yet there may be moments when suddenly they feel some weird sort of movement inside a stirring or something within and some weird little pool of limpid clarity opens. They go What the hell is this? But it is beautiful. You know   Limpid's Clarity that is my third podcast. Poorly Socialized and then to offset the damage from that podcast I have Limpid Clarity. Please continue.  Yeah. So there are different ways of working with them but this way whereby you have sort of decided to engage a teacher with them if you have this Kensh experience in a way the very point of the koan is it is a meeting place where the two people two practitioners one more experience than the other can actually meet through the koan in the very reality they have awakened to. To me that is the most precious and amazing thing about it is that far from this sort of awakening thing this awakening and nondual being just a personal experience. Of course it is that but actually through koans you can meet in it you meet in the boundless wonder of this other dimension of our experience. I think I said last time we were talking and I talk about in my book I had a couple of these sort of what I felt to be very powerful experiences of nonduality and they were slightly different each one. Prior to connecting with a teacher I would been trying to find a teacher actually but sort of was not ready. But then eventually when I did connect with the first teacher that I really engaged with John in the UK John Gaynor when I got my first koan from him which was this often it is the first koan which is so inscrutable. I mean just sort of damnable. I mean I am embarrassed to even say it but it is a koan that a lot of people start with which is Mu. M-U. Mu. Which basically means   That is it.  You go ahead.  That is it that is the whole thing.  That is it. Mu. I mean it has a little background story. A monk asked Zhushu this great master Zhozhu Zhushu in Sino-Japanese Does a dog have Buddha nature? Buddha nature meaning this awakened nature or principle as it was referred to earlier does even a dog have that? He asks. And Zhozhu answers Mu which ostensibly means Not. It does mean not literally but it is sort of a principle of Buddha nature that it is everything. So how could a dog not have it sort of thing? Yet Zhozhu says Mu. So we do not worry about that. We just sit with Mu. We just sit with Mu. We could almost take it like when Zhozhu says Mu he is sort of just dismissing the whole question. Mu. I am not going to deal with that. Mu something like that. But he is also presenting that very reality in that little word Mu because actually that very reality is showing up all the time right here right now. It is always present this so-called principle. It is always present. It is always here. It is just we are not conditioned to know it clearly.  Now what you mean by that is the principle of not or the principle of emptiness? Is that what you mean? Is that what you are referring to?  Yes it is. Yes. Basically the principle of what I was calling nonduality which also happens to be empty the principle of total oneness which is also empty. That is always here. So when Zhozhu says Mu he is expressing that in his way Mu just then. He is expressing it. So a student sits with this question Mu and if and when they have an opening with sitting with Mu and it is a   To be clear that is not done by thinking about it.  No it is not. It just   You are not reflecting and ruminating. You are just kind of sitting there with this software and this code that is been installed.  Yeah.  Okay. All right.  Yeah. You are usually just sort of repeating it softly. You add it to your breath meditation usually just softly voicing the sound Mu with each breath and you just patiently do it. The more patiently you do it the better because you will be more comfortable and you will  it starts to just sort of in a way take over your sitting in a very nice gentle way kind of thing. It is a little bit like a mantra. It is a little bit like that. But anyway so it is a little unlike other kinds in that regard because you use it that way but when  let us say something happens. When you go to see the teacher you both light up in this other dimension kind of thing. I am sorry. I am not expressing it very well. You meet in a way that  I mean I certainly coming back to when I was working with my teacher John when I went in to see him after I would had some experience with Mu where  I mean I do not know if there is any interest but I could tell you what that was like if anybody wants   Sure. Yeah please and then I am not going to let go. I am like a dog with a bone on this check-in questions thing. I am not going to let that go. But please yes I would love to hear about the experience.  Okay and I am truly going to the check-in questions truly. It is a long journey together a long and winding road to check-in questions. So this is also just to exemplify how much this can happen in the midst of ordinary life. I was busy as a writer and as a poet. I was doing lots of readings. I was working on my next book. I just sold a book and working out a contract with my agent all of that stuff going on busy and kind of productive and I got a fellowship in poetry at Oxford Brookes University at the time and one day  I would been sitting with Mu and often when I am riding my bike to the office in the college I am using Mu and as I am riding along it just comes to mind and I said What is this thing? but just doing it. Then one day I am home and I have just made dinner and our toy boys are young and they are watching a movie and I am bringing a plate of food upstairs for Claire my wife. The boys have already eaten. They are watching Who Framed Roger Rabbit a great movie on the video with Bob Hoskins and I bring in Claire's plate of food and I think I am still holding mine and I am watching this scene on the movie where Roger Rabbit goes whirring round and round a kitchen while his rear end is on fire. I do not know if you have seen it   Oh yeah. Oh I have seen it more times than I should probably admit. It is been a while but yes I have seen it.  It is a fantastic film I feel or at least that is the last time I saw it 20 years ago whatever that was and I was watching that scene and it just suddenly seemed just so funny and then all of a sudden this crazy sort of like a cyclone energy whips up through my body and blam it is really like I sort of black out. I am on my feet and everything's disappeared. Everything's just gone. It is just an empty vast empty space that is so beautiful and nothing there. Then I sort of come back and I realize I am standing in this room holding a plate which somehow I have not dropped and it is like the house is still here but it is not really made of anything. It is totally discombobulating and marvelous and I am just trembling with some sort of overwhelming gratitude and love and it is like somehow this empty space that everything's in is just so overwhelmingly beautiful and it is just like a huge love. I am overwhelmed. I cannot believe how fortunate it is to be a human being. It is just indescribably  this is all coming out of this little word Mu. I have been sitting assiduously with Mu and at the time I did not even realize it had anything to do with Mu. It was just this mind-blowing experience. So I go downstairs and I think Well I better sit and light a stick of incense and maybe I will just calm down and I do not. I am supremely happy. I am overwhelmed with happiness. Tears are flowing down my cheeks and it is just so beautiful. So then two weeks later or something I get to visit with John the teacher and I tell him this thing and he says something like Ah. So Mu has paid you a visit or something like that. I thought What is he talking about? How could Mu have anything to do with that? But suddenly the penny dropped and I realized Oh my God. This is what a koan is for. It is for precipitating it is for sharing this fucking reality. Excuse my Greek. A koan is not an annoying boring little pointless thing. It is got an incredible purpose which is sharing this deepest reality of our existence. And how can it do it? I mean I still do not really understand how it can do it. I can sort of piece it together a little bit so yeah Zhozhu knew this world incredibly well. He was accustomed to it. It would become second nature to him and he was at ease in it and he knew this normal way things are and this mind-blowing way things also are not in the end separate. That is the point of the training ongoing in koans is to go beyond this either life is this mind-blowing boundless oneness emptiness thing or it is my ordinary life but the point of training  damn am I going ahead? Can I just finish that thought? Yeah.  Finish the thought yes please.  Wow. God Kevin. I hope this is not too much for everybody listening but   No it is not and I also like being Kevin so please continue.  God. You can tell how my mind is blown. I am sorry. Well that explains   Mu's got ahold of you right now. You have got to be careful.  Oh my God. Yeah. So that is why we sit with koans is because they can open us up to this boundless reality but ongoing beyond a first experience they train us more and more in realizing that our ordinary life and that mind-blowing reality they are not separate and that is a very hard thing to understand and that is why so many koans are about things. Okay. I want to talk about koans are about things and koans love the world so much and they love us. They want us to share in it and basically of course they do not really but the masters the practitioners who created the koans they are deeply compassionate and they wanted to share somehow what they had realized and it is pretty amazing. So check-in question when I  Yeah. Okay okay. It is going to be   He is on a scent trail.  Oh my God. This is going to be a bit of a letdown from me an anticlimax when we finally get there.  I will be the judge of that.  Okay. Well the check-in questions were what John started to ask me about Mu that enabled him and me to meet more thoroughly and to know more deeply basically what experience had just happened in the student me. They are questions like  actually I do not know how much of this I can reveal but I think I can. They are things like Well show me Mu. What is Mu? How old is Mu? How tall is Mu? How would you show Mu to a baby? They are weird question like that but after that experience they are easy. They are easy. So they are kind of  yeah. This is a system for sharing what we mean by awakening and sort of being able to as in the legal precedence of it to meet in the same place so to speak. Yeah.  All right. I have so many followups.  Okay.  So I want to preface all of the followups by saying I am genuinely fascinated by all of this. Simultaneously I have to act as a stand-in for the audience listening. So you can understand I have to both be enthusiastic  I do not have to but I am enthusiastic and I have to present or I should ask questions on behalf of the audience who might be thinking to themselves at least a handful of them Well what the hell is going on? Right?  Yeah yeah. Yeah yeah.  No this is great. This is great. I like it. We are rolling in the mud here. It is good. So the first question that hopped to mind for me is related to I am sure an observation that many people had or a thought that occurred to them which is if you were to go to a psychiatrist and describe your experience with your dinner plate there is a very good chance they would consider that a psychotic break or label it a delusion of grandeur and prescribe medication for you. That would be one very likely psychiatric treatment response. What I am curious to know is or just to get your opinion on and this is by no means meant to imply that people who have destabilizing experiences should not seek professional help. I think they should but do you think that these types of experiences can show in the  the benefit or detriment of an experience like that is dependent on the container and framework that you have within which to try to metabolize that and building on top of that and I have wondered this quite a bit because with psychedelic experiences you come to have over time I think tremendous empathy for people who appear to be suffering from mental illness say homeless people who seem disconnected from reality. In your opinion this is not medical advice it is just curiosity do you think that some subset of people we view as completely mentally detached are just people who had experiences of Kensh perhaps identical to what you experienced but have no means for trying to make any sense of it and therefore become lost at sea?  I think it is quite possible that that is the case tragically I do. Quite a number of people that have reached out to me report having had something like this earlier in life. I can think of several people who did as teenagers and had no idea. They somehow in the depths of the experience they felt this was a vastly benevolent thing to perceive to undergo to experience and then afterwards got terribly scared and did not know what was going on what had just happened to them were they going crazy and in some cases got unhappy got depressed anxious for some years and I think that it could be that in some cases it could be graver than that and if somebody is already perhaps traumatized anyway as so many are it might initially be a very benevolent thing but then there is no container. There is no understanding. They are completely alone with it and it could be really scary and it could become another traumatizing factor. I think that happens and it is very sad and I feel part of what I want to do is get the word out widely that this is a feature of human nature. It is something we  we are built a capacity to have these kinds of experiences and they are vastly benevolent in the end and they may also be really pretty fucking weird at the beginning. So I want people to know that this is a feature of human nature and therefore there are places you can reach out people you can reach out to and you do not have to be doing koans for this by the way. The koan method I think is a beautiful thing because it makes it more accessible to more of us. It is not a freak thing if somebody has that kind of experience with a koan. It is still by no means totally predictable or reliable or something but it is not a freak thing. Also the koan training subsequently is exactly a way of grounding it integrating it getting more familiar with it probably deepening it clarifying further and learning how to just effortlessly live from it in your normal life and not feel you have got to quit everything and go and live on a mountaintop or something. You do not have to. The mountaintop's right here anyway kind of thing. So the more that people are aware of this and the more it becomes part of the conversation the public discourse the better and so far in the world of meditation a lot of the public discourse around meditation most of it has been about the nervous system calming benefits of mindfulness. Absolutely right. Right on. It is great that that is happening. Then you have got people like Sam Sam Harris who are bringing this experience of waking up waking out of the dualistic separate sense of self into a much more inclusive kind of awareness that is deeply beneficial to experience in principle because it shows our infinite connectedness and if trauma is about ultimate separation and isolation the poor child with their overwhelming emotions totally alone Kensh if we can call it that using Japanese terminology is exactly the opposite. It is about infinite connectedness and that is the most wonderful thing to discover. It cannot but flood us with love at least briefly and if we are then really freaked out I want people to know that it is okay. You have not gone mad. You have in fact discovered something really beautiful and real about your human nature and there is followup. There are ways of gradually integrating it and hallelujah that we have seen this. It is amazing and  okay. I will pause there.  Thank you for the pause. I would imagine though that this puts you in sometimes a very tricky position where you have an audience now. You are on a larger platform. You are on podcasts like this and people must reach out to you some percentage of which describe an experience that they have interpreted as Kensh and for people who are interested Kensh is actually written in a really cool way. It is Kensh which is seeing nature or essence   Yeah essence.   and it is a cool combination of characters which does make a lot of sense unlike my original exposure to koan. But I would suspect that you have some subset of people who come to you who really should have psychiatric treatment just out of the ether over the transom from the public and I would expect that puts you in a tricky situation because having spent time around people who are having breakdowns and maybe not breakthroughs sometimes one and the same but not always is that something that has been challenging for you when someone who is perhaps going through a manic episode or having some type of potentially destructive experience that is quite isolating for them just kind of separated perhaps reaches out to you to validate it as Kensh and therefore sometimes that does not require intervention?  Yeah. So far it is been comparatively rare and I think the reason is that   That is good.  Yeah I know. I mean I can think of one clear time it did actually. There was somebody who wanted to come on the retreat and we were  we meaning myself and the little team at the Zend  was a little bit wary because of some of the things she said and we asked about her psychiatric background and there were some things she told us and then she came and it was clear that she really was in much worse shape than she had led on. One guy who was part of the Zend team then who was a therapist he spent some time with her and then actually he decided that she really needed to be taken to the psych ward for an evaluation. So that was what we did there and she was compliant with that. But usually people know that there is  you know that whatever exactly role I am in I teach meditation and so you have got to be into meditation really. Not everybody is and it is quite  I do not know if I would say it is demanding but that is the main method here. I do not teach just Hey let us talk about koans. No I teach meditating and one of the ways I teach meditation is meditation with koans. It is not the only way but for those that are inclined we can do that but also like I said there is a large number of people I think getting interested in koans who do not really feel the need to engage with a teacher and that is okay. They get something. They find their meditation is deeper if they have got a koan that they are touching they are repeating or thinking of a little bit while they meditate. It just sort of enriches the meditation. Some people have reported to me just having really deep sits peaceful lovely deep joyful peaceful sits when they bring a koan in and they have no idea really what the koan's saying what it is about or what are you going to  no interest in how it might lead to Kensh. They just find the phrases somehow absorbing and relaxing perhaps and cast a little bit of a spell over their meditation and they find it is really deep and that is lovely. No problem there. I think this Kensh business and the real deep koan training is not for everybody. You know?  Yeah. Yeah true of a lot of things.  Right.  So let me follow up with a couple of exploratory points. I am going to get into some of the weirder stuff in a minute but let us start with the assumption that the experience as you described it is absolutely true. This is where I want to start just as a basis for the question I am going to ask you. In other words that this experience of Kensh is not an everyday by all people thing but it is not a freak thing. Another way to put it would be it is reasonably common. It is been reasonably common for hundreds or thousands of years.  Yeah.  There are sheer characteristics and it takes one to know one if that makes any sense. Right?  Yeah yeah yeah.  One Obi-Wan can look at another Obi-Wan in training and the force is strong with this one. You have passed. You have passed this koan after asking the check-in question. I mean I am obviously joking around a little bit but let us just take it as true that that exists as an experience as a phenomenon as a training. How does someone who is brand new to Zen separate someone who is legitimate as a teacher from a charlatan? Because I have been exposed and overexposed to the let us just call it the so-called self-development fields the personal development fields to the medical fields to the medical in quotation marks fields for decades and all of them are rife with charlatans or people who claim to have a set of expertise and skills that they do not or people who make promises they cannot deliver. I have to imagine on some level there are people running around claiming to be masters or experts in Zen who are not. How can one who has not had these experiences assess who is real and who is not?  Yeah. Okay. That is an important point. Well if I just describe a little bit how it works in Sanbo Zen. That will be a starting point.  Great. Let us do it.  Okay. So in Sanbo Zen there are assistant teachers and then there is a  somebody called it an equal hierarchy kind of thing. Everybody is equal but there are grades of responsibility. So there is an assistant teacher there is an assistant Zen  an assistant teacher can do  usually they work with a Zen teacher as an assistant to them and they can do a certain amount of things as the teacher wants. A Zen teacher can do anything meaning they can give talks they can use the koans they can meet with students and they can run a Zend completely. Then there is so-called associate masters and this is all within Sanbo Zen. I am just giving you a framework so you can get some sense of how it works. These associate masters can appoint a personal teacher. They cannot appoint a Sanbo Zen teacher. Then there are a circle of  well they are called authentic masters or just masters. They can appoint Sanbo Zen teachers. So they can appoint people in the name of the lineage and there are not many of them and they tend to do it collaboratively if they are going to appoint people. So in other words there is quite a  I do not know if it is elaborate but there is a certain careful system for who gets what level of responsibility as a teacher. Now I feel that I am happy that it is like that because it means that at every step of the way there is some accountability. It is not just I tell everybody I had this awakening experience. I am an awakened master. I want to be a teacher now. In fact in Sanbo Zen there is almost a bit of a view that if somebody wants to be a teacher they may not be ready yet. It is like if they are going to get something out of being a teacher it is hard to be perfect about this to be honest but if somebody is needing the affirmation of being a teacher and after all it is kind of like Whoa you are a spiritual teacher. That is pretty exulted if somebody's needing that kind of affirmation they are probably not ready to do it and we just wait. Every year all the teachers of all levels and all the senior students who their teachers have thought This person might be ready to start training to be a teacher they all gather. We all gather for a week-long retreat and workshop and we do a lot with the koans and people have to give talks in front of the others. It is pretty terrifying because  I mean one of the most frightening things more frightening than being on the Tim Ferriss podcast actually which by the way I am finding very enjoyable. It is not as frightening as I thought but   Terra incognita.  Exactly terra. Oh my God. But one of the most frightening things I have done really was have to give I have done it twice now give a talk to 80 90 Zen teachers. Oh my God. All my seniors and  anyway in other words it is totally not down to me to say I am a teacher. In fact it is rather carefully titrated over the year. You get more and more responsibility as you are ready for it if you see what I mean. Okay. So that is how we do it. Now typically  then those quote-unquote masters they get this formal old-style Zen authorization called Dharma transmission which it is very moving to get that because it really means you are  the whole body is really trusting you and why would they do that? But they have decided they do and so you just accept it and you hope you will do your best. It is a very moving thing to   What do you mean by the whole body if I heard you correctly?  I guess I mean the whole organization of Sanbo Zen and all   Now is not Dharma transmission  so I have heard transmission used in yogic practices in very specific ways. Is that a promotion effectively or is it a transmission?  Yeah yeah.  I mean that sounds really crass I know but   No no no. It is totally fine.   in other words is it a titular if that is the right way to pronounce that titular I do not know.  Yeah yeah yeah.  You get the idea involving titles. Honor that is bestowed upon you and it is a formal recognition or is there an actual transmission from one person to another?  Yeah. That is a   Does that make sense?  It totally does. It totally does. It is got at least two meanings. I mean one would be yeah somebody really gets it. They really get the Dharma. They really get what this is all about and they do it through in conjunction with their teacher and that is a kind of Dharma transmission in a sense but it is not really that there is anything transmitted because you are realizing that it is all one. So nothing can be transmitted. It is like you are truly discovering that we are all one one thing. There is no distance no space no time no separation. That all is clear and it is clear here and now and it is clear in the company of a teacher of another and maybe in some sense the teachers help that become clear.  Is the moral of your description or the lesson the take-home lesson from your description of how Sanbo Kyodan handles structure of the organization responsibilities in essence to say Be aware of rogue Zen masters running around? That is to say that you should look for a recognized organization with some type of self-governance and so on as a starting point?  I just think if you do find somebody who is in that kind of realm it is probably safer. Because for one thing they will have been fairly closely vetted over quite a number of years by somebody else. Now who that other person was and how reliable they were who knows? But at least they have then further been vetted by a number of people by a body of people. That means that you feel of course we develop relationships with our peers. I do not want to let them down by misbehaving for example. I feel that I have a real deep responsibility obviously to people who want to study with me what an honor that anybody would. Also to my buddies my friends my colleagues who are other Zen teachers and to my own teachers I do not want to let people down. So there is a sense of I think the way it is organized at Sanbo Zen would bring quite a few breaks would exert quite a bit of resistance on anybody who wanted to go rogue kind of thing. They have got some endorsement I think it is a bit safer. They have got an organization that has a code of ethics and I am not saying at all that Sanbo Zen is the only one like that. There is many other Zen organizations and non-Zen organizations that have some levels of responsibility that are bestowed or whatever on their teachers. So it is not the teacher just setting themselves up and that have accountability to one another and of course to students. Actually I think there are many quite well organized spiritual institutions organizations in the West today which is just great. And Vipassana has a number of really big really well organized outfits. That is fantastic. Tibetan Buddhism does I think as well. And Zen certainly does. So the rogue teacher thing I mean it is always a hazard is not it? I do not think there is any total foolproof way but I would think that things to watch out for would be does somebody seem to have some kind of accountability to a wider organization? Do they have fellow teachers that they are in contact with? It is sort of accountability I think. So this is also a thing with the koans you see. They are trying to set up a system whereby there can be some shared agreement about what this awakening experience actually is. The koans themselves are they are checking points like not knowing is most intimate there is a way to how might a student and teacher handle that if they meet with that koan. So they are also a way of checking that we are on the same page.  So let us talk about that page. And this is a good segue to Strangeville. So let us do that because I am always eager to take my occasional jaunt into Strangeville. And I want to preface this exploration by saying that I pay a lot of attention to two ends of a spectrum when it comes to  I know people will dispute this word they are not going to like it because they will say the plural of anecdote does not equal data but when I am considering the potential the veracity of something. On one end you have randomized controlled trials fantastic. I am highly supportive and engaged with a lot of studies and clinical trials and so on. This is really important a very powerful framework the scientific method as implemented in RCTs for asking questions of nature testing hypotheses and getting answers back. Fantastic. But there are limited researchers limited funding for studies not everything is going to be studied. So we have to make decisions or interpret reality by and large in the absence of RCTs. So on the other end of the spectrum you have direct experience. So if I trust the fidelity of my own senses what have I experienced? And what I have experienced multiple times over and over again? What patterns have I identified? I pay a lot of attention to those things and testing and 4-Hour Body actually my second book is a good example of this. There are many things in that book that were highly controversial seemingly highly speculative but tested and measured multiple times across multiple people. Many of them are now many of those particular items now have more and more widely accepted scientific support. So it can start off with an end of one is what I am saying. But I want to dig into this checking question business and I will offer something on my side just so it does not seem like an inquisition. So on my side I will say something that I have observed and experienced and also compared with the experiences of dozens at least of other people at this point is the apparent phenomenon of shared visions on certain types of psychedelics. What that means is people are seeing hearing or feeling the same thing simultaneously. By any kind of secular scientific stretch of the imagination or assessment these are hallucinations but even if they are hallucinations it is interesting to me that consistently shared visions let us just use visions for the time being seem to be a common reported characteristic of certain psychedelics like ayahuasca going back hundreds of years. These are in fact so consistent that they are relied upon in certain implementations and usages of ayahuasca in South America. Okay put putting aside whether that is true or not it is widely reported and experientially it appears to be a real phenomenon. That is that is what I would say. Can I prove it? No you cannot prove it. Just like you cannot stick me in a or anyone for that matter you into an MRI machine and be like Okay 3 2 1 and Kensh. It just does not seem to work that way. I recognize all of the criticisms that could be levied against what I am describing so I am well-aware of it and moving on. When you talk about this experience of Kensh and then having the checking questions How tall is Mu? How would you introduce a baby to Mu? These types of questions I am probably not phrasing them exactly correctly. That sounds super bizarre. I mean to anyone listening who is never experienced something like this it sounds super strange. Even to me where I spent a lot of time in some pretty unusual spaces and it still sounds pretty strange. So what do you think is happening there? Because to me there have been surveys I guess you could look at them as observational studies but surveys performed by different universities looking at so-called entity encounters with compounds like a NN-DMT. So when I hear you talk about these questions like How tall is Mu? it sounds like we are describing an entity or something that exists independently of the observer or the experiencer in this case you. How would you explain what the hell is going on? Or describe this further?  Yeah. Okay. I think this is a fantastic question. Okay first of all let me just how do I put this? So what I mean I love what you are saying about the shared visions. I get that actually I really yeah it is fantastic to hear. Now with say this Kensh thing is it is actually the questions are doing they have got a dual function. One is we will be able to answer these questions if we have had Kensh and especially if we have had it fairly recently so it is still alive and vivid say within a few months or even weeks or days or even hours if it happens on a retreat. So they are number one the way we respond to them will confirm that we have really experienced this thing. Secondly they will somehow help us explore it even more deeply. Now that actually does not mean that it is an entity other than us that we have experienced. No it is more like My experience has shifted in a certain way which has really opened up a different way of experiencing altogether. And these probing questions allow me to inhabit this new way of experiencing more and they allow me or they help me to realize that this new way of experiencing is actually not contradictory to my ordinary way of experiencing. In other words I can start to see that this mind-blowing other dimension for want of better phrasing is in fact present in my everyday experience. That is what it is really trying to do is to help me to less know it as this other weirdness mind-blowing and lovely though it may be it is other and to actually Wow I am living this all the time and I did not realize. And it is not actually foreign and other. I mean and that gives hope really that there is a way of integrating it. There is a way of having it be present in a very positive way in our ordinary life that is non-problematic quite the reverse. I am going to point to my master Yamada Roshi who is an extremely successful businessman who ran he was head of Mitsubishi Securities with something like 30000 employees under him. And could do all that while practicing Zen very seriously and earnestly and deeply while having mind-blowing experiences or whatever while doing a lot of koan training none of it interfered with his work life. In fact he thinks he said he was not he is a reasonably good student he felt but not the best. He thinks the reason he had a very good career is his Zen. It gave him more balance more clarity more empathy more compassion and more openness to seeing things from other people's points of view. And yeah a wisdom perhaps in how to approach things. So   May I hop in for a second Henry?  Yeah please. Yeah.  Okay all right. So I absolutely agree that Zen practice there are many practices that might be thought to be antithetical or somehow compromising to your normal waking reality let us just say. So I certainly do not think Zen practice is incompatible. It seems highly compatible and if Kevin's experience limited as it may be is any indication then that is certainly true. It is been nothing but an enhancer for him. I want to come back just for a second again not to beat a dead horse but to these checking questions with respect to Mu. To also clarify for people listening that when I asked about the entity the relating to these questions and to Mu and whether or not there was the perception of independent entity it is not so much that I am saying there is an independent entity because that is not the part that I find interesting. We are just looking at the perceptual experience of multiple people. What I find so bizarre and tantalizing at the same time is that whether or not these things are happening for the reasons we believe them to be happening whether or not the explanations are accurate if we take it as true for now that you and many other people are having consistent enough experiences in this nondual state in this experience that is labeled Kensh within Sanbo Kyodan that you can consistently answer similarly answer the questions How tall is Mu? How would you introduce Mu to a baby? And so on is fucking weird.  I get it.  That is not to say it is untrue I want to be super clear here. But I want to hear if you had had three drinks and we were just at a steakhouse and in London. And I was like Henry what the fuck is going on here? What do you think is happening here? How is it that multiple people could answer these questions with similar or the same answers with respect to this koan? What is happening here? What would you you say?  Well I think it is so beautiful. I mean I think that our it is not the  you see the thing is it is not that we are each having our own experience and there is consistency among what those experiences are. It sounds like that but I actually believe there are different levels of our experience. I think many traditions seem to attest to the same kinds of thing. I am not sure it is all one mountain. People say that I think it is a mountain range personally so to speak. So the different spiritual traditions have slight different emphases and stuff but there is a lot of congruence that actually everybody  I mean I just think this is real that we have got this level on which we normally experience things in which we are socialized into and conditioned into where we have we feel that we are a separate self and that the world is out there. I just think that it actually is true that there is another level of our reality where somehow the separate self is inactive and we feel we are more part of what seems to be outside us that we belong to it and it belongs to us and we are not so separate from it. It is a decisive shift and I think it is sufficiently widely reported in the traditions and here and now in literature. People getting to this level by one means or another suddenly dropping into it where they just feel not so separate from what would seem to be separate to them and external to them. Number one and number two it goes even deeper that there is underneath that there is this reality again of our experience that we can get to where we somehow see that things do not have the solidity they seem to have that actually they are empty. And what that means it can be understood in a number of different ways. But that I just feel convinced by now that these are real human experiences and they are not separately induced in each case. It is more like in each case what obscures them is somehow blown away or blown open or temporarily suspended or punctured. It is more like that. That is reality oneness and emptiness are actual features of I think somehow the way things really are and it is just obscured by our ordinary way of construing reality and these practices. Be it something that pops in the middle of an ayahuasca experience or 5-MeO-DMT or something a couple of students might have done that and had something like this.  It is a big gun that one.  Right big and fast I gather right?  Yeah.  Well I have never done it but I think in Kensh it is not like the practice is inducing an experience. I do not see it that way. It is more like the practice is allowing us to release something. When that is released naturally this other stuff becomes clear.  Yeah it is an observation. Well not the last part but I think what you are in some respects alluding to this idea that our realities are constructed in a way by everything around us this reality being filtered through a reducing valve of sorts to use Aldous Huxley's term right? And this seems like some hand-wavy or it might seem like some really hand-wavy spiritual stuff to a lot of people listening. But there is actually a great TED Talk I want to recommend from a cognitive scientist named Donald Hoffman H-O-F-F-M-A-N. He is faculty at UC Irvine and a recipient of the Troland Award of the US National Academy Of Sciences. This is a legitimate scientist is a TED Talk called Do We See Reality As It Is? I highly recommend it to folks. I put it in my newsletter in 5-Bullet Friday and gave some time code points for people. You can hop ahead I want to say 10 minutes or so to get to the meat and potatoes of it. But he makes a very similar point and he is running computer science simulations and using a totally different toolkit for inquiry but arriving at perhaps what is a very similar conclusion. That is We are operating within a construction. These things that we think of as solid these things that we think of as real are more like icons on a desktop computer. They are representations that allow us to interact with something far different. So it makes sense to me that that one way one explanation or description of these Kensh experiences would be Okay this is just what naturally happens if you temporarily remove the gating mechanisms of your perception so that more of the raw data hits you. In a sense right?  I think that is very good. I just recently read his book The Case Against Reality actually   Oh nice.   which is a detailed dive. It is not too long it is very readable. He writes well. It is a dive into that realm absolutely. I will tell you though the one thing that I feel I mean that is a really helpful way to come at it. The only thing though that it does not necessarily account for or quite cover is why does it feel so amazing? Why does it feel so good? It is not just we see it differently. You see the thing about this nondual experience and it does have different flavors by the way comes in certain varieties. So the one that I described earlier that is not the only way it can show up. It has this weird property this kind of experience that we are profoundly implicated in it. We do not just see it. In a way we can only see it when we discover that we are part of it. It is unlike other things we see. Like you can look at a tree from six inches away you can take three steps back you are still looking at the tree of course it looks a bit different. You could walk 100 feet away and again it looks different but you are still seeing it. This is not like that. You can only see it when we discover we are part of it. So that I find really wonderful. In other words in using Donald Hoffman's approach we would have to say that if we are using that kind of a frame to look at what happens in Kensh it is discovering that we are made of the same code as everything else kind of thing. Whatever the raw data is we are made of it too. If you see what I mean do you get what I mean?  Oh I totally do. No you are one and the same. Yep I totally totally understand what you are saying.  Right.  Absolutely. Yeah you are not looking at the ocean. You are one of the drops in the ocean so to speak.  Yeah exactly. And to really have that as a vivid personal experience it is just it is profoundly benevolent and I feel it is the ultimate healing in a way. I mean I do not mean that we will be instantly healed by it of all our trauma and all our dynamics that are unhelpful et cetera. But man it will move things along and give us all kinds of help in our healing journey.  Hear hear. Well I think that is a beautiful place to begin our initial descent. Since you also have a big evening ahead of you and a big day tomorrow this has been so much fun. I expected it would be. I am glad that you were so game to go into uncharted waters with me. So thank you for playing along. I wanted to share something super random with you also because you mentioned Pardon my Greek. So you know how we say in English It is all Greek to me?  Yes.  Well I was in Greece at one point and I asked them I said What do you say when you want to use an expression like that? Because you cannot say It is all Greek to me' because you speak Greek. And they go Oh yes we say Aft gia mna enai kinzika which means It is all Chinese to me. So in Greece they say It is all Chinese to me and apologies to any Greek friends if I screwed up that pronunciation. But I feel like all of this is much less Greek to me after getting your help walking through a lot of it. Certainly still quite a lot of mystery and many questions but I am very grateful that you were willing to take the time to dance this dance with us again.  Well I am truly humbled and honored and very happy to get this chance to talk with you again. And you are an exceptional conversationalist and interviewer truly. I mean I suppose that is no surprise to anybody. Really you really are as wonderful.  Thank you I only see the words that is my own work. That is my own work to do. So I appreciate you saying that. And it really means a lot. I encourage people to go to mountaincloud.org. That is a good jumping off point I suppose for many resources and many things that you are up to so mountaincloud.org. We will link to all of these in the show notes. And Henry's memoir which describes his own journey in detail is One Blade Of Grass subtitle Finding The Old Road Of The Heart A Zen Memoir. Henry is there anything else that you would like to mention? Instagram is mountaincloudzencenter if people want to check that out. Anything else that you would like to suggest people check out? Or anything at all that you would like to say or suggest or ask before we close up?  Yeah thanks. I might just mention we have got another site originallove.org where we are a program called Original Love which is a broad approach to meditation that includes approaches to awakening but other stuff too. I think it is more has more attention to the healing side of meditation as well as the awakening side. So that is something that I would just mention and yeah thanks to Kevin again for encouraging this and thanks to you very sincere thanks to you Tim. It is great to connect with you. I hope you feel a bit better. How do you feel actually now?  Thank you. I feel emotionally much better. My throat is super sore but I am welcoming the throat soreness more than I was two hours ago. So that is a step in the right direction. I think I am just going to take a hot bath and watch some Disney shorts or something. I really need one of those nights I think.  Oh that sounds lovely.  I am looking forward to it and originallove.org people should check it out. We will put it right at the top of the show notes. So tim.blogpodcast if you just search Zen or Shukman S-H-U-K-M-A-N or Henry for that matter I am sure they will pop right up. Henry once again thank you so much for taking the time. I really appreciate it.  Well Not at all. Huge thanks to you.  And to everybody listening until next time thank you for tuning in.   