 This is FRESH AIR. The TV series Justified ended its run on the FX cable network last night. Our TV critic David Bianculli could not wait to talk about it so here he is.  TV series used to just end. Now  the best ones anyway  they conclude with a final episode attempting to give viewers a sense of satisfaction and closure. And the way a series chooses to say goodbye these days has an impact in the long run on how it is perceived overall. A great last episode of like the ones for New Heart and Six Feet Under can cement a show is reputation. A unsatisfactory ending as with Dexter and even Lost can weaken it. Last night after six seasons on the FX network Justified called it quits and went out with a finale that was as unpredictable and poetic and entertaining and memorable as the series itself. What a triumph. Justified series creator Graham Yost based his TV show on a short story by Elmore Leonard heard about Kentucky coalminerturnedU.S.DeputyMarshal Raylan Givens. Justified was true to the spirit of Elmore Leonard to the very end and loyal as well to its three central characters and actors. There is Raylan the triggerhappy confrontationenjoying lawman played so confidently and playfully by Timothy Oliphant. There is Boyd Crowder who worked in the coal mines with Raylan in the old day but turned into a local outlaw and schemer with big dreams and a bigger vocabulary. He is played with snake charmer charm by Walton Goggins. And squarely between the two of them there is Ava Crowder played so tenderly and inscrutably by Joelle Carter. By the final episode Boyd had stolen millions of dollars from a new criminal boss in town Ava had shot Boyd and run with the money Boyd had escaped from the hospital to hunt for Ava and Raylan was hunting them both. The final Justified built to a series of showdowns and not just with those three central characters. I do not need to go into detail on the particulars especially about who shot whom and how though each of those scenes was spectacularly exciting. What I love the most about this last Justified were the brushstrokes  the touches of grace and the emphasis on character and tone. For example almost every seasonending episode of Justified managed to include a version of a song whose lyrics have particular meaning to a drama set in Harlan County Ky. Last night's series finale included it too just before Raylan was set upon by yet another deadly threat.    In the deep dark hills of eastern Kentucky that is the place where I trace my bloodline. And it is there I read on a hillside gravestone you will never leave Harlan alive.  That music heard almost every year on Justified is so ominous you expect things to end poorly. And when we finally get to the central showdown with Raylan begging Boyd to draw his gun while Ava crouches in fear there is added tension because Raylan's eagerness to draw and fire his weapon is what got him reprimanded and sent back to Harlan in the first place and because he is already shot Boyd once in the show is very first episode.    I as not doing it Raylan.   Yeah you are.   No I as not.   You are going to raise that gun and we are going to end this.   Raylan.   You stay out of this.   I as not going to pull on you Raylan. So you go and do whatever it is you are meant to do 'ecause someday I am walking out and when I do I am going to kill her Raylan. And then I am going to come and I am going to kill you. So what is it going to be Raylan?  After that faceoff and a scattering of the surviving characters there are more surprises some nice scenes of goodbye then a totally unexpected time jump. A superimposed title says four years later and suddenly there we are. And in the future what do we learn? We learn that for the former citizens of Harlan County old habits die hard and old loyalties even harder. We learn from the perspectives of the characters that make it to the very end of Justified what matters most and why it matters to keep going. And we learn as viewers just how rewarding a TV series can be when it ends as well as it began. You know that feeling you get when you turn the final page on a book you have really enjoyed reading  how you are sorry there is no more but so happy you took the time to experience it? That is exactly how I feel about this 6yearold FX drama series. The time I spent watching it in the end was more than justified.  David Bianculli is founder and editor of the website TV Worth Watching and teaches television and film history at Rowan University in New Jersey. 