 This is FRESH AIR. Im Terry Gross. Stephen Foster was perhaps the first fulltime professional songwriter. He made a living on sheet music sales. This was back in the infancy of pop music in the 19th century before the days of records and radio. Foster's role as one of the fathers of pop music is one reason why rock critic Ken Emerson wrote a biography of Stephen Foster back in 1997. Now he is collected Foster's lyrics in the new book Stephen Foster  Co. It includes Foster's most popular songs like Oh! Susanna Jeanie with the Light Brown Hair My Old Kentucky Home Way Down Upon the Swanee River and Beautiful Dreamer as well as more obscure songs. As we will hear Emerson is fascinated by the complicated racial meaning of Foster's songs. Some of his songs are written in black dialect for blackface minstrels and are now considered embarrassments like Massa's in de Cold Cold Ground and Old Black Joe. I spoke with Emerson when his biography of Foster Doodah! was published. He wanted to start with a recording of Foster's song Old Folks at Home performed by Louis Armstrong and The Mills Brothers. Here's why. Mr.  It is particularly interesting because obviously Louis Armstrong did not want to sing this song. And as you hear it after a brilliant trumpet solo you will hear increasingly caustic comments in his inimitable voice. And it shows some of the ways in which Stephen Foster's music to this day is a source of racial embarrassment and infuriation. At the same time the Mills Brothers are singing this in a very straightforward way. They have no problems with the material and indeed it is very sentimental and nostalgic. And they do not trip over the word darkie which obviously is no longer a word that any of us would care to use; it doesnt give them any offense. The double nature of this song shows the sort of divided legacy of Stephen Foster who after all wrote the most famous songs of the 19th century that is written by an American that still in many ways define American culture. And we have this dual double divided feeling about the music that is exemplified in this recording.  Well let us hear it. Louis Armstrong and the Mills Brothers.    Way down upon the Swanee River far far away far away. There is where my heart is turning ever. There is where the old folks stay. All up and down the whole creation sadly I roam still longing for the old plantation and for the old folks at home. All the world is sad and dreary everywhere I roam. Oh darkies how my heart grows weary far from the old folks at home. Mr.  Now brothers it was way down upon the Swanee River...   Far far away. Mr.  Mmhmm that is where my heart is turning ever.   That is where the old folks stay. Mr.  Yowza. All up and down the whole creation.   Sadly he roam. Mr.  You know one thing? My heart is still longing for the old plantation.   And for the old folks at home. Mr.  Now sing brothers.   All the world is sad and dreary everywhere I roam. Mr.  Yeah man.   Oh... Mr.  Oh darkies how my heart grows weary...   Far from the old folks at home. Mr.  Well looka here we are far away from home. Yeah man.  Well Stephen Foster certainly had a very complicated relationship to AfricanAmericans and AfricanAmerican music. And I mean on the surface boy what a really hateful song the lyrics are. You know sung from the point of view of an AfricanAmerican yearning to be back on that old plantation. On the other hand as you point out in your book Stephen Foster really drew a lot from black music and was inspired by black music. So at one time his music both condescends to and is inspired by AfricanAmericans. Mr.  It sounds like rock n' roll today doesnt it?  It was rock n' roll you say that connected you to Stephen Foster. Mr.  Well I...  Hard as that may be to believe.  Mr.  Yeah. Well I began my checkered career as a rock critic and I was always fascinated from the beginning when did the impulse among white teenagers to imitate blacks first begin? Obviously from Elvis Presley to Beck that has been an important part of rock n' roll but clearly it didnt begin with Elvis Presley. And I sort of pressed it back and thought and listened and learned more and more about the swing era and the Benny Goodman's and the other nice boys from the Jewish projects of Chicago who fell in love with swing. And going back to the turn of the century in songwriters such as George Gershwin and Irving Berlin who were deeply influenced by AfricanAmerican music and emulated it  not only in operas like in Porgy and Bess but in Irving Berlin's first hit song Alexander's Ragtime Band which caused him to be mislabeled The King of Ragtime when obviously Scott Joplin deserved that title. But it goes further back to minstrelsy and blackface back in the 1830s and 1840s and to Stephen Foster and this weird form of American popular entertainment the first original American form of entertainment that is the minstrel show.  The whole blackface era is both a disturbing and fascinating part of American pop music history. What explanations have youve been able to come up with for why white people performed in blackface and why that became so popular in the 1800s? Mr.  Well among other things AfricanAmerican represented in a cruel paradox to many whites  and still do a certain kind of freedom; freedom from bourgeois expectations freedom from the regimentation of conventional middleclass life. But what many whites dont realize and indeed sometimes AfricanAmerican dont realize is that that alleged freedom is the result of oppression and exclusion. So that we always have this or I shouldnt say we but at the root of both the rock n' roll experience and of the minstrel experience which was its predecessor is this tangled conflicted feeling of expressing both an oppression and an affectionate and an admiration simultaneously.  Let us play another one of his famous songs from the Southern tradition he had no part of because he grew up in the Pittsburgh area.   This is a song called Old Kentucky Home one of his really wellknown songs. Tell us about how he wrote this song. Mr.  Yeah. Well this is a song that is very controversial to this day. It is the state song of Kentucky and we are going to play a version of it which is performed nightly during the summer at the outdoor sound and light theater extravaganza that is held in Bardstown Kentucky at My Old Kentucky Home State Park. And the song as we listen to it for a while you will see sort of epitomizes the South of cavaliers and crinolines. And yet ironically it was actually inspired by Uncle Tom's Cabin a deeply abolitionist novel. And the sense of loss here and the sense is because Uncle Tom is being sold down the river as he was in the famous novel. So we have here again as in the earlier recording by Louis Armstrong the sort of dual nature. As a matter of fact recently several members of the  AfricanAmerican members of the Yale Glee Club were scheduled to perform this song as part of a celebration  a concert celebrating Charles Ives and the context of his music. They refused to sing it. A copy of the song was burned at a meeting by members of the glee club and indeed another song was substituted. And ironically here is a song that was inspired by a great abolitionist novel and which no less a leader then Frederick Douglass himself singled out as a song that awakens the sympathies for the slave in which antislavery principles take root and flourish. So like all of Foster's music it is thick with contradictions that to this day I think are part of the American experience.  Let us hear the version you have brought of My Old Kentucky Home.  Unidentified Man  The sun shines bright on my old Kentucky home. 'Tis summer the children are gay; the corn top's ripe and the meadow's in the bloom while the birds make music all the day. The young folks roll on the little cabin floor all merry all happy and bright. By and by hard times comes aknocking at the door then my old Kentucky home good night.  You know having heard Old Kentucky Home and Old Folks at Home you know you wonder what was Stephen Foster's attitude about slavery. He wrote these songs while there still was slavery in the United States. Mr.  He certainly did. He was by inclination and by family he was a Democrat. He was actually related by marriage to James Buchanan who was the president before Abraham Lincoln who was trying to hold together the Union at any cost and would make any deal necessary to keep the South in. Foster was by inclination what was then called a doughface Democrat. He was certainly not an abolitionist. And this again is not unlike the contradictions that many Americans feel. On the one hand his politics were definitely not abolitionist but his heart and his feelings were very strongly sympathetic with the AfricanAmerican plight. This contradiction I think is  the conflict between sentimentality and selfinterest is something that I think characterizes  has always characterized Americans.  My guest is Ken Emerson. He is the author of a biography of Stephen Foster and has edited a new collection of Foster's lyrics called Stephen Foster and Co. We will hear more of my interview with him after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   Let us get back to the interview I recorded with Ken Emerson after the publication of his biography of the 19thcentury songwriter Stephen Foster. Emerson has edited a new collection of Foster's lyrics. You brought a version with you of Jeanie with the Light Brown Hair. Who did you bring singing it and what do you think of this recording? Mr.  Yeah I think this is a very  an excellent recording. It is by the operatic baritone Thomas Hampson who was come out a couple of years ago with a CD of Foster's songs and has become a good friend and coconspirator of mine. I think what may interest people with this is that it was originally I Dream of Jenny with the Light Brown Hair. Jenny was the nickname of Stephen Foster's wife to whom  with whom he had an unhappy onagain marriage. And he wrote this when they were estranged or  it is a little bit unclear  or possibly just gotten back together again. And he wrote it when he was living in Hoboken New Jersey where he set up for about a year.  Okay. Well let us hear Jeanie with the Light Brown Hair.  Mr.   I dream of Jeanie with the light brown hair. Borne like a vapor on the summer air. I see her tripping where the bright streams play happy as the daisies that dance on her way. Many were the wild notes her merry voice would pour. Many were the blithe birds that warbled them o'er. I dream of Jeanie with the light brown hair. Floating like a vapor on the soft summer air.  Ken Emerson you know I think that song is an example of a song that I think people of my generation were born knowing. You didnt necessarily like the song but you knew the song. I dont know how you knew it whether it is because your parents sang it or it was just in the air but you knew it even though it was not of your time. Why do you think songs like Jeanie have endured the way they have? Mr.  I think that Stephen Foster really did create popular music as we still recognize it today. He did it because he took together all these strands of the American experience. That song is extremely Irish in its origins just as other songs are extremely AfricanAmerican just as others are extremely Italian and operatic or sometimes German and even Czechoslovakian. For instance the beat of Oh! Susanna is the beat of a polka. He is clearly effectively merged them into a single music. And I think he merged them in way that appeals to the multicultural mongrel experience of America in its history and culture.  I know when I told a few people here that we were going to be talking to you about your Stephen Foster biography I got a couple of real eye rolls like ha Stephen Foster  what are they kidding? I can imagine the reaction you got from friends in the rock world when you told them your book was going to be about Stephen Foster. Mr.  Yeah. They thought I was taking leave of my senses.  Mr.  You know it is hardly I mean  but on the other hand I think that we all have an interest. And I know that  I mean Greil Marcus talked to me about this a little bit when I undertook this and the way that Greil and other serious students of rock n' roll  Bob Cristgau would be another example  all of us have been very interested in its origins and its roots.  Mmhmm. Mr.  I mean the way that we were taught that rock n' roll didnt exist until the 1950s when suddenly in the person of Elvis Presley rock  blues and country music joined together  that just doesnt work. The racial mixture and complexity of our music this goes back far longer.  Youve brought with you a record that I think will successfully bring together your interest in rock music and your interest in Stephen Foster. Do you want to introduce this for us? Mr.  Yes. Well this is a song that actually was not a great hit during his time. But in the last decade it is been his most frequently recorded song. One reason I am sure is because it is neither as saccharine as Beautiful Dreamer or I Dream of Jeanie. On the other hand it does not have blackface lyrics that are an embarrassment and an offense to today's ears. And that is The Hard Times Come Again No More which has been recorded recently by Emmylou Harris by Bob Dylan; Thomas Hampson has recorded it the McGarrigle Sisters and I know that my favorite version is the least known of them all and that is by the singer named Syd Straw. And this is a beautiful arrangement by Van Dyke Parks. And the song I think became popular in the very late '80s when there was a momentary recession at the end of Bush's term the recession that resulted in Bill Clinton's election. And it struck an economic nerve that I think is still touchy in our insecure society today where even if the stock market is booming we are all being downsized. So this is Hard Times Come Again No More by Syd Straw.  And before we hear it let me say to you Ken thank you very much for talking with us about your biography of Stephen Foster. And that biography is called Doodah!  the author Ken Emerson. Here's Syd Straw. Mr.  Oh thank you very much.  Ms.   Let us pause in life's pleasures and count its many tears while we all sup sorrow with the poor. There is a song that will linger forever in our ears. Oh hard times come again no more. It is the song and the sigh of the weary. Hard times hard times come again no more. Many days you have lingered all around my cabin door. Oh hard times come again no more.  Ken Emerson edited and annotated the new book Stephen Foster  Co. Lyrics of America's First Great Popular Songs. You can read an excerpt on our website freshair.npr.org. Our interview was recorded in 1997 after the publication of Emerson's biography of Stephen Foster Doodah! 