I have never vocalized that. It is just that it is so effing uncomfortable to talk about. Honestly I prefer to avoid we avoid the subject. I think we are gonna have to skip that question. This makes me very uncomfortable. We do not talk about it. I am actually surprised that she says something about it to you Anna. Because like we do not know you at all. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. This show is about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more as we say. Of course talking about hard things that you do not have much practice talking about out loud. Can be unsettling and uncomfortable. It can also feel like the deepest exhale you did not know you were waiting for. I have been a part of conversations that run that gamut while hosting this show. Sometimes as an interviewer it feels like I am witnessing someone name something that they never have before which can seem liberating and empowering. And other times I know I hit on places where someone is not ready to share which is totally fine by me. Or when the person I am talking to does not like what our conversation is making them realize about themselves. In this episode we are going to look back at seven moments in our show is seven year history of what I remember as some of our hardest conversations. I have been thinking back about this because on May 4th a book that I have been working on for years is coming out. It is called Let us Talk About Hard Things. In it I tried to write about what I have learned about how to approach these kinds of tender conversations and more importantly why I think it is important to have them. Why it is important to try to have them. We are going to start this episode with a moment of tension. When I made someone mad. People often ask me of death sex and money what is the hardest thing to talk about? What do people most not want to talk about? And I you know I do not really love that question because I would frame it differently. Like death sex and money are all hard things and they are hard for very different reasons. And whether they are hard for you depends a lot on the history that you bring to each of them. But I will say what are we the most clumsy about talking about consistently? Money. So that is the first moment. It was about money. I was speaking to Sallie Krawcheck back in 2016. She is a former big bank executive who went on to start a digital financial advisory firm targeted to women called Ellevest. And I asked her about that.  The thing about money is it is all relative. Does it feel awkward sometimes for you to be reaching out to women when you yourself have had such a different experience with money than the vast majority of women in America?  Not at all. If you are in some way saying that Oh Sallie you have been fortunate in your life. And you know you have you have made money in your life. So you should go sit down at home and shut up and not start a new business quite the opposite and to say well you know what? I have been lucky 'ecause I made some money. I am not going to do anything about it as ridiculous quite the opposite.  So you heard me saying you should not talk to people you should go home and enjoy your money and not reach out?   I heard something I did not like. There was something in there I did not like that I reacted to I am not quite sure what it was now but dang it Anna no.   Well I I can understand how that is how that might have sounded. Um but I I do wonder about like when - money is so hard to talk about and when I asked you about what the lesson was after your divorce about money was you have got to have it. And like there is so much shame that that can trigger.  Yeah.  Like well I did not have money when I got divorced and here's this woman telling me I should just have money.  I have gotta tell you this whole conversation I am starting to pit out. I am beginning to pit out just the - you know what is been so fascinating for me. The you know that you have made the point that I have made money in my life which I have. Is not it interesting I had to come back and tell you that I also lost a lot of money in my life as if I if I am apologizing for it. It is funny. You have made me feel quite defensive.  I I am I I am sorry.  That is okay.  I think that is what I think we are hitting on what is difficult.  Yeah. Yeah. Not that I feel unladylike. I just I do not know. I do recognize. It is a weird topic for us. It is part of what I am trying to change by normalizing it. Um but I also recognize that some portion of it - look you know I nobody works has worked harder than I have. And you know we did not talk about it but when the kids were little as soon as they were asleep I was back writing research reports. I mean I I I worked and worked and worked but some part of it is is just complete good fortune. My parents where we started we are taking out loans to give their children this leg up in life. Other people did not have that you know the kids down the street did not necessarily have that. And those things built up such that the money I was able to earn was some portion because of hard work but some very good portion because of luck. And I think that is the thing that makes us feel um weird.  Uh huh. I know I know.  Yeah. It is interesting how awkward it is to talk about it. Even though I talk about it in the abstract every day. Shew that moment ugh! I actually think about this exchange on the show the most as it applies to my personal life in conversations in my personal life because it is not uncommon for me to notice that something I have said is is going down the wrong way or is being perceived as an attack. And then I have to figure out my way back to being able to hear one another. Um it is not easy uh but I will say I have had a lot of practice at this during pandemic era domestic conversations. The second moment I want to share with you is about when I let some of you down our listeners. We had an episode back in 2017 where I had a very candid conversation with a woman who routinely shoplifted. Sometimes for things to feed her family sometimes just for nice luxuries for herself like expensive makeup. And I asked her why she thought it was worth the risk.  What would happen if you got caught?  It depends on A where you are caught how much you are caught with um whether or not it is your first time. I - I am a white female. So I mean I feel like I would get off a lot easier than some other people would?  How does that feel to say out loud?  It is kind of disgusting to me but I mean it is how the world is. So I sort of use it to my advantage. This episode struck a nerve with a lot of you. So much that we actually decided to make another episode featuring your reactions including from a listener named Trevor.  It was just hard to hear because as a black person you are just like okay this is what we say is a problem. And here this white woman is admitting to yeah I probably get away with this because I am white and you are just like - oh my god. It just it just left such a bad taste in my mouth. It just was disgusting.  You said in your comment because of people like her I am the one followed around in the store.  Yes. Yeah. I mean yeah. I mean I have been this I have never shoplifted in my adult life. I mean I may have been a child because children do not know any better they pick up things. Um but I mean as an adult I have never stolen from the store but I am followed around the store constantly. And it is very frustrating cause you are just like I make good money. Why would I be stealing from you?  And you also said this was a very problematic episode.  Oh my God. It was so problematic.  Tell me about that.  Well I mean there was one instance and I am not trying to call you out but there was one -  Please do! That is why I am calling you to call us out.  No no no. There was one instance where she hits at something and I was like okay Ms. Sale can go in there right now. And she can tell her as another white woman to another white woman. And it was just like they missed that opportunity because she could have said something to her. Put her on the spotlight. Did you think that was right to be doing this? And I was just like you did not say it. And I was just like you know what? It is okay. I am not going to be mad at them but because it was a difficult episode it was just very difficult. I hear Trevor there saying like How could you hear the shoplifter say that she is a white woman so she knows she is not going to get in trouble and you do not say do not you think that is wrong? And do not you see there are consequences for other people by you taking advantage of racism. And that is also like an interesting thing that I am often thinking about during interviews. Like I know that listeners are sometimes thinking like where is Anna calling out this person? And I am always trying to balance that with really trying to continue to sort of dig in and pull out the person's internal monologue so I can understand. And I do not always get the mix right. And now an encounter that came early in the show is history when I did not really yet get or or fully appreciate just what asking questions could do. Like what an awesome important responsibility it is to do that with care. A woman we called Emma taught me that. Emma was a sex worker. We changed her voice in this episode you will hear. And she first got in touch because she wanted to talk about her work. We did a long interview about the intimate massages she gave men for money mostly men who were in other relationships. And after we talked the next day I got an email from her saying please do not use our tape. And I said okay we can we can keep talking about that. Um let us take some time. And and then I asked if I could talk to her again to understand what had happened after our first conversation. And a few months later I called her back up and we talked again.  Can you can you wait just go back to after the first time we talked and did a long interview what happened afterwards for you?  Well I did not sleep that night at all. And um I finally got up at what was it like three or four in the morning I got out of bed and I got on my computer and I started writing and I wrote you that letter. And you know had been working consistently for about six months almost you know almost every day. Seeing a client and um -  Like seven days a week?  You know five to six and um at least one person it is just every day it is just something that I know is going to happen every day that I am going to do every day. And and so it was it is a long time. I never gone that long without taking a break. And um So I think it was already kind of it was wearing on me. And then just after talking to you I just realized how much it was wearing on me how much I needed to get away from it. And um and I just felt sick.  How much time total did you take off this summer?  Probably two and a half months.  Did you miss any of it?  No not at all. No. Sure. The money the income the income I miss the I miss the income the safety net the the knowledge that as I am putting money out when I am buying my food that there is money coming in to replace that. I mean I is every time I get paid I I am immediately thinking this is going to pay for this and this is going to pay for that. And when I am not bringing in that income I have that little sense of insecurity and a little bit of a fear. Like am I going to be able to replace this? But no I did. I did not miss it.  Have you had any of those feelings of dread since going back?  Yeah. Oh you know it is it is hard to share these things because I can see somebody listening and and like why would you do this thing when you have dread? And even I think about other sex workers listening to this and and that is kind of one of my fears another fear with this interview is to have sex workers listening to me and getting mad at me too for representing the downside the hard part. But yeah. Honestly if I did not have if I did not choose to do it if I was not doing it I would be I I just have happy days. Every day that I know that I am going to go see somebody I have some dread. And and now I am looking at another probably four or five months at least before I have a break how am I going to do this every day?  And Emma just want to kind of hear you in your own words or say like why did you decide to talk to me?  I think because I feel so alone. Um one of the things that is really hard is not being able to talk to anybody and I am you know I am a mom I am around other women and everybody talks about. There challenges or things that are hard in their life and things that are going well. And I just have this big secret that I cannot tell anybody. And I think people need to know because there is a lot of people like me I am I am right there. And you just do not know. So that is why. That interview with Emma taught me a lot about aftercare and interviewing. That we really want to understand what happens to the person I have talked to after the interview is over. Because that can also be part of the story. There've also been many moments during interviews I do for this show where I stop and check in with the person I am talking with because I can tell that the conversation has become hard or complicated for them or just moved into a direction they did not expect. One moment that comes to mind is when I was talking with Chaz Ebert the widow of film critic Roger Ebert who died in 2013 after more than a decade of living with cancer. A cancer that eventually took away his ability to speak.  Roger and I developed almost a mental telepathy. We were so in tune with each other that we actually could speak to each other without words or without even being in the same room.  Like a deep ability to understand what he was prompting? Like he what he wanted to communicate?  I do not know - to me I actually heard his voice in my head.  Really.  Yeah. And I know that happened sometimes um when he was in the hospital I would wake up in the middle of the night and I would call the hospital and I would say. Oh my God. He is so cold. Will you please go in and put a warming blanket on him? And the nurse would come back and say how do you know did he call you? And they would say well he could not call you. He cannot speak. And I said I do not know but he just told me he was cold.  Hmm.  See I you know I have to tell you I knew you were not going to ask me just the standard questions. I just knew it. And I had a little trepidation because I know I am probably going to say things here that I probably should not say but -  Well I let us let us actually pause and talk about that a bit. 'ecause I in thinking about our conversation I was wondering where those boundaries are for you because -  No the you know what I am going to tell you Anna there are there are none and that is why I was uh a little - no you can just ask me anything and if something gets too hard or too uh I will tell you.  Okay.  All right.  Yeah. When was the last time you heard his voice in your in your head?  Very recently he still talks to me. He does. He feels presence. And you hear it. I mean you hear it. Yeah I do. That is Chaz Ebert talking with me a year after Roger's death back in 2014. Coming up more moments of hard conversations from Death Sex  Money.  As we were making this episode we were also reading and listening to your stories about hard conversations that youve been sending in. So many incredible emails have been pouring into our inbox. Youve told us about confronting family secrets navigating break ups and finding the courage to deliver bad news or just to address the elephant in the room. Like this listener Ashley. While she was in college she was considering moving in with a new friend a co-worker. But Ashley realized that she wanted to live alone. And after telling her friend that shed changed her mind and found her own place it wasnt clear if their friendship would survive this  It was not until after the summer when we were all moved in and we were all situated that I feel like we were able to start to move past it. I stopped thinking about it so much and and really I think it turned out all for the best because now that I know this person even better I know that I think if we lived together we would have hated each other. And now she is my closest closest friends. And one of those friendships that is lasted for many many years after such a time. Really uncomfortable conversation with her. And I know it seems silly because it is just a place to live but it really was a big deal to the both of us at that time. Well be sharing more of your hardest conversations in an upcoming episode. If youd like to share one of your own or to tell us about a conversation youve been meaning to have send us an email or a voice message at death sex money at wnyc dot org. And on the next episode Ill be answering some hard questions too. NPRs Noel King will be interviewing me about my new book Lets Talk About Hard Thingswell talk about some of the things about my own life that I wrote about for the first time. And Ill tell you writing about them is one thing talking about them is a whole other thing. Do not miss it.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. When we started this show back in 2014 I was in a really different life phase. I was single but in a relationship having just been through a big bout of angst having to do with long distance. Then a year after the show started I got married and then I had a baby and then I had another baby. And being a parent I have to say I think has changed the way I interview because now I think about things from the perspective of the person I am interviewing - and I also sort of automatically start to wonder about their parents' perspective. Like every moment of pain the question pops up what would I say if this were my kid? How would that feel? That came up in a wonderful episode that we recorded with Bex Montz and his mother Katie Ryan. I first met Bex when he got in touch when we asked for stories about near death experiences and Bex wrote in about surviving a suicide attempt. Bex told us that it happened just after he would had top surgery and was living out as a trans man for the first time. And afterward I found myself wondering about his family. About what it was like to be as parent. And so I talked with Bex along with his mother who is a doctor an OB GYN. I asked her how the experience changed her.  I have learned that I cannot keep him safe. He does not share enough. He does not ask for help from me. So I I I know intellectually that providing you know room and board and you know access to a car that those things are helpful for him but I cannot keep him safe. I cannot do that. He has to do that. Do you - I have not been able to do it. I failed. Yeah. So you have learned that you have had to learn that. I had to learn. I thought that you know sleeping on a mattress outside his bedroom door and taking the door off the door jam would keep him safe. And it meant that you know he was not - yeah it meant nothing. It meant that I was pissing him off 'ecause he did not have a door to his bedroom and I was sleeping on the floor outside his bedroom because I could not trust him. And it did not work. Your face Bex is such a big cringe right now.  Yeah. Yeah. I mean cause it is I mean it is true. Like I can just uh I have not made things easy on anybody and like that is obviously not a choice. Like I do not like purposely wake up in the morning and be like today I am going to be an asshole but it also does not feel good. You know.  Do you think about being a parent Bex?  Uh not a lot. No. Um I do not think that I could make the sacrifices required to be a good parent. I think that it is really hard to be a good parent. I think that like mom has done a great job with it but I do not think. I would be able to do it. Like there is this thing that you love desperately and you always want to be around and progressively over the course of its life as it gets more interesting you have to let it go. And like that is sounds awful. Like that sounds horrible. Like both of you guys are fucking idiots. Like that sounds awful.  And like yeah I just I think I am too self centered.  Do you think being a parent would take you out of yourself? That it would force you to stop spending so much time perseverating about things that do not need to be perseverated about um and fill your day with other stuff?  I think that is idealistic. I do not think so. No. 'ecause cause it is not like I yeah I think that it is idealistic. I think like realistically it would be that way for awhile and I would try really hard but in reality like I am going to deal with depression and anxiety and my issues around gender for the rest of my life. That sucks. And until I figure out how to deal with that in a constructive way there is no way I am going to bring another human being who has no say in it there is no way I am going to bring someone else into it. If someone wants to come in on this like fine that is that is my dating profile. If someone wants to come in on this  but like I am not going to force anyone you know?  I have to say when you said like you guys are fucking crazy like I I think. I have a five month old baby. Um and hearing you I have related to you Katie more than I expected to in this conversation and the um this the the the the puzzle of having so much love to give to this to your child but needing to find just the right slots while the where the let you give it.  Yeah.  And sometimes you try and then you ended up repelling them like the wrong side of a magnet is such a daunting thing.  I mean I taught - parenting is it is crazy you know and obviously I take care of patients while they are pregnant and they think that this is the most complicated time of their life and it you are like I cannot even - I just let them think that this is the most complicated time of their life because the reality is just literally unbelievable of the um responsibilities of being a parent. And it is just a huge job. Huge. And you can mess it up. One other moment between a son and his mother that will always stay with me happened when I was interviewing Dwayne Betts. He is a poet and a writer who also served almost 10 years for armed robbery that he committed when he was 16. This interview it was an extension of a series my WNYC colleagues were working on at the time about the juvenile justice system called Caught. The whole series is wonderful. Dwayne was a cohost. And I wanted to talk to Dwayne as an adult along with his mother Gloria Hill to hear about their experience with the system.  So I think it was probably about 10 30 11 oclock at night that I received a phone call from Dwayne and he says I am locked up. Do not worry about it. I will take care of it.   And I think I cursed him out. No you did not. I am pretty sure I did. Were you angry at Dwayne? I was angry with him in the beginning. I was I wanted to choke him. I really did because I did not understand why or how he could get involved and do something like that. Because I have never had a gun he is never - well til then. And then it just seemed like everything that happened in my life involved the gun. Because I think right after I was called to active duty and I was a police. Well security. So everything just it is just a weird time for me. So you your son goes to prison for a gun crime and then you have to have a gun as part of your job. Yeah. I mean actually after that just before his sentencing I was raped by gunpoint. And then I was called to active duty to carry a gun. You said you were you were robbed at gunpoint? Raped raped at gunpoint. I actually did not think you were gonna say that on the on the air this has just taken a really tragic and devastating turn. ASL Yeah. I did not know that Gloria. It is just like guns became a part of life. And this is something you have you have known before Dwayne? Yeah. I found out when I came home.  It happened just before he was sentenced. So when I was going to court for Dwayne I was also going for a court trial for myself. So I did not tell him until he came home.  Yeah. So I did not I did not know. Um. Yeah I did not know.  Was that person a stranger or someone you knew Gloria?  Um it was a stranger. I was actually on my way to work and I was at the bus stop and it was someone who came up from behind.  And did he go to prison?  You know it took him I think they did catch him. 'ecause I was like his third victim.  Having been the victim of a gun crime did it change at all the way that you you saw your son's involvement in the system?  It changed somewhat. I mean I know Dwayne should be punished for what he did. That I was sure of but as as far as the amount of time that the judge gave Dwayne I I thought that was a bit extreme. But I do understand the crime and punishment. That conversation with Dwayne and Gloria went on to explore for Dwayne like how this has affected his deepest values and beliefs and how sometimes they crash against each other.  I think that I have for a while struggled with what it meant for me. I mean I committed a crime and in some ways I think that um this guy committed a crime and it was it was horrible. But I think what I feel is that um I am in the same category that he exists in. And um and that is a challenge. That is a challenge for me. In a very different context the last hard conversation the seventh that I want to share with you is an exchange I had with Dan Savage the sex columnist writer and podcast host. I was interviewing him about family and money and love. With a real curiosity about how he built this framework for sex with integrity and consent. That is the foundation of the sex advice he is been giving for years. Because that framework does not include blindly accepting conventions including conventions of monogamy. And we talked about that.  Everyone talks about non-monogamy or non-monogamous experiences in the context of a long-term committed couple as if those you know those two crazy people are tossing a box of nitroglycerin back and forth and that just has not been the case for us.  And what do you want to know about me?   Are you in a committed relationship? I am.  Are you not monogamous?  No we are monogamous. yes.  So what would you do if you found out that he cheated and what do you think he would do if he found out that you cheated? And cheating is something that will probably happen. Just put that out there first the research the data shows that roughly 50 of men 50 of women in long-term relationships at some point will cheat. And those 50 of men are not married to those 50 of women. So it will touch almost all committed monogamous relationships. So what is going to be your reaction if and when that happens to you?  I know I mean I read I read you Dan Savage and you make me uncomfortable because I intellectually I understand all this. I get desire. I get that it is not rational. And I get that it is it is a real thing but it I do not know what I would do with the hurt. I would have - I have a really difficult time seeing a way outside of it being okay. Or seeing a way for it to be okay.  Yeah. My advice would be if and when it happens you know what people always say you know when they talk about the people they love most in their lives I would you know I would take a bullet for this person. I would you know walk through fire for this person. That is hurt. You are saying I would hurt for this person in a really profound and life-threatening way. I would take a bullet. I would walk through fire. Infidelity when people believe in monogamy and monogamy is what they want infidelity is that bullet. And so if you look at your husband and think I could take it bullet for that man -  We are not married yet. I am not even there.  If you looked at your partner and think this is someone you know I love you so much. I could take a bullet for you. Just if and when it happens remember that feeling because that is the moment where you take the bullet. And some people accuse me cause I am pro you know non-monogamy that I am you know giving get out of jail free cards to serial adulterers or and I am not. People should honor the commitments that they make. If you make a monogamous commitment you should attempt to keep it attempt to honor it do your best. And then if you you know if it happens to you if you get cheated on. You know what is love and what is forgiveness if you cannot forgive the person you claim to love most in the world for a betrayal that really cuts you to the core? And I think these things should be - because infidelity is so common these things should be thought about well in advance of them happening. 'ecause I think if you just set your mind to that is something as painful it is that we can get through love each other through forgive each other for you are likelier to actually get through it love each other through it and forgive each other for it when it happens if it happens. Ugh. Listening back to that still gives me a stomach ache. The way he says If and when it happens. Which I know that tells me what I hold most precious. Thank you Dan Savage. And thank you to all our listeners and our guests over these seven years who have been part of these hard conversations. There is a link in our show notes to all the episodes we have featured here. You can find our entire archives at deathsexmoney.org. And let me say one of the great things about having a podcast about hard things? You never run out of content. There are so many. So I look forward to many more hard conversations with you all. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex and Money from WNYC.