Tessa I know what I am supposed to do in terms of how to have a stable financial life and building a future that you want. I can even just give that advice to other people but when it comes to trying to compute it and apply it my brain just will not do it. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. A few weeks ago a listener we are calling Tessa got a text from their sister. Tessa She was asking me how my day was going. I just was frank with her I am like I am feeling really hopeless right now. Tessa is 27 and for the past few years they have been keeping a secret about debt. Tessa It is around 16500-ish. All credit card debt. Tessa graduated from a prestigious university five years ago but has had trouble finding full time work. Theyve held a series of part-time jobslast year Tessa told me they earned about 22-thousand dollars. Their mounting debt was usually something that Tessa avoided talking about. Tessa But that day I was like I am a wreck. My sister was just like How is your day going? I am like Badly and she was like What is going on? I am like I just feel really down on this debt. My sister was like well I know you. This was just over text but she was like I know you do not necessarily want my help but I am here. If you need it I am here. I thought about it all day then I finally sent her this really long text where I was like actually I am not in a position to refuse your help if you are willing to offer it. Anna Sale Why did not you call her? Why did it feel better to write a long text later that night responding? Tessa I guess I would been thinking about it all day like how much should I tell her? Or what should I tell her? Or should I actually concretely ask her for this help? Because basically I just was rereading that last part of if you need help I am always here because part of me does want to ask her potentially for concrete financial help but I am like I do not feel good doing that. I just did not want to feel like I was using her. Anna Oh. You wanted to make sure you could trust yourself if you took her help. Tessa Yes and I did not want to make her feel that is what it was going to be that I was using her because I barely wanted to tell her at all. I am sorry that was a turkey. Anna I just want to acknowledge I am hearing so many birds. Tessa  I talked with Tessa on a video call as they sat on their back deck in the spring sunshine birds chirping around them. They live in the Bay Area. Its beautiful...and one of the most expensive places to live in America. Tessas rent is 2400 dollars a month but their partner covers most of it because hes got a better paying job. Tessa sent us a message when we asked for stories about borrowing and lending money during the pandemic. Their troubles started with credit card debt back in college when their dad co-signed a credit card with them. Tessa quickly got into debtopened more credit cardsand their debt kept on climbing. Even after they got an unexpected windfall a few years ago. Tessa At one point I had credit card debt that was closer to 18000 19000. Very unexpectedly completely out of left field I ended up part of this really random lawsuit with a place that I used to work and it got settled and I got a 15000 I do not know enhancement award or something because I had to do a deposition. Anna Did you put all of that towards your credit card debt? Tessa Yes I did all of it at once one fell swoop. Anna One payment you just clicked and made that deposit. Tessa Yes and it was gone. Anna Was it your intention when you were making that payment were you thinking I am never going to go back here? This is a new relationship to debt that I am going to have. Tessa I was like dang I wish this were a little bit more so I could have knocked out all the debt completely at once because it did cross my mind I am like I know getting rid of most of it is great and it is so much closer to me having a new fresh start than ever before but at the same time I am worried that I am going to mess this up and end up exactly where I was before except now there is no magical lawsuit. There is no magical windfall money that comes out of nowhere I am just going to be in it and that is what happened. It ballooned back up to 16000 in less than a year. Anna How did that happen? Tessa When I realized I need to really stop spending and I clearly despite my best efforts do not have the self-control to not do it I just cut up all my credit cards and that - it was something so simple that people talk about doing and it worked so effectively. I was like God I wish I would done this years earlier. Then out of nowhere for no apparent reason it is almost like my creditors knew that I cut them up or something. They were like Oh here we are just going to send you replacements or We updated our chip technology so here's a brand new card and they all came around the same time and I did not cut them up immediately. I knew even at the time when they arrived I should and I did not. Anna What do you spend money on? Tessa  Well um. God I was thinking about before this phone call what is the question I do not really want Anna to ask but I am sure she is going to? And I am like oh no it is this. Assuming that we are not just talking about maintaining the minimums on credit cards which I was doing for a while I just spent it on all sorts of things. There were some very small portions of the debt that I felt were warranted. Like my teeth being super messed up and needing fillings and at the time not having dental insurance but the majority of spends would be whatever my interest was at the time. I tend to get really really consumed by and really hyper-fixated on passing things. It would just be what is the thing of the moment. Concretely let us see one time I got really into slime the thing that the kids like. Anna  Tessa I know and believe it or not there is the gross-looking slime that your kids can make and then there is designer slime that people like professionals on Instagram can make. Anna Okay boutique slime. You got into the boutique slime corners of the internet. Okay.  Tessa Instagram really got me there. They predicted things that I would like too well unfortunately. Let us see boutique slime. I really really like jewelry even though I do not even I do not know I do not wear it that much because I feel like I forget to accessorize in the morning. Anna What is the most expensive piece of jewelry you have bought? How expensive was it? Tessa Oh crap. I got a custom really fancy opal ring that I made the decision to also get done in 18K gold I think and that cost like 3000. I just remember the package came and I am like it is so beautiful and I also have to hide it and I can never really wear it not because I do not love it and not because it is not pretty but I am like I know I should not have bought this. Anna You felt ashamed of buying it. Tessa Yeah. My mom also has a huge spending problem and I always promised myself I would not be like her. In particular my mom had a great affinity for QVC Home Shopping Network TJ Maxx anything she thought was a good deal and then she would buy it and then she would not let go of it. I think also while I was in the middle of these different spending sprees I am like okay I know I am spending money that I do not have. I know how the credit card works. I know what my dad warned me not to do but I am buying good things. I am buying things that I think are much better than the things my mom bought.  I still think that but I am still in the same predicament so it does not matter if the things I bought are better by my standards. It does not matter.  Tessa has struggled with depression since they were a teenager and their debt was really starting to weigh on them. So after texting back and forth with their sister... Tessa decided to go aheadand ask for some help. Tessa My sister works in tech. She is at a really great point in her career. She is really financially savvy. I know that she is making good money and that she is on track to meet her financial goals. Anna You had an idea that she had extra. Tessa Bottom line she could very well have money lying around and I could ask her just straight up to help me with this in whatever way she is comfortable if she is comfortable with it. Also I was just like I am in over my head. I do not know what I am doing. She looks like she knows what she is doing. I am in trouble and I just also need to tell somebody about this because nobody knows. It is been a year I am about to crack so I might as well just do it. Anna When does that like when you get on the phone together and start talking about what this is going to mean who clarified first that money could be part of her helping you? Tessa I clarified because my sister just asked me point-blank what kind of help are you asking for? Anna What'd you say? Tessa I was like in that moment I wanted to say can I borrow 8000 because that is like half of the debt. I felt like that was the most I could potentially ask to borrow without completely hating myself and even that felt like too much to ask. What I said instead was let me tell you what is going on. Let me just explain what is happening first. Anna Did you ever say can you loan me 8000? Tessa She offered more than that. She offered pretty much the full amount. Anna What did it feel like to have someone say to you I hear you are asking me for help. I can hear you and I want to actually open up a conversation where I help you even more than what you are asking me to do? Tessa I feel like if I was asked this question but without a specific context I would be like it is a relief. It was not a relief. I just felt like I really failed. I just felt like I really let down a lot of people even if they do not know it yet and here's the first person to know that. I just really screwed up again. Anna It reinforced for you the feeling of shame that you were feeling that you needed help that she was willing to help you more? Tessa Yes. I felt like it would have almost maybe felt easier if she was like no or berated me or admonished me or just been like Tessa how did you-- Why or how or like how could you or just no. When she was just like I can I have the means to and I am willing to do it I just felt so low. I was just like I am a fuck up. I am so ashamed. Coming up I talk with Tessa's sister about making that offer and about what she and Tessa decided to do next. Rose I had been talking with them about giving them the money but I was also like are there other options?  You have been sending in your stories about some of the hardest conversations you have ever had. We have heard about coming out to your family confronting a parent about an affair telling a partner that you were leaving the relationship.  We were standing on the deck behind our house and it was freezing cold and dark. I just said it and I cannot remember that much about the conversation after those first few sentences that I said and I cannot remember that much about how he responded. I think it was mainly just shock. Even 11 years later I am still shocked A that I made that decision and B that I had the courage to sit down and have that conversation. As we get closer to the release of my new book Let us Talk About Hard Things we want you to keep telling us about the hardest conversations you have ever had. Record a voice memo or write an email and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. So far on this one we have heard mostly from women. Men and non-binary people send in your stories about hard conversations too.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. About halfway through my video call with Tessa another window popped open. It was Tessa's older sister. Rose It is me. Tessa Oh crap. Is that unnie? Rose Yes. Unnie is Korean for older sister. We are calling Tessa's sister Rose. She is two and a half years older than Tessa lives not far from them also in the Bay area. She called in during her lunch break to talk with us about when she got that long text from Tessa one night a few weeks ago. Rose It was a surprise and it was not a surprise. And I mostly just wanted to know what is the magnitude of the situation? They told me Hey the debt that I had ballooned back up and I am in over my head and I need help. When they told me the amount I was like okay that is basically the upper limit of what I was willing to loan you in terms of doing all this. Anna Tessa was just telling me that hearing you say you know what I can help you pay the whole thing off to hear you say that just how many feelings that came with including even more shame than they already had because you were willing to is that how you would put it Tessa? Tessa  Yeah I mean we have talked about this where I - when you told me that you could pay it all off I just was like wow  I really suck. I suck so much.  Tessa I suck 16000 worth of my sister's disposable other money that she could be doing so many other things with. Anna Rose Tessa's said that to you before? Rose Yeah I mean obviously I am not in Tessa's position but I could totally imagine what that is like. I also told them part of the reason that I do not it is not that I do not have feelings but I do not have negative you are a bad person feelings towards this is that I do not know I just do not feel like shame - shaming other people is not a great motivator to get them to open up and actually seek help. A few days after they initially talked about Tessas debt and Rose had agreed to lend Tessa 16 thousand dollars Tessa brought over a watercolor painting that theyd bought from a local artist. Rose They basically gave me a tiny piece of collateral being like Hey this is definitely not even close to what it is and honestly on the open market it is probably not actually worth that much but it is something that is very valuable to me. I would like you to hang onto it until I pay the debt back. And I was planning on telling my partner about me loaning the money to Tessa even and part of it is more as a heads up because we keep our finances separate but he was like What is going on? That was weird. I was like Well I was not going to tell you about it until afterward but here's the situation. He looked at me like You two are so dumb there are other options. And we and like - Anna Wait did he say that? Did he say that like those were the words? Rose Yeah those were the words to me. This is after Tessa had already driven away and left and he is like Think of it this way. If you loan the money to Tessa what 16000 yes that is 16000 today but how long do you think like - let us assume that Tessa can pay it all back how long do you think that'ill take? I said I guess optimistically five to seven years. He says to me Okay so you think of it as 16000 but if you invested 16000 just using average stuff and he did the calculation for me he was like you are basically giving them 32000. He was basically like you guys are not thinking with your brains right now. Rose started to look at other options for Tessa. They started texting back and forth about debt consolidation and debt settlement. And then Rose brought up bankruptcy. Tessa She was texting me and my sister made a point to be like I will still keep my offer of 16000 on the table but I would like us to consider another option that we think might be better. I was like Okay what is it? I knew what she was going to say I was at work texting her and she was like Bankruptcy and I was like my heart and my stomach and all my other organs just dropped out of me and I was like  Oh okay.  Anna Wait everything dropped out of you because of like just that like hit or like a - Rose The word. Tessa Yes because it just seems so scary to people I do not know. I think a lot of it comes through the stigma around it not just in general but I feel like people talk about bankruptcy is the worst thing you could ever do. You should just avoid being in that situation at all costs. Rose I also want to mention that part of the reason why it came up that this might be a better option for Tessa in particular when I was talking with my boyfriend was that he brought up a good point which is something that I had also been thinking about and brought up with Tessa which is that yes if we pay off the debt and all of that what mechanisms are there that would prevent this from happening again? My boyfriend's response to it was like well if you loaned them the 16000 there is no guarantee that you get it back so you need to think of that money as gone one. Two what happens if they end up in this situation again because their credit and all this other stuff did not take a hit so they still have all these things open? That does not address the issue. Then three if it were to happen again then what? Let us just take it a step further. We are not going to give them more money and all this other stuff so what does it sound like? They probably - and if we were to continue this thread they could end up in the same situation if they do then they would... I was like probably have to look into bankruptcy. You might be right. Because the biggest thing here too is that and Tessa and I have talked about it and we agree that it is like there needs to be some guardrail there to help them as they are like learning to cope and manage their finances. While we could do that manually that actually means that I have to be there and get more involved with their personal finances. Anna It is your responsibility. Rose Yes absolutely. This way it actually gives them the what is that word? Not responsibility but the - it gives them the - Tessa The agency? Rose Yes thank you the agency to move forward and take everything from there with all these guard rails built-in for them. Anna The guard rail is losing access to credit. Rose Correct. Anna Who is paying for the attorney? Rose I am paying for the attorney. They do not have enough money that they could pay for it and if they were to save up it would take them months to do it. What I told them was Hey I understand that the attorney fees are going to be somewhere between 1500 to 2000. Instead of loaning you the 16000 I am just going to give you the money for the attorney. You do not have to pay that one back. Anna And Tessa when you talked to the attorney and said Here it is here's the debt. Here's where I am here's how much I earn here's how much I owe what did the attorney tell you were the trade-offs for you of declaring bankruptcy? Tessa I would close out my credit cards my credit score would take a huge hit. Also it would probably be difficult for me in future years if I was trying to get a mortgage it is like I cannot even apply for different types of loans for a certain amount of years. Even then even when I am able to apply in 2 3 4 years depending on the type of loan the interest rate and the terms are going to be worse. That was a very hard thing to reconcile and talk to my boyfriend about who also did not know about my debt. I told my sister first and then I told him second and we were probably hoping to maybe own something and apply for a mortgage in the next 10 years. I have completely tanked a lot of our options or just even just the fear of we are going to have probably worse terms and not be able to get much or even maybe get a loan at all because of me. Despite those trade-offs Tessa decided to go ahead with the bankruptcy process. But as Tessa and Rose have been talking together about next steps they have also been wondering if Tessa's financial problems are not just about poor money management. Rose It entered my mind that some of these um kind of impulsive purchases and having struggles with money has more to do with um Tessa's mental health issues than what we first thought. That it was just oh they are not good with money or they just need to try harder. We were just obviously texting back and forth and out of nowhere they are just like oh yes I have been reading these articles about being a death doula. I was like Okay and they were like Maybe I will be a death doula. I was like Okay I am not trying to shit on your parade but I do not know what is going on. Then they are like Oh yes. I have also been thinking about doing this other thing like selling animal bones that I have cleaned and stuff on Etsy despite having - Tessa Whoa whoa whoa I did not say I was trying to sell those. Hold up. Rose Okay but you made it sound like it even if it was a joke. Tessa  Okay but I was not trying to - do you know how much work that is? Rose It was a lot going on but also like we have another friend who has bipolar. I used to live with her and she mentioned to me Oh by the way if I ever seem manic you should probably call the hospital. And then it suddenly popped in my head again I was like hmm what does mania look like? I started looking into it and the way that Tessa was coming across through texts just seemed weird just weird. They are already impulsive but weirder than normal. I pointed it out. Like Have you ever considered that maybe you have potentially hypomanic episodes? We started just sending articles back and forth describing what mania is like and what bipolar could look like. We were looking at it and more and more of these things started ticking the boxes. Anna Tessa did that feel okay to have your sister bring up? Is that something that is ever occurred to you? Tessa Yeah I have definitely considered and asked my doctor and therapists that I have seen if it is possible that I might have bipolar. I have had a diagnosis of major depression disorder since I was 13 14 so about half of my life at this point. I noticed in the last 7 or 8 years it felt like the nature of my mental illness it felt different. It felt markedly different than when I was younger. It is just like my sister and my boyfriend in particular had just noticed especially lately that it seemed like my interests were I was rapidly cycling through them and with a fierce intensity even faster than usual. My boyfriend did not say it upfront but he was just like I could tell he was exhausted by like okay what is the next thing Tessa is going to get into? How long is that going to last before the next thing? He even brought up he is like is this going to be the new slime again? Anna Oh the slime we heard about the slime before you got on the line Rose. Tessa  Rose Oh yeah. Anna You know it makes me think as we talked about your financial situation it is very clear that you feel a deep sense of shame about where you have ended up. I wonder if thinking about it in the context of mental health and mental illness does it loosen that feeling of failure for you at all? Tessa It does. It does by a lot. I mean it is still hard but I recognize even before my sister brought bankruptcy to the table that if she gave me the 16000 upfront that would not actually change my core problem. Even all the things that I bought with all this money that I did not have it was never about the things it was about the rush of buying the things. It was about coveting something that I wanted and then I had it and then I just moved on. It was easy for me to buy these things and it was just as easy for me to give them away. I have always known that I have an addictive personality and I have dealt with other types of addictions that were coping mechanisms for better or for worse that I think just over time it was easy to shift those dilemmas that I was having to just move it onto this. Anna And Rose do you think if you had not been talking about this current money crisis and trying to problem-solve around that you would have been thinking about oh maybe there is something really big underlying this? Do you think Tessa asking for help opened up this broader conversation about maybe there is an underlying mental health condition that we need to focus on? Rose If this was the first time we had talked about them having a pretty large debt load it would have been like okay this is a thing that happened to you but because it was you had all this money you threw the money from the settlement into this debt. Then the debt just went all the way back up basically to the same point that it was before you threw the money in there then it was kind of okay what is going on? So I would say that probably you are right that it is because we were already talking about money that this became more noticeable in the first place. Tessa Yeah. Rose Because we have been talking a lot about the fact that Tessa has very poor impulse control and it is like but why? Why do you have such poor impulse control? Is it you is it something else? Tessa Yeah unnie I think something that is interesting about what Anna asked you about my sister and I I can tell we talk a lot more frequently in general because of all of this because of the bankruptcy discussion. Anna You are dealing with something together. You are making a plan together. Tessa Well yes it is about that. We have had a lot of conversations about that but even just innocuous random everyday talk. We just talk a lot more period. My sister and I we did not get along as kids 'ecause she was a jerk and she will acknowledge that. Rose 100. Tessa  We got closer when we got older but even when we got like maybe college age there were times where was like I just feel like my sister is preaching to me about her views or in ways that would be a little bit ageist. Like Oh when you are my age when you are two and a half years older you will understand the life experience that I have had that will lead you to the same conclusion that I have had and I am like what the heck? I did not feel comfortable in particular talking to my sister about really sensitive or touchy things. My sister was just the last person if even I think about the list at all that I would go to about anything. I admittedly kept aspects of our relationship very surface-level because I was just like I do not want you to talk at me or tell me how to do these things or take care of me or whatever. Just in light of all this I actually have felt genuinely closer to my sister than before. Anna There is going to be some hardship that comes from declaring bankruptcy for Tessa. Do you think that is going to be good for them? Rose It is funny because when we were discussing the specifics of the bankruptcy they also asked me Hey I know this is a lot to ask but would you be able to help me pay this one debt that I do need to keep? I countered and I said Hey given that that is the one debt that you have to deal with and it feels like it is within reach for you since it is the one thing I actually think that it would be better for you to work on that because that debt in particular is the one tied to our dad's credit. Tessa Yeah. Anna The cosigned card. Rose Yeah. It is a conversation we need to have with our dad anyway. What is funny is that there is actually a Korean proverb the actual wording in Korean I cannot remember but it is basically that even if you have to pay for it a little bit of hardship is good for your life. That really resonates with me that having this one debt that is not going to be wiped away and that it is something that Tessa really cares deeply about paying and dealing with because it does not only affect them is going to be good for them because it means that this is a responsibility they have not to just themselves but to other people who will now know about it. It is going to be that opportunity where it is like Okay you are going to mow down this debt and then because it is a cosigned card you are going to shut it down. Anna Rose do you still have the painting? Rose I do still have the painting. It is still here. Anna When are you going to return it? What is the terms of when that gets returned? Rose Honestly at this point it is up to Tessa. I can hold it for them until whenever if it feels like a symbolic gesture. I can also give it back to them since I did not give them the 16000 to begin with. Anna What do you think Tessa? Tessa I do not know. I think I want her to keep it for now because it was a symbolic gesture to start with. Clearly it is not worth the liquid cash she was about to infuse into my dilemma. Also I still have that piece as it was shipped to me. I never opened it and I am hoping that when I am in a better financial situation that I could finally get it framed. So it makes sense for my sister to hold on to it for now. Thats a listener were calling Tessa and their sister who were calling Rose. This week Tessa told us they had a psychiatric appointment and are starting new medication. Theyll be getting regular counseling going forward. If you are looking for resources about managing your consumer debt there is a link in our show notes to a page of resources and information. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Katie Bishop. The rest of our team includes Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein Yasmeen Khan and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. You can find me on Instagram annasalepics P-I-C-S. The show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. Thank you to David Crowfoot in Signal Mountain Tennessee who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join David and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Tessa told me their dad now knows about their debthe got a notice in the mail which forced the conversation. And just a few days after we talked Tessa officially filed for bankruptcy. Tessa I just want to have enough money to not only be able to meet future goals but I want to just treat people to nice things every once in a while. Maybe kind of um impulsively... but... Rose Oh God.  I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.