There was a part of me at times during my life as a standup where I felt like I think I might might complete this whole career and stay anonymous the whole time. Which feels pretty bad. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lotand need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. It took W. Kamau Bell awhile to get his footing in the comedy world.  There were times I felt like Im doing comedy but Im not really a comedian. If people at parties would ask me What do you do? I would not want to say comedian because I had no proof. If it was possible to chop off the first half of my career and just take the second half Id feel great about it. But I think the first half had to happen so I could get to the second half and be like Well I wasted a lot of time here. His 20s came and went. It wasnt until he was in his mid-30s when he was living in San Francisco that things finally started to take off.  As soon as I really focused in and honed in on I want to talk about race and racism I want to write a one-man show about it and I dont care if I become famous or whatever I just want to do something that makes me happy things started to happen. Chris Rock saw that show. It was called the W. Kamau Bell Curve Ending Racism in About an Hour. America would not be America without black people. I looked it up on the internet. You know how much of America's pop culture we are responsible for? All of it! Chris Rock teamed up with Kamau to create Totally Biased -- a late night TV variety show that poked fun at lots of things including politics and race. It debuted in 2012 and within a year it went from weekly to five nights a week. That didnt last though. It was cancelled two months later. Kamau and his family who had moved to New York for the show decided to go back to the West Coast.  We needed to center ourselves again. Like after Totally Biased was cancelled the only reason we moved to New York was for that show. When that show was gone we sort of existed in this place of like What are our lives here? We were living in an apartment that was rented by a guy who had a TV show and suddenly when that guy didnt have a TV show it was like We cant afford this apartment. This apartment is actually sucking the money out that we got through Totally Biased.  Yeah.  So we were like we have to go to someplace where we can breathe. And I feel like the minute we got off the plane when we moved back out here out of the airport it was just like. Thats California. And it just became such a clear like life is hard enoughlife has enough challenges and especially with having a new kid there are enough challenges in life without also feeling the challenge of like Do we belong here? Growing up Kamau had a lot of different hometowns. His parents split up when he was little.  My mom moved around a lot which is a shorthand way of saying that she was a black lady with opinions so we had to move sometimes. She was in academia so she was working on black newspapers and at one point flirted with becoming a black Muslim during the point where that was a thing. And really was in the more outwardly militant side of things. His dad settled in Mobile Alabama where Kamau spent most of his summers. He and his mom lived in a series of different cities Indianapolis Boston then Chicago.  I had to start making new friends again and really resented that and I think I wanted something familiar and Alabama was familiar. So I called an audible and said I want to move in with my dad and my mom said okay even though she was heartbroken.  And was it you and your dad in the house? Just the two of you?  No that was the other thing. It was a pretty big change because my dad was married and my stepmom had a daughter who was a couple years younger than me. So it was going from a family where its just me and my mom which basically at that point its just all about Are you okay? Im okay. Are you okay? Im okay. To a nuclear family where its like as long as most people are okay were fine here. I joke about that with my wife all the time because she comes from a much bigger family than I do and I feel like they really just average it out. Are most people fine? Then were fine.  And whatd your father do in Alabama?  When I was a kid he was what is that word? Unemployed. And then later he sort of did the thing that a lot of Americans talk about -- he lifted himself up by his bootstraps. He got a job at the bank as a teller as probably the oldest teller in the history of a bank in his mid-thirties. And from there he became a manager at the bank and then he started selling insurance and he worked his way up to being the vice president of an insurance company in Alabama. And then became the insurance commissioner for the state of Alabama. At this point the guy that I remember when I was a kid is very different from the guy who he is now.  And making a lot more money than when you were growing up I imagine.  Oh absolutely which puts people in mind that I grew up like when they meet my dad like I sort of grew up that way. But no this guy came later. I did not grow up with access to this money. I mean Im very proud of him while at the same time feel sort of separate from that. When we have talks about money its very clear that I grew up with a different mentality and that frustrates him.  How do you describe how you grew up? Whats your mentality around money?  Just that moneys great but Ive never been in love with it. If I didnt have money I wouldnt really trip out about it. Whereas my dad came to a point where he was like If I dont have money Im going to do everything I can to figure out how to make money. I think he took the early Tiger Woods approach like Im just gonna be better than everybody whos around me and thats what happened. But I just have really never been in love with money enough to do that although now that I have two kids I go Oh Im starting to see where that comes from.  Huh.  I mean you know he came from nothing. From the nothing that black people talk about when they talk about coming from nothing. And nothing in the Deep South which is a whole new level of nothing.  And the Southern Civil Rights Movement is happening around your father as hes growing up.  Yeah its happening around them but they dont have stories of marching. I feel like theres two different types of people in the South. The people who are like we need to get out in the streets and march and then there is people who are like we need to keep our head down and we will benefit from the marching but we also need to show up at work tomorrow. We cant take the day off. I dont think it makes them any less uh... I think theres just multiple ways to go about freedom. I dont want to put my dad down. Its easy to put that into some sort of weird Well he didnt blah blah When Im around my dads crew of people the people he is worked with theres regularly -- mostly black people people of color -- who sort of look at me like your dad is the example that I look up to and I feel like thats just as worthy as everything my mom has done.  Yeah. To go from being a bank teller in your mid-30s to being insurance commissioner in Alabama...  I had a joke at the time where he was the highest-ranked African American official in Alabama and the second highest worked at Kentucky Fried Chicken. That was a joke...I think. I didnt do the research. I think it was a joke. Kamau may not have inherited his fathers feelings about moneybut he did get his height. His dad is 66 -- Kamau hit 64 in high school. Last year after the deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garner he wrote in Vanity Fair about being a big black male -- a B.B.M. he called it. I dont generally feel trapped by my circumstances he wrote. But I do feel every bit of my six-foot-four-inch 250-pound body and every bit of my black skin. Thats something his mom taught him about about from the time he was a small black boy.  I remember a very specific time of us going to a drugstore and us walking around the drugstore. And I was probably 7 8 9 years old somewhere at the age where I might leave the house by myself to go to the drugstore and buy a Cracked magazine or something. And so I think she was like well when you do that -- and she pointed at a guy -- she goes thats the store detective he will follow you around. So dont pick anything up unless you intend to buy it. Dont browse with your hands basically. And it wasnt like If a store detective follows you She pointed at a guy who was following us at the time. And so Ive gotten pretty good -- when I started going to stores by myself thats a thing that I do even to this day. I will in pick things up if Im not gonna buy it but I am aware of putting them down and also putting them down sometimes in a way that is like  I am putting this down. Whether its on the camera or if I see somebody looking at me.  Look at this going back where I got it from.  And a thing I think about when I talk about this -- Im aware that women as you know will go through that same thing but from a different side of things. Im thinking about like I dont want the cops to think Im doing the wrong thing. Whereas I talk to my wife about it and she goes from the side of I dont want to end up in a bad situation because Im not paying enough attention.  Yeah.  I think a lot of this is from having these talks with my wife about this and shes a white woman and Im a black guy and theres a lot of overlap in the ways in which we experience the world that people wouldnt expect that we have connection over that.  Thats really interesting that you say that because one of the other things that you write is that Because Im a big black man its why I smile quickly its why I dont stand to full height its why I slouch and bend. And youre basically saying here are the things I do to make you feel comfortable with my presence. And as a woman I do that. I laugh at jokes that arent funny to make men feel comfortable.  Well please stop doing that today. Please stop doing that today.  All right.  You still smile quickly. Its still something that you do.  It is certainly something that I do. Theres the mask you put on for the outside world and everybody does this on one level or another its just how much do you enjoy wearing that mask is the question. And I certainly put that mask on you know theres all these ways in which out in the world that I sort of make sure that the world knows that Im not intending to pose a threat other than the threat that I am posing because of the body that Im in. That idea of Kamau posing a threat simply because of the body hes in hit home last February. New at 6 the owner of a well known cafe in Berkeley says what happened there is horrible and hes sorry. Kamau was meeting his wife Melissa whos white at a sidewalk cafe near his home. An employee saw him approach and attempted to shoo him away. Kamau was holding a book about racism and it was his birthday. He wrote about this on his blog afterward and it quickly became a local news story. Upon learning that Bell was married to one of the women he says the employee apologized and said she thought he was trying to sell something to the women. Bell calls it textbook racism.... The cafe fired the employee and in March co-hosted a public discussion in Berkeley about race and discrimination with Kamau and his wife. Coming up Kamau talks about finding the balance between family and his career something his wife has also had to juggle.  She just this past year finished her doctorate in critical dance theory. Shes a modern dancer contemporary dancer. And she has an MFA in experimental  dance choreography which means were gonna be rich. We are gearing up for the first anniversary of Death Sex  Money next month -- we are so excited! Thank you for listening -- if you found the show last May or just recently. Part of the idea of this show is that all of us have moments of transition in life when were finding our way through...and then the story keeps going. So on the next episode I catch up with Heidi Reinberg. She moved to New York as a young woman and a year ago I talked to her as she was getting ready to leave after 30 years because shed gotten priced out of her neighborhood. She did leave. But now shes living two blocks from her old place in Brooklyn...with a roommate. My roommate is a 25-year-old so I am sort of back where I started. When I actually came to see her and I found an internet listing and when I actually came to meet her I was like oh my god she is gonna think I am Grandma Moses and is this my life when I am in my 50s I am gonna be looking at roommates again? Ive talked to a lot of people over the last yearand I want to know who else youre curious about? What guest from the show do you need an update on? Email me at deathsexmoneywnyc.org and Ill bring you the latest about some of them over the summer. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Since Kamaus TV show Totally Biased was cancelled in 2013 hes stayed busy. Hes taken his stand up act on tour. He co-hosts a weekly podcast with Kevin Avery called Denzel Washington Is the Best Actor of All Time Period. And hes been trying to figure out whats next.  I want to release a comedy special because I want people who watched me on Totally Biased to know that I am a comedian independent from that show so a big part of that is ego. But okay I do a comedy special -- what comes next? The thing thats always looking toward the next thing is about the fact that I have two children. A TV show is a good way to help provide for your kids if youre in the entertainment industry. If I didnt have kids and I wasnt married -- I dont know theres a part of me that every now and again can envision myself working at Starbucks and getting health benefits and being like eh this is good. And sort of doing comedy as it comes across my desk. But thats not a responsible way to be a parent and I certainly take that seriously.  I really appreciate the way you publically grapple with this as a working father. Like your blog post after you decided to cancel some tour dates recently where you started by talking about the two birthday parties for 4-year-olds that you had to attend. And you have this line Please forgive me Kansas City Des Moines Omaha Ferndale and Cincinnati. I still love you. I just love my family more.  Yeah. That was hard to write.  Its scary.  When I looked at the schedule I just realized how long I was gonna be gone from home and my wife had just given birth and I was like this is a disaster. I will come back and my kid wont have bonded with me maybe my family will have moved or changed the locks. I cannot call myself a good father and do all of these things and it is really important to me to be a good parent and good father specifically. There is things about fatherhood that I believe are important. And I feel bad because Im not choosing it more. Im in town today for 48 hours. I got into town yesterday at noon and Im leaving tomorrow at noon to go back on the road and I feel like god this sucks. And yet I cant wait to see the people in these cities. My daughter Sami knows work as being when Da-Da leaves. It happened this morning. We dropped her off at school and they let the parents hang out for a few minutes so the kids can get adjusted -- not that my daughter needs that shes like bye. We were looking at art on the walls and things they draw and theres this picture that my daughter drew and she draws very representational pictures of her family so there will often be three and now four people in them. And there was one with two and I was like whos that? And she goes Thats me and momma. And my wife goes Wheres da-da? And she goes Hes at work. Suddenly I hear ...and the cats and the cradle and the silver spoon. I feel like theres some magic number that if I hit that magic number where you go oh thats the money where your interest takes care of everything -- and I dont know that I will hit that number -- but if at some point I look up and go wait thats the number! I think my ego at that point would be like okay weve done enough.  Are there people who you talk with about what is the actual number?  Where you sit around and try to guess what it is?  Me and my my friends talk about it. And with Totally Biased when youre on a daily talk show like that the finances change so dramatically. But when youre only in that for a year and a half it very quickly goes back to not exactly where you were but where youre like Im a working man again. This is show business everybodys trying to hit that vein of money. A lot of the artists I admire Ive sort of noticed a thing about them -- at some point they go thats enough.  Like who?  Off the top of my head Bill Watterson from Calvin and Hobbes. He literally said Thats enough. That sounds magical to me. To have done enough that the culture still remembers you that whatever you created has created enough of a nut that you can get through the next month -- and maybe hes doing other things who knows -- but you dont have to be engaged in that hustle for more that is so seductive in the entertainment industry. With Bill Watterson Dont you want to make plush toys and an animated movie and a cartoon and blah blah blah? And he went Nah I got enough.  Do you think youll earn more money in 2015 than you did in 2014?  Oh wow. Thats such a funny hard question. Um because 2013 was Totally Biased if you --  That was when you were rolling in it---  Yeah my version of rolling in it which Chris Rock might be like Oh my god were broke! What happened? Somebodys robbed me! And Im only saying that because Ive worked with him and not because I know his financial situation butwill I earn more money? That is my personal challenge of 2015 is to figure out a way to work hard enough to earn more money than I did in the previous year but also still feel like Im an attentive parent and husband.  Yeah and if you figure that out if you write a book youll be a gazillionaire because I think every parent in America would buy that book.  When you add parenting into it just everything I sometimes feel like I dont know if people without kids should be allowed to vote. It really changes your perspective on the world in a big way Two groups of people I dont think should be allowed to vote people who arent parents and billionaires but thats just my thats the platform Im running on. Comedian W. Kamau Bell. Since we spoke CNN announced that hes going to be hosting a new show called The United Shades of America. Its a race and culture-themed travel show set to premiere next year. Ill get an update from both Kamau and his wife Melissa at our upcoming live show in Brooklyn on May 8. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC.  The team includes Katie Bishop  Emily Botein James Ramsay Caitlin Pierce Zachary Mack and Joe Plourde. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. We are also on Facebook where we post pictures show updates and articles were reading and thinking about. Find Death Sex  Money there and Like us. With all this up and down Kamau is still getting used to the idea of being a celebrity.  A camera guy jumped out with a video camera and he said Im from TMZ I wanna ask you some questions. And I started laughing. Im like Is that where TMZ has gotten to? Where you need to talk to me? I was like theres no way this is ever gonna make TMZ unless its a super slow TMZ newsday. Certainly just watching Kim Kardashian walk through an airport is gonna be more interesting than anything you have me say. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.