Paul Cook Youd like to think you get some kind of enlightenment out of it. But not really not for me anyway. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Six years ago when Paul Cook was 44 he was diagnosed with colon cancer. He went through chemoand his cancer went into remission. Then it came back.  I thought I was gonna die. And Ive thought about it every day since. This time it was in his lungs. Paul went through chemo...again. He had surgery to remove the tumors in his lungs. That was four years ago and since then his scans have been clean.  You asked if it changes you. And for me it definitely did. And not always for the better. Id say for me its made me more impatient. Every moment has to matter but then it doesnt. I asked you to tell me about when you almost died. The car hit me. I was run over by an 18-wheel truck. I came very close to slipping 9000 feet. At that very instant I saw a handgun pointed at me. You would think that the prospect of dying in that way would be terrifying. It was like I had visited the most beautiful place... And I truly believe I felt the feeling of what it is to die. For a lot of you these near death experiences have had a profound impact. On the way you see the worldon your bodies...and on your relationships. Ellen Now all these years later I really see what it became which was kind of defining moment in my marriage more than anything else. Ellen is 67 years oldshe lives in Rochester New York. Her near-death experience happened almost 30 years ago. She was flying with her husband David in a small chartered plane. Their two children were at home. Ellen I said to my husband the plane sounds funny and he kind of shook his head and frowned and said You always think the plane sounds funny. Because I was really nervous flier. And then I noticed he must have heard something because he started staring into the cockpit. And he said to the pilot can you see the airport? And the pilot said were not going to make it to the airport. Anna What did you think about? Ellen The thing I kept thinking and saying was Whos gonna take care of my babies? Those were my words over and over. I probably said it four times.  You said it out loud. Ellen Yeah. I just couldnt imagine what was gonna happen to our kids. The plane went down in a field. The bottom was ripped out by the impact. But everyone on board survived. Ellen walked away with only a run in her stocking. They found out later that the pilot had failed to refuel. They just ran out of gas. Ellen I was kind of in la la land the next morning. I remember waking up and feeling like oh look at this beautiful sunny day and it was the end of May it was gorgeous. My kids practically had halos over their heads I was so glad to see them. I was grateful for everything including my marriage. You know we were high school sweethearts wed been together a long long time. I know that there were problems in the marriage but I think I was a little bit in denial about how unhappy my husband was.  In what way? Ellen Well my husband told me later that that day that next morning when he woke up was a new day for him and he knew he wanted to be happier than he was. So our marriage was really over by the end of that year.  So you had this overwhelming wave of gratefulness and your husband was having the opposite emotional response. Ellen Exactly.  If you could go back and have that pilot refuel the plane before you took off would you do that? Ellen No. No Im glad it all happened the way it happened. Im glad I am where I am. David would have left anyway at some point. And it happened exactly the way it needed to. I survived. Ellen remarried a few years after the crash. She and her second husband will celebrate 25 years together this fall. The chances of dying in a plane crash are incredibly slim. According to the National Safety Council you are almost 900 times more likely to die in a car accident. Jeff I was making a left turn and turned in front of another vehicle. Kelsey My car went off the road drove through two of those concrete dividers. Jeff Flipped the car on its side knocked me unconscious Kelsey Slammed into a parked van in a parking lot. No one was in it. Both Kelsey and Jeff were in car accidents when they were 23 years old. Kelsey careened off the road as she was driving alone in the middle of the night in Texas. She is 26 now.  When did you realize that you couldve died? Kelsey Thats hard because for about I dont know almost a year after my accident I wished that I had. Because it was just so much work.  When did you learn that you were paralyzed? Kelsey I couldnt talk for like months after my accident. Because I had a tracheostomy. So I couldnt ask the question but I knew because nothing was working. I didnt really know that it was going to be that way forever I guess. Kelsey eventually regained the use of her upper body but is still paralyzed from her chest down. She says she has no memory of the accidentor even the days leading up to it. But Jeff whose car crash happened more than a decade ago had vivid memories from that day. He was on a road trip with two friends. Jeff The friend in the passenger seat. He died instantly. When I became conscious again he was on top of me and I knew right away that he was dead. So you know imagine going from great time having fun to opening your eyes and youre in pain theres smoke in the car its on its side. Its such a strange - I mean like the past is just so close that you feel like if you just do the right thing you can be back there.  You can undo it. Jeff Yeah. Both Jeff and Kelseys near death experiences dramatically changed their lives. Kelsey lives at home now with her parents and she uses a wheelchair to get around. But at the time of her accident Kelsey was living on her own working hard and partying hard. Kelsey I was a pretty huge alcoholic. But I had quit a few months before my accident and then according to notes in my phone about a week before my accident fallen off the wagon and gone a little crazy.  Do you drink now? Kelsey I dont because when sobriety is kind of forced on you by a hospital you start to think well why would I want to mess up that scorecard? But really the biggest reason why I dont drink now is because I want to so bad. I want a Jack and Coke more than anything really I know exactly what it tastes like. And because I want those things so bad I know that I shouldnt do it. Jeffs car accident also left him with serious injuries. And with criminal charges. But worse than thatwas the guilt. Jeff I did something stupid. It was my fault. I felt like killed my friend. I felt as horrible as a person can feel. But one of the most important things that happened was a doctor from another department came down to see me and she took time out of her day to tell me that when she was younger shed actually killed three of her friends in a car accident. That was such a powerful thing to me because I thought my life is over. I thought you know Im never gonna recover from this. And um. That message meant so much to me that hey you know you didnt do it on purpose. Itll work out ok.  How did you change after having this car accident? Jeff I changed in a lot of ways. What changed me the most was how kindly people treated me. Before the car accident a lot of my worldview was based on fear. I remember looking forward to the Iraq War. You know as terrible as that is to say being excited about us bombing people and destroying a country. And you know I remember the old me was very anti-gay and anti-gay marriage. And I just learned that life is precious and theres no need to hate. To this day I think my parents would blame that change on the head injury.  So your parents politics did not change. Jeff Correct they did not change no. Im definitely the black sheep of the family. Beth I thought I had time to cross the street but a car came over this little hill and I did not have the visibility that I thought I did. This voice memo came in from a listener named Beth. A few years ago she was hit by a car in San Francisco while trying to cross against the light. Beth When I came to again there was a man kneeling next to me and he was just saying Help is on the way help is on the way. I do not know how long I was out but waking up from it was the most incredible experience. I was completely blissful I felt no pain I felt this sense of complete unity and I just kept saying Oh we are never alone we are never alone. It was like I had been reminded of something I had forgotten. A listener named Abbey had the opposite experience. Abbey I felt the big gaping meaninglessness of life so much more acutely. Abbey sent in this voice memo about when she was in a car accident. She walked away without a scratch. But... Abbey The experience gave me the feeling that death was just breathing down my neck every minute of every day. And standing behind every other person I knew who was alive. You know I would just look around at my friends and family and just be like Bye! I could just...it was almost like I could see a cloaked figure of death just reaching its bony hand out to grab anybody it wanted at any moment and it made me really depressed. Coming up more of your stories about how getting up close and personal with death has impacted your life. Rachel Cancer patients make very very bad boyfriends. They dont ask you how you are. They have no room for your feelings in the experience at all. And that was really hard cause it made me feel like um very alone. -- A few months ago when I asked for your stories about almost dying you sent in emails and voice memos and we also gave you the option of writing a post on Medium with the hashtag whenIalmostdied. Nick Garcia wrote about the years he spent not sleeping much while he was going to school and working more than 60 hours a week to try to get out of debt. He ended up with life-threatening pneumonia. Angela S. wrote about when her appendix burst. I knew I was dying in the E.R.. When your body's in mayday mode you just know she wrote. Shockingly I had very few regrets. And sure I never got to experience the torrid romance of my dreams but I felt I had had a good run. And Sarah Joyce wrote about crossing the finish line three years ago at the Boston Marathon and hearing an explosion about 30 seconds later.  You have to wrap your head around that you think a bomb went off. And then you have to wrap your head around the fact that two went off.  And that you are not quite sure what is going to happen next. Sarah titled her Medium post Why I Do not Run Anymore.  The biggest way that it is affected me is my relationship with running. 'ecause it...running would clear my head. And that is something that after Boston I just do not have the same association with it anymore. We have a link to all of your Medium posts on our website at deathsexmoney.org. On the next episode actor Diane Guerrero. She is 29 and in two break-out television shows Orange is the New Black and Jane the Virgin. She tells me about the day when she was 14 and came home to discover that immigration authorities had picked up her Colombian parents. Diane Guerrero I walk in andand I open the door and it is dark andand there is my mother's dinner started but she was not there. So I called out Mom Mom Dad Dad Mom! Nothing. And then I went out and the neighbor told me that they had been taken away. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. When I asked you to tell me about your near death experiences some of you shared stories that were not about your own brushes with death. When I say near death I dont mean that I myself was close to dying. I mean it in terms of proximity. When I was 17 my best friend died. He had not worn his helmet. I just watched her crumple underneath the trailer. I have the distinct honor I guess of holding his hand at the moment that he died. Thats my near death experience as in being near my sisters death. And even though you did not almost die the experience of being so close to death changed you. Rachel is 22...thats not her real name. Two years ago when she was 20 and still in college her boyfriend was diagnosed with lymphoma. Rachel I remember lying in bed one night with him and I said something like Dont leave me. And he said Im not gonna die. That was the only time I can remember us talking about death. But Rachel was scared her boyfriend was going to die. Hed had cancer before she knew him...it had come back. When he was diagnosed the second time theyd only been dating for about six months. Rachel It was like I had to kind of use the memories that we had made in that short period of time to get me through the darkness and like the relentless treatment. And it got really hard.  What were the things you missed when he was sick? Rachel I couldnt touch him for a long period of time. Before you go into the room you have to wash your hands put on a mask a gown and gloves um you cannot touch him at all. I would goI would get like a manicure or something and I would feel so amazing cause I had not been touched in so long.  Yeah. Rachel Cause he is sohe is not himself like in pain in discomfort and very very closed off emotionally too so he was not really talking about anything that was going on. And I remember like a lot of people reached out to me specifically and said we know this must be hard for you too. And what I could not say was his happinessI feel so terrible saying thishis happiness is not the most important thing to me. I wanna be happy too. And Im not.  Did you want to break up? Rachel No I did not want to break up. I definitely thought why am I still here? And is it worth it? I definitely had the thought of is it worth this much? Which is not what you think going in when you get the call that your boyfriend has cancer you go into survival mode and you say I am gonna do whatever it takes. But he did not miss me the way that I missed our closeness because he was so preoccupied with the disease taking over him and that really really hurt me.  Do you think in some ways he was pulling away from you because he thought he might die? Rachel I mean that would make sense to me why someone would just sort of remove themselves from the situation and not be present in a relationship that they thought might end. But their relationship did not end. The treatment worked. Rachel's boyfriend survived. Rachel Once he got out he was ready to start his life again. And hewhat he missed was golfing. Was being with his friends. And what I missed was him. I thought that I had earned him back at that point that I had stuck out the hardest part so that we could continue our relationship and it was like nope. Not yet.  He wants to go golfing. Rachel I wanna go golf. Exactly.  Does he know now how you felt when he was at his sickest? Rachel We had some conversations about it but I have never said to him what I have just said really outlined what it felt like.  You have never said this to him. Rachel No. Climber Talking about it does not change it. This listener from North Carolina felt the same kind of relationship strain...from the other side. Just a few weeks before she was set to graduate from college she fell 30 feet off of a climbing wall. She broke her back hip pelvis and femur. She had a concussion... Climber ...And I got a boyfriend out of it. When I was in the ICU this tall handsome pony-tailed coworker of mine showed up to visit and he just kind of never left. Many parts of our story and our relationship are capital R Nicholas Sparks romantic. But being in a new relationship when one of the people had become suddenly disabled at a young age is tough. Him being the knight in shining armor and me being the broken one. And it is been hard letting someone help me through this whole process when theyre so physically whole and it can be really tough to explain it to them. Sometimes you just dont want to talk about it. And its hard to explain that to him sometimes. For Bex Montz who lives in San Francisco his brush with death happened after he would made some big changes in his life. Ones that he thought would make him happier. Bex Montz I had been sober for a couple of months and sort of all the other freshly sober people who I knew were doing like a lot better and I was just miserable. Like I was thinking about throwing myself in front of a bus. Bex is trans and had recently gotten top surgery.  I felt really good about that but I also still hated myself. So it sort of like turns out that when you transition beforehand you hate yourself and you are in somebody else's body and then afterwards you hate yourself but you hate yourself in your own body which is you know good and bad. And yeah I guess I was expectingI guess I was expecting certain things to be a little bit better.  And what is your near death story Bex?  I was still really suicidal. And I decided that I would take all my sleeping medication and all my SSRIs and slit my wrists and sit back relax and slip into oblivion. So I sort of set everything out and just downed it all. My heart was racing and I started thinking about my mom and it just felt so shitty to think about my mom finding my body. And when Im in a really depressed place I can convince myself that you know the world would be better off without me. But in that moment I wasnt able to actually do that. And that is not what I was expecting.  Did you feel like you wanted to live?  I didnt really want to live. I really wanted to go into oblivion. But in that moment I realized that I was not gonna be able to go through with it. So I had to keep living. Bex called 911. He lost consciousness in the ambulance and slipped into a coma. But his phone call saved his lifehe woke up several hours later with his mom sitting in the corner of his hospital room. Bex says that his suicide attempt was a turning point. He is 22 now and regularly going to therapy. Bex My therapist is really great. Which is a sentence I never thought I would say. Cause I have had a hard time with therapists in the past. Um he can tell me that Im being a brat if Im being a brat which is something that is also helpful for me. I mean Im a 20-something year old! Like I am not alwaysIm not always a grown up a man. Im not always an adult. Sometimes I need to be told that Im being a brat. And Bex says now suicide is off the table for him.  And that is way harder than having an out. I have always been able to say to myself well if things do not work out I can just kill myself. Um but now you know I am just kind of trying to push forward. And just try to figure out who I wanna be in this world.  I justfor you from what youve learned from going through what youve gone through if there is someone who is in that dark place where you were a year and a half ago what do you want to make sure you say?  Um. A lot of people say that things will get better and Im not entirely convinced of that but I think that things always change. And they may get worsethat is totally truelike things may get worse but if youre in the gutter just statistically its way more likely that things are gonna get better. Its just a statistical fact. It just is.  Have there been days...that you wanted to die? Elizabeth Caplice Yeah. Yup. It isI have had times where depression's flared up a little bit. Um. And I have just gone there is no point what am I even doing? And that feeling passes. And I think about things that I do want to experience and will have the opportunity to experience even if I only do have three months to live. Elizabeth Caplice is 32 years old. I talked with her from Canberra Australia. A listener sent us a link to the blog that Elizabeth writes called Sky Between Branches. She has stage four colorectal cancer. She was diagnosed two years ago. In an email to us Elizabeth described her life these days as one big near death adventure. But the day before we talked she would gotten some bad news.  Ive hadactually had a particularly rough couple of days. Um. My oncologist called me yesterday and he said conservatively I could have three months. Optimistically I could have twelve months but the reality lies between those two numbers. So thats kind of just been my last 48 hours is learning to adapt to that.  Thats a lot.  Yeah. Yeah. Its a lot all at once.  Do you feel different?  No. Not really. I mean its hard because I dont feel different. I dont feel that sick. I mean I felt much sicker before diagnosis than I do now. I certainly dont feel like I imagine I would feel were I were dying. Like you know if someone I met said they were terminally ill I wouldnt expect them to feel or for that matter to look like I do. Because I feel fine except for a little bit tired. Like its - its extremely hard to tell at this point is Am I tired because I am dying or am I tired because I stayed up too late?  Yeah.  Am I feeling sick today because Im dying or am I feeling sick today because I ate half a Toblerone for dinner? It really could be either most of the time. Its really really difficult to know most of the time and my doctors cant really tell me.  When you wake up in the morning do you feel a certain pressure to achieve things?  Yeah. The - the pressure to - I kind of jokingly call myself cancer hero cause a lot of people through my blog and through my Facebook find a lot of what I talk about and my mere existence to be inspirational. And it becomes this weird sort of pressure like I need to achieve something real. I need to - I dont know - run a marathon. Like Im a very lazy person. Essentially I want to sit at home and it just feels like I am doing what I do but I have this intense guilt that Im you know wasting my time. I do not really actually know what I would do to classify it as living my life more fully. Like Im pretty happy with my existence of feffing around on Facebook.  Have you become less afraid of death?  Um I think so. I - I used to be very very frightened and kind of almost obsessively so of dying. And its become a less horrifying prospect. And just the ongoing realization very very selfishly that in fact once I died it wouldnt be me suffering. It would be others suffering. Which is terrible and upsets me greatly. But my suffering ends at that point. My part of this will be finished. And the thing that the world will be left behind with is peoples memories of me and people's loss and how they then manage it which is not something Im - Im responsible for.  So there is comfort in the end of your suffering.  Strange. Strangely yeah. I mean I think one of my big takeaways from it all is like cancer sucks. It obviously is a really terrible and rancid thing to happen to anyone but in like a lot of ways it is simultaneously been worse and not as bad as I thought it would be. Like the kind ofthe realization that happens when you realize that you are dying is...like it is harsh. It is a harsh thing that you deal with every single day like you wake up and you know it is not always the first thing that I think of anymore but it is always in my head. I am always aware of it I always will be aware of it. Um but. Like it is not as horrific. I do not know why or how it is not as horrific as I thought it would be. Because it is a natural process. It is notit is not something alien to being human it isit is a very human thing to have happen to you is to die. That is Elizabeth Caplice. You can find a link to her blog on our website at deathsexmoney.org. Thank you to all of you for sharing your stories. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein Hannah McCarthy Rick Kwan and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Hannis Brown wrote the original score for this episode. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And we have heard from a number of you who are still struggling with your near death experiences or with suicidal thoughts. If that is you please ask for help. You can call the National Suicide Prevention hotline at 1-800-273-8255. And we have a sad update to one of the stories you heard during the show. As we were putting this episode together we heard from the fiance of Jeff the guy who survived the car crash that killed his friend. She told us that Jeff died in a hiking accident on April 11th. Our deepest sympathies go out to his family and friends. When Jeff originally sent in his voice memo about the car accident he told us that that experience had really changed the way he felt about dying. Jeff I do not fear death anymore. I saw death. And I saw how calm and how peaceful it was and that it is just not something to be afraid of. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.