  From NPR It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders. And I tell you it cannot be easy to steal scenes from Emmy Award-winning actor and former Saturday Night Live star Bill Hader. But that is exactly what Anthony Carrigan does.    Hey man. You must be Barry. I am NoHo Hank.  Carrigan is the man who plays NoHo Hank the lovable bad guy on HBO's Barry. It is about a hitman played by Hader who wants to turn straight by becoming an actor. NoHo Hank is a Chechen mobster who yes does get involved in torture and threats and extortion. He looks the part too - bald covered in tattoos. But Hank is also unflappably positive...    Hey man. Are you seeing this beautiful morning?  ...Even when Barry tries to kill him and his fellow henchmen.    You know Barry I just have to be honest. I am quite a bit angry. But I am going to put that aside for now because rage is counterproductive yes? And I know if the situation were reversed I probably would have done same thing you did.   You did do what I did. You tried to kill me.   OK. Well now we are getting a little he said she said.   Critics raved about Anthony Carrigan's breakout performance in season one of the show and season two of Barry just premiered on HBO. Anthony also stars as the villain Victor Zsasz on Gotham. We sat down at NPR here in Culver City to talk about his journey the difference between fame and success the challenges he is faced because of his appearance and how he is found empathy for villains after playing so many charismatic criminals.   I read that you got married last year.  I did indeed.  And your wife is of - congratulations.  Thank you. Thank you very much.  And your wife is of Eastern European descent?  Yes. Yes she is from Serbia.  So can she help you with your accent? Does she help you with your accent?  I mean yeah - to a certain extent. I mean her accent is very different from you know from...  Chechnyan?  Yeah from Chechnyan. Yeah. She is - she is a professional chess player.  Whoa.  Yeah. Or I mean she used to be. She is kind of you know figuring out what she wants to do next. But it is like - yeah she is a pro chess player and...  Do you play chess?  ...Beautiful. I try. It is a wonderful game. I feel like it is very overwhelming. But actually one of the fascinating things that I have learned playing chess is that the way you play chess is kind of like the way you live your life.  Huh.  Right? It is a huge indicator of the choices that you make of how you feel about yourself of how you kind of make decisions. For me for instance I get very overwhelmed because there is so many options.  OK.  So I tend to kind of like shut down. So it is actually good. And it is funny because the more I play chess and the more I force myself to like make those decisions the better I am doing that in my life weirdly.  And how does she play chess? And how is that indicative of your wife's personality?  Well she plays chess like a genius. So...  So she is a genius.  So she is a genius in life. And so I really kind of look up to her in all regards actually.  How did you all meet?  We met on the subway in New York.  No way.  Yeah way - totally. And not in a creepy way - I mean I...  .  Yeah. I was not like you know - hey what is up? Yeah. Do you take this train a lot? No it was...  .  It was really funny. It was the summer solstice a few years ago and it was the hottest day of the year.  OK.  And so I was waiting for the train and I see this beautiful beautiful woman. And I am like oh wow. She is gorgeous. And I kind of stop paying attention. I get on the train and then at the next stop I get out. And I am you know making my way to the exit. And I realize that I got off on the wrong stop...  Oh?  ...You know because I was not paying attention.  OK.  And I was like - oh it is too hot. It is too hot to walk like those 10 blocks. I will wait for the next train. And I turn around and she is still standing there on the subway platform.  She had gotten off too?  Yeah she got off too. And apparently - so she had gotten on the wrong train. She got on the F train she was supposed to be on the M train.  Wow.  So she got off to wait for the next one and we were the only two people on the subway platform.  It is kismet.  So I was like I have got to go talk to her. So I essentially went up to her and I was like I got off on the wrong stop.   That was...  Like how about you?  ...Your opener.  Yeah. I was like - yeah I messed up you know? I - yeah I was just...  I have embarrassed myself.  I have embarrassed myself. What about you? And she was like yeah. Me too. So we started talking. And then yeah I got her number by the next stop so nothing - whatever.  Oh my gosh.  Yeah it was really lovely.  Except you do not play chess together because...  Oh - I mean no I love playing chess with her. It used to be really hard for me because it was just like so overwhelming that game. But no. But I...  You have improved.  I have improved yeah. I think I have improved.  That is fantastic. And you can probably teach people on set because there is a lot of waiting around on sets from what I understand.  Oh there is a ton of waiting around on set.  But are there enough cerebral people to sit down and...  I think so. I bet. I am sure...  Bill Hader.  I am sure Bill Hader would be you know fantastic at chess.  And then I have to ask you. There is tattoos all over NoHo Hank's body and some on his knuckles.  Yeah.  What do the knuckle tattoos say?  So the knuckle tattoo - OK. So the - they are all kind of like prison tattoos...  OK.  ...Which is like - we have to be very careful because like real prison tattoos you know can get you in big trouble.  You do not want to signal anything.  Right. So they are kind of on the fringe let us say. But the knuckle tattoos are actually chess pieces.  Aww. And that is a nod to your wife?  Mmm hmm.  I love it.  Yeah. They are chest pieces. And you know it is a kind of representative of like always - you know always trying to stay one step ahead of your enemy.  For folks who do not know NoHo Hank he is a villain a Chechen mobster with a heart of gold....  Yes.  ...To me. How would you describe him?  I would describe him - yeah - very much like that. I think he is - it is this crazy kind of juxtaposition because he is a - obviously a gangster a Chechen gangster.  .  But he is also  you know in like super tight pants polo shirts. And he is just you know very optimistic and lighthearted.  He offers juice boxes. He sends Bitmoji.  He loves catering to people. I mean he is just a people pleaser you know?  .  And that can make things difficult when you have to work in crime.  How did you get the part?  The cool thing was that I actually only went in one time. The stressful thing about being an actor is like you have to kind of audition again and again and again you know? You go in one time and you go in again for a director and then again for producers and then again and again and again. And even at the table read sometimes you can get cast out of the table - you can get you know fired from a table read...  Wow.  ...Reading because it is you know - I do not know - it is that intense.  The chemistry's not there or...  Yeah or first - you know so everyone's really stressing out all the time. But I went in once. And they sent my tape off to Bill and Alec and so that was great. And then Bill called me after my audition. And he was like dude that was so great. And oh man when you said this line that was so funny. And dude the way you did this was great. And so he kept on saying this stuff. And in the back of my mind I was like OK I am going to have to do this again.  Like I am going to have to go in and audition again. And the more you tell someone what they did right the more you are in your head about it. And - you know what I mean? It is like if I were to say like you remember that joke that you did? And you know just do it again.  .  And be that - you know you remember when you were hilarious? Just do that.  .  And it is awful. It completely ruins you. So - you know so it was nice to just kind of have like one and done.  I am so glad you are sharing this side of it because I wrote to Alec last night.  Yeah.  Alec Berg the showrunner. And I asked him about your audition.  Oh nice.  And he wrote me this.  Oh cool.  Little surprise for you. The thing that we noticed right away was how he listened. It is a good lesson for actors. The way he read his lines was awesome. But the way he listened when he was not speaking how he clearly cared and was interested in what Barry had to say that is what we loved. He owns that character entirely. He understands who he is and what he wants. He shows up prepared knows his lines but has thoughts about what else could happen. When you throw something new at him he is so versed in the character that he can immediately take whatever you give him and make it work. That is from Alec Berg for you.  Wow. That is - I am - wow - choked up.  No I mean that is so sweet.  He is actually choked up you all. I mean we are on radio so you cannot see but...  I am at least bright red.  .  That is  - that is for sure.  No.  Maybe sweating you know.  .  I do not know.  It is a lot of life that you bring to that character. And it turns out Bill Hader - we should talk a little bit about Bill Hader because it turns out he is an amazing actor which a lot of folks did not know.  It is so funny how people did not know that. I mean like I knew instantly from watching him on SNL. Like I was like oh this guy can do anything. You know it just - there is so many ideas that are just constantly kind of like tumbling out of him. And him coming from the world of like SNL you know he is kind of one to really just come up with stuff on the spot. And I love that. I love just like thinking and responding. And yeah he throws me some curveballs sometimes. And it is  - it is like very terrifying.  .  But you know because you are just - you have no idea. You kind of just have to reach into the void. And that is when being well-versed in your character where you kind of just like put on that skin and then you just live in it and you respond as it. But yeah it is crazy. It is very terrifying.  So does it come naturally for you how to respond as NoHo Hank?  It is yeah. I mean I think it took - because I fortunately had like a few months to build this character from the ground up and you know went to acting school for all that stuff. So it was like I was you know incorporating all of these different you know techniques like animal techniques where you kind of make your character based on an animal and then like build it back. And you know just - I built like a whole life for this guy. And so I am really attached to him.  I feel like I have seen some of those animal exercises...  Yes.  ...From Custanal .  Were - yes. Yeah yeah yeah.  .  Oh absolutely. That is...  So actually on the show there is an actors' studio . And...  Oh for sure. I know that. I know that world very well. Absolutely.   So it is kind of a parody of that if you know the world.  Yes.  Is that right? OK.  Oh totally. Totally. I mean and what is cool too is that like you know it is really fun to kind of like laugh at that world because it is so ridiculous. But it also makes sense that Barry is so drawn in to kind of that world because you know if - anyone's who is taken an acting class realizes that wow this is like a real family. It is a real community. You actually feel like you are part of something. And those bonds that you create it is - you know it is incredible.  And it occurs to me that some acting requires elements of therapy. There is talk about kind of Barry opening his wound and how you are supposed to open your wounds...  Yes.  ...In acting to kind of get closer to a character.  Yeah. I mean it is - you know acting's all about relatability and finding empathy for a character which is essentially kind of you are finding empathy with a part of yourself which is a part of a character that was written by someone else which was essentially kind of a part of them as well because it was a voice in their head they wrote down. And then so you are kind of you know experiencing empathy through a character through this person who wrote the character with another actor who is doing the exact same thing with their character. So you know I could probably draw you a diagram.  It would probably make it easier.  This is getting very meta.  Very meta.  .  Exactly. I know. But - yeah. But getting back to your question I think you know you kind of do have to go - go deep.   Time for a break. When we come back how Anthony grappled with a condition that he was told would derail his acting career. We will be right back.   For our audience that cannot see you you have a certain look.  I do.  No hair no eyebrows no eyelashes.  Yeah.  But you did not come to Hollywood with this appearance.  No.  Tell us about your journey and what happened.  Yeah. So I have alopecia. That is an autoimmune condition. I do not like to say disease because I do not feel like I am diseased. So it is a condition. And it is like your immune system is confused. So it attacks the hair follicles and so your hair falls out. And I - you know I had it since I was 3 years old and it would just kind of affect whenever I would just have like patches that would fall out. And then at a certain point it progressed you know to kind of all of my hair falling out. And when I started acting I just had spots. And so I went into this industry just being like I can keep a lid on this thing. No one has to know about it. I can just cover it up. It will be fine. And it was really stressful because when it did start to kind of come out it was actually during a series that I was on.  Wow.  And I lost like half my hair about halfway through and both eyebrows and most of my eyelashes. So we were just trying to kind of make me look how I used to look you know when I first started the series. And especially in an industry that is so much about image I was so terrified that people were going to find out and that people are going to judge me and that people were going to reject me. And like lo and behold that is exactly what happened. I mean people were just pretty mean. And they were like you are never going to work again. You are not as attractive anymore. You are just - you know you are never going to get hired. I am so sorry. You should probably think about something else to do.  Wow.  And on the one hand I mean it is - sure it is terrifying to kind of hear someone say the thing that you are most afraid of you know? But on the other hand it is kind of liberating too because once you hear it said out loud you are like oh well it is finally been said and I am still here. And it - yeah it was a process of real self-acceptance and - because you know I would not have been able to kind of become what I am today if I did not kind of accept myself completely. So you know unpacking all that shame and stuff took a lot of time but it really just requires you standing in your own truth. Even if you cannot see like the light at the end of the tunnel you just have to be in your own corner.  How did this change your career path? I mean obviously you are - you play two villains now.  Right.  So I imagine you kind of get typecast as villains.  Yeah.  But did it change your offers in any way? Obviously your career has really taken off with Barry but...  Yeah. Oh it sure has. I mean I had an idea that you know - I mean the bald guy just kind of plays the villain. Like that is just one of those tropes. But I think playing the villain is in a lot of ways way more fun than playing the hero. There is a lot more lessons in playing the villain than there is in playing the hero. I mean the villain is essentially just kind of like a warped version of the hero you know? They are think that - they think that they are kind of doing what is right in their mind. But you know...  But playing a villain can easily become kind of cartoonish.  Yes.  So how do you play a villain well?  Well I think it is - I mean any villain has to be kind of rooted in humanity you know? Playing a villain well I think is just about understanding pain. And villains are essentially just living in a state of pain in which they cannot really get out of or escape it. And so they are kind of responding with cruelty but they - that is - it is how the world has treated them. So it is like can you blame them? Yes. Yeah you can probably blame them. Absolutely. But  you know...   Because there is a lot of torture and death and violence along the way.  Right. Because - yeah it is like no never mind kids. Do not - no do not empathize with the villain. But no there is certainly a lot of lessons though that you can learn from them.  I was telling one of the coworkers yesterday NoHo Hank is coming in tomorrow.  .  And then folks who did not know who you - who the character was I said he is the bad guy on Barry. And one of my coworkers goes NoHo Hank is not a bad guy. Which is to say ...  Right. Right.  ...That despite all the death and destruction there is a heart there.  Yeah I think so. I mean Hank you know for all he is just kind of a happy-go-lucky guy this season you see some new shades of him. And I think part of that is just because of the situation he is in. It is a very pressurized situation. He is kind of backed into a corner and the darkness definitely comes out.  But it seems like you have this understanding that people are complex. And people are not bad but our behaviors are bad or our reactions can be bad.  Yeah. It is when things kind of compound and life can just get to you. And it is - you know everyone has their own story of where they are coming from and like...  Sure.  ...You know what they have going on and what they have on their plate. And it is a - it is an important exercise too to just be like OK this person's not being very nice to me. And rarely do we have the wherewithal to be like OK this person at the DMV is like...  .  ...Being awful to me. I actually love the women at the DMV. I mean everyone at the DMV is great. I just you know...  This is a big shout-out to the women.  This is a huge shout-out to the women at the DMV.  At California DMVs.  I love them. Seriously I went there on my birthday. It was great.  Like I had to go there on my birthday for my driver's license. They were so sweet.  .  Yeah. So you know when you - when someone's kind of going through something difficult it is hard to take a step back and actually just say oh OK. This person might be dealing with something really really hard so maybe I will give them a break and not react you know negatively to them if they are treating me negatively. But it is hard you know?  Yeah.  Usually it just kind of like spreads like wildfire.  Right because you are reactive then I am reactive.  And then you take that and you kind of - you know whatever. Your barista like makes a mistake on your name. You are just like whoa my name's not...  I just go with Benji .  Yeah .  Just always pick Benji at Starbucks.  Benji right.  Nobody else is ever a Benji.  Right yes.  You just have to remember that that is your Starbucks name.  Yes.  Because when they call it and you do not respond...  And you do not respond then you are in trouble.  Right it gives it away.  Right. Yes.  And you will lose your coffee.  OK. Benji nice.  Back to Hank real quick. You mentioned that Hank is getting darker in Season Two or we are seeing his darker side. We are seeing his pain more. Will that lead the audience to not root for him as much? Because we are really on Hank's side with Season One.  Well I think the kind of beautiful thing about Hank is he...  .  ...Does not really - I do not know. He is kind of like a goldfish. He - you know he can be one way and then like the next - in the - in five minutes he is like totally fine and coming back to...  No memory.  Yeah he is like no memory. And so he is totally back to just being like a sweet lovable goofball.  OK so we will still love him.  I hope so. I hope so yeah.   Time for one more break. In a minute Anthony's path to LA and how he defines success after his breakout role in Barry.   Let us go back in time a little bit. You grew up outside of Boston.  Yep.  Do you remember catching the acting bug?  Yeah I mean kind of. I started acting when I was a little kid just...  How little were you?  I was like 8 9 years old.  Wow.  But not you know professionally. It was just kind of children's theater. And I was such a shy kid. Like I really had a hard time opening up. I would always wear a hat just like below my brow and no one could really see my eyes. And I was just - spoke very quietly. And it was when I kind of got on stage that I actually felt like I could come out of my shell a little bit. And it was through you know playing characters and dressing up and just kind of being silly that I felt like I could kind of express myself in this way. So it was really cool. I loved - yeah I really loved that.  It is interesting to me though to hear that you were a shy kid who liked acting because typically if you are shy you do not want to put yourself in front of people and perform on stage. So did your parents encourage you to do this to help overcome your shyness or did you find that you liked it after you learned that it helped you?  I think that - I mean my parents were certainly very supportive and...  They had to sign you up for these things. Right.  Yeah they had to sign me up for it. And I think you know I was kind of surprised by it that like I - that I actually liked doing it. I think I was just very scared as a kid. You know I was very worried that I was just going to do - whatever - embarrass myself or something.  You ended up - so from theater as an elementary school student all the way through to college you studied drama at Carnegie Mellon.  Yep.  Do you - how did you get there from the East Coast out here to LA?  Yeah I mean - OK. So did the children's theater thing and then did Shakespeare camp over the summers.  OK.  Yeah Project Shakespeare which is amazing. It is out of New Hampshire now but it was in Boston. And yeah I went to Carnegie Mellon had a blast there. Yeah and once I graduated I actually - you know I had representation immediately. I was very kind of fortunate in that regard. And I worked in New York for a few years doing theater and Law and Order. Did my time on Law and Order.  Had to do Law and Order.  Had to do it. I had to do it.  Who were you on Law and Order?  I was the bad guy obviously.   But you had not - your condition really had not gotten serious by then right? You still were...  Yeah it had not.  You still had hair on your head.  I still had hair. I had actually like very long hair. But I still had...  But you still got cast as a bad guy.  I still got cast as a bad guy exactly. So - yeah. So you know I think starting out in New York was great because I feel like they - you know not a lot of actors will just move to New York to be famous. That is not - you know they move to New York because they are like OK I really want to see if I can do it. Whereas you know Los Angeles people kind of move here a lot of the time to...  To make it.  Well to make it yeah but also to be famous you know and to be a celebrity.  And you see them as two different things.  I think so yes. Yeah I think you know when you are...  Tease that out for me. What is the difference between making it for you and then being famous?  When you are trying to make it I think you are really challenging yourself because you are playing really difficult characters with maybe a lot more challenging material. And to be able to kind of hang in with really seasoned actors with really amazing people and to kind of you know actually work is you know - that is a testament. Whereas I think when someone wants to become a celebrity they care more about you know the red carpet and being a personality. And you know all that stuff is fine but I so prefer just to kind of work and have fun and bring characters to life you know. Nothing wrong with the red carpet - it is fine.  Talk a little bit about that because you found yourself at your first Emmys last year.  I did.  What was that like?  It was nuts. It is huge.  Did you feel like you had made it?  I do not know. It is kind of a strange metric to kind of be like oh I have made it. I have arrived. I can relax now you know? But it is crazy though. It is crazy doing the red carpet scene and having to come up with answers and have that kind of spotlight put on you. But yeah I do not know. I think it is fun.  So you just said that this does not give you a sense of arrival like hey I have arrived. Is there a marker for you a place that you are kind of getting to as you charge up the hill? I imagine you feel like you have not gotten there yet. So what is your next goal?  I do not know. I mean that is actually probably something I should really come to terms with myself.  What are my goals?  Yeah what are my goals? Let us hash it out right now. Do you guys have a notepad?  Yeah.  Well I think...  We got time.  Yeah exactly. I think - you do not ever want to like just be like OK I made it. Now I can coast you know? I feel like that is kind of just giving up. I want to continue to kind of push the envelope. I want to continue to kind of create fun characters and do different things and make dynamic choices.  And I imagine you have established some good relationships with the people that you are working with now that will also stay in the business. So...  Yes.  ...These things kind of become a cycle.  It is yeah. It is so cool. And with each of those things - I mean the bonds that you form in an acting class or you know doing a play or doing a movie or TV series like you know it is like having a family. And then all of a sudden it is like you know when that thing kind of ends you all kind of disperse but you stay really good friends with these people. And then all of a sudden it is like you see them again on another project...  Yeah.  ...In a different kind of costume in a different light after many years or something. And it is really cool to kind of just keep seeing all of your peers you know dipping in and out of your life in a you know in a professional setting.  Did we get to how you ended up coming to LA what shifted in your mind that led you to come out here?  Was it - it was not even like a shift in that...  Temperament.  It was actually just kind of with work. I was like when I get a job that brings me out here I will and that is kind of what happened. It was like my first series and it was actually the series that all my hair started falling out. So yeah it was pretty surreal. That was my first introduction to Los Angeles was being like super stressed and having all my hair fall out.  And it taught you a lot - right? - I imagine. So one question that I have for you about this journey that you have been on and coming out here and then losing all your hair on the big job that you moved out here for...  Yeah.  ...Is what have you learned about yourself? This is a place where - and an industry - where image consciousness is a big deal. Appearance matters. What have you learned about self-acceptance...  I mean...  ...And just being comfortable in your own skin? Because that is something I think we all deal with irrespective of whether we are actors.  Right. Well first of all it is a practice. It is amazing how much we kind of get down on ourselves. And the way that we talk to ourselves it is like you would never talk to anyone like that. And yet we find ourselves talking to - you know to ourselves in a way that is so demoralizing and just belittling and mean. And it is like why do that? You would not treat anyone that way. So kind of envision yourself as your best friend. And yeah that really - I mean it is amazing once you kind of really start to champion yourself that you start to see - you know you start to see the world in a different light and you start to kind of see that oh wow no actually I can do this.  OK. Real quick before we let you go - how do you do the hey man? Will you teach it to me? Because...  Yes yes absolutely. OK. So real quick it is - you want to like deliver a kh  sound with the hey. So hey hey man you know hey.  Kay.  Yeah no that is it. That is it you got it.  Hey Barry.  Yeah. Barry.  Barry.  Barry.  Hey Barry.   Yeah Barry. OK. Barry. Barry is my best friend. Yeah it is - it is funny. You know once I kind of start to get into NoHo Hank it is hard to kind of put him down.  Anthony Carrigan I so enjoyed our conversation.  This was great. Thanks so much.   Thanks so much to Anthony Carrigan. Barry Season 2 is on Sunday nights on HBO. Listeners I am in the host chair again this week for our weekly wrap on Friday. If you want to be part of that episode please do not forget to share the best thing that is happened to you all week. To do that record yourself and email the audio file to the show at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. You might hear it in Friday's episode. Until then I am Elise Hu. Thanks for listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.    For the better of your soul. We got to change our love. Change our love. We got to change for the world. Change for the world. I got to give you my love. 