  Film critic David Edelstein looks at two new movies opening today the scifi thriller Source Code and a haunted house horror flick Insidious. Here are his reviews.  As a critic I have been accused of giving away plot turns which I try not to do. I know how much fun it is to be surprised by where a movie goes which is why I refuse to watch coming attractions. But sometimes even spelling out the premise of a movie is a kind of spoiler. The less you know about two new popcorn movies Source Code and Insidious the better Some of the air goes out when at last you get your bearings. Source Code is a thriller  that you know from the poster  and it is shot and edited for maximum discombobulation. The protagonist played by Jake Gyllenhaal is as disoriented as we are. He wakes up from a nap on what appears to be a Chicago commuter train and is either a yuppie named Sean or an Afghan based soldier named Colter. He is sitting opposite a lovely stranger played by Michelle Monaghan who appears to know him. Director Duncan Jones made a scifi picture called Moon that was both twisty and poignant and the tone is similar in Source Code. Both films seem inspired by Philip K. Dick's timebending mindbending paranoid thrillers in which the government has the means to take away your memories or give you false ones  to put your very identity in doubt. There is a touch here too of the great Bill Murray comedy Groundhog Day in which a man experiences over and over a fixed segment of time gathering new information with each loop. Eventually Gyllenhaal's SeanormaybeColter trusts the woman sitting opposite him enough to take her into his confidence.    How well do you know me?   Not that well apparently.   Do you know me well enough that if it gets inevitably a little too strange and it was maybe even a little bit dangerous I told you to trust me anyway that you could do that?   No.   Wow. That was honest. You are beautiful you are kind and you are painfully honest.   Who are you? What did you do with Sean Fentress?   If you knew me...  And Gyllenhaal and Monaghan have wonderful chemistry  he with his huge unblinking baby blues and she with her irrepressible glow. You really want them to be together even if they have only just met. When the revelations eventually come they are preposterous and the denouement is both cornball and a cheat  but Source Code is so dazzlingly staged and shot and has so much emotional heft that it never loses that exhilarating jitter. The chiller Insidious alas does lose a lot in the final half hour but until then it is very unnerving. It is the work of the director James Wan and writer Leigh Whannell who gave the world the tortureporn Saw franchise and have now joined forces with the producers of the lowtech hauntedhouse Paranormal Activity franchise. In Insidious they are going for that Paranormal Activity feel  a lot of bumps and thumps and entities halfglimpsed  but with glossier production values and louder music. Early on a couple played by Patrick Wilson and Rose Byrne hears the cries of their little boy Dalton who has wandered into the attic of their new old house.      Dalton. Honey where are you?   Stay here. Foster stay with your sister.    Dalton?   Dalton?   Dalton?    Hey?   What?   Hey? Hey hey hey. Hey.   What happened?   What? Did you fall? Did you fall from the ladder? Did you fall down.   Yeah.   Are you okay?   What are you doing climbing the ladder?   Honey.   All right. Are you okay? What hurts? What hurts?   My leg.   All right. Can you move it? Can you move your leg? Is that okay?   Yeah.   Okay. Oh man. What happened to your head. Oh gosh.   Scraped it.   Okay.   Honey you cannot come up here okay? Do not explore anymore. It is very dangerous okay it is off limits now.  That is one of the scariest scenes in Insidious. We do not know what happened to Dalton in that attic. And when he suddenly goes into a coma we do not know if he is possessed or if his spirit is now far away in some nightmarish other realm. I am a sucker for those bumps in the night and flickering lights and simple noeffects scenes like the one in which Byrne locks the front door checks another room and returns to see that front door wide open. But then a trio of ghost hunters arrives and with them an explanation for what is happening. And then come the splashy special effects reminiscent of Poltergeist and a feeling of deja vu beenthere beenbombardedbythat. People complain about critics giving spoilers but what about movies that tell you too much too soon and spoil themselves?  David Edelstein is one critic for New York magazine. You can join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter at nprfreshair. And you can download Podcasts of our show at freshair.npr.org. For Terry Gross I am David Bianculli.   