  This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross.   My guest Alan Cumming is starring in the new Broadway revival of the musical Cabaret.     Willkommen bienvenue welcome. Fremde etranger stranger. Gluklich zu sehen je suis enchante happy to see you bleibe reste stay. Willkommen bienvenue welcome in Cabaret au Cabaret to Cabaret. Meine damen und herren mesdames et messieurs ladies and gentlemen...  When I saw Alan Cumming perform this song on the Tonys in 1998 I thought I have to see this production but I never did. I am so happy I got to see it this time around. Cumming has starred in Cabaret three times a 1993 London production; the 1998 Broadway revival for which he won a Tony we just heard him on that cast recording; and the new revival that opened last week. He plays the emcee in a Berlin nightclub of debauchery called the Kit Kat Klub in 1929 and 1930 as the Nazis are slowly emerging and no one yet knows how powerful they will become. Only some people sense the danger. The role of the emcee was originated by Joel Grey who starred in the original 1966 Broadway production as well as the 1972 movie. Each of the productions with Cumming was directed by Sam Mendes. Rob Marshall choreographed both American productions and also codirected the new one. Let us hear how Alan Cumming sounds in the new production by the Roundabout Theatre Company the same company that produced the 1998 Tony Awardwinning production.   Alan Cumming welcome back to FRESH AIR. And congratulations you are so wonderful in the show it is so terrific.  Thank you Terry.  Thank you thank you for coming. You have said I think that this revival was your birthday present to yourself. What does that mean? Did you initiate the idea of reviving it again?  No no I did not but it was Sam Mendes who called me up a few years ago and  I mean there is been sort of various attempts to redo it or to put it on since it ended. I mean I finished  I did it a for a year from '98 to '99 and it actually finished I think in 2004 on Broadway. But anyway so a few years ago Sam said you know I think it is a good time kind of the rights are going to be up and so therefore someone else will do it and you know maybe  and the estate wants us to do our production again. And I just sort of thought it would be  and the thing about the birthday is that I am 49 and so I will be 50 in January January 27th next year and so in my 50th year I am singing and dancing on  in a Broadway musical and I am dancing a kick line with you know girls who are 24. And so that was kind of the birthday present to myself that I would be hitting 50 doing things that I could not do when I was you know 25.  Oh that is nice. You could not kick like that or you just did not have the opportunity?   Oh my God. I was so out of shape and unfit when I was 25. And I kind of  and I think even when I did it 15 years ago I was not as fit as I am now.  So why do you love doing the role?  Well I mean just on a daytoday  going to work and doing that it is such fun. It is you know so kind of energetic and it just takes up every single element of being an actor. It is  your body is used to its capacity both you know physically vocally and emotionally as well. But also in a kind of larger way I think it is a really important show in that the reason it is done again  the reason we are doing it again is that it has something to say. You know it is about the rise of Nazism and the fact that if you are not incredibly vigilant prescient of some kind it can slowly creep up and take over. And I think that the way that the show is like fun and oh it is sexy and hilarious and  and then you slowly  it slowly goes dark you as an audience member have kind of become complicit in that and that sort of mirrors the way that you see Nazism creeping in and people think oh it will be fine do not worry nothing's  you know it will go away. And then slowly it does not and it is too late.  I would like you to describe your character physically; what you are wearing what your hair looks like.  Ha. Well initially I have jet black hair right now which is not natural Terry I will confess.   And so I have jet black hair. So I have you know late 1920s kind of floppy on top short at the back and the sides. And the first costume I wear is I wear a leather coat but I shortly take that off and I have got this  I have kind of like a black dinner suit  trousers but they are cut at the knees a pair of big combat boots and this kind of strappy thing kind of like suspenders you know almost like I am topless but I have got a suspender thing with a little bowtie at my chest at my  what do you call that bit in the middle? The sternum. And then it is almost like a cantilever system to hike up my manhood if you will.  Yes your manhood is kind of like italicized in the...   It is in bold.  It is in bold letters yes.  It is sort of like a wonder bra for the male junk.  What is your take on the host the emcee that you play and the club the Kit Kat Klub that you are in? Do you have a backstory for him in your mind?  I will tell you my sort of very slim backstory is he was a rent boy a boy from the streets of Berlin who then kind of you know started working this club and was kind of funny and so he got kind of  as he got a bit older he got a job and the Kit Kat Klub is basically you know a den of iniquity. It is got a little show but there is kind of you know sex going on there is drugs going on. It is a very lowlife kind of place. So that is basically all my story for this man. He used to be  and he has a background as a sex worker who then becomes  he can sing a bit. And I do not know his name I do not know where  you know I actually do not think that is important. I do not worry about that because there is a larger broader more  overreaching thing about this character. He is kind of like this  he guides the audience. He is like a puppeteer almost or a  sort of a pied piper if you like who takes the audience on this journey kind of tells them what to think at certain times guides them into certain things and then ultimately because he is got their trust can betray that trust or also make them worry for him and for what is going on in the show. So it is almost like sort of a Brechtian character of standing outside the story and commenting on it as it is happening.  You have portrayed this character in three separate versions of this Sam Mendes production; first when you were 28 years old in 1993 then when you were 33 years old in 1998 and now when you are 49 years old in 2014. And...  And next time.  And I have seen the new production and I have seen excerpts of both of the other productions and there is things that are very similar. One of the differences is that you know you have gotten older. And I think that changes the character. You know the rentboyturnedemcee in this kind of seedy club at age 28 is different from that same character at age 49 because that character has not made it out of that club.   He is still there at age 49. So in that sense he becomes kind of even darker.  I think that is absolutely true. I think this production of the production is darker partly because I am older and because this sort of sex element of the show the sensationalist  the thing that in 1998 when we came to America was so shocking and took up so much of people's perception of the whole show was this you know depiction of sexual freedom and hedonism and gay sex and bisexuality and all sorts of things. That I think in a way took over a little too much. And now I think you know partly because of that production but partly because the world has changed that is still an element it is still fun it is still very much part of what the story's about but it does not overshadow everything. And also it has allowed the kind of darkness to come out a little bit more.  You know in speaking about the sexuality of this production it is sexualized in a different way than say the movie Cabaret which I think a lot of people are familiar with. In the movie version of Cabaret Joel Grey starred in the role of the emcee or the host and I think he played it kind of  he is great in it and I think he played it kind of like a ringmaster in a circus of sexual deviance. And I think deviants is that they would have been called at the time. I am trying to use a word from the period. And you play it like you are sexually seducing us into your kind of debauched world.    And I feel like  I mean I do feel that. I feel like I am saying you know the gesture I do at the very beginning of the show is my finger and going come here come here come here and that is I think a sort of overriding metaphor for what I think that character does. And he is going come on come on you know you want to and you know it is going to be fun. And then of course and the audience does want to and they do come. And then of course that is when they become complicit in the whole horror.  If you are just joining us my guest is Alan Cumming who is now starring in the revival of the revival of Cabaret.   Based on a revival.  Based on a revival exactly. And this is at the Roundabout Theatre at Studio 54 in New York. Let us take a short break and then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is Alan Cumming who is now starring in the Roundabout Theatre revival of Cabaret and he was in the original production of this revival in 1993. He was in another revival of it in 1998. And now he is in this revival. They were all directed by Sam Mendes with choreography by Rob Marshall. So the character that you play in Cabaret is very sexual ambiguous I mean in terms of sexual orientation  gay bisexual  who knows?   Into everything is I think  whatever he wants it.  Yeah.  You came out as bisexual I think the same year that Cabaret was revived in the United States in 1998 with you starring in it. And you have been married for how long to  you have a husband.  I have a husband. I have been married to him for  hang on since 2007 so seven years.  So did you time coming out with the production of Cabaret?  It was all a huge press campaign.   It was all a massive Machiavellian plot.  Clever.   No I am...  That is the point of sexuality actually.   Power. It kind of is. What I think you are getting at I will give you a little press here that I hope will answer your question. I have always felt I was bisexual. I used to be married to a woman. Before that I would had a relationship with a man. I then had another relationship with a woman and then since then I have had you know relationships with men. So I still would define myself as bisexual partly because that is what I feel but also because I think it is important to  I think that sexuality in this country especially is seen as a very black and white thing and I think we should encourage the gray. You know I mean I do not kind of go around in my life thinking oh my God I am going to have to have sex with a woman soon because I said I was bisexual.   I just  that is what I feel inside. It is like saying you are straight or you are gay or you are bi  it is just what you are. And whatever you are doing in your life almost  it runs obviously parallel but it is kind of secondary to how you are inside. And so that is how I have always felt and I still do even though you know I am very happily married to a really amazing man and I wish to be so for the rest of my life. The other thing is that the coming out thing in 1998 when I came to America there was such a huge explosion of interest in the show and in me and I had never  I had not really  you know I was kind of wellknown in Britain but I had not really ever discussed my sexuality in a public way like that. And because of playing this character and I know all the kind of  it is like you know Puritanical shockwaves it was sending around America a lot of people were just constantly constantly constantly asking me about it. And so I decided to take matters into my own hand and I did an interview and a cover story for Out magazine and I thought that was a good forum for it to be discussed calmly and adultly and so I did that. So it was kind of as a result of all the speculation and  but it was really funny. I remember people saying so  first question in an interview for some like weighty tome would be So are you gay?   And I would go Why do you fancy me? And then no just someone in my office was asking. And I would say oh really well. You know I thought really is that the most important thing? And sometimes it is the most important thing because people cannot  if people do not have a black and white answer they cannot get beyond that. And so you have to kind of  I think you have just to get it out the way and that is what I did. And it was not like I  it is one of those things. When you become famous and people are more interested in your personal life often than your work it is a weird thing because you think oh I seem to be sleeping with more boys now. Should I do a press release?   You know it is a really difficult one to know when to announce.  Were you afraid that if you did not say something yourself that you would be outed in a really nasty way by somebody trying to hurt you and not realizing  it is not really even like it is a bad thing but people reveal secrets in nasty ways.  Yeah I thought that I was actually  one of the others reasons I was having a relationship with a man for the first time I mean well aside from like someone at college. I was living with a man for the first time and I was just really worried that he was going to  he and his family and my family were going to be harassed by the British press actually. So  because I had been harassed in the previous relationship I would had with a woman. You know I saw some really nasty things happening and so I just wanted to avoid that again.  So since you were out in 1998 when you first revived Cabaret in America did it change your performance at all? Did it release something within you to be kind of publicly out as gay or bisexual because the character seems to be gay or bisexual and is very  it is a very sexual dance that you do in the show.  I mean I felt very  I mean I think when I came to New York I felt more comfortable as a person. I definitely felt more comfortable with where I was in my life and the sexuality thing being a part of that and just  actually when I did it in 1993 I was crazy. So that was quite for the character as well. But there was not  it was more sensual when it came to New York definitely and I think that is partly to do with Rob Marshall's input into the choreography. So I definitely felt as a person and as a man and as an actor as a sort of performer in general much more open and I think that really worked.  You said that in the 1993 British production of Cabaret at the time that you were crazy. What did you mean by that?  I was crazy. I was  I actually had a nervous breakdown shortly after that.  Oh.  Yeah so I was pretty nuts. I had just played Hamlet. I was exhausted. I was in the process of breaking up with my wife. I was  just a lot of things it was like the perfect storm of horror and yeah it was a really bad time for me. And I  and it was actually the start of a huge series of events in my family and things about stuff that had happened in my childhood so that it was just you know...  Did you say bad stuff that happened in your childhood?  Yeah yeah about my father and things like that which I am detailing in my forthcoming memoir. But it was just you know it was a really  I mean it kind of was interesting because the role was very complex and I mean certainly Hamlet is very complex and dark and deep. And then of course coming to do the emcee after that was really  but I was  I was you know I was not in a healthy place. I was in a weird place and I think that was in a way kind of going and doing that show every night was really good for me. It kind of took me out of my depression a bit. But you know I was not  I had a sort of eating disorder. It was terrible. And then shortly after that as I say I kind of just really had to go away and you know let things have their course and kind of have a bit of a breakdown.  I look forward to reading about that in your memoir which is published I think in October.  Yes it is available October 7.  Yeah and it is called Not My Father's Son.  Yeah yeah.  So let me just ask you one other question about sexual orientation. You...  You are bashing on at this one Terry.  No no here's the question. You described yourself as bisexual. Does that make some people angry like no you have to decide. You are really gay are not you? Or do you know what I mean? People want...yeah.  Yes I think it does. I mean I think there is that  I mean I think it is slightly  I mean and sometimes I just say I am gay sometimes I  you know if I am having a conversation with an adult like you an intelligent person like you I try and talk about it in this way and I explain why I sort of define myself in that way. But I  if I am called gay or queer or something all the time I am perfectly happy with that. But when I have my druthers that is how I would describe it. I mean I think the idea that people say oh you are just really gay you are afraid to say it that does not apply in my case. Hi I am Alan Cumming I am gay. There you go.   That  really for me I think I want to push the idea that you know bisexuality is not something that is just a transitionary state to becoming homosexual or you know that you help out when they are busy sort of thing.   I am glad you got that. Not many Americans get that Terry.  Alan Cumming will be back in the second half of the show. He is starring in the new Broadway revival of Cabaret produced by the Roundabout Theatre Company. Here he is on the 1998 cast recording. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Alan Cumming. He is starring in the new revival of Cabaret as the emcee of the Kit Kat Klub a decadent nightclub in Berlin in 1929 and 1930 as the Nazis are beginning to gain power. It is Cumming's third time in that role. He also starred in the 1993 London revival and the 1998 Broadway production by the Roundabout Theatre Company which also produced the new revival of the musical. His other recent credits include costarring on The Good Wife as Eli Gold and on Web Therapy as Austin Clark hosting Masterpiece Mystery and starring in the film Any Day Now. Here's Alan Cumming performing the song Money from the 1998 cast recording of Cabaret.   That is Alan Cumming singing Money from the 1998 cast recording of Cabaret. And he is starring in a new revival of it. I really do love the way you sing.  Thank you.  And I want to hear how you prepared to sing for this role. But before we talk about that I want to play you something that John Kander had to say. I interviewed John Kander who wrote the music Fred Ebb wrote the lyrics for Cabaret. And I asked him what he did before composing the music for Cabaret and what he listened to. And here's what he told me.  For Cabaret I listened to a lot of German jazz and vaudeville music also the late '20s and very early '30s and then promptly forgot about it. It sounds like a very kind of crude way of doing research but it works for me. You listen and you listen and you listen and then put it away and do not think about it anymore. And I have this absolute belief that the styles of the music that you have been listening to seep into your unconscious and come out in your own language.  And that was John Kander on FRESH AIR in 2003. And my guest is Alan Cumming who is starring in the new revival of Cabaret. So John Kander said that you know he listened to all this music and then just let it seep in as opposed to actually thinking about it when he was composing.  Yeah.  What did you listen to? And did you have that attitude too that it would just naturally seep in?  I am a big believer in seepage.   I am. I really am. The first time around I and this time again you know I read a lot of stuff about the Weimar of cabarets and just generally the history of that time. What was great when we did it in London the first time was that Stephen Spender who was one of the chums of Christopher Isherwood and W. H. Auden and those boys who where you know in Berlin at that time he was still alive then. He came into rehearsal to ask and to sort of you know talk to us and we got to ask him questions. So that was amazing that someone who was actually there. And I said  it was so funny because they said you know just be very respectful do not you know stay off the whole sex thing blah blah blah. So we were asking questions and I could tell we were getting along. And I said So Stephen you boys from Oxbridge you did not really go across there to kind of chronicle the surge of fascism and the change of the sort. You really went in there to get shagged did not you? You just went to get boys.   And he was like yes of course we did. Yes of course. And I just I love the idea that this kind of amazing period of history has been chronicled so amazingly by Christopher Isherwood and many other people but in this case by him was actually you know a happy accident because they really just went there. They were from England you know puritanical shameful England. And they went to Berlin where you could have sex with people all the time and go to dirty bars and no one would know. So that was a key for me into getting into this role and to understanding what it was like in that time. And I think well I asked a lot of questions about what the clubs were like. And what I loved is that actually Christopher Isherwood wrote another book called Christopher and His Kind which is the it is an autobiography that kind of is the own sanitized version of the two books Goodbye to Berlin and oh Mr. Norris Changes Trains is the name in Europe. I cannot remember what you call it in America but the two books that Cabaret is based on. And the autobiography is like you know the real story of what happened but even then he is still not able to be fully open and present so he writes in the third person. And I thought that was fascinating too that he talks about Christopher went into the bar and looked at the boy and he bid him 10 marks and blah blah blah. But what I find really amazing and very different about that and about understanding all of this is that when you would have sex with the boy they would become your friend. They would kind of it would be sort of a nobility to it that they would become like in the way that Ernst says to Cliff in Cabaret you know we are now friends we have something that is exchanged between us. And it is not necessarily a sexual thing but in this case with these boys it was. And I think that is something we just do not comprehend in certainly in America and not in Britain so much this idea of the camaraderie that comes with sex of casual sex. So that I thought was really fascinating too so that you can be joyful and have no shame about just a casual encounter and you can actually be friends with that person afterwards.  My guest is Alan Cumming. He is starring in the new Broadway revival of Cabaret. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Alan Cumming and he is now starring in a revival of Cabaret at the Roundabout Theatre Studio 54 in New York. So you have met and performed with Liza Minnelli.  Yes. Liza.  What did she mean to you before you met her?  I mean it is hard to  it is almost like she was like a movie star from a long long time ago like the kind of like a silent movie star or something. She had that kind of there is a mist swirling around her. And I would seen the movie of Cabaret and I just it was more like a lot of the thing  it is hard to describe it. It is more like I was aware of the effect the effect she had on the world and on people rather than knowing that much about her. You see what I mean?  Mmhmm.  It was an  till I was 30 I did not really I have never been to America. I you know was aware of American culture and things in Britain but I did not ever sort of engage in it fully because I do not know why I just did not. And then of course when I met Liza she came into my dressing room with Fred Ebb. And I was in this tiny dressing room it was like kind of size of a shoebox and she came in and gave me a hug and said Alan I want to be your friend forever which is such a darling thing to say. And then I saw Fred I went oh Fred. And when I finish talking to Fred I realized that Liza had pushed herself against the wall and had her face in my wet towel which was hanging on a hook on the wall in order for me 'ecause the room was so small in order for me to talk to Fred.   And I went oh Liza you are squashed into my towel. And she is like Alan I would be squashed into your towel forever for you. She just...   She is just a most lovely hilarious person. And so I have been doing these concerts with her and stuff and just I  now I just think lovely Liza and we have a real laugh. And I think we just go on  I do not know why  we just have a really great understanding of each other. And...  Did she give you any advice about Cabaret?  Well I cannot really say it is on the radio.   That sounds good.  It is more just a kind of  like when she came to see Macbeth  the Macbeth I did last summer  or last two summers  she said this thing which is I really great  I actually really love it. I love this saying. I will just do I will paraphrase it. But she says well she you know just before I was about to go on I was really terrified. She went Darling take no prisoners and F  bleep  the wounded.   And I think that is great. I mean obviously not literally. But as a go get 'em and just you know do not let anything hold you back.  Right.  It is a great sort of way of thinking about performing and I am always a big I am a big believer in that you just have to dive off the cliff and so is Liza.  So here's a very intellectual question I wanted to ask you. You will appreciate the depth of this.   In a lot of your choreography in Cabaret your arms are raised over your head. You did not shave under your arms. I do not know what the protocol is for men now. Like men defoliate their chests like you know for movies.  Oh yes.  So I do not know what the story is supposed to be for under your arms. I worked really hard on that question.  Terry Gross. Terry Gross I am appalled.   Well you notice the girls do not shave under their arms either. You notice that?  No I did not notice that. Oh no I did not notice that.  Yeah. The girls have got to have hairy armpits  that is part of the you know the down and dirty thing of the club. I have extensive hair under my arms. I am aware of that. I have  it is actually annoying because I always wanted to...  I have seen more. It is really not that  yeah. Go ahead.   Yeah. But it is not  I mean I am not a hairy person. I have longed to have a hairy chest I mean I have. I have a little kind of tuft in my sternum. Gosh I said sternum twice in the sense that I do not think I have said sternum for years before this. But I have a little tuft there and that I have got odd ones across my chest. And I have always  I remember when my dad got a hairy chest I remember like I was old enough to think oh he suddenly got hairy chest. He was probably in his 30s or something and I have I am now nearly in my 50s and I  it has not happened. But I seem to have all my hair in my armpits and actually it seems to cause great consternation to people. I did a thing for the Scottish Independence campaign. I did a photo with it on Twitter and the hashtag is Go For It Scotland. It is a thing to encourage people you know who are not able to vote in the independence referendum to sort of just show their support. So I started this thing I was holding sign up that said Go For It Scotland. Then you saw my armpit hair and this sleeveless thing on. God more people talk about my armpit hair here than about the actual issue of independence...   ...which kind of defeated the purpose a wee bit. But I do not know. I just I trim them sometimes but I actually really  just as a sort of a side point if you are going to you know ask a silly question I am going to say a thing about it. I think this obsession we have in our culture with shaving  taking away body hair like on men and women  I think it is really dangerous and sort of like wanting to infantilize yourself and wanting to kind of you know make something sexy that is not adult. It is more sort of prepubescent and I think that is really weird and dangerous do not you?  I do actually.  Thank you.  Thank you for saying that.   You are welcome.  Well Alan Cumming since so many of our listeners also know you from The Good Wife I thought we should talk about that a little bit...  Yeah.  ...and maybe hear a scene featuring you as Eli Gold. So the scene is from episode 15 of season one. Your character Eli Gold is called in to help Chris Noth's character Peter Florrick make a political comeback. And Florrick has just gotten out of jail on corruption charges and is under house arrest. He is wearing an ankle bracelet but he hopes to be vindicated and to run again for Cook County state attorney. And the scene if come to Florrick's home to meet him for the first time. Two of Florrick's consultants are there and they have a couple of photos that they want you look at. You are all gathered in the kitchen and the beeping sounds that we hear quietly in the background are coming from the dishwasher.    That was a scene from The Good Wife with my guest Alan Cumming as the operative Eli Gold. Was this tough talking operative an unusual role for you?  Yes. I mean I think everyone was shocked when I was cast in that role including myself. And also I did not really want to do it. I was sort of like what? Because you know I was not asked to come and do it for seasons and seasons. I was asked to do one episode. And I was like pfft. You know what the hell. I did not understand it. I was like who is this person? What is going on? The only thing I knew about this show was that Juliana  I saw Juliana at a bus stop. And I remember...  You mean on a poster on a bus stop?  Yeah. Not literally. I mean she was literally on a bus stop. No. That would weird. Juliana just sitting on top of a bus stop.   Anyway it is funny. My manager and my agent you have all these people who are working for you and working with you and then sometimes you are like god they get paid so much money; what the hell do they do? And actually they said to me do this. Do this character. Do this episode. And look imagine if I had followed my own advice. I would not have done this at all and really great thing in my life would not have happened. So that is you know sometimes they are worth it.  And your character's changed a lot. 