We lost another great one. John Prine died this week at the age of 73 from complications from COVID-19. He leaves a big hole. Growing up he told me I loved having buddies and I loved time alone. But when he became a father he told me It brought my feet right to the ground. It just made me feel so much more comfortable in the world. And when I asked him about the song off his latest album...When I Get to Heaven he told me  it wasnt about dying It started as a little song hed sing to himself when he was making a cocktail at happy hour...and hed start thinking about cigarettes which hed long-ago quit after bouts with cancer. He told me I thought where can I smoke a cigarette? And I thought heaven. There couldnt be any cancer in heaven. Why would people want to go there if there was cancer? Lets listen back together to that episode and we send our condolences to his family his many friends and all the people who have found meaning and comfort in his music.  I get people to actually stop me on the street now going Who are you? Dont I know you? I mean they dont say Hey youre John Prine! They want me to tell them who I am.  What do you say?  I go No!    No Im not him.  This is Death Sex and Money.  The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot .and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. John Prine is 71 years old and right now having the best album sales of his career His new record is called The Tree of Forgiveness...We talked in New York just as it was coming out.  Last night we ate at a really swanky restaurant here in New York City. And Im a meat and potatoes guy but they served me with something that looked like a baby hedgehog with liverwurst inside of it. But it was pretty darn good and pretty expensive too. MUSIC - Knocking on Your Screen Door I as not got nobody Hangin' round my doorstep As not got no loose change Just a hangin' round my jeans Johns been in the music business for 47 years. Hes never taken more than a year off from touring and when we talked he was getting ready for a big sold-out show in New York.  I just had a knee replacement exactly six weeks ago.  Really?  I threw my cane away three days ago. And Im going to play Radio City on Friday night and hopefully dance off the stage. John is renowned for the way he can put together a song. Bob Dylan called him one of his favorite songwriters Johnny Cash said he was a source of inspiration. Ive loved John Prine a long time....I sang his songs around campfires when I was growing up in West Virginia. MUSIC - PARADISE When I was a child my family would travel Down to Western Kentucky where my parents were born. This song is called Paradise off his first album from 1971. And daddy will not you take me back to Muhlenberg County Down by the Green River where Paradise lay Well I am sorry my son but you are too late in asking Mister Peabody's coal train has hauled it away Johns parents were from western Kentucky but he grew up in a suburb of Chicago.Thats where he started out playing open mics...Kris Kristofferson heard him and helped him get a record deal. But until then he was making money delivering mail.  I was a mailman out there braving the elements between bees wasps and dogs. I mean it was jungle out there. It drove me to songwriting.  And going back to 1971 when your first album came out its after you had this incredible breakthrough success through the 70s....what was that time like?  It was just a flash. It all was airports and sound checks and meeting people that felt really close to you because of yourthat was a tough one for me to get over. People felt really close to me because of my song lyrics. And Id always go Wait a second who are you? MUSIC- Speed of the Sound of Loneliness You come home late and you come home early You come on big when you are feeling small You come home straight and you come home curly Sometimes you do not come home at all  It was like I was writing about things private to me and dear to me. And to have people know me before they shook my hand was odd to me. I had to kind of get over that. And people they were being sincere. They were introduced to me through my records and in quite a few situations people would pass my songs overa lot of people got to know my songs through a good friend or through their mother or father whod introduce it to them. Some people tell me that the car trip they would take with their parents were the only time they felt like a family and I would be the soundtrack. And thats pretty neat. Its better to get known for your music that way then somebody taking the advertisements over the radio for you.  When you started your record company  Yeah.  Why did you do that?  It was partly because I moved to Nashville and I really had nothing against the people at the major labels. They were frustrated trying to market me and I was frustrated from them being frustrated. I just figured Im going to start my own label and just service people that come to see me. Thats all I was trying to do. At first it was by mail order. People sent in checks before I wrote the songs. They said I dont care what your next records called heres 15 send it to me. And the record was paid for before I went into a studio. Thats unheard of.  Who taught you how to manage your money?  Nobody apparently! I mean if I write a song that I think is great? I spend the money then! I may not record the song for five years! You know everything I spendask my wifeI mean everything that I spend is my imaginary bank. You know they let me have an account. I call it my Scrooge McDuck account I picture myself just climbing in the vault and rolling around in the money. But its all money that doesnt have to pay for any bills orit lets me have my own little world you know? Otherwise I spend money like crazy. I mean on nothing. MUSIC - BOUNDLESS LOVE Sometimes my ol' heart is like a washing machine It bounces around 'til my soul comes clean And when I am clean and hung out to dry I am gonna make you laugh until you cry One thing John loves to buy classic cars.  He spends a lot of time behind the wheel...  I like to drive down the interstates drive down an old road. Its pretty slow but you get to see more.  Drive by yourself?  Yeah. I probably write more songs with a steering wheel in my hand than a guitar. It kind of helps me to think driving down the road. It helps to have distractions sometimes.  Do you feel like at this point in your life and in your career that you need to engineer alone time? Like to make that so you have that time for yourself?  Well I didnt think so but my wife Fiona whos managing me now and our son Jody whos running our record label came up to me last year and said real solemn like they said John its time to make a record. Because they knew Id been writing all along. And they put me in a hotel suite for a week with 10 boxes of unfinished lyrics three guitars and a ukulele. Fiona knew that I operate better in a hotel room than I do at home. At home I just look for ways to get out of it doing things. In hotel rooms I have some sort oftheres something going on. Im ready to do a show or something. So they left me to it. And I would knock around during the day and go get a hot dog. And at nighttime Id start writing about three in the morning order room service up have a party by myself and end up with a couple songs every day. MUSIC-Ordinary Blue Last night Turned on the TV Looked out the window And then pulled down the shades And I came to The conclusion My mind could not be made  Whatd that look like having a party by yourself?  Were you sitting at the desk?  I spread the papers all over the suite. Everywhere you went there was an empty box with papers out. I just grab songs and pull them together. Some of them fit and some of them didnt. MUSIC - Ordinary Blue I hear a lot of empty spaces I see a big hole in you I feel an outline that traces An imaginary path back to you This as not no ordinary blue John met his wife Fiona when he was in his early 40s and twice divorced. She was living in Ireland and they were long distance for five years until she moved over to Nashville with her son Jody...whom John adopted.  It wasnt long after that that we started having babies. And then it was my idea. I thought geez I better buy a ring for this girl! You know? Or otherwise people will start looking down on me. Especially with the secondwe had the first baby Jack and Jack was born December of '94. Second baby was born in October of '95. People looked at me like you cant dont you have something else to do? Leave that woman alone!   You were apart for a long while.  We were yeah we were.  Before you met your wife Fiona did you think you were going to be a Dad?  Well I didnt plan on it. And I got to say when I became a father the very first time I had no idea thathow much Id been flying around all my life. Just literally. It brought my feet right to the ground when I saw that baby boy in the hospital. It just made me feel so much more comfortable in the world. I always felt really odd in the world. Like being a Dad just did something for me. Just brought me down and made me feel like I was just like everybody else. It was something I was striving for actually for years. I didnt want to be an oddball. Id see people that seemed to be normal and I thought boy thats a good thing. But I thats how I ended up making my living being Mr. Oddball. I mean I get these thoughts and stuff and I like to make them into songs. They might sound odd at the time but then people connect to them throughout their life. And it turns out Im doing something that may resemble something solid.  When you say you felt like your feet came on the ground was it because you had a sense of belonging in this family or was it like a very clear purpose? Of helping keep this little baby alive?  It was a purposeI was a Dad. I was something you know? Coming upJohn talks about going through treatment for cancer twice. Sam Phillips...the producing legend who launched Elvis careeris the one who originally set up him with his oncologist.  He goes This is how you get there and you need to go there. And if you dont I will come to Nashville Tennessee and kick your ass every inch of the way. And I said Yes Mr. Phillips. You know Sam Phillips tells you where to go you better go.   This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. John Prine has a prominent scar on his neck from surgery for stage three cancer. He was diagnosed the year he turned 50 just after his two young boys were born.  You know so it was boom boom boom. Three things happened like that. And my wife had to Fiona had her hands full with the kids and all of a sudden we had to go off to Texas and do all this radiation and surgery and everything. It was pretty scary.  Did you think at that time that you might die?  You know what? I didnt. Something told me that I wasnt. So I didnt feel that way I didnt feel like the deck was against me. I quit smoking because the doctor said he said I cant tell you it has anything to do with this present cancer but... I smoked a pack a day for 35 years. He said Wouldnt it be a good time to quit? And I said Youre right. So I did. I still miss them though I miss cigarettes like crazy.  Was covering your medical bills a worry for you?  Not really. I never worry about money anyway. I just dont. I dont worry about money and I dont run to catch airplanes. Something interesting that happened. A good friend of mine in Nashville a songwriter named Roger Cook. He comes to me with a song I just want to dance with you. And I jumped on it and I said I know how to write that. So I filled in all the lines and I recorded it and no one else recorded it. 10 years go by. George Strait records it. It goes up to the Number 1 same week Im in the hospital. MUSIC - George Strait version of I Just Want to Dance with You I do not want to be the kind to hesitate Be too shy Wait too late  I come out of my first thing of radiation got in a rent-a-car and the radio was just on whatever dial in Houston Texas. And like I had just left all these people that were really sick behind me in the waiting room. Jumped in my car and my throat was sore from the radiation. Turned on my car George Straits Number 1. My song. No matter how good insurance you got thats a lot of bills. And that Number 1 paid for all of them. So I never had to worry one thing about.Its a good thing Im not worried about money.  I know! Its like  Im just a lucky guy.  Thats what I was thinking. Its like you dont have to chase airplanes if George Strait is your angel who showup on the radio singing your song.  Thats the only one George ever sang but boy he picked a good one. Yeah a really good one. MUSIC -John Prine version of I Just Want to Dance with You I got a feeling that you have a heart like mine So let it show Let it shine Oh if we have a chance to make one heart of two Then I just want to dance with you  After you had your surgery your cancer surgery and your physical appearance changed were you aware of people responding to you differently?  Actually at first it was just kids. Because kids are honest. I still to this day I mean kids look at the back of my neck with adults its just acting like nothing happened. I just never tried to hide it orI never looked good in a turtleneck anyway. So I didnt want to wear one you know? But I got used to it. Because I dont have to look at it all day long. Other people do. But I always thought who I am is from inside of me. Thats the person Ive lived with since I was a child. And what youre seeing in a mirror is kind of cool but youre just seeing one-dimension. So its like I used to just comb the front of my hair. I never combed the back of it because Im never walking behind me. Ive never been friends with my hair. If you look at pictures of me throughout the years you can tell we had some kind of argument going on.  Theres a battle.  There is its like a battle. Finally we became like old enemies. We hung out together like Stalin and Lenin. MUSIC - The Lonesome Friends of Science The lonesome friends of science say The world will end most any day Well if it does then that is okay 'ecause I do not live here anyway I live down deep inside my head Well long ago I made my bed I get my mail in Tennessee My wife my dog and my family uh huh.  When you were diagnosed with cancer again did it feel like Ive done this? Or did it feel new?  Oh what happened was uh the doctors that originally dealt with my cancer knew that somehow I was going to get lung cancer down the line. They just watched it so I knew there was something they were watching. And by golly it took what 15 years almost 20? It was so new the cancer was they cut it out and they didnt have to do any follow-up with radiation or chemo. It hadnt spread at all. They just got it and they were expecting it. In other words what Im saying is I wasnt that surprised. I mean it still jolts you. MUSIC- When I Get To Heaven Yeah when I get to heaven I am gonna take that wristwatch off my arm What are you gonna do with time after you have bought the farm?  When you walked into that hotel room  that your wife and son sent you to to write songs were you thinking about death?  No not at all. I know what you mean. When I Get to Heaven was about smoking a cigarette. It wasnt about dying. It was my little happy hour so it would get to be five or five-thirty and Id be humming to myself Going to have a cocktail vodka and ginger ale. You know and have a cigarette thats nine miles long because I cant get my mind off those cigarettes. And I thought where can I smoke a cigarette? And I thought heaven. There couldnt be any cancer in heaven. Why would people want to go there if there was cancer? MUSIC And then I am gonna get a cocktail vodka and ginger ale Yeah I am gonna smoke a cigarette that is nine miles long I am gonna kiss that pretty girl on the tilt-a-whirl 'ecause this old man is goin' to town  So would you like sing this little song to yourself when youre making a drink before it was a song?  Yeah you know Id start skipping towards the fridge to get that ice cubes by golly. If I make as much money as I do a year and I go to the fridge and theres no ice cubes in there? I am pissed. I want to know who stole my ice cubes you know? People in Europe dont respect ice whatsoever. Youll order a drink there and theyll give you one lonesome ice cube. I mean I dont understand why everybody--all God's children need ice.  God bless America.  ThatsGod bless ice cubes! And apple pie! Thats John Prine. He died this week. He was 73 years old. You can see a list of the new songs we included in this episode at our website deathsexmoney.org. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Stephanie Joyce for her help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Instagram Facebook and Twitter. John Prines last album The Tree of Forgiveness was his first in the Billboard Top 10. He told me he was looking forward to some more Scrooge McDuck money coming from it  Ive already got the cars picked out oh Ive got some sweet cars picked out! I dont collect hot rods or '50s cars andI dont like to be one of those old guys going down the road. I just like a car almost like a Daddys car like a four-door thats been kept really good. You know recently I saw a 62 Chrysler Imperial convertible. It looks like a flying saucer with a red leather interior. If that aint sex and money I dont know what is. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.