 This is FRESH AIR. Our book critic Maureen Corrigan says that a new book called The Feather Thief about the underground world of exotic feathers does for plumes what the 1998 book The Orchid Thief did for orchids. Namely it will make readers curious to know more about a world they probably never knew existed. Here's her review.  This is one weird but true story. It is a story that leads readers from 19th century scientific expeditions into the jungles of Malaysia to the feather fever of the turn of the last century when women's hats were beplumed with ostriches and egrets. And it is a story that focuses on the featherdependent Victorian art of salmon fly tying and its presentday practitioners many of whom lurk online in something called the feather underground. By the end of Kirk Wallace Johnson's absorbing book The Feather Thief we readers learn more than we probably ever wanted to know about feathers. But we may also come to understand why it is important ecologically speaking to care about what happened to the feathers of what Johnson calls the missing birds of Tring. In his prologue Johnson tells us that he stumbled on this mystery one day while standing waisthigh in the Red River of New Mexico. Suffering from PTSD as a consequence of years of aid work in Iraq Johnson had taken up the meditative sport of fly fishing. On this fateful trip Johnson's guide began telling him about his own hobby of Victorian salmon fly tying. The ornate flies the guide explained were more of an art form than a fishing tool. They are composed of the iridescent jeweltoned feathers plucked from many of the rarest birds in the world like the Indian crow and the king birdofparadise. Then the guide went on to tell Johnson the bizarre story of a master fly tier named Edwin Rist. In 2009 Rist who was then a 20yearold American student at the Royal Academy of Music in London broke into the Tring Museum a suburban outpost of the British Museum of Natural History that was established during the Blitz. Once inside Rist stuffed hundreds of rare bird skins into a suitcase he would brought along. Many of those birds bore tags identifying that they would been collected 150 years earlier by a colleague of Darwin's a naturalist named Alfred Russel Wallace. It took over a year for British police detectives to trace the theft to Rist. And by then he would made a fortune online illegally selling the bird skins or bags of assorted feathers to salmon fly tying devotees. Of the 299 birds skins Rist had stolen only 174 were found in his apartment still intact. Out of those only 102 specimens retained their labels. Without their labels identifying exactly where the birds had been captured the specimens were no longer of scientific value. If the missing birds could not be recovered it would be an even bigger blow to the scientific record. Though it is nonfiction The Feather Thief contains many of the elements of a classic thriller. We have for instance those exotic missing bird skins that like The Maltese Falcon of yore seem to have vanished into thin air. We have eccentric suspects  those rabid salmon fly tires some of whom do not ask too many questions about the source of those endangered bird feathers for sale on the Internet. And we have an obsessive amateur detective in Johnson who finds his double in Rist the featherobsessed criminal. All of this makes for compelling reading. But Johnson's quest to find the missing bird skins is motivated by more than just curiosity. It turns out that what started off for him as an escape from the strains of refugee aid work became a mission to alert readers to the vulnerability of natural history collections like the Tring that may hold answers to the problems of extinction and climate change. These days scientists can study those bird specimens to learn about rising mercury levels and other changes in the ocean and atmosphere. As Johnson says of the nowincomplete Tring collection I realize the preservation of these birds represented an optimistic vision of humanity. A multigenerational chain of curators had shielded those specimens from insects sunlight German bombers fire and theft. Those curators understood that the birds held answers to questions that had not yet even been asked. I will not tell you how Johnson's gallant search for the missing birds ends. But it is depressing to learn as we do early on in this book that Edwin Rist the feather thief never served any time in prison. In the eyes of the law perhaps all those old feathers did not amount to much.  Maureen Corrigan teaches literature at Georgetown University. She reviewed The Feather Thief by Kirk Wallace Johnson. Tomorrow on st will be comic Michelle Wolf. We will talk about her performance Saturday night at the White House Correspondents dinner which became controversial because of jokes like this one about Sarah Sanders.   I actually really like Sarah. I think she is very resourceful. Like she burns facts. And then she uses that ash to create a perfect smokey eye.   I hope you will join us.   FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham. Our associate producer for digital media is Molly SeavyNesper. Roberta Shorrock directs the show. I am Terry Gross.  