 Listeners heads up - this conversation is a little raunchy I mean a lot raunchy. My guest and I are going to talk about sex and poop and she will use profanity. Perhaps not the best for kids but it sure is a fun chat.   Hey you all. Sam Sanders here. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. So I think the best way to introduce my guest is to play a little bit of this weird and strange and hilarious video of hers.   Hi everyone. And welcome to Patti Reviews. I am here with Nature Nick. We have a Honduran milk snake.  That is it. You got it. Yep.  And is that from...  Honduras.  Ohio.  Oh no no not Ohio. Yep.  That is comedian and actress Patti Harrison and this video is bonkers. It is set up like one of those morning news segments where the newscaster holds a furry exotic animal and a zookeeper offers up fun facts. But in this one Patti reviews the snake.   Con - this snake has no legs. That means no thigh gap. Where is your thigh gap? Pro - this animal is a martial artist.  The other person in this video - you really cannot tell if he is in on the joke or not. It is all so awkward. And Patti just keeps going.   What does a milk snake's diet consist of?  Well all snakes are carnivores every single one of them. So she actually gets a frozen mouse popsicle.  Like from Van Leeuwen?  It is similar. It is not from there exactly. But we get it from zoos.  Pro - this pet likes ice cream. And same girl same.  By the end of this Patti ends up offering a final review of perhaps a different animal.   In conclusion I give this dog a five out of five.   Great dog - fun no legs weird face small face no ears.  You may have seen Patti's absurd caustic yet charming comedic stylings in her supporting roles in shows like Search Party and Broad City and all three seasons of Shrill. But Patti came on this show to talk about a different kind of role. She is out with a new film in which she is the lead in a romantic comedy.    I did not know you had a boyfriend. I feel like that should have come up in the interview.   I do not have a boyfriend.   Well then who is that? You just hooked up with that guy? So are there multiple Bryces?   Are you mad about the clogs?   I am not mad about the clogs. I just - I am mad because there was a random penis really close to my unborn baby.   You do know that the baby is not like in my vagina.  That is Patti opposite Ed Helms. They are the stars of the new movie Together Together. This film kind of subverts the rom-com in a few big ways. In this movie Patti plays Anna a young single woman who agrees to be a gestational surrogate for a straight single man in his 40s. The reviews are already coming in and everyone loves Patti in this movie. In this chat we will talk about just how different this role is compared to maybe everything Patti has ever done before and we will discuss the significance of Patti a trans woman playing a pregnant woman on screen. Also as I mentioned earlier we will talk about poop - 'ecause why not? All right here's Patti Harrison. Enjoy. We have got to talk about your movie. It is getting some really good reviews. It is called Together Together. How would you...  It is Mortal Kombat.  Yes. Yes. Which one are you?   My - I play a character named Sonya Blade.  Yep my favorite.  And I am ancient and I enter the tournament with my partner Johnny Cage.  OK.  I actually do not. I am trying to piece together what I remember...  It works for me.  ...From like the original. I think...  It works for me.  ...This storyline's different. I am actually very excited to see the other Mortal Kombat - the other Mortal Kombat movie. Together Together is at its core a spiritual companion piece to Mortal Kombat. So if you are seeing Mortal Kombat I hope you are also seeing Together Together 'ecause they are very similar films.  Very very similar. And like the endings totally you know...  They are exactly the same.  Just corresponding yeah .  Yeah. No yeah Together Together comes - it is out today.  Oh snap. How you feeling?  I feel crazy. I feel...   I do not know. I feel like I am just pretty - any time I have like a lot of emotions happening at one time I just - everything gets really like muddy. Like I feel just like in a haze or something. So it is exciting. I am really scared too. I do not know. It kind of feels weird to like be at a place where it is like people are getting vaccinated but it does not seem like enough people are getting vaccinated. So it is like the movie Together Together gets this theatrical release and I am like well I do not want to push everyone to go to the theater to go see. I want it - it is like with caveats. It is like...  Yeah.  It will also be streaming soon. It will be like video on-demand soon. So it is like do not get sick or get someone else sick...  .  ...If you are - to see this movie...  Yeah.  ...To see me yeah.  But if you can go go see it five times 'ecause that helps.  Go see it five times and then just be - and just be like the chem trails is what we have really got to be worrying about as you stand up and you tear your mask off and underneath is like - where your mask would be is like an American flag tattoo all the way across your face.  .  And then you start singing Fergie's national anthem or whatever.  Wow. I love the turns your mind makes. I really did not expect to have a Fergie reference pop up but that was nice. Well played.  Yeah. I mean rest in peace Fergie. Thank you for your service.   OK.  I feel like that makes it sound...  Together...  That was just a joke...   OK.  ...At the idea that like maybe Fergie had passed away and - but I feel like it also sounds like I am making a joke about like Fergie's career being over which - I think she is got a long road ahead of her still yet so...  I do not. I do not.   I - yeah. Yeah I guess so.  So Together Together - let us see. OK how can I describe it without giving away too much? Together Together is a rom-com about a surrogate mother. You play the surrogate. But in a twist you are providing a baby for a single straight cisgendered man who is in like Silicon Valley-ish and is in his mid-40s and is like it is time to have a kid even though he is not partnered. So his character played by Ed Helms has your character be his surrogate. But you are not just a surrogate you all become friends.  Yeah and then it ends with me going get over here and then I shoot a big...  .  ...Tentacle spike out of my hand and just decapitate Ed Helms.  .  And it is just - and it is about the power of impermanent love.  .  No it is - yeah that - you did an amazing job. That is kind of exactly the movie. Although yeah yeah you definitely did not mention the part where Johnny Cage does the splits and punches Goro in the nuts but...  .  I feel like I do a bad job of marketing the movie because like I feel like a thing about the movie that is - you know makes me feel anxious is that like I think people project a lot onto it. I do not think like...  Why?  Because like Ed's - you know the comedies that he is done in the past are so like hard comedy and like...  Yeah.  ...I feel like my...  Big comedy.  Yeah. And the stuff that like I have done before I do not have the platform that Ed has by any means. So I do not think as many people...  You are about to. You are about to. This is the break. It is happening for you.  Well...  This is your year.  Well  I worry a little bit that like there is going to be people coming in you know 100 who - this is their first time seeing me. And they are - I feel like they are going to be like aw and then they are going to like maybe go look me up and then it is going to be like - they are going to see a bunch of jokes I have made about like sucking a dog's  and then they are going to be like oh. Oh no. Oh no.  .  Like I am ready for the comments. I am like preparing myself. I am just going to have to like back out. Like why would you say that? Why would you say that? Like I feel like after I did this bit like this piece on The Tonight Show about like the transgender military ban that - like in 2017. And it was like - a team of writers wrote that there. It was not just like me. Like they approached me and were like we want to address this thing but we want like a transgender person to do it.   Patti when did you first hear about Trump's decision?  Well when I saw the headline this morning at first I just read Donald Trump Bans Transgender People. And I was like yeah that sounds like him.   But then I realized it was just in the military and I was shocked because I assumed he already did that. But there were a lot of jokes in that piece that are not in my actual voice that are a lot cleaner. It is like on TV national TV so it is really clean. It is really like...  Yeah.  You know and it is political comedy too which is something that I do not really do. But I think that was like a larger group of people's first exposure to like me. So when that happened I would get - initially I got like people following me being like my daughter is trans and she is 7 years old and like we just think you rock. You rock. We saw that piece and like God bless you. Thank you for being brave. And then like two days later them replying to like this tweet where I am talking about like Vanessa Hudgens like taking a big  in a ditch. And they are like why are you doing this to us? You are disgusting.  .  And I was like well that is what I am about. Like why cannot I be both things?  Yeah.  Like why cannot you like accept the fact that I have kind of like a blue sense of humor? Like why cannot that exist in the same person? But I am just like I do not know. It is like I feel like let people be...  More than one thing.  Yeah.  Yeah. Describe your character in the movie in like three words 'ecause it is a departure from the comedy that we see you do.  She has boundaries .  Yeah.  I think it is like in the trailer. And she is definitely like - I - three words. I think like maybe like - I am trying to think of a word for like someone who is like - someone who has boundaries - boundaried  maybe boundaried?  Reticent.  Reticent - great absolutely. See I had reticent floating around but I was like I do not know if I am sure that I know what that word means but you do.  .  You are smarter than me.  I am not sure if I know what it means either.  .  Sounds right.  Yeah reticent radishes.  Yes.  She is radishes. Oh what is it? There is actually a word for someone who is like you know shut off a little bit.  A little - not aloof.  Not aloof.  She is very aware. She is just quiet. And she is sucking  it all in...  Yeah. I would say...  ...In a way that I think is surprising.  ...Maybe pensive. I do not know. Maybe that is not right.  That is the word. We should go take the SAT right now 'ecause we would knock out the verbal section.  Yeah I am definitely ready to go take the SAT with you now. We have to share a test...  We will do it together.  ...Say Sam and Patti.  Together. Together. Together.  Oh no.  Taking that SAT.  Oh my - I got a nosebleed.  Oh my God. My tripod just fell over.  Oh no.  .  And I got a nosebleed. Like you saying that...  An iconic moment.  ...Caused a lot of chaos.  Coming up Together Together is billed as a rom-com. But why?  This movie is being called a rom-com but would you call it that because in many ways it does not fit right away...  Right.  ...Into that box?  Well I think it is interesting because when I first read it I could not really tell what genre it was and I think that is an intention. Like if you watched the movie with no context of it and you like were not - just like in a hypothetical situation where you were not like aware of like anyone like or who anyone was in it I think it would just be like you know - just like wow that was like a very like nice smart movie. And then - but I think it has these very - a lot of kind of structural you know subversive things in it that are talking having a discussion. It is kind of explicitly about gender - not gender. Oh my God gender.  That is OK .  Oh my God I said gender. Oh my God.  She said gender.  Oh my God people are going to find out I am trans. Oh no.  Wait you are what?  I have to go.  Oh OK .  I have to go - I have to go to the high heel store and my lipstick in my high - yeah they sell lipstick at the high heel store.  .  Oh my gosh my ovaries are so swollen. The babies are kicking. They want to be born.  .  Got to go. No I...  .  So many people you know are like what would you consider the genre? What is the genre of this movie? What is the genre of the baby? A genre reveal - they should have a genre reveal for this movie.  .  It is been like - you know I think the movie in a very smart subtle way is talking about that is having that conversation because I think it is romantic. Like I think it is a romantic movie about love and like it is a comedy. But there is like - it is just - there is so much heart in it and like how could this kind of be anything else? But it is also like - there is a lot of stuff underneath the surface that I think is trying to provoke discussions around like other movies that have set the standards for the genre and how they are - like rom-coms as a whole I think - I think like 70 of rom-coms are horrific for our society. I think...  Yeah.  I think it is a  sick and twisted genre. I think it destroys people's minds. I think like the psychology - the like the control and the way it - I mean I wonder how many - there is no way we would ever be able to tell but I do wonder like how many relationships on Earth have been destroyed because of expectations set up from like...  Set by rom-coms.  Yeah.  Let me tell you all of mine. All of mine.  Exactly. I really want to find that like really old-ass man who says I make him feel so young. I do not know. I just want that. That is what every girl wants. That is like - every like 14-year-old girl wants a decrepit skeleton of a man to be like you make me feel so young. Come give me a kiss.  .  I think - right? Like that is what we are modeling in this genre so...  Well we are also modeling - like also - so I re-watched My Best Friend's Wedding last week 'ecause that is what I do. And I realized in hindsight watching it now Julia Roberts' character was like low-key a stalker...  Insane.  ...And doing things that were like illegal. And so much of rom-com energy is like not respecting boundaries saying that you can do whatever you want if it is love. And this movie Together Together - it is all about as you say honoring the boundaries that exist between people who are trying to figure out family. And it is...  Yeah.  ...So different than like most traditional rom-coms.  Well it is like - I think there is like - I think there is a world where those movies get to exist. Excuse me excuse me I am sorry to cry thinking about My Best Friend's Wedding.  .  I - no I think there is a world where like movies can exist and TV shows - these characters can exist that model horrible behavior because it is interesting to watch you know like these crazy characters doing like wild things. Those are good stories. Those are exciting stories - sensational sure. But like I think the conversations that we have to be having to contextualize the movies have not been there before until recently. So like...  Yeah.  ...You know people were like oh this movie is amazing and I want to be more like that character.  Yeah.  Haha - oh the crazy things we will do for love. And it is like no a lot of this - almost all of the things that happened in this movie are like violent emotional abuse. It is like...  .  I watched There is Something About Mary...  Oh Lord yeah that one's a journey.  ...Like a couple of months ago in lockdown and there were parts in it that I was like this is still really funny. But structurally - as like Cameron Diaz's character she is just - I was like if they remade this movie from her point of view it would be a horror movie.  .  It would be like all these - every man in the movie lies to her.   Coming up the quandary of representation as a trans woman.   This movie is - it is making us ask some questions about traditional family structures traditional roles and imagining conceptualizations of family that are different. And so when there are those quiet spaces happening in the movie it allows me to ask those questions of myself. Like how would I do this if I were making a family? I could do it differently. This movie shows you that like you make your own way. You do it your own freaking way.  Yeah it is - I mean when we were filming it was like - I really feel like my idea of when if I - if and when I would have kids has shifted so much. I think when I...  Because of the movie?  No just in my life.  OK OK.  And like I think when I was 14 I was like OK I am going to go to college. I am going to get out of college when I am like 21 22 then I am going to get married. Then I am going to like be like rock star-musician-scientist. And then I am going to have kids. And then I will die by 28 and then I will have lived a happy life. I was like I do not want to live to see 30. That is unimaginable.  .  And it is like now that I am 30 I feel - I am like I could not imagine having kids in like the next five or 10 years. I do not - I just feel like I have like just become my adult self. I feel like I am just now reaching a point where I am like oh I think I understand what my core values are. I hope - you know I hope I never stop growing.  .  I hope no one ever stops growing. But like it definitely - it is like oh now I feel like I am in a place where I am more cognizant of like my - of being responsible.  Yeah. Yeah.  I would never - and then it is like I do not want to like right at that moment then bring like a child into my life. But I think with this movie I think just like - with being trans too it is like you know I cannot give birth to a baby. I could like give sperm but it is like I am on hormone replacement therapy. So you know that'ill - that option will dwindle I think the further along I get into it and so it is pretty contemplative. It is like made me be like oh like how would I go about doing it? And this - I was like oh there is this whole world of people that will just do that that I never really - yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You know you - I - you went to where I was going because like this is the part of the conversation where we talk about representation.  My sperm. You wanted to talk about my sperm.  .  And it - yes well Sam...  You guessed it. You guessed it.  It is for sale. You guessed it. It is for sale.  .  It is 30 on the dot. It is exactly 30 no tax.  For how much though?  It is kind of a grab bag. I am going to be standing at the...  .  I am going to be standing at the - right outside of La Poubelle in Los Angeles and I am going to have a big black trash bag - kind of like you know just a big black trash bag.  Yeah.  And then people can reach in and as much as you can grab with one hand for 30.   You got to keep it chilled though. You got to keep it chilled.  It is chilled. There is loose ice in it.  .  There is loose ice cubes so people can - and then they can just have their baby and like be a part of that magic.  I cannot wait to put the extended cut of this on SoundCloud when we bleep nothing and take nothing out. That is what we are going to do. That is what we are going to do.  Yes. The Sirius Satellite Radio kind of nasty Sam And The Bitch or whatever our show would be called.  .  Oh wait. I want to revise the title. It would be He-She And The Sam probably in order to be on Sirius.  OK.   He-She And The Sam - and yeah I am allowed to say he-she because I identify as .  .  That was like the first - I am totally tangenting. But I think that was...  I love it.  ...Like the first time - I was like - when I was a kid my sister called me a he-she. My sister is my age. And I was like huh I am going to look into that. I am going to kind of figure out...  Flash forward.  Hey do not say that to me. But also what was that word you said? Can you - how do you spell that? It kind of sounds nice. Might look into that hmm.  . I wonder how much you thought about all of that and representation taking this role 'ecause like we have seen movies where a cis hetero actor plays someone queer or trans actors who are not disabled play somebody who is disabled white actors play characters of color - I see you Scarlett Johansson - but I am not sure I have ever seen an actor who was a trans woman play a cis woman who was pregnant. Was that a big deal for you or did you not even freaking care?  It was. It was a big deal...  Yeah.  ...When I first you know was thinking about whether or not I was going to work on it because I think the optics of it you know are definitely there. I wondered - I was like is it too on the nose? Is it like a stunt casting thing? Is it - you know is it going to be - is the fact that like I am not always like passing going to be like to the detriment of the movie like people being able to watch the movie? Will it put that in people's mind? Because I felt like ultimately like those were apprehensive questions I had maybe that are not necessarily  true. But they definitely like came into my mind. And I did have the moment where I felt - I do not know I am like - it is like the poop or the idea of the poop. It is like you know how sometimes you get that poop that has like the really sharp part. It is like the little...  No.  ...Part in the nut.  Mine is so smooth so clean. All my poop is just .  Well see you have to say that because you are NPR because you represent NPR. And the idea that you would have a little sharp part in your poop would actually be - they would check in with you after. They would be like...  Oh yeah.  ...Hey Sam. So we noticed that you...  Do you want to talk about the fecal matter?  It implies that we do not feed you fiber. We do not give you...  .  And so you have to say that your poop - so I understand you.  Yeah.  And I - you know...  Yes.  Blink twice. Blink twice if it is sharp . Oh my gosh. It is so sharp.  It is. It is Knives Out girl...  It is Gillette.  ...Knives Out in that bathroom .  Gillette turd. It is like four razors the smoothest shave coming out.  . So then if you are saying that you do not want this to be too big of a deal you just get to play this role 'ecause you like this role how do you think you are going to react to folks who are on your side who make it a big deal you in this role and perhaps the firstness of it?  I do not know. Like I do see a lot of people or like write-ups about it focusing on that part of it and the significance of that. And I think it is like you know - it is not something that I think should be completely omitted from the conversation about this movie. But I hope that it is not the overarching part of the conversation. 'ecause what - my fear my deepest fear is if I gave like a  performance and people are like PC clapping for me 'ecause they were like we cannot  on this because she is trans and she is one of the girls. So even though she did an absolutely  job there are so few opportunities for like these trans actors so we have to say this movie's good so people see it so it does well so there is more opportunities. My thing is if I sucked ass great. There should still be opportunities.  Yeah which is why I am urging everyone to go out as soon as they can and see Patti Harrison in the Mortal Kombat reboot. It is great.  It is - yeah. It is an all-trans reboot of Mortal Kombat where I actually play every character because I refuse to work with other trans actors because I think they are annoying and a lot of times they are prettier than me and it is not OK.  Yeah.  And so I kind of like I did - you know I did push my foot through the door. But then I slammed it shut behind me.  .  I just want people to know that. I am not trying to make space for other trans women.   Oh my God Patti I could talk to you all day. I am really happy that we had this time to talk together. I just - your mind does things that I just think are incredible. And seeing you in this film and talking to you now I appreciate every little side of you. So thank you thank you thank you.  Thank you Sam.  This was a lovely chat. Thank you.  It was so nice to talk to you. Thanks for having me on.   Thanks again to Patti Harrison. She stars in the movie Together Together. It is in some theaters now and available on-demand on May 11. Patti is also in the Hulu series Shrill. The third and final season of that show drops on May 7. Also listeners if you want to see me and Patti have this conversation there is an extended version of this chat with video. It is on YouTube this week. Go to youtube.comnpr. All right. This episode of It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Andrea Gutierrez with help from Liam McBain. It was edited by Jordana Hochman. Listeners till next time take care of yourself. Stay safe. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  