 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR producer Justin Richmond and NPR reporter and Code Switch host Shereen Marisol Meraji. All right. Let us start the show.    I shoot the lights out.  You all know what I am playing right now.  Oh.  This is one of the best Kanye song opens maybe of all time.  It is brilliant.  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Each week the show starts with a different song. We will talk about this one very soon. But first I got to thank my two guests for being here with me today in studio. Shereen Marisol Meraji - she covers race ethnicity and culture for NPR also hosts NPR's Code Switch podcast. And Justin Richmond producer extraordinaire for a show you may have heard of called Morning Edition at NPR.  That is right.  Thank you both for being here. And thank you Kanye for this lovely rousing anthem to get us into this show.    I am a  monster.  The beat knocks.  Oh it is good.  It does.    I am going to need to see your see your hands at the concert. Profit profit. I got it. Everybody know I am a  monster.  So this song is called Monster. It is from Kanye's classic album My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy. And I am playing Kanye this week for a reason not just because it is always a good time to play Kanye. Have you guys been following his tweets this week?  Yes I have.  Oh. Oh my gosh.  I have been inspired.  Right? So usually - so for the last long time Kanye's been pretty silent on social media. But this week he came up back in Twitter. And he is been posting some very inspirational tweets.  Truth.  Like these.  Yes.  Quote Distraction is the enemy of vision. Another one - everything you do in life stems from either fear or love. My favorite from the week quote Be transparent as possible. Stop setting plays. Stop playing chess with life. Make decisions based on love not fear. Life coach Kanye.  Yeah.  Thank you. I like this Kanye.  I salute you right?  I did not even know I was playing chess with life.   Well you are.  I wish I had known that.  Checkmate. So Kanye also at the end of this week tweeted out that he is going to put out a new album on June 1. But with his last release he pushed it back a lot so I would not trust it totally. But maybe we will see an album before the year's out.    I am a  monster.  One of my favorite songs of his. And I want to say possibly the best Nicki verse.  Oh yeah. Definitely the best Nicki verse.  All right you guys. Shereen and Justin are here with me today to look back at the week of news culture and everything else. Let us get into it. We are each going to describe how this week of news felt for us in three words.  OK.  Justin do you have three words? If so go.  I have three words.  Let us go.  What are they?  We have been waiting.  That is actually four because it is a contraction. It is fine.   Well yeah. But come on man.  I am going to let it slide.  Cheating.  Go ahead.  Cheating.  I mean maybe I should just say I have been waiting. I do not want to throw everyone into...  That is still a contraction.  OK. I am sorry.   I have been waiting.  I have been waiting.  I have been waiting.  OK. Go ahead. Go ahead.  First of all I have been waiting since Comey testified in front of Congress for his book to come out.  Oh really? You have?  Yeah because I was like as soon as...  Did you preorder it like everybody else?  No. I did not preorder. I am not...  I will tell you once you are done. But I have not been waiting for this book. And I will tell you why. But you go ahead.  Please. Please.  Why have you been waiting for the book?  When he was testifying I mean it was clear. I was like man this is dude's gone to write a hell of a book.   So I mean at first I was a little salty because I felt like this feels a bit tacky. Maybe he should have waited a couple of years.  Yeah.  A few years - five years. But then as I was listening to the Fresh Air interview and a couple others - and he is saying that - he is basically comparing our president to a mafia boss. I was like that is stunning.  That is drama.  You cannot...  That is drama.  That is stunning.  Can I tell you my beef with Comey though?  Let me hear it.  I have seen him way too much this week.  Yeah.  Yeah.  He is been everywhere.  He has.  The Times ike five times The View. I mean he like...  And he is back on...  Yeah.  ...Because the memos came out.  Oh yeah.  Fifteen pages of memos.  He was posing with Method Man and Ghostface Killah backstage at Colbert.   Was he really?  Yes.  It is everywhere.  So this is my question. Does Jim Comey want to sell a book or does he want to have a legacy?  Yeah.  And he is in this really interesting position. He has no constituency. Liberals still think he lost Hillary the election. Conservatives still think he is out to get Trump. Like what does he get after this besides a best-selling book?  He wants to control his own narrative I think.  Yeah.  That is what he wants to do.  Yeah.  He wants to say this is my story. And this is the way I want to tell it because you all are telling my story for me. So at least I am going to be on the record.  And it is just hard to know who is being petty here because of all this. Who is being petty?  They are all petty.  I did learn on that Terry Gross interview that he likes to say lordy.   We knew that from when he testified when he said lordy.  Oh yeah. Lordy I hope there are tapes.  Lordy.  All right.  All right. My three words are who is in charge. And I say that this week because there have been a few stories - storylines coming out of the Trump White House that have me asking the question who is in charge? First one have you guys been following this stuff with Nikki Haley and the Russia sanctions...  Yeah.  ...Possible Russia sanctions.  Yeah.  So Nikki Haley is Trump's ambassador to the U.N. And after U.S. and allied strikes in Syria she announced that the U.S. was going to institute some more sanctions on Russia for their involvement in Syria. She said it was going to happen on a Sunday morning talk show. And then another member of the administration came out after that Larry Kudlow Trump's economic adviser and said she is confused. Then Nikki came back and said hold up. Hold up. Hold up. Quote I do not get confused.   Yeah.  Literally sparring between two members of the same administration. It made me say who is in charge? Second instance where I said who is in charge was this news that Mike Pompeo who is now director of the CIA might soon be secretary of state. He made a secret visit to North Korea months ago to possibly negotiate a lot of things. The meeting went very smoothly he said. But we just found out about it this week.  If you told me Dennis Rodman I would have believed it.   Heyo.  So the third thing that had me saying who is in charge was this report in The New York Times which the White House denies. The report basically said that Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis actually wanted the White House to get approval from Congress before those strikes happened. And the White House and Trump said no. I want to do it myself and do it big. The White House denies this. But after the Syria strike and all of that back and forth we also found out that Emmanuel Macron the president of France - he said that he was the one that convinced Trump to actually care about Syria. Who is in charge?  We need a Charles.  In charge...  Yeah we do.  ...Of our days and our nights.  Someone's got to be in charge.  Of our wrongs and our rights.  Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  Oh.  OK. OK. With that Shereen what are your three words?  My three words are tall black cafecito.  Tall black cafecito.  Yes.  I think this is the first time we have had a word that is not English in three words.  Oh well...  I like it. Explain it though.  OK. So it is a Starbucks order because Starbucks has been in the news all week...  Yeah.  ...Because of the incident that happened in Philly at a Starbucks where two African-American men were arrested for sitting there without ordering something.  Yes.  And Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson - his name is Kevin Johnson not the Kevin Johnson that used to play for the Sacramento Kings.   Mayor of Sacramento.  Yeah.  But the CEO came out. He apologized. And he said hey we are going to do racial bias training.  A whole day...  For all the employees.  ...Where all the stores close.  That is right.  Yeah.  Eight thousand stores are going to close. I am not sure if it is a whole day or a half day.  OK. OK.  I could not get that straight. But yes they are going to close for some time for some hours to do racial bias training.  Yeah.  So tall black cafecito. Or should it be tall bey-lack  cafecito?  Why bey-lack?  Because Bey - Beychella . I have my little...  Are you going to whistle?  ...Whistle here.  .  .  Shereen's got a yellow whistle up in here. Come on.  OK. So what Shereen is talking about is Beyonce said at Coachella which featured a historically black college and university...  Theme.  ...Black marching band theme.  Yes.  So it starts with this single woman snare drummer and a whistle.  Amazing. I have the chills. Look at me. Look at me.   I have the chills.  So her Coachella set - one she was the first black woman to headline Coachella.  Exactly.  And two she played for two hours.  Yes. And she did not let the crowd forget that she was the first black woman...  Yeah.  ...To headline Coachella. She was like by the way just in case you did not know...   Yeah.  And you know and Coachella has been around for 19 years. So that is a long time.  It is a long time.  Long time.  So Gaga was the first I think woman to headline last year.  Oh.  And now Beyonce...  Beyonce should have been. Beyonce was supposed to play last year.  Last year. Then she got pregnant.  Oh well yeah that.  That is again - we have been waiting.  We have been waiting. But you know I mean I must say like I have seen Beyonce live. And I was like this is the best show in my life. But every year or so she upstages herself. You all all saw it right?  Absolutely. Yes.  Yes of course. Oh my gosh.  My wife made me watch it. Are you kidding me?  .  I have been trying to get the choreography to the...  Do some.  ...Beginning of Crazy In Love. OK. But you have to have like squat power.  OK. Do it.  Oh wait.   OK. They are making me dance in here. This is radio.  The listeners can hear that.  But actually getting back to the news.  Yes.  Getting back to the news she did - and speaking of HBCUs she did announce that she was going to have a 100000 scholarship fund...  Oh.  ...Which is - so 25000. That was earlier this week 25000 is going to go to four different HBCUs to give to a student for scholarships.  Look at that.  That is great man.  So she is about it.  She is about it.  I have got to say too...  Oh wait. I am not done by the way.  Oh go ahead.  OK. Just real quick because tall black cafecito...  I love hearing you keep saying that. It is amazing.  Cafecito because you know when you are ordering a Cuban coffee you say un cafecito por favor.  Oh there is some Cuban news this week.  And there is some Cuban news. And I will not step on that because I know that is the main story for the show. But Cuba's got a new leader.  That is not going to be a Castro.  That is not going to be a Castro.  For the first time in a long time.  And I am going to say all his names. Do not be mad.  Say it please. Do it.  Just do it.  Miguel Mario Diaz-Canel Bermudez .  Wow. Perfect.  Oh my goodness.  Perfect.  So I dare you.  Yeah.  I dare you.  I cannot do that. We are going to talk more about Cuba a bit later. Right now we are going to go to a little break. Coming up we are going to call up a former police officer and get his perspective on that Starbucks arrest incident. Also we are going to debrief all about Cuba's power transition this week. And of course we will play my favorite game Who Said That. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders and we will be right back.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two great guests today - Shereen Marisol Meraji. She covers race ethnicity and culture for NPR and also hosts NPR's Code Switch podcast - and Justin Richmond producer on NPR's Morning Edition. You guys before we get back into the news I got a quick question for you. It involves a rather strange story I saw this week. An eighth-grade teacher teaching social studies - he got in trouble in Pennsylvania recently. Last week his students were taking their statewide standardized tests and he wanted to be nice. And he made them pancakes. Supervisors found out.  So far so good.  Yeah.  They said they were going to fire him...  For making his kids...  ...Because it was against policy.  What?  You cannot make your kids food.  You cannot make your kids food. So the students protest. The parents protest.  This is breaking my heart.  They reinstate the guy. This teacher's name is Kyle Byler. He is back. But it got me to thinking. What would you want to eat before a standardized test or a live radio hit or something stressful?  I mean I think protein - something with protein. I actually think pancakes are a bad idea because they have...  Yeah. You just want to fail your students.  Rain on my parade.  They have a lot of gluten. They make you tired.  .  You know so I would like some eggs probably just egg whites.  Yeah. I am about to roll with egg whites...  Look at this Californian.  Egg whites and some avocado and a matcha latte with some water.  You all know what I want?  What do you want?  A shot of whiskey.  Oh yeah - for sure.  Oh Lord. Lordy...  Where is our whiskey right now?  I know right?  That is what I am saying.  Anyway now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance where we call a listener and talk to them about the news.   Seems like every week there is another story in the news about how police officers relate to people of color. Earlier we discussed in the show the story you mentioned Shereen about that Starbucks in Philadelphia where two black men were arrested while just waiting there in the coffee shop for a business meeting. And a few weeks ago on this show we had a big discussion about shootings involving police. That was after the shooting death of Stephon Clark in Sacramento. So we had Wesley Lowery on from the Washington Post. And he said a thing that really stuck with one listener. Wesley said that legally speaking all an officer has to do is really just say that they felt their life was in danger. And they are allowed basically to kill someone.  And my first reaction was wait a minute. That is not right. And then I realized well there - that could be right.  That is Dave Hill . He was a listener. He lives in Orange County Calif. just down the highway from us here in Los Angeles. Dave was a police officer in Southern California for 30 years. He retired as a lieutenant. And he got in touch with us after he heard that episode said he wanted to talk. So we did talk about the Starbucks incident and so many stories not just of arrests but of police-involved shootings.  The law does say if an officer is in fear for their life then deadly force is a allowable option. But I also know I received some specific training in how to articulate why you were afraid. And I remember vividly the trainer was reading from a police report in which the officer was describing all the details - the weather the lighting the actions of the suspect what they were saying how they were acting their body language - to paint a picture so the most obtuse number of any jury could listen to that report and say they - as much as they could they experienced that with the officer and come away with an understanding of why the officer was afraid or in fear for their life.  Do you think that imperative on officers to quote unquote paint a picture - does that ever in some cases perhaps give some officers license to exaggerate?  That is a good question. I think since we recruit from the human race there might be that tendency. I cannot speak to that...  For sure.  ...In anything I have observed.  OK.  Yeah.  There is a particular news event this week that I am wondering if you have thoughts on as well. I am talking about that story from that Starbucks in Philadelphia. I see this as a civilian as a black man. And I am just befuddled by it.  Right.  Is there a way in which you see that scenario in which it made sense?  Not necessarily - and I can only speak from a position of experience with California law.  Yeah.  It did not seem like there was any kind of dynamic situation that needed immediate action and immediate decision-making.  Yeah.  This was something where we could have you know - slow down. Talk to these people. Find out what is going on. Share what the options are. You know if a shopkeeper absolutely wants to press charges talk to them about the consequences. Are they willing to go to court? Do you realize this is a nonviolent situation? You know in the best interest of the people we go to church with the people we you know run into at the store how can we relive this situation in the future or similar situations? Well we need to have the conversation. And that conversation might be to close your Starbucks or you know your company for a day and talk about and be honest and be vulnerable about what is in your heart and how you can best...  Yeah.  ...Live your best self if you will.  Yeah. If you were to be in charge of creating an anti-bias training for police officers as a former police officer who is been out there doing the work for - what? - 30 years what would be the No. 1 thing that you would include in a police anti-bias training?  You know I would go back to when our - the department for which I worked started to become more diverse. I realized that I was growing - my heart was growing in different ways. My mind was growing in different ways from interacting with people of different color maybe officers who came from backgrounds of traditionally marginalized communities. And that was very eye-opening. But I will tell you what happened to me - was after I left law enforcement and went into private business - and I worked with people from all different backgrounds. And no longer was I an officer. I was one of the folks. And being exposed to mostly younger people - but some of my age and there around - who came from different backgrounds different communities different color different sexual orientation different lifestyles whatever you want to call it - they were just different. And it was great to interact with them because it humanized them and it helped me to develop relationships as opposed to you know categorizing it. Relationships over categories I guess is the best way I could say that.  Yeah. Do you think you know as someone who was in it for 30 years and watching it now - do you think the relationship between police officers and particular marginalized groups of people in America - is it getting better?  In my corner of the world here in Southern California I believe they are. But I will tell you this also. I just read Martin Luther King's Letter From A Birmingham Jail. And I was particularly struck by his words about the white moderates. And that hit a little too close to home - and how instead of rising up with King's nonviolence movement the white moderate of that era said you know you are being too controversial. You should wait. You know rights will come. Give it time. And it just kind of feels like in a lot of ways we are still there. So I wish I had a really good answer. And I think it comes down to this - if the thin blue line still exists we need it to be between all of the good people and those that would do the good people harm. And all of those good people need to include officers civilians all races all colors all creeds all religions all backgrounds marginalized or not. And that only comes from having conversations and interacting and getting to know people so that it is not - you know it is not your black neighbor or your Muslim neighbor. It is your neighbor.  Yeah I love that. What are you going to do for fun this weekend?  I am building up a little block wall. My wife and I are teaming up to build a block wall out in front of my house. And it not only makes the house look nice but it also provides for a little bit of exercise .  OK.  If you can consider that fun that is what I am going to be doing .  That actually sounds pretty fun.  You are welcome to come over and help if you like. We are only in Yorba Linda. It is just a quick shot down the 10 so... .  I will be there but I am quite clumsy and not that handy.   I want to say one thank you so much for writing in to the show and listening. Thank you for being so thoughtful on these really tough issues. And I do not think this comes through enough in coverage of these police issues because when these stories pop up we are talking about the few bad apples not the majority of good ones.  Yeah. Yeah.  But as a civilian I am grateful to police all over the country who every day are working to protect people like me. And I want to make that clear. So thank you for your service.  Awesome. Well thank you. And Sam I am glad we had this conversation.  All right. Bye-bye.  Bye-bye.   Thanks to Dave Hill the retired police officer out of Orange County Calif. for that call. The thing that I always realize when you break these events down - it is like people individually can make the right decision. But something about some of these events and conflagration of certain factors - it leads to like something that is explosive.  What struck me about what he said in your interview with him was that it was not really until the police department diversified that he started meeting with different officers and people from quote unquote marginalized communities that he was able to humanize them. And that really struck me - that...  Yeah.  You know? And so Jamelle Bouie actually wrote for Slate on this about white spaces and how this particular Starbucks was...  ...In a very white neighborhood.  ...In a part of Philly that was 79 percent white and only 6 percent black and that we need to talk about white spaces and what happens when you are a person of color and you are in a white space.  Yeah. And I think that like you know his perspective being in Southern California like our perspective - it is just more of a mash-up. And I think that like I am privileged to live in a part of town and live in a place and work in a place that is really diverse. But I think we forget that most of America is pretty segregated still.  But also the fact that like why are not we thinking about people as humans period?  You should be able to empathize with people that you have not met.  It is easier said than done though right?  True.  I mean I think some of this stuff is just like tribal and almost biological - this kind of in-group out-group urge.  Yeah. And maybe I am influenced by growing up here like you said where it is a whole bunch - I mean so it is I mean maybe easier for me to say than you know had I grown up elsewhere or you know had I been a white guy growing up somewhere.  Listeners I want to talk to you about how you process the news. If you have a reaction to something you have heard on this show or any story you have seen in the headlines on any week let us know. Drop me a line at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests today - Shereen Marisol Meraji host of NPR's Code Switch podcast and Justin Richmond drinker of matcha lattes...  Yeah.  ...And also a producer on NPR's Morning Edition.  I am fancy. I am fancy. Matcha lattes and Morning Edition.  I refuse. I am sorry.   All right you guys. It is time for our main story. You want us to talk about Cuba today...  Cuba.  ...Because there is - something really big there happened this week - big symbolically at least.  Yeah.  Raul Castro brother of Fidel - he stepped down as president this week and he handed off power to someone outside of the Castro family. That new leader's name is...  Miguel Mario Diaz-Canel Bermudez.  Yes. Yes. So I want us to talk about a few things - who this guy is and what it means. And I want to point out to our listeners that this is important. I think that we do not see Cuba in the headlines a lot but it is important because Cuban-Americans have been a force in Florida politics for decades. Cuba could be a part of diplomatic relations all through Latin America especially with Venezuela. And Cuba is a nation that America's opponents like China and Russia want to get a bigger foothold in. So you guys before we talk about Cuba I think we have to acknowledge that maybe a lot of Americans - a lot of listeners - do not think about it that much. How would we describe the last 20 years for Cuba and its relationship with the U.S. I guess for those folks?  Well it is gone back and forth.  OK.  I mean 20 years ago we were still you know maintaining the hard line against Cuba that we had for the 30-plus years previous - Cuban embargo against them. And of course with President Obama came the detente and that opened things up a bit more. We opened up our embassy and people were able to travel there freely. Our president actually went down there which is the first time in a long time that that had happened - since the revolution that that had happened. And of course now that President Trump has come back in he is crafted a Cuba policy with hard-liners in Congress to basically repeal parts of the Obama detente and now we have a pretty limited embassy there. And it seems like we just are not thinking about it.  Justin you have been covering this story for your show Morning Edition.  Morning Edition yeah.  What have you found out about Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez?  So the most interesting thing about him is that there is not a ton known about him. And I even spoke to various government officials who have met him.  Really?  Yeah. And yeah. He is from a city called Santa Clara about three hours outside of Havana.  I have been there.  He is an engineer by training...  OK.  ...Got a college degree in engineering did his obligatory three years in the military then joined the Young Communist League where - that is really where he started taking off in terms of politics. He kind of rose the ranks there pretty quickly and became the Minister of Education in Cuba - of Cuba...  OK.  ...Became the vice president in 2013 and kind of just toed the party line and has been able to take over now because he is done that.  But Raul Castro will still lead the Communist Party in Cuba.  Yes until his term for that is up in three more years and then he will...  OK.  ...Yeah - step down from that too.  Because Raul Castro instituted term limits a few years ago.  Yeah.  So eventually Diaz-Canel will head the party and the presidency.  And the presidency exactly. Just like Raul and Fidel had done before. Yeah.  Yeah. Well that is the thing. Like in his speech when he assumed the presidency he said in his speech we are going to keep doing what we have been doing. You know like - and he kind of - he kind of paid reverence to the Castros and in a way almost said that they are still in charge.  Yeah. Well because so - and this is what is interesting. In one way he is positioned himself as different because as a lot of people will note he is a fan of The Rolling Stones or The Beatles and...  And he is younger.  ...He uses technology and he is younger. He was born after the revolution.  And his kids were in a rock band.  And his kids were in a rock band which is - which was illegal in Cuba for a long time. They did not like rock 'n' roll. But in many ways - when I was talking to Ben Rhodes who was an Obama adviser and kind of helped - was basically like instrumental in the detente that happened under Obama what he was saying was that the main challenge for Miguel Diaz-Canel is going to be to craft a narrative for the Cuban people. For 59 years it is been the revolution.  Castro.  To be able to sell the revolution - Castro and Raul as members of the revolution people partook in it. He was born a year after the revolution you know and so he needs to create a narrative and it might be easiest for him now to keep selling the Castro legacy...  Yeah.  ...To people because things are not great there so people need a reason to believe. And it might be easiest from at least at the time being to just keep hanging on to the Castro legacy and selling that.  Yeah. You know so this power transition happens about a year after Donald Trump rolled back a lot of what Barack Obama did to try to better the relationship between Cuba and the U.S. He resumed diplomatic relationship between the two countries. He eased some travel and trade restrictions. Trump came in and said no no no no no. I want to take it all back. In reality...  He did not take all of it back though.  That is the thing. His bark was bigger than his bite right?  Yeah yeah. And you know a lot of those changes were small changes but have had a huge impact on things like tourism there. I mean you can still go to Cuba as an American but you cannot...  You cannot plan your own private trip.  ...You got to go - you cannot plan your own private trip. You got to go with the group. And even with that I still know people who are you know I will not call them out but who are still going - I mean there is ways around that even.  There always has been.  You know but there is this bluster possibly from Cuba for sure from Trump. But some of those Obama-era changes - they have stayed. The embassies are still open.  Limited staff though which is a problem.  Limited staff of course. But like Cubans can still travel freely - Cuban Americans - between the island and the U.S. They can still send money back. And the business community after Trump announced his rollback they kind of pushed back and said do not close off business. You know do not close us off.  Yeah. There is money to be made.  There you go. Exactly.  They are still negotiating that stuff. Yeah business deals.  I want to talk a little bit about what a positive or better relationship with Cuba could do for the U.S. We have known for some time that there has not been a really positive relationship. But I talked to a few folks this week who said if we did have a better relationship with Cuba we could get something out of it. There are a few things. One if the U.S. really wanted to fight drug trafficking in the Caribbean at the Port of Miami which is a big point of entry for a lot of illegal drugs Cuba should possibly - probably be at the table right?  Yeah. And they were at the table for the Colombia FARC negotiations.  That is the thing.  They helped with that.  This is the second thing. Like Cuba is a player in Latin American geopolitics. As Justin said they helped negotiate the ends to the civil war in Colombia. The thinking is that they could help negotiate with Venezuela you know...  Yeah.  ...If we were friendly right? And then the third thing which I mentioned earlier - Cuba could be a point of entry for Western influence for Russia and China.  Yeah. And Russia and China are - they are warming back up to Cuba. For a long time there just - there had not been - I mean China and Cuba's relationship has always been a little fraught. But they are going in there now and agreeing - at least agreeing to invest in the infrastructure. Russia's doing the same thing again which - it has not been since the early '90s that they have done that. So you see the influence slowly creeping in there.  Yeah.  Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union.  Yeah.  Yeah exactly.  And like meanwhile Russia docked one of its intelligence ships in Havana a few months ago.  Yup. And they were considering reopening a spy base - their old spy base there.  Really? I did not know that.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  So I mean I am really interested in Trump's posture towards Cuba and what that says about the state of American politics and how much Cuba actually matters to American politics. I would say right now Cuba does not matter too much. No?  Well I think that if Trump's stance towards immigration is upsetting Cuban voters enough that they will not go to the polls and vote for Republicans I think that that matters. I mean that is not necessarily about what happens with Cuba. But I do feel like Cuban voters have been strong Republicans since the beginning.  Yeah.  And President Trump's immigration policies have upset all Latinos including some Cubans who have been rethinking whether they sh