 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. We have something special today  an interview with Questlove Ahmir Thompson that we recorded Sunday on stage in front of an audience of about 800 people. I think beloved is not too strong a word to describe how fans and people in the music world feel about Questlove. He is the drummer and cofounder of The Roots which became one of the first working bands in hiphop at a time when the music was typically sampled or played by studio musicians. The Roots are also the house band for The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon. Questlove wrote the show is theme. He is produced recordings by D'Angelo and JayZ and the Hamilton cast album. He is considered one of the great DJs drawing on his passion for music of all sorts. He also wrote a terrific memoir called Mo' Meta Blues and a book about Soul Train a show he is obsessed with. He has a new book called Something To Food About. It is a collection of his interviews with celebrated chefs about how the creative process applies to the preparation and presentation of food. As an interviewer I really enjoyed reading his questions which are filled with interesting parallels between making music and food and packed with great autobiographical references. I talked to him about the book music his father who died last month and he told some great stories about Prince. We recorded the interview at the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology in West Philadelphia just about 20 blocks away from where Questlove grew up. We started by talking about his new book Something To Food About. So you know you are interviewing all these like chefs who do very artistic food in a lot of ways. And you mention that when you were growing up your uncles would go hunting and they would bring back like squirrel and possum .  Yeah they did.  And I am thinking it is  like squirrel is such not a West Philly dinner.   Yeah I had no...  Squirrels are what you see running up the trees in West Philly.  I had no idea where they went hunting but that was a big thing like...  Is squirrel good?  My father's brothers  he was one of eight and a lot of my uncles were militarybased or policebased but they had  a few of them would actually go hunting in particular my Uncle Roosevelt would always  like stew was like my grandmother's  that was her forte. So one week was rabbit stew. The next week was veal stew squirrel stew  like every type of stew. But my cousins and I would always like try to dare each other to look into the bag to see...   To see the dead animals?  To see the  yeah 'ecause you know I mean he would come there. He would come and clean it out in out the backyard and...  Are you a vegetarian now?   In my heart I am yeah.   So in interviewing chefs about their creative process do you feel like you learned insights into how you work by listening to  into how your mind works?  Well I always say that I am more obsessed with the journey of getting there than the destination. Like my favorite part of touring is the journey the traveling you know? I am more interested in the process. So the two things I became more curious about were the lives of comedians and how they use humor as a shield because you know seeing them on stage you will laugh but then like when I am talking to them I am like oh God  you need a hug you know?   And then with chefs realizing that it is more art than anything you know? And I explained in the book that I feel like a lot of these meals that you acquire are  they are works of art that you do not have evidence of you know? So maybe I did have the equivalent of a Mona Lisa when I went to Jiro's  restaurant in Japan but now there is no evidence of that. You only have like my story to tell you. And there is no device that can ever recreate that magic again. So yeah I am more interested in what leads up to that place.  Right. The last time you and I spoke you were preparing The Tonight Show theme. You were in the process of writing it.  Right.  And I want to talk to you about that process but first I want to play a very short excerpt of the interview we did while you were writing the theme.  OK.  OK so here it is.   Do you have to write a Tonight Show theme?  Yeah.   Do I note a little anxiety in your voice?  Oh boy I am having these nightmares of duh duh duh  ah ah waking up in the middle of the night.  .  Like I  yeah this is  I am going to  we are going to write a new theme. And I am thinking about it every second. Even now as I talk to you I am thinking of that theme. Like  like I will  we will be the first thing that is heard when the world is watching that new Tonight Show...  Oh yeah.  ...In February  like the music's going to be so the music has to be inviting. Like you think of Johnny Carson . Like that is stuck in your head. It is  the pop song challenge that is going to have to be the one. I have to visualize it and see it. I have to figure out when the curtain opens and Jimmy walks out like what is that song? What is the song that 90 years from now when you know they are talking about The Tonight Show from this era like  but I also know that overthinking it  it is not going to happen by overthinking it. So I am literally  it is going to come to me. And you know I have time. Well OK I have six months which is like a blink.   So did it just come to you? Did you have to throw out a lot of themes before hitting on the one you liked?  All right let me tell you a quick side story.  Yes.  One of the 16 jobs is  I teach at NYU. So this year we are learning about  I am teaching my class about the impact of Michael Jackson's Thriller. So right now we are in the middle of it so we are deep into side two. And I am telling them the story of how Human Nature got on the album which is strictly by accident. The story is that Quincy Jones commissioned members of TOTO to submit some songs for them to consider for the album. And the guys in TOTO wrote some songs realized they had no blank cassettes at their studio  they ran out of cassettes. So they ran to an exmember's office who just had a blank cassette. He is like well there is something on it so you know rewind it to side B where there is blank space and put your songs on there. So it gets to Quincy Jones he listens to it and then goes by you know by his business and then 18 minutes later of silence the auto reverse comes on. And then suddenly Quincy hears a dummy demo of  they say why why tell 'em that it is human nature. And Quincy's like that is the song. But of course it was by accident. That is how our theme song finally  by accident my manager  well we did not do cassettes we just sent a whole bunch of files. And he accidentally put a song in those files and that song coincidentally was the first  I call them sandwiches. Whenever we play instrumental breaks in between sets they are called sandwiches. Right now we are up to about  in the years of Late Night and The Tonight Show we are up to  I think we are up to 4300 songs now. We work quick. We do like 10 to 15 songs a day without thinking. The very first song that we ever worked on at Late Night with Jimmy Fallon  like a song we have not touched. We  matter of fact we never even touched it. But Jimmy's like that is the song that is it. The hey hey hey song  and we are like what hey hey hey? And he played it. And I was like oh that was a mistake man that was like ugh. That  you do not want that. He said no that is what I want. So it was there all along. The very first song that The Roots ever worked on when we came to 30 Rock...  That is amazing.  ...Which was really just a song  we were doing it just to test the speakers you know like...   Like we came in the room for the first time and you know we had to play the sound check on the soundstage and that is the song we made up. And then we never thought about it again. And somehow that just accidentally wound up in Jimmy's file and he said that is the song.  And it is a great song. We are going to play it. We are going to play it right now.  Ah I am cringing.   From Studio 6B in Rockefeller Center in the heart of New York City it is The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.   Hey hey hey hey...  Tonight join Jimmy and his guests  Robert De Niro Jesse Tyler Ferguson comedian Nick Guerra and featuring the legendary Roots crew.   Four five six  wooh.  And now here he is  Jimmy Fallon.   Hey hey hey hey. Hey hey hey hey...   You happy playing it every night?  It is the best job ever. And at the time I did not know it because you know when Jimmy first approached us to do it I think initially in our heads  we have worked and clawed our way to whatever your vision of the top is. Like we had clawed our way to a certain place financially where seven people  well it is never the seven of us. It is seven of us and a crew of  so I mean you are really thinking about 19 20 people  that we could really make a good living. And so like who would ever step away after struggling for 19 years to get to this place of zen to go to an uncertain future? So I mean at the time you know we entertained the conversation and everything. But in our heads we were like there is no way we are going to do The Tonight Show forget it. And suddenly the moment that really nailed it  we were at UCLA and Jimmy was at the show. And I had to do a quick backstage interview. And I came outside my trailer and I walked outside and I went on the campus. There  like you know you see the football field and everything. And my  well now deceased manager Richard Nichols and I  we saw a sight that we just could not  we never thought we would ever see in a million years. And it was Jimmy and The Roots in a Eight is Enough human pyramid.   And you know  and again we were only entertaining the talk simply because like OK maybe one day we will need to come on The Tonight Show. It is good to have a friend in Jimmy Fallon. But when I looked at how silly they looked doing this human pyramid thing  and we are so guarded and we are so cynical and we are so snarky. I mean like we are a bunch of wise expletive you know? And I just looked at my manager and I am just like we are stuck with this guy are not we?   We are listening to the onstage interview I recorded Sunday with Questlove the cofounder and drummer of the hiphop band The Roots which is the house band for The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon. Questlove has a new book of his interviews with chefs called Something To Food About. We will hear more of the interview after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to the onstage interview I recorded Sunday with Questlove the cofounder and drummer of The Roots. He is written a new book collecting his interviews with chefs called Something To Food About. Questlove's band plays hiphop. His father sang doowop leading the group Lee Andrews and The Hearts. So I want to ask you a little bit about your father  Lee Andrews Thompson who died last month at the age of 79  very sorry. And you wrote a beautiful tribute to him on your famous Instagram account. And you called him the greatest teacher of my life. And you said  writing to him you said I understand why you were so hard on me praying I did not succumb to a fate not meant for a teenager in west Philly in the mid'80s. I did not understand it at the time but I appreciate it now. What did he do at the time when you were a teenager that was hard for you to take?  I mean my parents were in my eyes extremely strict on me being home. Like the rule was do not let the Oprah theme come on and you are not home. So even if I lollygagged a little bit and go to the record store like to the arcade or something like when 10 minutes are left and I am like eight blocks away I am like humming .   Like that is my Flight Of The Bumblebee. Like that Oprah theme was like   like I am serious. Not even one minute after. One minute after they knew exactly  it was like no Soul Train like no...  That was the punishment?  Yeah right? Exactly. Yeah just having to practice a lot. I mean I...  Did he get you to practice or were you obsessive about practicing yourself?  I think  I mean at the time you do not know. Like if anyone aspires to be great you know now Malcolm Gladwell's book is sort of in our daily lexicon and you know everyone knows the 10000 hours equals genius thing. But you know 10000 hours is a long time especially when you are doing paradiddles for a halfhour in a row. You do not think  is how you are going to like buy your mom her first house. Like you are not thinking long term like that. You are just  you want to  you know you want to watch TV and look at cartoons and you know call your friends up on the threeway. And you know that was the original group chat back in the day.   You call your friend that has threeway and then he calls a friend that has threeway and then there is like seven of you all on the phone. So you know now I absolutely  I absolutely get it. Like if anything I probably have turned into my dad as far as my  you know I know I have very little tolerance for mistakes made. I am working on that. You know I work on that a lot  mistakes made in the show careless mistakes and those things. Like my father was that type of bandleader. Like he was the James Brown level of  that is 20 right there. Like that is four records I could have broke that week. So you know just  that is  I get it now. But then I did not.  He of course was the lead singer of the group Lee Andrews and The Hearts a doowop group from the '50s  Teardrops Long Lonely Nights Maybe You will Be There. I am going to play a little bit of one of his songs of his big hit Long Lonely Nights.  OK.    Long long and lonely nights. I cry my eyes out over you wondering if I did right and why you left me with a broken heart. Oh long long and...  What do his records and what did his records when you were growing up mean to you? You traveled with him on the road I know. You were real showbiz kids  kid  you did lighting for him you played drums with him when you were like 11 or something. But in terms of his records what have they meant to you over the years?  Well the one question I am always obsessed with with parents today with their kids when I meet them I always often wonder do they trick their kids into their taste? And you know sometimes  yeah. Like a lot of times I will meet kids that are 2 and 3 years old and they know every word to Do not Stop Til You Get Enough or Billie Jean. And my parents wisely tricked me into thinking that doowop music was current music.   In first grade I went to Philadelphia  the private school version of creative and performing arts. First day of school our assignment was to bring in your favorite 45. And so the next day kids were bringing in Shadow Dancing by Andy Gibb or Yvonne Elliman or Disco Duck by Rick Dees.   And I brought in Frankie Lymon and The Teenagers' Why Do Fools Fall In Love. And my teacher started laughing like you listen to this? And I was like yeah. And she did not believe me. And she was like oh man this is music when I was a kid. And then suddenly I realized oh my parents tricked me like these are...   ...These are old records you know?  We are listening to the interview I recorded on stage Sunday with Questlove the cofounder and leader of the hiphop band The Roots. His new book of interviews with chefs is called Something To Food About. On Sunday he told some great stories about Prince. We will hear that after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Let us get back to the onstage interview I recorded Sunday with Questlove of the hiphop band The Roots which is the house band for The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon. He is just written his third book. It is a collection of his interviews with celebrated chefs about their creative process in preparing and presenting food. I want to ask you about Prince. I know Prince meant a lot to you musically and as a person. You have told this story on our show and in your book and in other places about how when you were 12 you kept buying one of his albums. And your parents who had become Christian kept like throwing it out.  Throwing the records away right.  So you had to keep rebuying it and hiding it like I do not know eight or 12 times over and over again. Like what impact did he have on you? Like if that was your first exposure to certain language or certain principles of sex  and your parents did not want you to hear it but you were kind of sneaking it in and you were getting punished as a result of it  no Soul Train. So what impact did hearing sexual things through his music or was it not about that for you? I mean you had such a music head.  The weird thing was that I was absolutely hypnotized by his drum programming. The 1999 album sounded so futuristic. I mean this is one of the first documented times  that and Michael Jackson's Thriller both three weeks within each other in the month of November of '82 come out really introducing a new electronic vocabulary. I mean this is the first times that we are hearing Oberheim synthesizers and Roger Linn drum programming. I mean when you heard these instruments played it was done in such a distinctive way that it was the Prince sound. You instantly knew this is Prince. And so I was just so hypnotized by it. I mean yeah like I  one time I you know I heard the word  I did not know what whore meant and accidentally called  using it as a noun but not knowing what a whore meant like what is up whore you know?   Ahmir I am telling your grandmother. I am like I did not know. I did not know what it meant. I do not know what it meant. Where did you learn that from Ahmir? I do not know. I like blame my cousin or something. But I am not saying that it affected me because I remember it. But from a musical standpoint that is where my Prince obsession always lied.  And you knew Prince. I do not know  how well did you know him as a person? And was it possible to know him as a person?  It was a complex relationship because I could literally tell you  I guess we have had maybe like a good  if you have a good 20 interactions with someone that is knowing them right a little bit?  Yeah.  I mean each of them varies to a degree. I mean in the beginning it is fearful like because you are meeting your  I do not even think I said words the first time I met him. It was just all this nonsensical...  Because he meant so much to you when you were 12. That is such a formative year.  Yeah.  I mean the effort that you went through to be able to listen to him.   Yeah a lot of my punishments were you know from Oprah themes and Prince songs.   Yeah so the first time it was just like  and plus he acknowledged what I did. He was like I really liked that video.  Like I was just talking backwards like how do you know? I cannot even say it now like how does he know I am alive? Like does he know I exist? The second time we spoke I kind of asked him. I said yo like I got to let you know. Like you are mad normal. Like I did not expect  and he laughed. He said what you think I would not be? And at the time I was with D'Angelo and I was like  like why are you so nice to us? Like we did not think you would be this normal and speak complete sentences like...   I mean you know like the kung fu grasshopper voice that you expect Prince to have like well done sensei. You know that sort of thing.   And then one night just out the blue he ambushed us. I was working on Common's Electric Circus album and the phone rang and the receptionist said you know it is for you. And I picked up and he says hello can I speak to Prince? I said who? He is like you know your name means prince right? I said who is this? He said Prince.   And Ahmir does mean prince.  Yeah it does.  I looked it up .  Yeah. And he is like are you going to be there for a little bit? And I was like yeah you know we are mixing. And he came by at  it was already 3 in the morning. Like we played him some songs we were working on and then he gave us like  it was a fourhour lecture on religion.  He was a Jehovah's Witness.  OK the thing about...   Like when people find like newfound religion it is like they are so on fire for it for like the first seven years. So I think I caught like year three...   ...Where he was just like at the pinnacle of it. And so it is me 3lau a singer we worked with  marvelous like one of my favorite singers ever  and Common. And you remember the cover of The Who is The Kids Are Alright? Like they are all asleep on each other's shoulders.   Cut to 7 of the clock in the morning and like  it is just like me 3lau Common one other person. Like we are just literally like  yes we  yeah we get it. We get it. We get it you know and Prince is like a coach. Like furthermore you have to duh duh duh duh duh . And I was just like yo like that is so surreal. Like the guy that got me on the most punishment and the guy that introduced like the concept of anything lewd or sexual is like now  turned into my parents like...   When did this happen?   Could you ask him anything like that? Like why did you convert? Or when did you become this person?  Well OK so there was one time at the studio. He has a curse jar a cuss jar.  You had to put money in it if you curse?  OK so I am at...   I am at  we are at Paisley Park and I do not know. Maybe I let the Sword slip. I do not know what your...  This will be broadcast.  Thank you.   And he was like yeah that'll be a dollar. And he grabbed the  it was like a  you know like the water bottles  the water bottles that you put in  he was like that is a dollar. He said actually no you are rich. That is 20.   And I said huh? He said no cursing. I said cursing? I was like wait. You are the one that taught me how to curse.   But the thing was is that when I said that I was really saying it to get out of paying 20 bucks. But when I saw the look on his face and when I walked away that night and went back to the hotel I was like wow I wonder if he really felt bad about that like if he thinks in his head like man I have ruined a generation like I have...   No but he really felt that. And I felt that with a lot of his secret philanthropy and a lot of the Robin Hood stuff that he was doing. And I mean real deep political like saving schools and people to this day not knowing where this 3 million check came from. Like that was all him. I felt like maybe in the last 20 years of his life he felt the need to overcompensate or pay forward what he feels that maybe he damaged some of us who grew up listening to his music. This is weird but I mean more than that I mean he was also like a real funny person. One of my favorite moments ever was the night that Winnie Fallon Jimmy's first daughter was born I got a call on the bat signal. When Prince calls you it is kind of presidential. Like an assistant calls an assistant It is like real meta. Like he will talk to you now.   And that sort of thing. And so the assistant was like where is Jimmy at? And I said oh man his daughter came today. So you know we had the night off. We are going to show a rerun tonight. And he says well relay this message. Prince will be at Susan Sarandon's SPiN. Susan Sarandon owns a chain of pingpong clubs where you go in  it is like a bowling alley but for pingpong. He says so Prince will be at Susan Sarandon's SPiN till about 1 a.m. and he wants to challenge Jimmy to a game.   And so I responded. I said OK well all right but you know she just had the baby so I will make sure he gets it. And then the response was OK just let him know around like midnight tonight Prince will be there. And I was like no no no no no. No I do not think he could  he had a baby like...   OK well he will be at SPiN  like wait  it was like  he was totally missing it. So I hang up the phone. I kind of doze off a little bit and around 30 I was just like wait what part of baby did he not get? I said wait a minute. So then I call Jimmy. I am like yo man. I said Prince just hit me up said he going to be at Susan Sarandon's SPiN around like midnight or so and wants to challenge you to a you know game of pingpong. And then Jimmy responded wait right now?   I was like dude you just had a baby. You are not going to do this right now are you? Do you think I should?   I was like dude you know you cannot do it. He is like yeah but this is Prince we are talking about. This is once  like who gets to play pingpong with Prince? I said look  and then I connected the two of them. So the next day in  at a camera blocking...  Did he go?  The next day at camera blocking rehearsal Jimmy says 30 tonight it is going down. I said what? He is like I am going to challenge him. So I said am I allowed to watch this or you know? Jimmy says yeah you can come through  30 tonight. So of course on Ahmir time 30 means like 50. So I get there almost like 10 minutes to 11 and this gust of wind passes me by my back and I do not even notice it. I see one of our showrunners and producers outside smoking a cigarette. I said so did I miss it? Did I miss it? She is like wait you just missed him. There he goes. I said huh? And I turn around. SUV's about to pull off. I am like yo wait. And I run to the corner. It is a red light. And just like the Grey Poupon commercial like...   The window comes down real slow. And it is Prince right with a paddle in his hand.   And he is kind of doing tricks with it. He is like flipping it in his hands. And I said wait wait. I missed it. I missed it. What happened? What happened? And he says green light ask your boy. And he goes up.   But then  I follow him. I say whoa whoa whoa wait whoa and then...   I say you have a golden pingpong paddle?   So Jimmy's story was that Prince was being nice to him for the first two rounds and then dusted him 19 to 2. But on the very last one he did a slam. Like if you remember how like Tom Hanks was in Forrest Gump like he is that level of competition. So Jimmy says the last round he was toying with him and he just decided to just slam the ball. So Jimmy went over to get the ball like from under the table and they got up and said hey good  and Prince was gone.   We are listening to the onstage interview I recorded Sunday with Questlove the cofounder and drummer of the hiphop band The Roots which is the house band for The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon. Questlove has a new book of his interviews with chefs called Something To Food About. We will hear more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to the onstage interview I recorded Sunday with Questlove the cofounder and drummer of the hiphop band The Roots the house band for The Tonight Show. His father was the leader of the doowop group Lee Andrews and The Hearts. So your grandfather I think on your father's side was a member of The Dixie Hummingbirds the great gospel group.  Yeah.  And of course doowop and gospel harmonies are very connected.  Right.  And I know your father did not really like hiphop at least not at first. He did not like rap.  Yeah.  Did your grandfather not like your father's music?  I have got to really really be honest with you  see you are kind of disarming in your conversation and like now I have got to be honest with you. For the longest journalists would come and talk about William Beachy Thompson...  Your grandfather yeah.  ...Of The Dixie Hummingbirds. And I would deny it. That is not my grandfather. No you are wrong. And then I would go to my Wikipedia page and someone keeps putting it back.  You mean  is that true? It is really not your grandfather?  Hear me out.   OK.   I mean this is going on forever and forever and forever. Now what I did know of my grandfather's relationship with his children  it was a short run and there really was not that much love in the household. It was a very volatile situation my father's rearing  his growing up in that household. So he really did not have fond memories of my grandfather. Now four months before he passed The Roots got honored on Broad Street with one of those  the Walk Of Fame things. And yet the umpteenth journalist was like this is amazing three generations of Thompsons on Broad Street  you your grandfather. And I was like do not say it. And you know and finally I went to my dad and I was like  I said Dad. I said I got to tell you something. You know for like the last 12 years all these journalists and everybody up have been coming up to me saying that William Beachy Thompson from The Dixie Hummingbirds is my grandfather. Is that true? And it was the most painful kind of ambiguous denial ever. Like my dad sort of like matrixed his way like out of...   He said well you know I  you know that is what they say. And I said Dad is my grandfather William Beachy Thompson of The Dixie Hummingbirds or not? And he finally said yes he is. OK there. He is. And that is kind of how I find out. Now I feel horrible for all the countless cousins all the countless family members down south that have like hey cousin William Beachy Thompson. That is not my grandfather. You know that like I have had millions of those moments. So right now I am slowly doing research because I just got this confirmation four or five months ago.  Shortly before he died shortly before your father died.  Yeah.  I am glad you were able to ask him. Why did not he tell you with pride?  Because they did not have a good relationship. And I do not know. Like I kind of wanted to go there but at the time my dad was in the hospital sick. So I did not want to get into  Dad I would have loved to have known this  you know that sort of thing.  So has finding out that your grandfather really was a member of The Dixie Hummingbirds gotten you in a more kind of gospel direction in terms of your listening?  No. I mean I have always  I am on a gospel kick before the ironic reasons. The last like two months my broker has been like scouring like all of these gospel records for me.  You have got somebody buying records for you?  That sounded real 1 percent did not it?   I am sorry.  We are listening to the interview I recorded on stage Sunday with Questlove the cofounder and leader of the hiphop band The Roots the house band for