 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show hosts of NPR's The Indicator from Planet Money Stacey Vanek Smith and Cardiff Garcia. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners to my guests. All of you all are hearing some new music right now to open the show. It was made just for us by Nick DePrey. Nick thank you so much. This new music for our show has been in the works for a while and I am happy to bring it to you all. Get used to it. As Betty said we have two all-stars here this week. Joining us from some pretty impressive blanket forts in New York City...  .  ...Stacey Vanek Smith Cardiff Garcia hosts of The Indicator. How are you all?  Good Sam. We are hanging in there.  Yeah hearing Aunt Betty's voice made me feel like everything's going to be OK.  Yes yes. So you all are several weeks into home recording. How are the home studios holding up?  Literally by threads right now you know?   I am halfway into my closet with a blanket draped over my head.  Yeah...  OK. OK.  ...I am on my bedroom floor. And I have like a - my dining room chairs in a little - creating a little structure. And I have draped this big comforter over it. It is like a yurt...  .  ...Very DIY. It is like an urban yurt.  Yeah. We are going to get to the news of the week which is this week those truly astonishing new unemployment numbers here in the U.S. Stacey and Cardiff because they cover the economy have been tracking all of that. But first before we get there I want to share a thing that brought me some joy this week. It involves Dolly Parton.    Chug chug chug. Puff puff puff. Ding dong ding dong. The little train rumbled over the tracks. She was a happy little train...  Oh is not that beautiful? That is Dolly Parton.  Dolly. Yes.  So because she loves us all and wants us to OK ok Dolly Parton has begun a nightly video series where she is reading children's stories bedtime stories for anyone who wants to watch. Dolly's here to help.  Dolly's the best.  It is a really beautiful gesture.  I am not sure this country deserves Dolly Parton but I am glad we have got her.  Which celebrity would you all pick to have read you bedtime stories?  Actually we have already picked that celebrity .  What is that?  It is Matthew McConaughey .  Oh my God. Cardiff do your Matthew McConaughey. Cardiff does the most amazing Matthew McConaughey impression. It is so good.  Do it. Do it.  Now I am on the spot here. Yeah fine.  .  It is more an impression than I once saw Matt Damon do of Matt McConaughey but it was something like - Sam I think this would be a good time for me to take my shirt off you know?   It is as close as it is going to get.  That was good. All right we are going to pivot here. We are going to pivot real hard to unemployment.  To unemployment yes.  Got to talk about it.  That is a hard thing yeah.  Yes. Each week I have my panelists start the show with three words describing their week of news. This week as we know the big news is unemployment. I want to just run through the stats really quickly. In the last two weeks now it seems that some 10 million Americans have filed for unemployment which means most likely even more have actually lost jobs. Last week it was more than 6 million people filing. The week before that it was over 3 million filing. In the last two weeks by those numbers all of the job gains from the last five years have been lost. It is astounding to me. So on that note Cardiff we are going to start with you and your three words which are about whether or not our current unemployment insurance program is actually ready for this moment.  Yeah my three words are what we owe. And I am referring specifically to what those of us who are fortunate enough right now to be able to keep doing our jobs owe to the people that we have asked to sacrifice their jobs and their livelihoods to keep all of us safe. I mean unemployment can be a really crushing experience and - psychologically emotionally. And on top of that you have the financial stresses. I think right now we need to make sure that we are providing for them. And in terms of whether or not we are ready to do that I think the answer clearly right now is no. But we are getting ready.  My question for you Cardiff in a perfect world with the ideal system what would our unemployment insurance program right now look like if it were totally what it should be in an economist dream?  Yeah if I could design it from scratch it would be a system that actually preserved the relationship between the workers and their companies and their employers. And so a system whereby effectively we would be paying companies to keep all of their workers on their books - and the government would essentially subsidize their payrolls because that way even during this time when people are not working they are still getting paid most if not all of their salaries. But also it keeps that relationship in place so that after the public health crisis is passed they can get right back to work as opposed to having a situation where you have all these people on unemployment and then they are all going to be scrambling at the same time when it is over to get back to their jobs. And so it would combine keeping the relationship between workers and their companies and it would be providing enough assistance to the companies themselves that they also stay viable during this time so that there is a place for all these workers to go back to. The ship has kind of sailed on that system. We would have had to start you know a couple of months ago. So we are kind of settling for a second-best approach now which is to just provide a lot more compensation as part of unemployment insurance.  Yeah yeah. You know even though we have seen this close to 10-million figure for new unemployment filings in the last few weeks there is still so many folks that have not been able to file yet. We have heard about the backlogged phone lines and websites. Do we know yet if everyone who needs to file will be able to file? And how long will these hiccups last? You know it is state by state so it could be hard to say definitively. But is there any word on that front?  Yeah I mean in all likelihood some states are going to struggle to get this under control even within the next few weeks. And that is critical time. And it is really unfortunate. But the thing to keep in mind is that a lot of these states were underfunded - had underfunded their unemployment insurance systems even before the coronavirus pandemic hit. So in all likelihood you are going to see a lot of states really start to staff up the people who run the unemployment insurance websites and the people who can process the claims. But they are way behind right now so it is going to take some weeks.  Yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here this weekend with two guests - a dynamic duo - Stacey Vanek Smith and Cardiff Garcia the two hosts of NPR's daily economics podcast The Indicator. It has been a joy to hear you all tackle this big story so wonderfully and so head on from literally blanket forts in your apartments in New York .  That is right.  Stacey you have three words about how employers are trying to survive this moment without you know just closing shop.  Yes. So my three words are small business pivot. And you know with all of these layoffs happening also there are all of these small business owners all across the country who are desperately desperately trying to figure out how to bring money in right now. A lot of them are trying to go online figure out deliveries. And so at The Indicator we talked to a couple of different businesses who have figured out a way to try to start bringing revenue in. One was a distillery in New Orleans - actually the biggest distillery in the state. His name is Gordon Stewart. His company is Porchjam. And he was providing a lot of local restaurants and bars with gin and vodka and things like that. And you know all at once all of the bars closed obviously because of social distancing. And so he figured out that he could make hand sanitizer in his distillery. I guess the process is the same. The main ingredient in hand sanitizer is distilled alcohol.  Oh my goodness.  So he just pivoted his distillery. He like went to work like a mad scientist figuring out how to make hand sanitizer. I mean the businesses that can pivot I think are exceptional. And even if they can pivot often the amount of money they are bringing in now is a fraction of what they were bringing in. A lot of businesses are not going to survive this. I think it is just - it is too much. You know just like cutting businesses off from profits for you know a couple of months three months whatever it is going to be - that is a lot. And in fact you know I think we are seeing - I talked to a labor economist this week. And she predicted that we will probably see about 20 million people unemployed...  Oof.  ...Which is about 16 of the population. That is a conservative estimate too. I mean we have been seeing estimates of like 20 30. The Great Depression - unemployment hit 25 just to give you an idea.  Yeah yeah. You know I have what is possibly a dumb question on this point. When we think about whether or not these businesses can survive stay afloat if they bring back their old workers - a thing I cannot figure out is what is the difference when a business says we are firing everyone or when they say we are going to furlough everyone? There is a distinction there right? Does that determine what happens next in some kind of way?  Yeah. So a furlough is essentially the same as being laid off except that it is thought to be temporary. So people who are furloughed can still apply for unemployment benefits and they absolutely should. But it is with the understanding that they will be able to come back to their jobs - to the jobs that they left once the crisis has passed and these businesses can start hiring people again. But of course a furlough does not help if in fact the business you work for ends up going out of business if it goes bankrupt. And what we know is that a lot of small businesses especially have very very small cash reserves - typically less than a month's worth. And we are already several weeks into this thing. And so the help that is coming from the government is going to come probably too late for a lot of them. And also it may not be enough help. So when we talk about what they need to do in the next bill it is going to probably include more generous package for businesses themselves. But there is no avoiding it at this point. We are just kind of too late. A lot of these places just are not going to stay viable. And so that is going to make things really hard when the public health part of the crisis has passed and workers want to get back to work.  Yeah. One possible bright spot - this Friday is the start of when small businesses can begin to apply for some relief loans to help in this difficult time. So hopefully that process is helpful to a lot of folks out there. You know we actually talked to someone this week who has been experiencing all of this firsthand. Dan hi. How are you? DAN O' Good Sam. How are you?  I am good. I am good. His name is Dan O'Brien . He lives in Wisconsin. We first heard from Dan because he sent in this lovely voice memo about his 8-month-old daughter and how she was helping him get through the pandemic. But then a week later Dan emailed us again with a much more sad update. O' Yeah. So probably - I guess it was a few days after I left that message we found out that the ad agency that I work at had to lay off about half the staff. So I find myself for the first time in my life unemployed. You know we will be OK on money. You know we have got savings. We are fine. But the mortgage payment's going to get a little bit tricky. And then everything else kind of starts to - may get trickier and trickier after that. You know we do not know how long this thing's going to last. And so we try to figure out some of the normal things like you know unemployment. That is been kind of tricky because like all of the hospital system - the unemployment system has been really tricky to navigate.  Yeah. Yeah. I mean I want you to walk me back to the moment when your employer lays off half the office all at once. How do you even do that? What was that scene? How and when did you hear? O' Well we are all working from home obviously. And I am in the middle of a call with a client. And all of a sudden I get a notification that says you need to retype your email because your email - my email was not working. And then I got a text from a friend who is actually on maternity leave. And she said that she was laid off. And so I thought well I better check my personal email. And sure enough a letter from HR.  You alluded to the unemployment system being kind of hard to manage right now because it is so overwhelmed in this moment. What has been your experience dealing with that system? Have you filed for unemployment yet? And if so what is it been like? O' Yeah. So I went online. And the first experience of just registering was not a problem but because it is my first time and I was not getting walked through it by anyone I had a hard time actually applying for that first week's benefits. And you cannot call anyone because the second you call - it is busy each time to call. And then finally if you get through once you navigate through the touchtone system. And then it tells you we are experiencing larger than normal call volume. Try back again later. Click.  What in this crazy time for everyone is getting you through right now? A song? A TV show? Anything? Food? Drink? O' Well we are making funny videos with the kids. This morning we did an April Fools' joke on their cousins where we stood in front of the TV with a beach background and pretended that we went to Florida. And pictures of quarantinis and memes about Tiger King and all the things that are going on in the world that are keeping people occupied right now.  Yeah. I tell you one way to forget about everything else is to have a quarantini and watch some Tiger King. O' .  That'ill take you out of this world real quick. O' For sure. For sure.  Hey Dan I really appreciate you sharing your story with me and our listeners. I look up to you for staying so strong in the midst of some big stuff happening right now. So thank you. O' Well thank you for having me on the show. Appreciate it.  Thanks again to listener Dan O'Brien. Listeners stay with us. Coming up we are going to talk about all those musicians and DJs doing all those concerts and sets on Instagram Live. I know you have seen them. They are impossible to escape. After the break we will tell you which ones are actually worth checking out. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined this weekend by the dynamic duo of Cardiff Garcia and Stacey Vanek Smith the two hosts of NPR's daily economics podcast The Indicator. Hello.  Hi.  Sam.   Hi Sam.  How are you?  So right now is a weird time for musicians. Because of coronavirus they cannot go on tour. There are no concerts. There are no meet and greets. Like the rest of us they are stuck. But a lot of them have figured out a work around on Instagram.    Good morn or evening friends. Here's your friendly announcer.  You have seen them by now. Just about every musician you have ever heard of going on Insta doing digital concerts. We are hearing now a bit of a concert that John Legend did on Instagram Live in the midst of the outbreak. And it is not just singers. DJs are spinning sets on Instagram live. Some songwriters are playing around on Instagram live and having songwriter battles as well. It is kind of a fun time. So I called up my friend and colleague Sidney Madden. She is an editor at NPR Music. And she talked to me about what makes these online concerts and music battles and sets work and how coronavirus is fundamentally reshaping the music industry. Sidney Madden of NPR Music hi. How are you?  I am good. What is up Sam? How are you?  I am doing good considering. Grateful every day. Pushing through.  Yeah.  First I want to talk about an interesting tidbit you shared with us that makes actually no sense to me. Apparently in the midst of coronavirus streaming of music is down?  Yeah.  Why in the world is streaming down? I would think it would be up because we are all at home right now.  For me if you really think about it it does kind of make sense because a lot of these carefully curated playlists on Spotify Apple Music - whatever streaming platform you prefer - they are really played in social settings. So that is bars restaurants - these are the places where the playlists and continuous streaming really strive because it allows you to listen to music passively. But when people are taken out of those social situations everything has to become more intentional. So I know for me I am really going back to the albums and artists that bring me the most comfort. So that is people that you know my mom played growing up. That is Bob Marley. That is Sister Nancy. That is Billie Holiday. The music that has always brought you comfort is the thing that is making sense to a lot of people.  Totally. So let us talk about the community online that I have been seeing so many artists lean into right now. So as we know because of coronavirus artists cannot tour. Artists cannot do concerts. So to fill in the gaps a lot of musicians and DJs have been doing these Instagram Live concerts. Perhaps the most famous of them have been like Coldplay and John Legend. But the DJs are doing it too - folks like D-Nice. I have been seeing online battles between musicians and artists. I guess to the extent you can - because there is so much - can you give me a big picture of what these folks are doing? And then like tell me your favorite two or three.  Yeah. It is this kind of cool social phenomenon that we are seeing because it brings every artist that you have ever loved to your phone screen on demand whenever you want to see it. I love how you brought up the IG Live DJ-producer battles - songwriter battles that are happening. DJ battles are intrinsic to hip hop culture anyway but this live version of it in the aspect of social media is definitely a new phenomenon that is taken on a lot of steam.  I want you to explain more what this looks like. You know there was a strange yet lovely songwriter battle this week - and a songwriter battle just FYI - this is when these writers online have been playing their greatest hits back-to-back in rapid succession. And so this battle was between The-Dream this famous songwriter for folks like Beyonce and Sean Garrett who is written songs for everybody as well. And it was amazing.  Yeah. It is so funny. It is like you get a front row seat to the culture at your fingertips. A lot of I will say persuasive and influential fans online have compelled artists to come up with these matchups of either a beat battle a songwriters battle producers battle - whatever it is. And you mentioned the one between The-Dream and Sean Garrett. There have also been really dope ones between Johnta Austin and Ne-Yo...  Oh s.  .  .  ...Both very seasoned very acclaimed songwriters.  We as not playing.   The great things about this - it is kind of an effortless education for fans who maybe casually listen to hits by Ne-Yo or The-Dream but are not really tuned into what their pen game has been for decades in the industry.  Oh yeah. I want to talk about another standout musical moment for me in this moment of social distancing. It is got to be D-Nice. He is this DJ who is been having these DJ sets online through his Instagram feed every night. The biggest ones have had more than 100000 people showing up to watch with like celebrities like Oprah and Ellen. I mean his music is good. But why do you think Sidney something like that is working so well right now?  What is really special about D-Nice's sets is that it brings so many different people from so many different walks of life together. D-Nice is someone who is been - who is a very well-respected DJ and producer. He is been around since the '80s - since basically the birth of hip hop. And so when he throws a party - he was actually one of the first people to coin the term club quarantine. And yeah as you said big names showed up. And the cool thing about that - the cool thing about Instagram Live is anytime anyone joins it pops up. So as you see all these names scrolling - you see Oprah Rihanna. You see Ellen. But it was really funny at one moment when Michelle Obama the former first lady showed up to the club. And D-Nice had to stop what he was doing. He was like whoa we have Michelle Obama in the club everybody.   Just crazy. But we are going to play something for Michelle. Michelle this is for you.    Shining shining shining shining. Yeah.  And he did a shoutout.   What is up Michelle?  As if we were really all about to pop bottles and get on the dance floor 'ecause Michelle Obama's there.  Oh I know. Yeah. Well because it is like - I had it on this past weekend cooking food etc. And before you know it when he would shout out all these celebrities come in I would be like oh my goodness what is up Oprah? As if I am actually there with them.  As if you are there.  Like I really got caught up in it.  Yeah.  All right. Last question for you. Who do you most want to see musically get online and do something? A concert a DJ set a battle. Who are you waiting for to see?  Oh. That is a good one. That is a good one. See. I do not think this will actually happen because I am sure the Carters are on some compound on Mars or something. But I would really love to see - you know I would love to see my lord and savior Beezus - Beyonce at a piano. Yeah .  Listen. Listen. I want to see her do an entire acoustic set of Lemonade.  Yes. Yes.  Like top to bottom.  Oh my gosh. I just started...  Would not it be beautiful?  ...I just started salivating. Yes absolutely.  .  That would be crazy.  Oh man. Beyonce if you are out there listening help us in this moment. Give us a concert. I will be watching.  Absolutely. The world needs it B. We need it.  Yes. Sidney thank you so much. Appreciate you.  Thank you so much Sam.  Thanks again to Sidney Madden of NPR Music. Check out her weekly feature on our website called Heat Check. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. When we come back we will play my favorite game Who Said That.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined by Stacey Vanek-Smith and Cardiff Garcia the two hosts of NPR's daily economics podcast. It is time you all for my favorite game Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  So what is it like when the two contestants in this game work together so closely? Do you see yourselves as like a dynamic duo? Or are you actually going to fight to the death with this one?   No. No. I feel like Stacey can finish all of my...  ...Sentences.  Yeah.   Nailed it .  So that means for this game both of you will answer together?  Exactly.  I hope so because Stacey's way more hip than I am so...  That is so untrue but thank you.  ...I could use the help.  I am definitely not more hip than Cardiff. You heard his Matthew McConaughey. I mean...   That is true. That is true.  I have been working on it for 12 years.  ...Nailing it.  So this game is very simple. I share three quotes from the news this week. You have got to tell me who said it or at least tell me what the story is about. There are no buzzers. Just yell out the answer. The winner per usual gets absolutely nothing. Here's the first quote. I was a student at Northwestern University. And I do not know - they had scouted me at school. I got called down to a casting agent. They handed me the thing and I was auditioning for the part of - was the character named Screech? Who said that?  Dustin Diamond?   No. Someone else.  What? Somebody else played Screech?  Some other famous guy revealed that years ago he auditioned for Screech.  It is got to be somebody who looks Screech-like.  We actually have a little bit of tape from this person talking about the whole experience.   Imagine how that character ended up in broadcast. I did my audition. And then they said to me there is a term you are going to want to need to know about as a professional. It is called over the top.  Yeah.  You just went over the top.  Do you all know that voice? It is a famous late night host.  Seth Meyers?   It is not Seth Meyers. It is not Jimmy Kimmel.  Colbert. I am mouthing the word to you.  I know I cannot read your lips.  Colbert. Colbert.  Oh Stephen Colbert?  Stephen Colbert.  Oh my God we actually said it at the same time.  So he auditioned for a Screech-like character huh?  Yeah. So this week on his show Stephen Colbert revealed that many many moons ago he auditioned for the part of Screech in Saved By The Bell. He did not get the role obviously. It probably worked out for the best because I like him doing what he is doing now.  I think that is good.  Right? So he actually was talking about this whole process with Ryan Reynolds during his show and Reynolds seemed to be very shocked by this piece of intel.  Yeah no I know.  You know? Anyways that first point is going to both of you all. Sure. Why not?  We will take it. I do not know if we earned it but we will take it.  We will take it. We will take it.   Next quote - everybody's been shut down. The only reason why I did not shut the justice down is because hey she as not having it. Who said that? - someone who works closely with a justice.  I thought - I was going to say Trump but I cannot imagine him say she as not having it.  No.  .  This is someone that works with one individual justice on a personal basis who might have shut down their usual weekly or daily activity because of health guidelines.  Is this RBG's trainer or something?   Yes yes.  Yeah.  So this week Bryant Johnson the personal trainer to Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg talked about how even in the midst of coronavirus he is still training the 87-year-old justice. He says that all of the workout equipment is being sanitized. He is practicing social distancing with RBG. And he says that they are so in sync with their routine that there is no need for them to be closer than 6 feet. But they are not stopping. RBG is still working out.  And given that she is still doing that at - what was it? - 87 you know it really puts to shame like all of our excuses for why we are not keeping in shape even though we are stuck at home.  Oh yeah. All right. This final quote makes me laugh - I have not laughed this much in a while. This story is bananas. The quote is  - the quote is I was so confused as to why I was a potato. Of all the things I could be why a potato?  Oh I know. This is like a CEO who was on a Zoom call and actually turned herself into a potato and like could not switch it back. Right?   Yes. Yes. Yes.   Have you all seen this?  God bless Zoom. No.  No.  As I describe this for you just Google potato video conference. Just Google that 'ecause I want you to see it. This quote comes from Lizet Ocampo. She is the political director at People for the American Way. So in a Zoom online happy hour she used some fun filters. But after the happy hour was done she could not switch her filter back for the actual work meetings.  .  So she told Buzzfeed Monday morning we had our meeting. And I usually do a camera. And when we began the meeting I saw myself as a potato she said. And she could not change it. Do you all see it? Is it not bananas?  It is amazing.  It is a potato with a face. And for the whole meeting she could not get rid of it.  .  All right. That concludes Who Said That for this week. Stacey you really won that one. You did. I mean although you and Cardiff are a dynamic duo you both really won. But Stacey you get the crown.  .  This is actually like quite a prize. I am feeling good. I might turn myself into a potato.  Do it. I want to see it. Please.   Me too.  Potato yourself. All right. Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week we ask our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. They do. Jinae hit that tape.  Hi Sam. This is Cade . And the best thing that happened to me this week was finding a pet tortoise in the street. And we named Timmy. And then two days later we found his real owner. And we found out his real name was Henry.  Hey Sam. I am Ashley .  I am Michael .  The best part of our week was that we moved...  Back to Arkansas.  Best part of my week was pulling up to a big empty parking lot where all of my friends had parked in a big circle with happy birthday posters balloons and flowers.  Hi Sam. This is Kayla  from Butte Mont. The best part of my week is that this morning we woke up to signs all over our town that say believe in Butte. I guess somebody in the middle of night decided that we needed a pick-me-up from our windows. And I really appreciate it.  Hi Sam. This is Betsy  in Maryland. The best part of my week was hearing my little boy say I love you for the first time. He is 3. I woke up on Saturday morning to his little face in mine - him saying Mama I love you so much. And his name is Sam. Thanks for your show. Stay safe.  Thanks for your show.  Thanks Sam.  Thanks. Have a great week.  Bye.  Even in the midst of a global pandemic there is still joy. I like that.  Aw. I love the escaped tortoise.  Yes. Yes. Thanks to those listeners - Betsy Kayla Aubrey Ashley and Michael and Cade. Listeners want to hear from you as well. Share the best part of your week at any point throughout any week. Just record yourself onto your phone and then email that file to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org.   Thank you all both for hanging this week Stacey Vanek-Smith and Cardiff Garcia the two host of NPR's daily economics podcast The Indicator. Everyone hearing my voice go check out that podcast.  This was fun.  All right. As always thanks to the fine folks that are some of the best parts of my week every week the team that makes this show. This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Hafsa Fathima. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss NPR's senior VP of programming is Anya Grundmann. As I mentioned earlier we have new theme music for the show that was composed by Nick DePrey. Listeners till next time thank you for listening. Stay safe. Stay home. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  