 I remember seeing kids in school their mothers would like write them notes in their lunch and everything was so perfect and they would you know come and park hours before they got out of school just to wait to pick them up. But like my Dad - it was not like that. He would let me taste his beer when I was young and we watched Howard Stern together and like the Howard Stern on E like the crazy one!  This is Death Sex and and what? What is it? Money! Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about ...and need to talk about more. I am Lisa Ling in for Anna Sale. And when I was asked who I wanted to interview for this episode there were a lot of reasons that rapper and actor Awkwafina was at the top of my list. Like me she was raised primarily by her dad. And like my kids she is of both Chinese and Korean descent. And I absolutely loved watching her in last summer's hit rom-com Crazy Rich Asians.  Thank you very much for bringing Rachel.  Oh no worries.  Do you want to stop by for some dinner?  Oh no I could not impose.  No it is not a problem.  You know I had some dinner plans.  Seriously we have got a -  Yeah I will fucking come to dinner! That movie was just one of the things that made 2018 a big year for Awkawfina. She also turned 30 she co-starred in the all-female cast of Ocean's 8 dropped an EP called In Awkwafina We Trust and hosted Saturday Night Liveonly the second Asian-American woman ever to do so.  I am so stoked to be hosting Saturday Night Live. My name is Awkwafina... But when she was growing up in Queens New York Awkwafina went by her birth name Nora Lum. And her family was not crazy rich.  My Grandma lost her restaurant she went bankrupt. The electricity got cut off from her house that is why she had to move into Queens to raise me. She would lie awake sometimes and you know we would be next to each other and I asked her what is your only wish Grandma? And she was like just being able to pay my bills this month. Like that was her wish. It was something that ate at her um and I remember as a kid thinking that we do not have money. Like we do not - it is not like that. But money was just one reason why Nora's grandmother moved in. When Nora was only four her mother died from pulmonary hypertension. And her dad needed a hand raising his only kid.  My Grandma was my Mom. She filled that void for me.  Yeah there are not a lot of kids today who are being raised just by their dads. So back then what was that like for you as an only child Asian kid being raised by a single dad?  I think that there were certain things that I missed. In many ways I was raised you know like a boy right? I was taught catch before -  I was never given dolls. Like literally there is pictures of me as a baby playing in the bathtub and I am playing with wrestling like Hulk Hogan these little Hulk Hogan figurines. Those were my dolls. Um and I think that it instilled in me like a certain confidence that is masculine at its core like but not in the ways that you would think. But at the same time I think that you miss out on things. You know this is kind of a sad story but I remember this so vividly. At my mom's funeral my Korean relatives had bought me this like beautiful dress to wear and I just threw the biggest tantrum I was like I am not wearing that. And I showed up in like a raggedy old t-shirt and like shorts. You know? Weird things like that.  What did you know about your mom? Like do you actually remember her much?  I do. Um I remember like little things. I think I can imagine what it would have been like to be raised by her. I think - um like tteok she used to feed me tteok when I was a kid. Um and I was like  And you are talking about tteok you mean the Korean rice cake -  Right the circular rice cakes. Exactly yeah yeah yeah.  Okay okay.  And so I remember those things and she was sick for a lot of the time when I was growing up yeah.  Even though your dad uh was he born in the U.S.?  He came over very young like extremely young. Like a baby. Lisa Okay so very very western Americanized dad. But he probably was not as communicative as actual like white American guys right? Because Asian culture in general is pretty closed off and incommunicative?  Oh especially with dads. There is always that one dad or grandpa that is like holded up in a study and has not talked to anybody for like days. That was my grandpa. And I think my dad it was not I do not think like a way that an Asian grandpa would deal with it. You know?  How did he deal with it?  He talks about her all the time still. You know? Laughs about things. I do not think he ever really got over her. You know? He would have dreams where she would come back and he would be like mad at her.  And did you two talk much about what had happened or talk much about um their relationship?  Uh - when you are four years old how do you process something like that? So the way I was able to understand it is I was watching Bambi and you know that scene wherethe most horrible scene in Bambi and there was this silence after he calls? And I remember that that silence really spoke to mejust the silence. And that is when I like it really kind of hit me. And I think I internalized it in a lot of ways but I also think it affects me every day. Um when you go through adversity at such a young age you learn embarrassment. And I think it is embarrassment and humility that really drives humor and in some ways creation you know? Um and those feelings I was so in-tune with at such a young age. I did not like crying adults I did not want to be the source of like why people were crying. You know? I do not want to see like family members crying and you know holding a crying adult is justit is not something a kid wants to do. You know? So.  And at what age would you say you kind of realized like I need to be funny to get over all the hard shit that I am experiencing and feeling?  Yeah. Um four or five.  Well that is really incredible at such a young age you recognized that if I am funny I do not have to kind of address those emotional issues.  Yeah yeah. I think that I wanted so badly to bring joy um and I really felt validation through bringing joy through making people laugh you know? But I think that it directly ties into not wanting to get to the meat. You just want to kind of make it light and you know get in duck out of there.   Do you think that there is been a benefit for you of being raised by a man and having him kind of raise you like a boy because that is the only way he knew how to raise a kid?  Sure yeah. Yeah and there definitely are benefits. I think that it is just a different kind of support safety a different kind of feeling of your support network right? You do not have that person to like teach you how to do your make-up or dress or take care of yourself or how to deal with that. Like when I first got my period my grandma she used to work at the Exchange Cart Department of Stony Brook Hospital and would steal so muchI am sorry I do not want her to get arrestedbut she would steal! Like she took full advantage. And so you know first time I got my period she was like okay I have a thing. And it was one of those pads they give to pregnant women afterit had a belt   Those massive things -  And I was like wow like youI have to be belted into this thing bro. So it was it was quite an eccentric way of learning how to be a woman.  This podcast is called Death Sex and Money.  Oh great. Awesome. So we are just going to talk about sex now? Okay great.  So we are going to talk about sex now.  Okay great.  Because I wonder who you talked to about sex. You know because with girls very often it is kind of the mom's role to talk about sex?  Yeah yeah. Yeah my dad likeI was not even alluding to the conversation. He just like brought it up like really randomly. He was like anything you do just wear a bag. Wear a bag all right? And I am like why use this lingo with me right now?  How old were you? Do you remember?  In my early teens like 13 14. I was like I do not want to hear about it. And then like my grandma's whole thingit always becomes more graphic than I need it to be. It is like you know Nora when I when I was in China we did not have birth control. We did not have con-damns. Um so do not - the moral of the story do not go to Chinese parents for any sexual advice. Because it never ends well it is always weird it always ends weird.  Well okay so you did not get very productive information about sex -  No!  But when did you start like I do not know becoming curious about it? Or thinking about it? Do you remember those first memories?  I - I yes. I always used to think it was hilarious like you know in the same way a 7-year-old boy thinks that sex is hilarious. You know? Like I think that um moreso than sex it was hitting puberty and realizing that everyone around you was starting to become obsessed with sex. I remember my first day of junior high school I showed up in like an AND1 sweatsuit I do not even know if you know what an AND1 is it is like this basketball brand. And I remember this also so clearly a guy came up to me and was like man why are you wearing that? You are a girl. And it was the first time the first time that I was ever corrected for what I wore. It was never a thing. And then I realized like oh okay. All right. So now I have to learn how to be a girl. Actually you know I found a journal that I would write in when I was that age and I was reading it and yes it was cringey but I like started crying because I remember feeling like so inadequate. You know? And it is not just me it is like everyone at that age. The inadequacy the not being sure. Nora ended up going to LaGuardia Performing Arts high school in New York and in her free time she rapped and wrote her own songs. It was while she was there when she was 15 that she started performing under the name Awkwafina. But her dad had concerns about her pursuing a career in the performing arts.  You know I was a bad high school student I was a bad kid. Bad kid. So I think he was always really used to the idea that I would let him down in some way. He never wanted me to become rich so he could move in with me or anything like that. He just wanted me to be self-sufficient and if God forbid anything happened to him that I would be okay. So after high school Nora left New York City for SUNY Albany where she majored in journalism and women's studies. Then she got a job in a publicity firm back in Manhattan. But from the beginning it was not a good fit.  I was diagnosed ADDADHD at like seven. The office world it just was never something I understood how to do. You know I do not understand how people can just sit there and know what they are doing and have purpose. Like how is that possible? I did not know - I to this day I do not know what a publicist is. And I was one!  You were working as a publicist or a publicist's assistant right?  Yeah but let us be honest. I was bad bad at my job. I would go to work. I would go home and then that was my time. And I would get home by like 5 or 6 on the - you know rush hour. And I would open my computer and I would make beats until 4 in the morning I would wake up at s - and then not go to sleep. Six go to work. That is how much I needed that because every day I spent wondering like what am I doing here? What is this? Why am I so useless like why do I not understand? So going home and making beats like that was me that was my life. And then on her 23rd birthday Nora shot a music video for one of her original songs. And put it on YouTube.   It was the craziest thing I have ever done. Um and my bossyou know how they have obligatory office birthdaysI went in and she was like oh so what did you do for your birthday? And I told her and then I told her what the video was called and immediately got this kind of e-mail that you know was not really malicious in nature but was just kind of just like be careful be careful what you put on the internet. It stays out there you do not want you do not want to embarrasskind of like that kind of e-mail. And it was just kind of like a slap in the face. Like if I cannot have that like what do I have? Like I have nothing I have nothing. But then also I forgot to send out The New York Times bestseller list. Which is basically just spam mail to the entire company. So I was really bad at what I was doing right? And I think that was the last straw. It was like My Vag New York Times and that was it. I really wish that it was a situation where it was like fine I quit. But it was not. I just got fired!  How did that affect you? Getting fired?  It traumatized me. I still do not think I am really that over it. Like I still think it makes me feel like completely inadequate. I do not think I ever really gotten closure. And I think that my dad at a certain point stopped believing and I think that was the biggest letdown. You know when he lost hope in me. It was kind of just proof of something that he already knew. That I would not be good at adulting you know this is notI could not do it. Um and then around that time when I got fired he would like send me these jobs and they were not like lit jobs. They were like meat inspector air traffic controller. Like I do not want to disparage those jobs but like medium-hanging fruits compared to like why do not you go to law school or something? You know like a sonogram technician was another one. Which is fine. I actually did apply to become a sonogram technician like uh you know. But I hoped that he wanted more for me. Coming up Nora hits it big as Awkwafina. And along the way realizes that she is seeing some patterns in her personal life.  A lot of the guys that I have dated have had one celebrity crush and that was Janeane Garofalo so there is a type. And I love Janeane Garofalo but that is the kind of guy.  Hey this is Katie Bishop one of the producers here at Death Sex  Money. And this episode with Lisa Ling and Awkwafina is the kickoff of our 2019 Maternity Leave Lineup. It is a series of guest hosted episodes we are featuring while our regular host Anna Sale is out for the next couple of months. We asked a bunch of our favorite former Death Sex  Money guestsand some new folks tooto take a turn in the host chair. You will also hear Jason Isbell Ellen Burstyn Damon Young John Cameron Mitchell and some others talking with the people they are most curious about.about the things in life  that do not usually come up in polite conversation.  I weigh myself when I get out of the shower and that is how much I weigh.  I mean my family does not ask me for money but I know that they are struggling.  Just getting sober did not make me all of a sudden happy. Everything - the world did not change.  Yeah it does not fix you. And if you are just discovering our show...welcome! If you want to hear more of what we usually do here check out our episode when we had Lisa Ling as a guest. She talked about being raised by her dad dancing on tables during her single days and going through two miscarriages.  Up until that point I felt like I could do anything  you know I would been such a hard worker all my life and I thought Well if I put my mind to anything I can do it. And so the first time I had a miscarriage it was just sort of like I felt like I had lost control and that it was my fault and that I did something. And then the second time it happened it just really kind of sort of shook me to the core. To get a link right to that episode just text the word Lisa to the number 70101. And to hear more of the stories we tell on our show about everything from student loan debt to pornography make sure you subscribe to Death Sex  Money at deathsexmoney.org or wherever you are listening to this episode. Coming up next in the maternity leave lineup...John Cameron Mitchell. He interviews jazz legend Marilyn Maye about her eighty years in the entertainment business and loving and leaving several alcoholic men along the way.  There was bad stuff going on behind the scenes you know.  Yeah were you a - were you a saver? Were you a helper?  Did not I think I could could -  Save.  - did not I think I could make him quit drinking? Could not I just uh fix him?  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Lisa Ling. After Nora Lum lost her office job she spent her early twenties going all in on her alter-ego Awkwafina. She kept releasing music and comedy on her YouTube channel and she covered her bills in Queens by working a series of odd jobs including one at a vegan bodega. Then in 2018 everything finally came together in a big way. Ocean's 8 and Crazy Rich Asians made her a movie star. And with all that fame came a lot of money.  Like I do not splurge onliterally anything except for karaoke nights if I am treating like a whole group of friends. I will drop like 3G's on a group - on a night of karaoke but like for myself? No! These pants are from Target dude! I am literally wearing Target pants! What my Grandma instilled with me with all that money worrying is that like an anxiety thatthat it is gonna be gone.  Does that kind of mentality - do you feel like you need to accept anything that is offered to you?  What do you mean?  Well I mean people do not grow up with a lot when they start getting opportunities it is hard for them to say no  Sure oh I -  Because they do not think something's going to come along tomorrow.  For the record I have no problem saying no if it is wack right? Um that is the thing that is where my relationship with money gets weird. It is like I am not going to do something that I do not believe in for money you know? Even if I was broke I would not do that.  Like what are some of the things that you would never do?  A panty liner commercial a rapping lunch lady for like a really big brand a lot of things like that. Like things that you know that just do not make sense. Why? Because this is a long game for me this is a long game. You know I do not care if I go broke playing the long game in the meantime. I justI think that when I think about my career I think 50 steps ahead. I am not thinking about right now.  I am sitting across from you wearing your Target track pants  Yeah.   And I also see these images of you constantly in designer dresses. At what point would you say you kind of got in touch with that feminine side of you? Or - or are you in touch with that feminine side?   I am not in touch with it. I am still not in touch with it. That is long gone. I gave up I give up. You know like the tomboyI was reading this book and like what do you do with a tom-man? What happens when you are tom-man? I think uh it is a perpetual feeling of difference always. When I go out with my friends in K-Town like they get all gussied up and I just do not understand. I cannot harness that.  Well what is it like for guys to date a woman who in some cases could be more like boyish than they are?  I mean it is a certain kind of guy for sure.  And so did youhow old were you when you had your first  My first  Relationship.  Um maybe like 16 17 high school boyfriend and then like two other ones that were really serious.  Do you remember when you first felt love for someone else?  Um two different kinds of love. I think I felt that kind of like crazy love like the kind you drive across the country in a diaper for which I do not believe  I - I am not - I am unfamiliar with that kind of love but  Oh you do not put on a diaper and you drive across the country to make sure that they are not cheating on you?   No no!  Oh okay that is weird. There was this astronaut lady remember that astronaut lady that did that?  Yes yes yes! Okay that is right.  She did it man. She did it. Um there is two kinds of love. That love that I first experienced was not love it was infatuation. It was like a projection of what you believed is like - someone that is totally out of your league and then you finally got him and you have to do whatever it takes becauseyou know that is not love that is games. That is mind-games. The first time I felt love was probably in my last relationship. It was a cooperative thing. It was not like oh my God like I have to make sure I take a bird bath before like like weoh my god I have to make sure I shave my sideburns. It was not that kind it was like this is really me. And the feeling of having someone there and not having to worry about any of that stuff. That was real love to me. And I think that in the relationship that I am in now it is like an unconditional love. It is unconditional there is no airs there is none of that. And that is that is love for me. And it is very rare. I have not experienced it a lot.  I know you recently moved from your beloved New York to  I know dude. I know.  To LA!  I know.  Yeah. Has your Grandma been out to visit?  We are we are working on it right now. She wants to - she was like yeah I am gonna come to visit California. I am so excited! And maybe I will stay for three months! And I was like WHAT? You know? It is like damn you want to stay for three months okay! In my open loft yeah that is cool. But you know at the same time I do not really  You cannot say no to Grandma.  Yeah you cannot say no to that so.  What does what does your Grandma think of your life now and what does your Dad think of your life now?  They are all about it man! My dad's such a my dad's such a hypocrite. I call him out all the time he is so against it. And then he became like my the tour manager I never like on my first tour he finally got on board and was like you know what? I will be your tour manager! And he would book me on a flight from like New York to Philadelphia but like I would stop in like Atlanta on the way and wait there for four days. Like those were the flights he was putting me on. And now he just wants just wants to be like my business manager. And I was like no no no no no. No no no no. I have seen way too many Behind the Music stories about - like no. So they are on board. My grandma supported me from day one. She bought me singing lessons. She never ever told me that a dream was too big. Ever. And she always that same thing that always made me feel weird or out of place she encouraged that. She knew that that was what made me special.  What does it what does it mean to you given where you are now that you had this woman who was in your corner who was like rooting for you and who knew you could achieve whatever you wanted to achieve?  I think that it uhin combination of being raised by my dadI was never introduced to any kind of role of the Asian stereotypical woman's place because my grandma was not any of those. My grandma was the neck of my family the financial neck of my family for a long time. My grandma worked four jobs while my grandpa was out gambling. You know? I only knew of an Asian woman being a strong woman. And my grandma taught me that. That is Nora Lum a.k.a. Awkwafina. She is currently working on a Comedy Central pilot about her life growing up in Queens. And you can also see her in her first dramatic role in a great movie called The Farewell. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote the theme music. I am on Twitter lisaling and on Instagram lisalingstagram. New episodes of my show This Is Life are coming to CNN this fall and you can find past episodes right now at cnn.comthisislife. If you are not subscribed to this show Death Sex  Money make sure you hit that subscribe button because it is a really good podcast. And if you do not know where to start they have even got a starter kit of some of their favorite episodes just for you. Find it at deathsexmoney.org.  I want to go back to something I read - and this is way back and I know it is a little bit of a tangent. But I know that you went to LaGuardia School of Performing Arts for trumpet. And is it true that you chose trumpet because it was a loud instrument?  It is the loudest in the band. I do not want a piccolo.  Why am I not shocked?  No but also do you know whatno. I was a ham. And we played Living La Vida Loca and I got yelled at by my band teacher because I would not let the woodwinds shine. And I was like um Living La Vida Loca's like the brassiest song you could ever choose! Woodwinds have no place in this song right? Shut up! Let me shine! I am Lisa Ling and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.