  Hey you all. From NPR It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am Sam Sanders. Every Tuesday I bring you a conversation. Today we are talking about a show I like a show that I think you might like too. It is called The Bold Type. If you have not heard of it go check it out. It is a TV show on Freeform. It is all about three young women living and working in New York City trying to make it in the Big Apple. Now let me stop you 'ecause I know what you are thinking right now. You are thinking that you have already seen this show before several times - young women in great clothes living in impossibly amazing apartments taking New York by storm. But this show it is more than that. The Bold Type is in this very refreshing way deep. The characters on this show have honest and believable conversations about race and politics and sex. They go there. I talked to two folks from The Bold Type in this chat Amanda Lasher - she is the showrunner - and Aisha Dee - she plays Kat on the show. They both joined me in studio at NPR West in Culver City. And right off the bat I started off by making a mistake. But forgive me and enjoy the listen.   I feel like I am still kind of waking up because I flew in yesterday.  From?  I flew in from Montreal.  That is where you guys tape the show?  Yeah that is where we film. And I wrapped at 2 a.m. and then was up at 5 a.m. and then came here and attempted to sleep last night. But I got caught watching Nanette.  Oh.  It is really good.  It is so good.  But then it like turns. And you are like - oh it got dark.  Yeah. I was like sitting in bed like...  Yeah.  ...Just feeling all my feelings. And then I started just reading about her. And I you know - you know when that happens?  Oh yeah. You fall down the hole.  Yeah.  And then before you know it you know the names of this person's third cat.  Yeah. I loved her on Please Like Me.  What is that?  It is an Australian show by Josh Thomas.  We should point out to our listeners she is Australian.  Oh yeah. My accent's real messed up.  So you are darting back and forth. I am like hearing American. I am hearing Australian. I guess you picked up some Montreal-ese .  I do say bonjour and baguette.   Yeah. Where are you from?  I am from here actually.  LA?  Yep.  Where in LA?  The west side Palisades.  You know sometimes if there is three people our listeners are like which voice is which? So we should say clearly Aisha Dee sounds like this.  Well I do sound like this but I have to say my name is pronounced wrong.  Wait. Tell me. Aisha?   So my mom is a very sweet white Australian woman. And I am pretty sure she looked at my name in the baby name book and kind of decided how she wanted to pronounce it.  How did she want to pronounce it?  It is like Aisha like rosacea...  Aisha . Like rosacea? OK.  ...Echinacea.  OK. Aisha like rosacea...  Yeah.  ...Your voice sounds like that.  Amanda Lasher. Ah-man-dah  - wait - there is no different pronunciation for your name.  Straight up Amanda.  OK. Amanda sounds like that. So I know this show quite well. I have binged it. But for our listeners I want one or the both of you to tell us what the show is about in 30 seconds. Go.  Oh why'd you point me? OK. I always say this but I feel like it is kind of like sitting down with an issue of Cosmo or a similar magazine - you know? - 'ecause it kind of covers all the bases - sex love relationships...  New York.  ...career New York. You know...  Friendship.  Yeah. High heels.  It is set around these three young women...  Yeah.  ...Who all work for a women's magazine called Scarlet. They are all in their early to mid-20s. And they are trying to rise up the ranks at Scarlet while also navigating life in New York as young 20-somethings.  Yeah. I remember when it first came out a lot of the reviews said we cannot believe it. We actually like this show. And I think that is like a kind of a way - 'ecause you do judge it on its surface. You are like - oh come on.  Yeah. Why do you think that is? 'ecause I found myself even starting to watch the show - someone at work mentioned watching it. I think it showed up on Hulu. And I was like OK. I will watch this. And then I was like why do I like it this much? Why do folks go into a show like this with lowered expectations? And why are they being surprised by how much they like it?  Well I think that they think it is just about you know girls and fashion and so it is gonna be light and fluffy. And then I think that the show has an unexpected layer of depth. And also I think that we really try to dig into the real of things because a lot of times these awkward situations or these challenging issues have - they are funny too. You know what I mean? Like there is like a fun comfortability to them. And so I think if we dig into the real of that and also just the humanity of mucking your way through some of these issues that itself makes it less didactic because there are those really like humane like...  Yeah.  ...Or the moments of humanity in that.  I am hearing you say this and I can think in my mind of several examples throughout the two seasons of the show. What is your favorite example of what you just talked about this getting to the real but also being funny about it?  Oh gosh. I always like blank. I am always just thinking about the one episode that like we are working on at that moment. But I would say just being here with Aisha the moment that pops into my head is in 2.05 which was the episode that we did where...  Season 2 Episode 5.  ...Season 2 where we talked about white privilege and privilege in general where the character Jane is having a - has like a challenging conversation with Aisha's character about race. And she realizes that she needs to sort of examine her white privilege. And she has this moment where she does not know where to begin. And so she just Googles like -  how do I examine my white privilege - just like the basic - like where do I begin with that journey?  Exactly exactly. And we should set this up. So Jane is a character on the show. And she has applied for a job as a young white woman only to find out that they are going to go with someone else because they want a diverse hire. She expresses her frustration to your character who is a black character on the show Aisha. And you are like girl check yourself .  .    I did not get a job that I was perfect for because I am white. I was just stating a fact.   But how do you know that whoever did get the job was not more perfect? The fact that you assume they only got it because of some diversity handout it makes you sound entitled.   And coming from someone who lives in their parents' loft and has never paid a bill in their entire life it is pretty rich.   It is actually not about me though.   OK. Do you know what happens to me if I leave here and get hit by a cab? 'ecause with no insurance no money crazy student debt and no help from my dad I sure as hell do not. So yeah excuse me for being pissed that I did not get a job that I know I can do because of something completely out of my control.   Welcome to the entire existence of people of color Jane.  What did you bring to that conversation as someone who is a person of color?  Well I mean the thing that I love about this show and that I have honestly never experienced quite on this scale is the level of collaboration. And you know I was able to kind of bring my perspective to that. I know like as an actress in recent years my white friends are finding it kind of challenging and expressing that...  As in like getting roles.  Yeah. You know like a lot of my white friends are saying well you know I went in for this audition. And you know they went diverse. And I am like OK. But...  Well you do know for like decades...  Yeah I mean I...  ...It was the other way around.  I have been doing this for a while. And especially in Australia I experienced - a lot of casting directors would tell me you know you are probably not going to get it. It is not - we do not want to go diverse. I was told by casting directors to move to America because I...  Whoa.  ...Would probably work more. Yeah.  Is that why you moved...  It is yeah.  ...To America? OK.  Yeah. But it is - that conversation with Jane is one that I have had...  You have had before.  ...In my - yeah so it felt really real.  You know when I first wanted to do the episode I wanted to call it White Woman's Tears because...   OK. We should say you are white.  .  Yes. And just because I think that that right there gets in the way of the conversation - is that you know the whole thing of like having to deal with white fragility and not being able to have these conversations and those conversations getting shut down immediately. And it is just - and everybody has very deep personal experiences that they bring to the table. And so we wanted to - so that one was really challenging but gratifying ultimately that we did it.   All right time for quick break. When we come back Aisha Amanda and I talk more about race and diversity in the writers' room at The Bold Type. BRB.   I want to talk more about your character Kat's journey of racial revelation. There is an episode where Kat's character who has grown up with a black father and a white mother all of a sudden when she is - what? - like 24 or 25 has a moment where she is like - well what am I?   Yeah.  I should examine this.  Yeah.  What is up with this? Lay out that episode for us.  Yeah. Well I mean I was so happy when I read the episode that we were even going to go there because...  Because in Season 1...  In Season 1 we did not. And I was very surprised when Kat was arrested by the police. And she was like police are dangerous? I was like what is wrong with this Kat girl?  So did you have some problems with the way that Kat's character did or did not deal with race in the first season? Did you push...  Yeah.  ...Back and want for more?  Yeah. And - I mean I grew up in a part of Australia that was not very diverse. And I did not always love what I saw in the mirror. I did not...  And your mother is white. Your father is black.  My mother is white. My father is black. I grew up with only the white side of my family in a town where like - when you see another black person across the street you would like wave. You would be like - oh my God. What is up?   What are you doing here? And that is a real thing in Australia in the '90s - totally a real thing. So you know for me it was something that I had to learn on my own. And luckily I had a mother who really - you know when I would come home saying I was getting teased or whatever at school she would say well you know they are just jealous because they do not know like you come from kings and queens. And you were royalty and you are powerful and your hair defies gravity. And she was like - and your skin is amazing and like...  Woke mom.  Oh my God. And she exposed me to music and movies that empowered me in ways that at the time I did not realize how much it was influencing me - you know? - like listening to Janet Jackson Mahalia Jackson Natalie Cole. She would give me movies like Cleopatra Jones and Coffy. And Pam Grier is one of my heroes you know? Watching those movies was like therapy for me. So it is probably a big reason why I love to do this as well.  One of the questions I had with this episode...  Yeah?  ...Your character Kat has this moment of biracial revelation when she is in her mid-20s. And I said to myself well all of my biracial friends who I know well they had that moment when they were like 12.   This is true.  Was it weird to have her have this moment of like existential questioning that late in her life?  Yeah. But you know to me it fit because she is having these revelations about her sexuality late too.  Yeah. She is also - I do not want to put a label on it when I should not. She is...  You know what? I do not think she is actually fully labeled herself yet. She is used a few different labels. And I think the one that most...  Yes. She is been with boys. She is been with girls.  Yeah. I think the one the most fits is queer right now. But I think that that is what is so amazing about this character to me is that you get to be on this journey with her. She is not saying I am in my 20s but I have it all figured out.  So speaking of how Kat is perhaps delayed in having some of these moments of self-discovery there is this moment where her black co-worker Alex confronts her about race and basically is like girl what are you thinking? You have not figured this out yet? We actually have the cut right here.    Well see the key is to add as much detail as possible.   OK.   Like you could add the fact that you are black. It will read something like Kat Edison is Scarlet magazine's first black female department head. See that sounds impressive.   Yeah but it is also irrelevant. You know I am a department head. That has nothing to do with the color of my skin.   OK. It is a big part of who you are.   Yeah but I am also part white and no one asked me to write that down.   Not the same thing but OK.   Any other suggestions?   Yeah. Kat you have this really cool opportunity to be a role model for young black girls. Do not you want that?   Why would you ask me that? Of course I want that. But I want it regardless of my race not because of it. It is what is on the inside that matters.   But you are black on the inside too Kat.   Oh really? Are you questioning my blackness right now?  You can hear Alex being like what - are you...  What is wrong with you?  ...What is...   You know .  Have you felt - have you heard black people in your life talk to you with that level of what? You do not...  Oh yeah. Yeah totally.  Talk to me about that.  Well I mean you grow up and your blackness is always kind of an issue or a topic of conversation. You know growing up in Australia it was a different type of conversation. You know it was either a cool - a really cool thing - I was so cool because I was black or I was so not cool and I was - but there was always a judgment you know how black I am or you know what category I fit into. And then when I got to America it was all of a sudden I was called an Oreo. And I was like what is an Oreo?   I love cookies.   And I was like what does that mean Oreo? And I remember people would laugh and laugh and laugh. And you know I get it obviously now because I have done a lot of like searching. But that was kind of part of the reason why I was like no it is OK that Kat does not have this figured out. And it is almost kind of great because we do not often have this conversation.  Yeah.  And - but yeah no it is always been more - it is always seemed more important to other people you know to categorize you - you know? - and put you in a box. In the same way that you know Kat feels that way - I obviously have a very different upbringing to her so I was always very aware of my blackness because it was pointed out to me constantly. But yeah it definitely changed the interactions or it influenced a lot of my interactions as a kid.  I want to talk about another way in which your character defies labels in a certain way. And this is for both of you guys. You know Kat's character is queer and she is experiencing a relationship with a woman for the first time. This woman happens to be a Muslim woman who is also a lesbian. She wears a hijab. That is another layer of stuff to work out. How do you approach writing and running the show with such a complex plotline? You have got a biracial queer woman experiencing love with a woman for the first time but that woman also happens to be a hijabed  Muslim lesbian who is suffering political persecution in her home country.  So many layers.  Yeah.  With Kat and Adena and that particular relationship we just wanted to again make it as specific to who they are as people. And while those elements are - you know definitely factor into their life and we address it in different ways we did not want them to be completely defined by those things. And so it is ultimately a love story between two women who find each other and connect and Kat discovers a different side of herself through Adena. And that is just a human story that everybody can relate to. And so we wanted to go deeper with that. And then in terms of the - you know the Muslim aspect and the - all the things that we are talking about with race it is like there are times when we dip into that aspect but we do try to stay with the core human love story of Kat and Adena.  Yeah. You are making this show that speaks to a lot of different types of people and is diverse in a very modern way. How diverse is the writers' room?   Well we have a diverse writers' room. We have Latina women. We have queer writers. We have African-American writers. We have as many - we wanted to bring in lots of different voices to...  Do you have men?  Yes we do. We have a token straight white man who has the soul of an incredibly talented writer Matt McGuinness...   ...Who has the soul of a woman. He has three daughters five sisters and he is just you know - but the more - the different backgrounds are what is fascinating. And I love that. And it is also where we get stories from and it keeps the show having energy and - yeah.   One more quick break here. I am talking with Aisha Dee an actress on the Freeform TV show The Bold Type and Amanda Lasher the showrunner of The Bold Type. Also listeners heads-up here this next section contains some explicit discussion about sex. If you are listening with kids you should be aware of that.   Has there been a moment in the writers' room where you have said as the one in charge this scene this episode the topics discussed the people discussed it is out of my wheelhouse you other writer who has that experience you are in charge of this one?  Well always. I mean we are - I am always asking for you know the writers to vet things. And we did a storyline about Kat had never gone down on a woman before. And so...  Oh yeah. I remember that one.  You know I had watched the show as a viewer the first season. And Kat and Adena had this conversation where Kat's like I could never go there in talking about going down on a woman. And so when we were talking about storylines for Season 2 and I thought like I want to see that - I want to see that moment happen. I want to see that - what is that like for her? And that was really interesting to me. But I definitely wanted the queer writers especially to sort of talk about their experiences with that and then also what they did not want to see on - you know and one of the things that...  What did they not want to see?  They do not want to see the cutaway. They did not - it is like they talked about how many times they watched queer couples having sex or kissing or something like that and then all of a sudden it would go soft focus or it would cut away. And I felt very strongly that like when I - I was like oh yeah that - a hundred percent you are right you do not see that as much and especially you know this age group.  So this scene we are going to play right now - Kat and Adena are having a conversation about something sexual that Adena needs from Kat.    Kat it is OK. We are still new to this. I did not want to push you to do something that you were not ready to do or did not want to.   Oh no no no. It is not that. I am so attracted to you. But I guess I was a little worried and scared.   Well of course. It is cunnilingus. It is the last frontier.   Where no man has gone before.   You know Kat it is not even the act that matters. It is you and me being able to have these conversations. Talking about it is the most intimate thing. And that is - that is what I should have said at the party. This is what matters.   I know.  I would say doing it is the most intimate thing but OK.   Sure .  What I appreciate about this scene is that so often when you see lesbians on screen they are just like lesbians and they all think the same way and do the same thing and go to Ikea on the second date and that is it.   Go to Ikea.  And to have an episode and a plot arc where you are seeing two women who like women who are at different places in spite of that thing I appreciated that.  Yeah. I mean the thing that I loved about it was just the fact that it is really - it is a conversation about asking for what you want from a relationship.  Which is a good thing to do.  ...Which is such a great thing. And you know we do not do that enough in - as women. Whether we are in a heterosexual relationship or in a queer relationship we are not really taught how to ask for what we want and to say this is what I need from you whether it is in the bedroom or just emotionally. Whether you are a queer person or a person of color or not there is something to take away from that scene.  Totally. You know speaking of these relationships between two women that is one relationship between two women on the show but another relationship that is a big part of the entire show is the relationship between Jane one of the young women on the show - she is a young writer at Scarlet magazine - her relationship with Jacqueline who is the editor in chief of Scarlet. I want to spend a few minutes unpacking that relationship because I have questions.  I call them Jane-queline .  Jane-queline - I like that. Jane-queline yeah.  Jane-queline that is their ship name .  So Jacqueline is like the big boss of this women's magazine. She is legendary. She is iconic. She is dressed to the nines all the time. But she mentors the three of them but especially Jane. What were you trying to channel in that older woman-younger woman relationship you as the showrunner?  I did not...  You did not create it.  Yeah I did not create it. And that was - Sarah Watson created that character and that dynamic. And it is so beautiful and I love it so much. And the thing that I love about Jacqueline and Jane is just the way that it is different from anything that you have ever seen before and that it goes against the trope of just the...  Devil Wears Prada.  Yeah and the bitchy boss. And like we have all had horrible horrible bosses and then - but then like you do not see the boss who is actually a mentor and who wants to be a role model and who wants to you know help young women rise up with them. And I love that.  That is the thing though. Sometimes I would watch episodes and I would say Jacqueline's too nice. I am not used to seeing executives at that level being that nice to someone that junior. Also the way in which Jacqueline is intimately involved with Jane's career - what editor in chief edits line by line the piece from a junior junior junior junior staffer? Are there ever moments - or is there even feedback from folks saying this would not happen?  I think that is valid but I think the show is aspirational.  OK. Explain.  Well I mean - OK I do not wake up looking how I look on the show I will say that right now.   So you know - and I do not walk around in amazing expensive clothes. And I do not know many people who do. And you know as soon as they call cut we are all taking our heels off and putting on Crocs.  Yeah.  Like - so I do not know. At least to me there is a level of the show that is aspirational. And I think that having this perfect boss is kind of one of those aspects to me as a viewer because I consider myself a fan of the show too.  Yeah.  You know I love watching what was filmed while I was not...  Yeah.  ...There you know?  Yeah. Did you Amanda in your 20s have a boss at that level who was that nice to you?  Yeah I did actually. I had...  OK. Who was it?  I had a boss. Her name was Maya Thomas. And...  All right. Shout out Maya.  ...I was an intern.  Where?  Shout-out to Maya - at Time Warner AudioBooks.  OK.  And she just was incredibly kind and mentoring to me and supportive. And I used to write these like ridiculously long memos to her explaining anytime I made a mistake. And she would be like you do not need to do this.  Yeah yeah.  You do not need to apologize...  Yeah.  ...Constantly. And she was fantastic.  Yeah.  And then I have had people who have been absolutely terrible.  .  Yeah.  And you know I mean that exists as well. There are Jacquelines out there. But then there are lots of non-Jacquelines.  Yeah.  I have had my Jacquelines. And I have had my non-Jacquelines too. I think it is...  OK.  Yeah.  Is Amanda your Jacqueline?   Amanda is one of my Jacquelines actually.  I do not - I do not deign to be as majestic as Jacqueline.  You are.  But I do - thank you.   But I do - I am conscious of the fact that I am a woman in charge and that I am somebody that people look to. And so I think about when I was coming up as a writer that I did not see a lot of women with families doing - you know running shows. I saw it here and there. But you know I make a point to - I bring my kids by the office. I...  Really? How old are they?  I have two daughters - Anna  and Tessa . Anna's 10 and Tessa's 6. They will be very happy that I mentioned them.   And you know I want PAs and writers' assistants and people coming up to see that like this - you can do this. Like you do not have to have this part of your life be this secret other thing. And you can you know be a showrunner and you can be a leader and you can have a family. And it is messy and it is not always easy and it is complicated but that it can be done. And so that is really important for me.  In thinking about how to foster a strong mentoring relationship between an older woman and a younger woman like what is the one biggest impediment to establishing the kind of relationship that Jacqueline has with Jane on the show?  I mean this does not have to necessarily to do with you know youth or age. It is just creating a space where people can feel that they can speak without being judged. And so in a writers' room especially like you have to pitch some really bad ideas sometimes to get to the good ideas. And it sometimes can be super easy to pile on or be dismissive or to shut somebody down or to tell somebody why that is not a good idea. And for me I try to as much as possible to just not - like to keep that out of the writers' room and to let people just like make the bad pitch and to say personal things and not have to worry about being made fun of and you know all that stuff. And that said you know I have a filthy the sense of humor. I - you know like it is - I love to mess around in the writers' room and tell stories and all that stuff. But I do feel like you have to make it so that people do not feel like they are going to be attacked or criticized and that...  Yeah.  ...You know and making sure that you are yes-anding as much as possible.  Can I work on the show?  .  It sounds like a great place to be. I will be an extra.  The door is open.   I do not control that stuff. But yes come work .  Yeah yeah.   I will say one of the things that I find to be too perfect in this show are these big old apartments these struggling young journalists have.   How is it that every show that revolves around young people scrapping their way through New York City never has them in that janky fifth-floor walk-up?  Fair enough.   Why are the apartments so nice?  A few things.  .  No. 1 I would like to point out...  OK.  ...That Sutton has a bed in the living room of her apartment.  Of her very nice apartment.   She does not have her own room. She has a bed in the living room. I would like to point out...  OK.  ...That Kat has parents who pay for a nice place for her.  Well there is that. Yes.  It is not always easy to get a camera into a super tiny tiny little apartment...  Yeah.  ...To shoot it. Fair enough. You know...  .  ...But again what - like what age...  But also it is aspirational.  It is aspirational. It is like...  I do not want to see the janky apartment sometimes.  Yeah. We all know what it is like to live in the apartment like I had in New York where I could lay in bed and stretch out my arms and legs and touch all the walls.   I could literally like - hands on - flat on walls.  Yeah.  So - but yeah it is aspirational. I mean it is fun to watch it.   Many thanks to Aisha Dee and Amanda Lasher for coming into NPR West to talk with me about this show The Bold Type. The final episode of the second season of that show airs on Freeform tonight. You can catch all of Season 1 and Season 2 of The Bold Type online in the streaming places. You know how it goes. All right also listeners I want to hear from you. Every week for our Long Distance segment we call someone out in the world and talk with them about what is happening in their neck of the woods. If you have got a story to share on or off the news about whatever email me and tell me why we should talk. I am at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. We might call you. You might be on the podcast. You could be on the radio. All right that is a wrap. We are back in your feeds on Friday. Until then talk soon.  