Hey its Anna and today were bringing you a couple of stories about death but theyre not from our team.... Theyre part of a pilot project that our colleagues here at WNYC Studios have been working on with comedian Chris Garcia. You may have heard Chris on 2 Dope Queens...or on This American Life. Chriss father died of Alzheimer's last year and hes been working on this new pilot as hes been processing that death in the months since. Its a work in progress but were sharing it with you now because WNYC Studios wants your feedback as we explore new shows and new ideas.and obviously you listen to Death Sex  Money so we know you have great taste. So after you listen head over to deathsexmoney.orgpilot to tell us what you think. Heres Chris Garcia.  Hello everybody hiyeeeee My parents are refugees. Theyre immigrants from Cuba.  Thank you. And you know what? I think a lot of comics get onstage and they make fun of their immigrant parents and I think those days are done. I think we have a better responsibility now. Its very disrespectful. Its very rude. Its also very unfair because my father doesnt have any recourse.  My dad never once got onstage and shit on me. Not once did my dad get onstage Hey you guys anybody have an American-born kid?  Okay Im going to talk about it. Oh man! My son Christian he goes by Chris.  Yeah okay I believe it man. His name is Christian Andres Primitivo Garcia but sure call him Chris. Oh yeah very cute. Yup thats me. Chris Garcia. 40 years old although I look like a tired 36. Im a comedian. And a lot of my material draws from my family and especially from my dad Andres Primitivo Garcia. Andre for short. I put everything  I broke my back for this kid. I worked blue collar jobs graveyard shift to put him in a good school. Escuela Privada private school. I encourage him Christian you can do it. You can do it. You can do it. This is America the land of opportunity. You are a good person. You work hard. You can do forever you want. You can do forever you want.  My dad grew up poor in Cuba -- and had big dreams for his American kids. He goes to UC Berkeley.  Yeah one of the best public universities in the United States. And you want to know what hes studying?  Anyone want to take a gander? At what this motherfucker is studying?  He studied poetry! Are you telling me I floated through shark-infested waters on a hubcap so this motherfucker can read haikus? . My father never did that. People loved my dad his infectious laugh his great stories. He was so nice. Whenever he met one of my girlfriends hed extend his hand give them a firm handshake and say  Which means Im Andres I serve at your feet.  Just a real classy gentleman. Sometime in 2008 he started acting kind of weird. He repeated the same stories over and over again. He started to get irritable. He had mood swings. We just thought he was depressed like the way old guys get depressed when they first retire. We thought it was a phase.  It turns out it was Alzheimers. And if you know anything about the disease or anyone whos ever had it you know how the story goes. It gets worse and worse. It never gets better. People with Alzheimer's they sometimes get violent. In my dads case he started to punch strangers. Hed get afraid and confused and hed just lash out. After 8 years it finally killed my dad. It was February 5th 2017. I miss him. Theres so much we never got to talk about. I want to know about those years in prison. Is there a link between his time and the Alzheimer's that came later? I also want to know what it was like to have kids and be a dad because I wanna have kids and be a dad. And heres a question How do you stay married for 53 years? How do you get through the bad times? But my dads not here. Its also been hard in terms of interacting with the living. A lot of people dont know how to talk to me about it so they avoid it or things get awkward. I get it. What are you supposed to say? Hey how are you doing with your dead dad stuff you know? But then I have friends -- most of them who are comedians -- who have also lost their parents.  And these are the people who have been sources of comfort to me -- and weve helped each other through this. They just get it. Its almost like we have a Dead Parents Society. Im going to take those conversations into this podcast. Some of its kinda awkward some of its funny but its all stuff thats comforted me -- and might help you. But in this first episode its really going to be about me and my dad. And my mom. Ana Ok mi nombre es Ana. Soy la mama del beautiful handsome guy. Su nombre es Chris. My moms names Ana. She was the love of my dads life -- high school sweet hearts married for 53 years. And shes the person who knew him best. Shes about 48. Shes kind of like a chihuahua shes tiny and adorable but shes got teeth and shes always up in my shit. Shes also really up on pop culture. She loves the Cuban rapper Pitbull. Her favorite movies are Big Mommas House Paul Blart Mall Cop and...  Ana Um the family Meet the Fockers. Meet the Fockers. But most of all she loves me.  Como dicen I Love Raymond dice I love Chris.   Everybody loves Raymond and everybody loves Chris okay... When I visit her in Miami she welcomes me in a way that is just so textbook old Cuban lady.  Mira tienes que comer mango.   Our refrigerator is filled with dozens of mangos. It is like hey can you prove that you are Cuban real quick. 'No problem here's a thousand mangos!' 53 54 55... Its been a tough year and a half for my mom. On top of losing my dad she also lost both of her parents. Shes a widow and an orphan all at once. Shes been staying at her parents house in Hialeah just outside of Miami getting it ready to put on the market. There are boxes everywhere. Theres old pictures scattered all over the place. Theres a rusty machete.  Yo lo puse   My mom put it there!  My mom put the machete there as some sort of security device. ...And this is my grandpa's record collection.  All tengo ms en la caja hay ms all. Mira. Guajira Guantanamera.  Oh classic.  Yo creo que tena Alvarez Guedes all chequea.  Alvarez Guedes is like the famous Cuban comedian who I was raised on and kind of um...  Te acuerdas en el caro mami cuando nosotros-?  No yo ustedes esperar el ano siempre en casa esperando Alvarez Guedes esperar a las 12 de la noche y era fun.  We would listen to comedy records til midnight waiting for New Year's Eve and we would sit and listen to these records and they are really funny. It is like inside Cuban jokes and some of them are street jokes and stuff but he has over 40 albums. And as a kid I think that is what that was my first experience with standup was these records.  Te acuerdas uno que... Alvarez Guede Cuando se muere Fidel dicen que van enterrar sus pies en Santiago porque eso es donde paso sus primeros pasos. Y vamos enterar su cerebro en la Habana porque eso es donde tuvo sus mejores pensamientos. Pero donde vamos enterrar su culo porque el tipo se cago pro todo mang.'  He is like when Fidel dies we are going to bury his feet in Santiago wherever he was born because that is where he took his first steps--in Havana. Because that is where he had his greatest thoughts. But where are you going to bury his ass because he shit all over the country. It was like this subversive like oooh sick burn communism! My dad had one dying wish. That we scatter his ashes off the coast of Cuba. My mom. She doesnt give a shit about dying wishes. Because she pretty much vowed to never go back to Cuba ever again.  Un pais que era tan lindo todo y alegre la gente ahora vez que la gente anda toda destruida acabado. Los jvenes parecen viejos y es muy triste. Entonces para ver a mi hermana as destruida-- tu viste a mi hermana.  Yeah.  Luce mas mayor que mi mama. Viejita viejita horrible. Pero muy mal esta mi hermana.  We are talking about me visiting my aunt last year. She is saying her sister looks older than her mom did and it is because just the life in Cuba is so hard and the food and the economy and the health care is um difficult. So She is um sick and not doing well. I brought her a bunch of supplies and stuff and I brought her le traa pilas y ella empez a llorar. I brought her batteries and she started crying because none of the clocks in the house were working and they decided to use the batteries for the remote control. They were like screw time. Time does not exist here we are just stuck so who fucking cares what time it is. So my mom has offered an alternative to my dads dying wish to scatter his ashes off the coast of Miami. Like I dont know  its all the same ocean just dump it over there! While we figure all this out my dads ashes currently reside in a box. Under my desk. Like hes trying to stay safe during an earthquake. And theres something nice about having my dad around. When the Dodgers were in the World Series I tried to take him to the game. They said I couldnt bring the ashes so I just took the box to a bar. I mean I put it in a duffle bag put a little Dodgers hat on him. I even bought him a beer. I drank it myself. But the last time I checked he didnt want to spend his afterlife next to my surge protector. And honoring his last wishes is something that matters a lot to me. Maybe I didnt become an engineer like he wanted and maybe it took me two years to learn how to tie my shoes. But at least I can follow one fucking direction and scatter his ashes off the coast of Cuba like he wanted.  Lo que papi quiere es que nosotros lo hicimos en las playas las costas cerca de Cuba pero no dijo las costas cerca de Miami.  Cerca de Cuba.  So he said he wanted this in Cuba so yo creo que para respetar a papi y que lo vimos cerquita y tambien pa' que tu veas tu-  Vez he is like me. El es llorn como yo. Y me gusta. Me gusta. Llora llora! Translation my kids a cry baby and I love it.  . Pero yo creo que seria muy especial a llevar a papi y dejarlo alli en el Malecon o algo asi ma.  En el Malecon no porque no permiten. Alli hay gente pescando capas que lo cojen y se lo pesquen. No la gente esta loca ahora.  I said they should do it in Malecon it is where they had their. No el malecon-  Fishing you laughing-  Malecon is like the famous castle it is on the coast there not the castle but it is the-  Es la bahia la bahia-  It is the bay right there in Havana and she is like 'No we will put his ashes in there and someone will fish it out. Are you kidding me? People are having sex in that water. We cannot leave dad there.' Good idea mom! My parents both grew up in a small neighborhood outside of the center of Havana called Lawton. They lived three houses down from each other but my dad didnt notice my mom until they were teenagers. My mom wants listeners to know that he liked her legs. She has told me to include that in the script of this podcast twice now. They got married in 1964 and had my sister in 1965. They moved pretty fast. Fidel had come into power a few years earlier in 1959. Like a lot of Cubans my parents were very excited about it at first but over time they felt like he wasnt delivering on his promise of equality for all. So my dad asked the government for permission to leave Cuba - and for that he was sent to a labor camp for two years.  He had to pull sugar cane with his bare hands. They put him in solitary confinement they tortured him and they starved him.  Y como lo viste a el cuando tu lo-?  Muy mal muy mal.  Flaco.  Flaco.  Que flaco? Como?  Skinny skinny como papi estaba-  He was as skinny as he was at the end of his life. My mom visited my dad every week while he was detained.  que cuando ya regreso a la Habana llego a la casa y toco la puerta y Laurita estaba chiquita tenia como 6 o 7 o 5 aos. Y no lo conoci y le dijo Laurita a mi 'Mami mami hay un seor en la puerta esta tocando esta preguntando.' Y no lo co noci por lo delgado que estaba. Papi siempre hacia el cuento ese.  So when my when my dad finally got out of the sugar cane camp he came back to my mom's house their old house and he knocked on the door and my sister saw him and was like 'Hey mom there is a man at the door.' He was left so skinny and frail that she did not recognize him anymore. My father wasnt the same after he was released. He developed PTSD and he sometimes had a bad temper. Once during Christmas dinner he told my brother in law he was gonna shove a computer up his ass. Another time when he was doing a renovation on the house he got so frustrated and he completely freaked out and destroyed the laundry room with a hammer. And all of this is BEFORE he had Alzheimer's. At the same time I saw him being so sweet to my mom. They held hands all the time and when they watched TV theyd cuddle on the couch. And he was a super macho guy but he held her purse when they went out. Like some guy would bump into him and hed be like Hey watch where youre going man! And then just like turn and walk away with a teal purse on his arm. Even after he got sick you could tell he was still so into her. One time when she was visiting him at his assisted living facility he got like pretty handsy with her. And we went in to kiss her he stopped himself and he said I dont know if I can do this I have a wife and two kids. During his final days we were all by his side.  My sister her kids our spouses my mom.  El Superbowl.  Yea the Superbowl. It was Superbowl Sunday y yo estamos sentados y we brought fried chicken we brought stuff to have but the Superbowl was not playing. But my dad loved the Superbowl but we were just all there and my dad was hanging in there. Y te acuerdas el half-time mami my mom was like go see your wife go home we got it down and I went home and I watched the rest of the Superbowl and it was the most amazing comeback. The Patriots were down by like 30-something 30 points or 31 points. Algo asi. And they win the Superbowl. The best comeback of all time. And I am like you know it is like exciting the best Superbowl of all time and then my mom calls me like 'Dad's dead.' Y eso no me voy olvidar. Eso fucked up the Superbowl otra vez you know y era tan sad y tu me lo dijiste tan dijiste 'Dad se paso.' It was this weird thing with Tom Brady and the trophy and stuff....  Papi se fue-  Papi se fue that is what you said.  El servicio que tuvimos con papi que cosa mas linda. Los amigos tuyos.  Yea we had a nice service and you know and I I remember me recuerdo mom I was like I am going to go in here and this eulogy I am going to crush this thing. I was like I have given a million toasts at weddings I talk about my dad so much on stage I am going to go up here and I am just going to give the talk of my life about how much my dad meant and I ate it. I was so distracted by how much I ate it because I just started crying and I lost my shit and I could not finish anything that during other people's eulogy's I was thinking if I could go back up again. Like a comedian would after a bad set. My sister who is not a public speaker goes up and she cleans up and it like drove me crazy. But that comedian drive and stage drive never goes away even at your own dads funeral.   Si tu tuvieras cinco minutos papi que tu hacieras con el?  El amor.  I thought you were going to say What was that like?    It was easy. It was -- it was kind of light. Um went quickly. My mom's name was Pat Kilgariff. Pat was a head nurse at a psychiatric hospital before she got sick. Karen was 45 years old when her mom died On My Favorite Murder Karen talks about death a lot.but not about death in her own life. Thats what Chris wanted to ask her about.  Tell me about your mom before she got sick. What was she like?  My mom was the person that if somebody was yelling in public she would take care of it. she was a deescalator. So it was not like she was confrontational she just took care of things. She made things go away and she made things stop being bad.  She just always handled it. Was it difficult to see her not handle things once uh dementia took hold?  I mean that was the horror of it is it was a different person so it was this . . . it was a person . . . she you know -- once she retired um my mom and my dad were happily married their whole lives and when she retired from work um she started kind of doing less and less. And then we could tell that it was because uh her -- you know she was starting to forget things and starting to get uncomfortable and not trust herself.  Because they know. Part of them they do not completely know but part of them knows that something's going on.  Yes that something's wrong.  And so they resort to something like my father would um he would start taking things apart. And so like going -- he stayed at home.  Yeah.  He would like take a door apart. But he is a mechanically-minded person.  Yeah.  That normally would do something like that. He just had to always tinker with things. And he just kept on tinkering. Even to like -- I remember he started tinkering with silverware and making sure it was like bent properly.    He is doing all this weird stuff but I was like that is my dad knowing that is how his brain works but he is trying to hide it either from us or he does not know what is going on.  Yeah almost like they are using that as like a comfort what they go to. Where it is this is the thing that soothes me. I know if I sweep up all the dog hair that is in this and then my kitchen floor is clean I can feel better and I can calm down. But of course that was not it you know? That did not work.  Yeah. Do you remember the first time you saw her being off where you are like whoa this is not . . . this is serious. This is not my mom -- 100 my mom anymore?  Yeah and it was really . . .  It was uh it was very scary and it was also kind of like one of those I can remember it like a movie in my head. Um she used to always pick me up uh from when I would fly up from LA. And it was nighttime and my dad would never do it if it was nighttime because he had bad night vision. Um so she would always do it. And everything was normal and we were driving home and she did this thing where she took the exit before the exit to the San Rafael Bridge. And she did it in this way where all the -- it looked like . . . it seemed like all of a sudden she was waking up and then she just took this exit really fast. and it was the wrong exit. And all of a sudden we were off the freeway somewhere else and I was like what are you doing? And I -- it hit me before I think I knew consciously what was really going on. It hit me like . . . like really emotionally and I got really mad at her. Then she was like I am sorry! I just did not realize. And it is like but we have taken this drive literally 150 times so there is no way you did not . . . and I was like she cannot be in charge anymore. Like she cannot -- she cannot come pick me up anymore. It was shocking because my mother was a medical professional. My father was you know a first responder type.  Yeah.  It is like we all know you know and you have seen these signs. And the same thing of sunglasses in the freezer that was one of the first--and it is bone-chilling.  Yeah.  It is like you . . . any horror movie cannot--it pales in comparison to these little tiny weird things where you are like oh this is not my mom anymore.  Yeah.  No one's holding down the fort.  It is -- it is . . . it is like watching someone slowly devolve like almost back into a child in a way.  I had a friend who was like Hows everything with your mom? And I would always say It is fine. It is -- you know my dad and my sister are there all the time. I just go and dip my toe in and it is not that hard for me. I would always kind of make these excuses because I had so much guilt. And this one time my friend asked me and I know that he meant -- he was not just saying it and he wanted to know. And I went You know what it is like? I said It is like the movie Jaws except that the shark is like way far away and you just have to wait for the shark to come. So you know it is coming and you are just fucking treading water and you are freaked out and everything you see is making you flinch but it is not there and it is not there. And after a while you just want the fucking shark to come. After a while you are rooting for the shark because you cannot take the real time 247 horror show of life suspense anymore. You just want it to be over.  You want -- because it is like they are stripped completely of their dignity.  Yeah.  Completely of all their faculties. And you are like please just make it stop. It is a cruel disease because there is no solution to it and it will drag on for 10 . . . I think the average once you get it I think the average lifespan is like 10 years. But sometimes it is 12. Sometimes it is 20.  My mom's was 12.  Yeah that is such a cruel death. What was it like? Were there moments when you know the shark's coming . . .  But you are like oh there she is. That is my mom again?  here's the worst one and I will definitely cry as I tell you this. My sister was putting her to bed one night or like one evening and She would do these weird things. It was the sun downing thing where she would get real anxious at the end of -- around 7 and she would always say she wanted to take a nap. And then you would take her upstairs to take a nap and then she would start fighting you like a child that does not want to go to bed. So anyway my sister was helping her get into bed and then my mom was like I do not want to go to bed! and doing this weird stuff and my sister started crying and it was like -- screamed at her and said something mean. And my mom grabbed my sister's arm and looked her in the eye and they are staring at each other and she goes You do know I love both of you do not you?  Oh my gosh.  And she had been gone.--she had not been coming back anymore. We were way past that point. So that like . . . that idea that you could talk to any real part of my mom was so gone and it was like she came back to make up for all the horrible you know like . . . she said shit like -- she told everybody at Easter uh that she never wanted to have kids.     Which is so -- it was like as everyone's quietly talking in the kitchen.  Yeah.  So there is like 30 people in the kitchen and it just you know . . . the 20-minute conversational lull hits and it gets a little bit quiet. And you hear my mom across the room Well I never even wanted kids. And she is talking to my three aunts and all my aunts start talking at once like they can cover it up do you know what I mean?  Yeah.  Like they are going to be able to mute what just happened. So there was like -- there was so much shittiness that was unintentional and that was the disease and that was her -- her bad past you know? It was not . . . it was not really about us. It was about her kind of old damage. But then she still fucking broke through you know at the eleventh hour just to grab my sister's arm. And it was like my sister told me that and I like thought I was going to have a nervous breakdown.  Yeah. Are you and your sister um do you guys share a lot emotionally?  Yes.  Have you always?  We always -- we always have. It is different. It is different now because now it is the best it is ever been. We talk to each other pretty much every day um and she is my best friend. And -- but during my mom being sick there was . . . there was just so much tension and there is so much anxiety and there was so much. Um there was just so much to manage at one time and as . . .As we lost my mom more and more we would tell each other. Like the first time I had the experience where I was trying to put mom to bed and she fought me and I yelled at her and then I scared her and she kind of went like I am sorry. I am sorry and apologized to me and then I could not stop crying because it was so awful.  This -- this is like gallows humor like crazy. But um so one night my sister came to get me and that had happened and it was really bad and I had to tell my sister because I felt like I would done that so badly and that was like I yelled at our sick mom and like what is wrong with me?  And my sister goes Are you fucking kidding me? I do it every time. And I was like Wait what? She goes She drives you crazy. Of course you yell at her. And I was like oh my like I felt -- I felt like I was like borderline elder abuse how mad I got.  Yeah.  And she goes Yeah she makes you that mad. That -- that is what we are all doing all the time. Then I go -- I said in the middle of really bad sobbing I just go I just want her to die. And I said it so dramatically of like Can you believe I am even saying this? And my sister goes Oh please you do not think I do not think about spiking her shit with Abilify every time I go over there?    Because remember that Abilify commercial where they are like It could cause death in Alzheimer's patients.  Yeah.  It is like my sister had already made a plan of like how she could actually end this fucking horror show. And then we -- in the middle of crying she said that and we both were laughing so hard where it is like this is a nightmare.    We are in a fucking nightmare and we are just reacting like normal fucked-up people that have been thrown in a nightmare with no training or preparation or anything. And my mom and I did not get along great um in our previous relationship. So it was not like this thing where it was like the great . . . I mean she was a great mom but she and I had interpersonal problems that we never solved and we never got a chance to solve. Um so I was in therapy just dealing almost like with my therapist about the problems that I had with her because I knew I would never be able to deal with her uh or talk to her about them or apologize or any of that.  I think a lot of people talk about Alzheimer's and dealing with it with their parents from this like They were the best and now it is so sad and now they died and it was also great. But if you have any kind of an issue with that parent it like triples the guilt you know what I mean? There is already so much guilt and then you have even more because you are like I wasted time and I was selfish. And they would not want us to be sitting here like you know flogging ourselves for the failures of the relationship. Because that is every parentchild relationship.  Yeah.  They are all -- that is the . . . that is the definition of you know you do not . . . nobody gets out unscathed in a parentchild relationship and especially motherdaughter. It is tough. It is really tough. And I know that she was so not about guilt. She was like -- she would say it all the time in normal life where it would be like nope do not even. That is not -- that is not your problem. Or do not live like that. Life is short and you have to be the happiest you can be all the time. So that is what I try to actually focus on. I just do not think I have ever said those words out loud of like really having problems with her beforehand and having that just slide into sickness. So you cannot go back and be like Mom can we talk about that thing? Because I really think I was right. Like you know . .   Yeah. Have I -- you know I . . . funny thing. You know my dad's kind of the cornerstone of my stand-up set and he always has.  Yes.  Like even when I first started 13 years ago I would talk about my dad.  Of course.   Do you um -- did you talk about your mom in your stand-up at all?  You know what is funny? I tried to. So I did not do stand-up from um I was the head writer at the Ellen DeGeneres show from 2003 to 2008 and I did not do stand-up comedy in that time. I tried to do it a couple of times in the very beginning at Largo. It was the end of the Largo days. And I went back there one time after one of the first visits home where there was moldy bread and there was you know sunglasses in the freezer and all the really upsetting things and I tried to do a stand-up set about it. and I was totally being like Oh my god. And my favorite joke that I wrote about it was I was like -- when I found the moldy bread I was like Are you guys going to make food for ghosts? Because everything in here is old and rotten. And it was so quiet in that fucking room it was . . . And you could have heard a pin drop. The audience was horrified. It was not funny enough to where . . . it clearly was not processed.  Yeah.  And it was one of the worst sets I have ever had. And at the end -- this was the thing. Greg Fitzsimmons used to when he was on the show he would always go last and he would do his whole set making fun of everybody else's set.  Yeah.  It was one of my favorite things. And that night he skipped me and I was so angry at him and I was so bummed out and I was like I did as bad as I thought I did and I went up to him after the show and I was like Was my set really that bad that you had to skip me? And he grabbed my arm and goes It was so sad. And then I was like oh fuck. Then I just did not . . . I was like I do not even know where I am right now. I do not know what I am saying. I do not know why I am saying it. I am in a complete panic and this is not funny.  Yeah.  This is the breakdown of my family. So I just went to work and stopped performing and basically for the next five years just was a TV producer and writer essentially and got out of it. And then when I left that show I started doing all kinds of stuff again. I was doing stand-up and I was doing music and I was doing all kinds of things. And I actually wrote up a story version of that night my mom took the wrong exit.  Yeah.  And it actually came out amazing where it was that kind of thing where I am like oh this is . . . I need to express this sadness accurately and honestly and not try to put this veneer of comedy on it because that is not how I feel about it.  Yeah.  I do not think this is -- like I have not thought this was funny ever and trying to force it through that . . . and that is also why the first time I saw you do it I adored it and admired it so much because it was simultaneously sincere and pained but hilarious at the same time. Like you did the thing that I think I was either too close or I just did not -- I did not give it the kind of real thought that it needed and worked it out. But it was the thing that I could not bring myself to do. Thats Karen Kilgariff interviewed by comedian Chris Garcia. We really want to hear what you think of what you heard--to tell us go to deathsexmoney.orgpilot.  And thank you Along with Chris Garcia our colleagues Joanna Solotaroff Isaac Jones Megan Cunnane Julia Longoria Jenny Lawton and Paula Szuchman worked on this pilot. Im Anna Sale and on the next Death Sex  Money episode I talk with the one and only Nick Offerman. Before then dont forget go to deathsexmoney.orgpilot to tell us what you thought of this episode. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.