 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe and Washington Post senior tech policy reporter Tony Romm. All right. Let us start the show.    H to the Izz-O V to the Izz-A.  Welcome ladies and gentlemen...  Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners and to my guests. They are both in D.C. this week - Ayesha Rascoe White House reporter at NPR who just ran into studio after a TV hit...  .  ...'ecause I saw you on TV a few minutes ago...   Yeah.  ...And friend of the show Tony Romm tech reporter at The Washington Post - senior tech policy reporter.  That is a commentary on my age.   So we are joined in studio today by one of my favorite rappers of all time. His name is Jay-Z. He is in the news this week.  Yeah.  This song is one of his best - Izzo.  I agree.    H to the Izz-O V to the Izz-A. For sheezy my neezy keep my arms so breezy...  Does not it take you back?  It does.  Oh man. I feel old.  Like this is like my era. Right?  Yeah it is.  Oh yeah.  Quite right.  This is my era.  But anyways Jay-Z is in the news this week because he announced the strangest of partnerships. Him and his company Roc Nation are partnering with the NFL.  Right.  The league is going to use Jay-Z's company Roc Nation to advise on entertainment including helping pick acts for the Super Bowl halftime show. And Jay-Z will work on social justice initiatives - quote-unquote.  Yeah.  Did this catch you all off-guard?  Well for a lot of reasons including - do not the lyrics of the album that he did with Beyonce have a line about how he does not need a Super Bowl?  Yeah.  Yeah. So he is talked publicly before about not liking the politics of the NFL...  Right.  ...And refusing to play the halftime show for the Super Bowl. So he has had an antagonistic relationship with them for years especially over the way that they treated players like Colin Kaepernick taking a knee before football games. He was on Kaepernick's side. He is worn Kaepernick jerseys. And so this partnership announced this week made everyone scratch their head because Colin Kaepernick is still not back in the league.  Yeah. And I - you know I am always careful about like saying celebrities have to get involved in this or speak out on this issue. I feel like you know they are celebrities. Like that is not necessary. But he inserted himself into this issue.  Exactly.  And now you are...  You are on that side.  You are on that side.  Right.  So...  Yeah.  And there was a really interesting - this is more of a speculative story. And NBC - NBC Sports had this thing about how they wondered if this was the precursor for Jay-Z trying to own a team.  Oh.  Which I looked...  He has enough money. Just buy the team .  Well apparently he kind of does not.  Oh.  Yeah yeah.  Apparently you need much more than he actually has. And then there is this added thing about the NFL where you - I think you need permission of the owners. And so one way...  Usually.  Oh.  Yeah usually.  It is so weird to me. In large part also like the cynical part of me thinks that this gives the NFL cover because they have had an antagonistic relationship with a lot of black celebrities like Rihanna and Cardi B who said they would not play the Super Bowl halftime show. But Jay-Z whatever the case I still like your body of work.  Me too.  I think I have spent a lot of time with every Jay-Z album - except for that one he did with Beyonce.  Oh really?  .   It was not good. It was not.  I liked that album.  You did not like it? .  I did.  What? The last one?    For shizzle my nizzle used to dribble down in VA. H to the Izz-O V to the Izz-A. That is the anthem. Get'cha damn hands up. H to the Izz-O V to the Izz-A...  Anyway we are going to have to get to the news-news.   We are going to start the show as we do every week asking my panelists to describe their week of news in only three words. Ayesha you cover the White House. And I want you to talk about your three words which have to do with the way that the Trump White House is dealing with this crazy crazy week in the economy.  Yes. So my three words - and I went back and forth on this but I landed on mind your business...   OK. OK.  ...Because that is what they are trying - they are trying to mind - right now the Trump administration is trying to mind the business of this country. And they for a long time were also kind of saying they were going to deal with the U.S. and everybody else could mind their business.  Yeah yeah.  But we are going to deal with us.  Yeah.  But the issue...  It was very America first for a while.  America first.  Yeah.  But the issue of course is the U.S. is connected to the rest of the world. And you cannot...  Economy is global.   You cannot just deal with the U.S. and not with everybody else. So we have had - it is been a rocky week.  Yeah.  So you had some good news. Consumer spending retail sales are still strong. So that came out and that was good. But then you have manufacturing output is down. That is an issue. And then you had Germany's economy shrink.  Yeah.  And...  Negative growth in Germany falling growth in China...  Yeah.  ...Lingering questions over how the trade war is playing out.  Yeah.  And then there was one day this week Ayesha we saw the Dow lose 800 points...  Yes.  ...In one day.  Yes - because of the crazy inverted yield curve.  Which you have got to just...  .  ...Sidebar and have you explain to us for a second.  OK. So I - before my life here at NPR I did - I was a business journalist at Reuters. So I covered markets...  I did not know it was business. OK.  Usually when you buy bonds or government basically debt - you are loaning them money - long-term you expect to get a higher incentive higher yield because you are locking in your money for a long time. So like...  Yeah.  ...10-year Treasury notes you are...  Yeah.  ...Locking in your money for a long time. But this week the yield on the 10-year Treasury notes was less than on the two-year Treasury notes. So basically - I will take this from Scott Horsley our chief...  OK.  ...Economic ...  Yeah.  ...Correspondent. He said that usually it is a smiley face. But then when it is inverted it is a frowny face and then everyone's frowning.   That I get. That I get.  Yes. Yes. Yes. So the thing is though this frowny face - people say it is a predictor of a coming recession.  Yes.  And so my question for you Ayesha - you know we could go deeper into the economics of all of this but I am really interested - and this is for you both - about how Trump reacts to this news so far. We have seen him be a president who loves to do this sometimes antagonistic song and dance back and forth with the markets. He will put a tariff on Mexico put a tariff on China and see how it plays out. But like this news was so troubling to some folks this week I wonder - does his strategy change? Can he keep playing this economic game of chicken?  And you saw the U.S. pull back a little bit this week where they said...  Yeah.  ...They were going to put all these tariffs on imports from China and they were supposed start on September 1. But for some of those - the most important that would affect consumers like laptops and things like that - they put those off until December 15. So they are already responding a bit.  Yeah.  But what President Trump is doing is he is blaming a lot of people. So he is blaming the Fed. He was blaming the media yesterday basically saying that we are talking up a recession and that we want to crash the economy.  We do not have that much power.   Tony do you?   I mean my Twitter account reaches some people I guess...   ...But not 62 million.  Yeah yeah.  You know so it is like this is - what he does is he kind of looks for people to blame. But he is also - the other thing that he does is he says everything's going great. I think we will get a great deal or something soon because everything's going great the talks are going great.  Jokes aside I mean...  Yeah?  ...We have seen inverted yield curves lead to recessions before. That is documented in lots of economic literature. We have not seen somebody tweet through a recession.  Yeah.  If the worst does happen - and again this is so speculative - you do have to wonder what would happen if we tweeted our way through an economic crisis...  Oh my goodness.  ...And what that would mean for the pace of recovery and for the conversations that have to happen around the globe to right the economic ship.  And like - and you know like you said it is not clear that there is going to be a recession. And...  Or when it would happen even if it does.  Or when it would happen.  Yeah.  But this administration has not really shown the ability to really think with one mind and speak with one voice when it comes to anything.  Yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests this week - Tony Romm senior policy reporter at The Washington Post and Ayesha Roscoe White House reporter at NPR who has like 17 jobs...   ...Jumping on TV jumping on podcasts doing it all.  .  Tony do you have three words?  I have many words but I will keep it to three.   OK.  I am actually going to cheat a little bit so do not yell me.  OK.  My three words are IRL Minority Report which technically I only think is like five.  We will let it go - well 'ecause...  We are going to call IRL one.  It is like one word yeah.  ...IRL is like its own word yes. IRL Minority Report.  .  Is that the Steven Spielberg movie?  It is the movie.  Yes.  And I am using that as a funny way of referring to the conversations that the White House has been having with tech companies over the issue of gun control. So remember - in the movie what essentially happens is that there are these three brainy people who can kind of predict crimes before they happen. Right? And so...  And like arrest people before they commit crimes.  And arrest people before they can commit them. And so no the White House is not trying to make brainy people who can predict crimes. But they are asking the question - are there things that we can do to more proactively keep an eye on social media so that we can see shootings or shooters before they occur?  Yeah. And so this came in the aftermath of two mass shootings in Dayton and El Paso. And the whole country is saying someone's got to do something.  Right. And particularly with El Paso it was the latest incident in which a shooting had some relationship to online hate speech. In this case we believe that the shooter - the alleged shooter had posted this anti-Hispanic manifesto to 8chan which is an anonymous web forum minutes before the attack took place. That set the stage for this White House meeting that happened last Friday where major representatives from companies like Facebook Google and Twitter sat down with top White House officials - but not the president - to talk about what they could do to create a technological solution to this. So on one hand I think a lot of folks walked away from that thinking this is a good conversation that has to happen given the issues and the pervasive trouble of online hate. On the other hand people were like why were not we talking about guns?  Yeah. Well - and also just to take it back to that Tom Cruise movie part of the whole plot of the film is when this predictive stuff goes too far. Like...  Right.  Yeah.  ...When I saw these headlines part of me got a little worried about privacy concerns and - what is the right stuff to go after will they ever get the wrong person? Like as a citizen how scared should I feel about possibly these big tech platforms partnering with the federal government...  Right  ...To see what I am writing and posting and predict what I am going to do?  Right. You know we should caution at the outset here that this is brainstorming right now. Right?  OK.  There is no technology that exists that can do this kind of thing at least at the scale that the government would want it. And the White House was very clear that they did not think that they should necessarily own some system to do the surveillance but that a conversation needed to happen.  Got you.  Now all of that said the tech companies in attendance raised some of the very points that you did - this concern about you know what would happen if they caught an image that you know was white supremacy but actually it was a parody or something...  Yeah.  ...And it flagged that person as a potential shooter when in fact they were not? What about the privacy concerns this creates when you are keeping an eye on what people are saying and doing even things that they may have gone to try to post but ultimately did not?  Yeah.  And so I think the concern is theoretical but it is a very important high-level one. It is - once again we find ourselves with this debate over privacy versus security.  Yeah. Kind of feels like the conversation we had Ayesha many years ago after the Twin Towers fell over the Patriot Act.  Yeah.  And that was a moment in which we gave up some civil liberties to protect ourselves from international terrorism. Now is the conversation how much do we give up to fight domestic terrorism?  And I think too when you look at this is - how much of this goes against free speech? Should you be allowed to say these things?  Yeah.  I do wonder - what could the police do? So as long as you are not threatening someone but you are just saying hateful things on the Internet can - like who...  Yeah. Can they - yeah.  I mean hate speech is not against the law.  Yeah.  We would like to think it is but hate speech is permitted under the First Amendment. It is not permitted under the policies that Facebook and Google and Twitter have in place on their sites. They can take that stuff down and they do. But there is this concern that the Web has created this really disgusting conversation and that it is served as a conduit for radicalization. And so the other thing that I heard in the course of reporting - and this came mostly from Democratic lawmakers on Capitol Hill - it is this feeling that if the White House wants to start to fix the problem it has to start with the president and his own here. The criticisms were that - the things that he says about immigrants and other minorities and just the - generally the language that he uses and the tone of the things that he is saying.  And the picking the fights all the time.  Picking the fights - creates this incivility online that creates this space for people to say and do the things that could lead to violence and other kinds of troubles. Now...  Yeah.  ...We can debate whether that is actually the case but Democratic lawmakers said that is why they were most perturbed that Trump was not there at this meeting.  Yeah. What right now are tech companies doing in terms of monitoring some of this intense hate speech? And what would change if they began to implement some of this Minority Report precog stuff?  Right.   Right. I mean right now all of these companies have policies in place that outlaw things like white supremacy. They have thousands of people on staff who review the content as it is posted. And they have powerful artificial intelligence tools that is supposed to stop that stuff in real time. But there is this concern that that is simply not enough. Regulators around the world still see these sites as major conduits for things like white supremacy. And they point to sites like YouTube for example where you are just queued up with videos that look similar to the things that you have already watched. And so if you have already watched something that has a conspiracy theory or a hoax in it you are likely to see more of that stuff.  Yeah.  So there is this concern that there are these biases. There are these troubles built into the platforms themselves.  You know going back to this idea of a similar conversation happening around the Patriot Act and how much liberty we wanted to give up for that protection is there like a big lesson that you can see out of that that might affect how this plays out?  Right. Well we need to have smart conversations about how the technology works. And just I guess lastly here like this is not just theoretical. There are literal contracts out there on federal government contracting websites because law enforcement agencies are looking to do this work in real time. They would...  They want to do it.  ...Love to have these capabilities.  Yeah.  And perhaps it is the case that they should be able to do this sort of thing. But we have to...  Yeah.  ...Have a conversation about whether those trade-offs - privacy versus security - are worth it.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. Coming up we are going to talk about whether or not the Internet has changed the way you talk or the way you write. The linguist Gretchen McCulloch says yes it has for all of us even the grammar purists. That is after the break. I am Sam Sanders. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders with two guests - Tony Romm senior tech policy reporter at The Washington Post and Ayesha Rascoe White House reporter at NPR and star of the NPR Politics Podcast.  . Not...   One of many stars.  One of many stars.  One of many stars.  But can I just say...  .  ...What I love about it - you all will run these promos on other podcasts.  .  It is...  Yeah.  ...You and Scott...  Yeah...  ...Talking about...  ...Me and Scott yeah.  ...All the interviews. And at the end you say subscribe.  Subscribe.   Subscribe.  I love it so much. I love it so much. Oh my goodness. Anyway so glad you both are here. I have a question for you both. Tony...  Uh-oh.  ...Ayesha do you use periods in your text messages?  I do.  Only when I am pissed at somebody.  No I...  See. It is a thing.   I do not.  I do. I use like punctuation and stuff.  I do not use punctuation.  I use punctuation.  I use line breaks 'ecause for whatever reason - I am not sure how it happened - I think that when I am sending a text message if I send a period it means that I am angry.  Right.  Oh really?  Right.  Yeah.  Right.  See...  This is a thing that the youths have gotten into these days - the fear of punctuation.  Yeah. And I think that is why they would always be able to tell that I am not a youth.   So anyways this shift in the use or nonuse of the period - it is been well-documented. And people not using periods on our smartphones - an author named Gretchen McCulloch argues that that is just one of the ways that the Internet and smartphones themselves are totally changing language and the way that we use language. She has a whole new book out just about this. It is called Because Internet Understanding The New Rules Of Language. And so she argues in the book basically that the era of Internet has given us this abundance of normal people using language very informally all over the place. And Gretchen says that is a big thing because it moves us away from the way that we usually learn language which is a really formalized system you know through school in textbooks et cetera. She says that we have moved away from that formality that we have usually had around language in the past.  What I think is really interesting about Internet language is that you do have historical precedents for informal writing before the Internet. You have things like diaries and postcards. But they are really limited and you do not have distribution for them. So the fact...  Yeah.  ...That our informal writing can influence each other can go back and forth. And we do not always think about it but in speech we have formal and informal varieties as well. You know you are a radio host. But presumably you do not go home and talk to your dog like this.  I do not. I sing to her.   You know like this is not how you talk to your friends in the pub.  Yeah.  So the idea that writing should only be formal is actually this kind of anomaly when you look at this broader picture of what speech can be.  In all of your research on the Internet and language for this book what was the one new - I do not know - linguistic development or word or phrase or whatever that you found that was a new thing caused by Internet that like you love the most?  I really love how the Internet has given us ways to express irony in writing. And there is a whole bunch of them you know? There is the tilde at the beginning of a word. Like that is so - such a good idea. And you could put the tilde at the beginning there. There is asking a question without a question mark to indicate that it is a rhetorical question or that it is kind of ironic or deadpan. There is putting sparkles around stuff...  .  ...Which could indicate enthusiasm. But if it is in a context where you really cannot be enthusiastic it is got to indicate something else. And maybe that is irony. And what is interesting is that there is literally like 500 years of philosophical proposals being like yeah guys. It would be really nice if we had a way of indicating sarcasm in writing. It would be nice if we had irony punctuation. You know Rousseau had a proposal. Like...  Really?  Yeah.  .  Jean-Jacques Rousseau's like we need a .   There were people proposing backwards question marks upside-down exclamation marks all sorts of stuff. And there is literally like at least one a century and sometimes more. And all the philosophers are in agreement. This would be a really good idea. And none of them get off the ground.  And the Internet did it.  And the Internet did it. Like what a success story. Rousseau could not do it.  Thank you Internet.  .  The Internet did. Look at that.  Rousseau could not make it happen but the Internet did.  If there were a person who was cryogenically frozen before the Internet and the smartphone came into existence and then you brought them back right now today...  Yeah.  ...What would be the biggest part of our language that they would notice had shifted because of those two things?  I mean I think some of the obvious things that they would notice had shifted would be the addition of things like emoji and emoticons and GIFs and like adding in the visual ornamentation side or the body back into language because we have a body when we communicate face to face. We use our hands. We use our gestures. We use our facial expressions. We modulate our tone of voice. We have not traditionally done that so much in writing because formal writing just like formal speaking is very disembodied. Maybe you have a graph.  Yeah.  That is all the illustration you get - so this really obvious thing. But I think if they dug a little bit deeper and looked at the text messages themselves they might be reminded of kind of early modernist poets like E.E. Cummings and people who are trying to represent a stream of consciousness of how people are actually thinking but in terms of writing. There are literary precursors to this.  Oh yeah. Yeah. One of the critiques that you will hear from grammar purists from language purists that I hear as someone who talks on the radio is how that informal writing that stream of consciousness writing and that style has shifted and moved into spaces that should be classically more formal. I remember one time on this show probably a year ago I was laughing about a joke one of my panelists made. And before I knew it instead of laughing I literally said out loud LOLOLOLOL.  .  And I was like I did not even know I was going to do it. And it just happened. But I was like oh maybe there is some credence to this claim that the informality of Internet speak is actually becoming pervasive everywhere. And maybe that is a bad thing. Have you found that the informality of the Internet and how we speak there has invaded more formal spaces in a bad way?  I mean language changes. Like...  Yeah.  ...Life changes. It would not...  Yeah.  Life would not be alive if it was not changing. When something stops changing it is dead.  Yeah.  So...   ...You know congratulations. English is still alive because English is still pissing some people off.   Yes. Yeah.  You know if you want to kill English and embalm it like a dinosaur like you can do that and stop it changing. But as long as it is in the minds of living people it is going to keep changing because living people do not just stay static when you stop paying attention to them.  Yeah yeah. An idea that is been present in not just this book but in some other writing of yours is that the people who change language the most who move language forward the most are usually young women like teenaged girls. And you say that this has been a thing for a while. It goes all the way back to like the age of Shakespeare. Unpack that. And why them?   Yeah. So socio-linguists have this acronym which is if you want to study the most conservative users of a particular language you want to study what are called is nonmobile older rural males because they are going to provide your oldest snapshot.  Really?  Yeah because...  OK.  ...If you are mobile you are exposed to a lot of people. You are more likely to change your language because you are exposed to more. People in urban centers are also exposed to more different varieties of language because you come into contact with more people and you have more potential to be exposed to stuff. And there seems to be something about the gender. And linguists are still figuring out exactly what because the gender is probably a proxy variable for something. But it is just not quite clear what that is you know? Some people think maybe women have more extended social networks. Some people think it is - women are still more likely to be primary caregivers for children. So even if men do develop something maybe they are not going to pass it on as quickly. But it seems to show up in a lot of different studies in a lot of different areas that women tend to be on the leading edge of linguistic change. And of course that shows up in sexism about you know criticizing women's voices as well.  Oh yeah. That is a whole 'nother chat.   You know you are obviously a booster of an ever-evolving English language. But there are going to be a lot of grammar purists a lot of English purists hearing this. And they might be shaking their heads at our entire conversation. Any advice for them as they try to possibly open their hearts to navigate this new world of language? - one piece of advice.  You do not have to be angry. You can let that go...  .  ...And the world will still be fine.  Yes.  You do not have an obligation to be the moral standard of preserving something that was really just a bunch of like stuffy old guys in the first place. You can be happy with language. You can be a fan of language and enjoy watching language change. And it is just a more enjoyable way of living.  I like that. This is a very unironic unsarcastic thank-you Gretchen.  Thank you so much for having me.   All right. Thanks again to Gretchen McCulloch linguist and author of the new book Because Internet. Back here in studio with Tony Romm tech policy reporter for The Washington Post and Ayesha Rascoe White House reporter for NPR. Do you all think overall the Internet has been good or bad for Language - capital L?  I agree with Gretchen that I think it is great the way that it has expanded the way you can respond to things...  Yeah.  ...On Twitter and in text messages. GIFs in and of themselves are...  That is a new language.  It is a new language. It can convey a - it can convey something that just saying something in words would not - right?  Yeah.  Like reading something would not.  Yeah.  You can see something with a GIF and you understand...  Yeah.  ...Exactly what they are saying.  Yeah. I think all of this abundance of new Internet language and GIFs and memes it expands the emotional range...  Right.  ...Of how we can type. And I love that. Like I have seen these videos of these kids that are like preverbal 1 or 2 years old just learning how to talk. But they can text their parents and friends with emoji.  . Yeah.  That is really cool.  It is funny. At the end of your conversation you asked her - like why are people so angry about this?  Yeah.  Like why do people just get so lit? And I get a lot of that in email. Like people will see from my tweets or whatever - or if I dare to use a more colloquial phrasing or approach to something in a story I will get this message being like why would The Washington Post...  Yeah.  ...Like ever dare to like write this way?  Yeah.  And I was trying to think about like - why do I think that happens? And I think it is because people see it as a form of laziness rather than appreciating it for like the emotional range that you get by speaking or writing that way. They just presume you are doing it because you do not know English. You do not know how to speak it or write it properly and you just do not care to learn which I think is very very far from the truth.  On that note LOL. We are going to BRB.   It is time for a break - when we come back my favorite game Who Said That.  Oh no.  Oh yeah .  Oh yes. It is going to be fine.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders your host here with two guests - Ayesha Rascoe White House reporter at NPR and Tony Romm senior tech policy reporter at The Washington Post. Time for my favorite game - Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  All right. You all know how this works. This game Who Said That is quite simple. I share three quotes from the week. You got to guess who said it or what story I am talking about. No buzzers - just yell it out. The winner per usual gets absolutely nothing but bragging rights.   You all ready?  Yeah.  Every time I do this I make a fool of myself - every time .  It is so crazy to me to see how this game plays out because...  Right.  ...Like I am asking my panelists to talk about heavy intense deeply reported news stories of the week and they can just do it.  Right.  And then we get to the quiz show about randomness and they are like I do not know.   I do not know you all. It is amazing every week. Anyway first quote is we just had to put the egg in front of one of them and he knew just what to do. You do not have to say who said it. But what story involved eggs this week and it was very heartwarming? It involved parenting.  Eggs?  Eggs - parenting and eggs.  I cooked some eggs this week. I did not kill anybody so that is heatwarming.   Eggs - with the eggs?  You all did not see this? Just...  Oh oh oh. It is the penguins.  Yes.   It is the penguins.  Yes. It is the penguins. So this week at Zoo Berlin two male penguins have adopted an egg.  Aw.  And they are caring for it together. Within weeks of arriving at this zoo Maximilian Jaeger who is a spokesperson for Zoo Berlin - he said it was clear that these two male penguins wanted to start a family. And so now they are doing it. And I am just like give me that Hallmark commercial. It is just so beautiful.  Wait. How did the penguins find love before I did?   I am just bitter.  So apparently there are a lot of same-sex couples at zoos all over the world...  I heard that.  ...That are just like adopting eggs and doing the damn thing.  That is what I have been doing wrong? I am not at the zoo?   I am going to regret all of this later.   Right? All right Tony. You have 1 point. Time for the next quote - this one is so fun. Just tell me what I am talking about.  OK.  The quote is currently the street sign posts are empty. The Department of Public Works is waiting for the song's popularity to fade before replacing the signs again.  Old Town Road.  Yes.   I got one. Yay.  So Old Town Road by Lil Nas X who we stan - it recently became the longest No. 1-running song in Billboard history like 18 weeks atop of the charts probably 19 at this point. IDK. But in the town of Wellesley Mass. because of the song's popularity people have been stealing the street sign of an actual Old Town Road.  It reminds me of that story in Colorado where people kept stealing the 420 mile marker.   And so like The New York Times wrote about it. And so now it is 419.9.   Oh my God.  Yeah.  I love it. I love it. That is kind of amazing. So there is an actual road called Old Town Road in Wellesley Mass. People keep taking the street sign. And now the town says it cost 280 bucks to replace this sign every time...  What?  What?  ...So we are just going to stop doing it.  Yeah that is a lot of money.  