Hey its Anna. And this week were bringing you one of the earliest episodes of our show from 2014. And its one of the most personal too because its about me. Its been on my mind because my husband Arthur and I are celebrating our fifth wedding anniversary on Saturday. But this episode is about the time in our relationship when we didnt know if we were going to stay together. A lot was different back then. We didnt have kids I still lived in New York City and we werent keeping six feet away from other people. It was a time in my life when I didnt know what was going to happen and it was really scary. Listening back makes me appreciate just how much weve built together in our marriage and how much help weve gotten along the way. I hope you enjoy listening too. Alan Simpson Ms. Anna Sales. This is Alan K. Simpson in the wilds of Wyoming. Former US Senator. This is a message I got on my cell phone. Al I need to talk to you about an urgent matter. Nothing life threatening at all I can assure you. But give me a call... Al Simpson is famous for being the Simpson in Simpson-Bowles that group that made recommendations about American debt a few years back. I am a reporter and I was covering politics but there was no reason for Al Simpson to be calling me on my personal cell phone. Al Anyway give me a buzz at your convenience. I called him back. Al You have my cell. And then I was walking up 6th Avenue in Manhattan talking to former senator Al Simpson about my ex-boyfriend Arthur. In other words Senator Al Simpson had called to talk about my love life. This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... And need to talk about more... I am Anna Sale. Al Simpson was a republican senator from Wyoming for eighteen years. We would never met. He did not know me but he knew about me from a letter. Arthur Dear Senator Simpson we met once briefly a few years ago...  This is Arthur. Arthur Here goes. The love of my life Ms. Anna Sale lives in New York City. Weve known each other for two years and three months. For most of that time I was finishing my college PhD at the University of Wyoming. Our break-up was one of those classic - I love you... but this isnt going to work breakups. Our version was -- Were in our 30s. Im a reporter in the city you study wildlife in Wyoming. This doesnt have a future. We would agreed. But then Arthur changed his mind. I did not. Arthur Things had just gotten too hard and they had gotten too...  Heavy. Arthur Heavy. That is when Arthur decided to enlist the help of an 82-year-old retired politician. He thought it would make me laugh. Arthur I knew Al Simpson as a public figure and like -- you know the person I imagined was a person who at least there was a decent chance would think that this was funny enough or crazy enough that he would actually do it. Arthur told Al Simpson all about why we would split up. Arthur This means that Anna and I have mostly dated long distance. I love Wyoming and have indulged its pull a little too much. I have not been able to resist the mountains and people. And so a month ago Anna stopped believing I would ever close the distance to be with her and she cut me loose. I dont blame her! I was being a fool and I took her for granted. But now I see eyes wide open my mistake. Al Sen. Simpson Ive poured this is the one Ive poured my heart and soul into Wyoming for six years. I hope you will consider this as a favor for a man whos risked it all for that place. Ann Simpson Senator would you give Anna a call on my behalf? That is Ann Simpson Al's wife of sixty years.  Okay what did you... when you first read that what did you think? Al No I thought it was the oddity of the ages and I looked at it put it away and then Ann and I were in Denver and I said Ive gotta do something with this thing. I think Ill just toss it. And Ann looked at it and said worth a try. Ann This is just the sweetest letter. And I thought that would be a shame not to call. Al With esteem and humility he ends. Ann He seemed very desperate. They were calling to get me to come to Wyoming for a weekend. Arthur was getting a prize for wildlife research. There was a ball. He was a guest of honor and Arthur knew Al Simpson would be there. I was supposed to be Arthur's plus one until I told him I was not going anymore. When we talked on the phone that day Al told me he did not know much about us but he did know that all couples have hard times. He and his wife Ann certainly have. Ann was there and I heard her say in the background What have you got to lose? She got on the phone and added Do not let your pride get in the way. So of course I decided to go. Arthur and I met the Simpsons and talked to them about love and commitment and then because it was a ball we all danced together in our gowns and tuxes to a wedding band playing Get Lucky by Daft Punk. Then the ball ended and I had a plane to catch the next morning. And I did not know what to tell Arthur about what would happen next because it was not just the distance that had made it hard for us. I was also really scared of committing to a relationship that was not gonna work. I am divorced. I am in my 30s and I want to be a mother. And I was so afraid of making the wrong choice again and losing time. Ann says that that night at the ball she could tell. Ann I saw that there were wounds there.  What'd you see? Ann Well it was a little touchy. You were a little you know a little stand-offish. And uh thought well either it will work or it will not. But at least you were willing to give it a try.  Yeah. Al If it cratered I would not lose a bit of sleep. Not a bit. Not really I mean that. Because you have done what you can do. Arthur and I did not crater. A few weeks after the ball we got back together. And Al and Ann Simpson are still in our lives. It turns out that even though it was Arthur's desperate plea that got them involved they ended up helping me. So I asked to come to Cody Wyoming to talk to the Simpsons some more. Ann Come in come in. We are all ready to have lunch. The three of us sat at their kitchen table in the same house where they would raised their three kids. Al is six and a half feet tall and rail-thin. He peppers his sentences with cuss words while wearing a red monogrammed sweater. Ann Now here's some bread. I just made this this morning. Ann Simpson is totally glamorous. Her white hair is swept up in an up-do and she re-applies lipstick before she will let you take her picture. She wears these silver bangle bracelets that jangle as she talks. She is also tough. Al found that out early on when they were dating. Al I got arrested one night got in a fist fight got in a fight with a cop slugged the cop. Ended up in jail called her. I said I need 300 bail. She said are you kidding? Im working my way through school I do not have 300 bucks bail. Maybe you oughta just stay there -- and I thought Jesus you know it would be good if I linked up with her. She could be a helpful ally in this continuing battle for maturity. That battle? It is gone on and on. AlThe secret is you both try to control each other and you both fail. And it is critical that you both fail. As you try to -- and you do it in the most skilled and manipulative ways. He learned that lesson on a dance floor years ago. Al and Ann were at an event... Al And she was dancing with a guy I knew was a horny old toad you know. And I thought - and she loves to dance. So shes whirling around the floor and giggling and laughing. And so anyway I got home I said you know I want to tell you something I saw you snuggling up to that horny bastard there and she said look I am not into this to play games. But Im not going to be under a glass lid just because of your jealousy and I love to dance and I will do that and I am not going to jump in the sack with somebody so I think youd better get over it which really pissed me off. So I gave her a lecture it was a beautiful thing about life and fealty and love and loyalty and all the rest. I thought she will not sleep a wink. Ten minutes later I look in ZZZ-AHHH-solutely dead butt asleep. Ann Guilt free! Al Guilt free. and me Ive got boulders in my gut down here. I did not sleep but I did one important thing. Id always loved Shakespeare and I went in and read Othello how he killed the most beautiful person in his life Desdemona choked her. I thought Jesus this is one sick son of a bitch. This is not me this is totally destructive. And has nothing to do with her. Al Simpson has said Shakespeare leads you to the feeling world. And in the Simpsons' world those feelings sometimes unfold in public. Like during the Clarence Thomas hearings in Washington. Coming up Ann Simpson says her husband was a bully to Anita Hill. Ann I did not like that. I hated to have the people see a side of him that I did not feel was who he was.  Weve been asking for your stories about how the pandemic is affecting your ability to pay for your housing particularly with the end of the federal eviction moratorium last month. And weve heard from a lot of you including a listener named Tierra who lives in Baltimore with her three young daughters. She has a state job and before the pandemic she made enough between overtime pay and a side gig with Uber to cover her bills.  COVID revealed the soft underbelly of my finances. This is the first time Ive felt unstable. Im used to doing things on my own. Its hard to ask for help from people who are in the same situation or worse than you are. Tierra is still employed and grateful for that. But theres no overtime pay at her job anymore. And losing almost a thousand dollars a month from that supplemental income has put her housing in jeopardy.  I just received a letter from my leasing apartment stating that I have a month to pay my balance which is two months worth of rent. I dont know where its coming from and this is the first time Ive felt like damn Im stuck. Tierra is among the more than 40 percent of American renters at risk of eviction in the coming months. This is a story that isnt going away...and we want to keep hearing from you about it. If eviction is something youre worried about or if youre moving now to lower your housing costs send an email or voice memo to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org.  This is Death Sex  Money. I am Anna Sale. Al and Ann Simpson say they learned to confront things as a couple like Al's jealousy by learning how to talk about them. But they did not do it alone. Ann You know we had the good fortune of getting some outside help when we needed it. Through our church. Uh we had been married probably 10 years at that time and it was not a good time for us. Three children busy life and just a feeling that I needed help. Our minister -- Al The guy that married us. Ann He came to see us to call on us. And I said help. What a great life I had as I burst into tears. And he told us... Al knew the minister was organizing counseling for couples at church and he wanted no part of it. Al And I saw the car roll up I said that dipshit is here? I am not gonna come out to hell with I am not gonna do it. Ann said well I have done a lot of junk for you pal so you can do one for me. And that was really a true statement I mean gone to rallies and pie rallies and fish fries and you know all the stuff that goes with this game. And so I went. Ann And I had things in my past that bothered me and I was able to talk about that. Id had an experience of being molested. And it was just something that I was always aware of when I had sex. And once I was able to talk about it it diminished. Al She said I have never told you anything... I guess we would been married twenty years. Oh I said well. Ann Not that long. Ten maybe. Al Fifteen. Whatever. Ann It was my secret. Al No well anyway I said at least turn on the light and she did and she told me this and I said you think I care about that? That does not mean crap to me. She said you mean that? I said yeah! What the hell does that have to do with us? Oh she said I just never wanted to tell you. I said well you can sure scratch it off cause it has nothing to do with my feelings toward you or anything. Ann It was a gift.  It must have made you feel so safe. Ann It did. I felt safe. Thats exactly right. The hardest thing for all couples to talk about is sex. And it is hard to believe but it is. And the big issues in all marriages that hang it up is your sexual relationship. Whoever is the most aggressive the other one is in control. You know we are older so it is not the issue now that it was when we were young but it was a big issue. And it is in all marriages. Al Well then when you talk about it you think well there is a couple of horny people. No thats not the point. It is called intimacy. Scratch my back give me a hug just a hug Id say ok you know. But just a touch a whack on the fanny in the kitchen or whatever whatever. I do not know when I am telling those things make me look like a fine wonderful. And I can be a real horse's ass. I am stubborn. I am a bully. I am a bully. I can get into a relationship -- Ann will not let me pull it off but you know I can -- Ann It has made me stronger. Being married to a bully.  Were there ever moments in your husband's public life where you saw that bullying side come out and felt that you wanted to talk to him about it? Al Tell them about that one. Ann Yes that is when he was in the Clarence Thomas thing. Al Pissed me off. Ann And I said to all the men on that one I said you all came across like a bunch of bullies. Let me give you some background. This was in 1991. Clarence Thomas was a nominee for the Supreme Court and an attorney named Anita Hill had told the Senate Judiciary Committee that Thomas had sexually harassed her when he was her boss. Al Simpson was a Republican on that committee and he had some questions about Anita Hills story and her motives. Al via  If what you say this man said to you occurred why in Gods name would you ever speak to a man like that the rest of of your life? Anita Hill via  Thats a very good question While the hearings were happening in D.C. Ann was back in Wyoming caring for her mother who was very ill. Ann And I was not following it moment by moment. When I finally did. I just couldnt believe the way Al was operating. And I did tell him you all sound terrible. You sound like a bunch of male chauvinist pigs. Al Shed say I dont know what youre doing today but for gods sake you look really nasty. Ann You look like a beast. Al But do not forget Id had a wife who would had much more harassment than Anita Hill. And that is when I lost my marbles. I thought what is this? I mean for god's sake what did he do? Well nothing. Did he touch you? No. He wanted to talk about Long Dong Silver and pubic hair and coke cans. Is that it? Yes it is. I wanted you to be aware of his behavior. And so I was a monster. I was just pissed to the core. Al Simpson got called out and not just by his wife. Editorials across the country blasted him for attacking Anita Hill with rumor and innuendo for saying things like this during the hearing Al via  I have got letters hanging out my pocket I have got faxes I have got statements from her former law professors statements from people that know her statements from Tulsa Oklahoma saying Watch out for this woman. But nobody's got the guts to say that because it gets all tangled up in this sexual harassment crap. Ann You know he just kept getting more and more worked up. And then one time he was at home and I said you know you have a wonderful reputation. The way youve always operated. And it seems to me that you are caught in something and you just need to shut up. Al Shut up. Ann You said you have never said that to me before but I said well I am now. There is a time to recognize when you are out of control and sometimes you have to identify that in the other person. This is still a tender spot for Al Simpson. Some things hes contrite about. Other things he will not let go. And Ann is still disappointed. Its not resolved. Its just past. Stitched into their long relationship together. But I know that does not always happen in a marriage. When I was married and tried to push through feelings of distance and pull us back together it did not work.  Was there a moment for either of you where you thought maybe this -- maybe there is not a way back towards each other? Ann Well I think it is not that. You just think maybe somebody else could replace you. Al Mhm. Ann I guess there were times that I -- you know you think that divorce maybe is the answer. To start some place else. But you do not get rid of it. And ah everyone I have ever seen that divorced that went into another marriage had learned that it was the same thing and they had better make it work.  So this is -- this might be too personal but has talking about and kind of reaffirming fidelity and monogamy been part of your marriage and you have sort of worked through different phases? Ann Well I do not know that we dealt with that so much because we both went into it believing in monogamy. You know we are from the era. And our parents. Al Mhm. Ann You know divorce had never been a part of any of our lives. It is a different world now. But you know I think about it -- I -- I have a big problem with washing my hair. My hair will be just right you can relate to this and I think maybe I should wash my hair. Well maybe I wait another day you know so I am in there washing my hair still trying to decide whether to wash my hair. And that is how I was in the beginning about marriage. I am married and I am trying to decide if I want to be married. Well I am married! And that is what most people are doing. They are in it and they have not committed. And it is easy to do.  Oh yeah. That is real easy to do. I um I do not think you all know this but before Arthur and I got together I was married and divorced. Ann No I did not know that. How long were you married?  I was married three and a half years. With my boyfriend throughout my twenties. And we divorced -- we divorced and I met Arthur just a few months after. So Arthur was gonna be my -- my cowboy fling. Ann And here you are.  And here I am. Ann I think the real key is you decide to make it work. There are lots of different ways. We had ways other people have different ways. Al It is called sort and prep. But you have to take risks. That is what he did. He took a big risk. Arthur did take a risk. Confessing his heart ache to a retired U.S. Senator -- it is what got us back together. Not because I got a phone call from a famous person -- that was fun -- but because it showed me what kind of man Arthur is. I did not want to lose him. Now Arthur's mostly in New York and travels for field work when he needs to. We are back in the flow of an everyday relationship where it is not always about grand gestures but often the opposite. Knowing when not to say things. That is the last thing Al Simpson wanted me to know. How good he would gotten at that. When I was at their house in Cody it smelled like smoke because Ann had left a pot on the stove before they would gone out the night before. And Al said when he opened the door and saw all the smoke he did not say a thing. Al I just started opening the windows -- Ann Cause I already said oh for God's sake I forgot to turn that down. There are times that there is no need to say anything. Al No no need to say a word. I did cough a little but then I am ahead. Now she might -- she might say something the next time where as I did not this time she might say well for God's sake Al. I told -- I will say ah! Wait a minute! The night that pot of crap nearly blew up out house I did not say anything! Remember? I am back! I won. Ann See see there is no progress really. No progress at all. Al I hope it comes up soon! Ann It is just that we both do not care. Al We do not give a shit. Thats Al and Ann Simpson. Theyve now been married for 66 years and they still live in Cody Wyoming. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Special thanks to James Ramsay Chris Bannon Jim Briggs and Jonathan Menjivar who produced this episode with us when he was at This American Life. Our theme music is by the Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis. Other music in this episode is from Bill Frisell. And if youre new to the show welcome. Were glad youre here. Sign up for our weekly show newsletter at deathsexmoney.org slash newsletter and well send you behind the scenes updates stories from our listeners and other audio recommendations. Again thats at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. I am Anna Sale. This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.