 I am usually a happy drunk. But I clearly had a relapse of like rage and all that stuff. And so I had to really sit myself down and be like you gotta get your shit together. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. When writer Michael Arceneaux was six years old his Uncle Daniel died of complications from AIDS.  So that was when I was introduced to what AIDS meant and what by extension I was introduced to the word faggot.  Where did you hear the word faggot?  At home. It was a drunken rant from my dad after the funeral. Around that same time Michael was starting to figure out that he was gay. He did not tell anyone.  You know this is 1990 and the you know the early nineties. My only points of references are my Uncle Daniel dying Men on Film and In Living Color which was the effeminate gay male stereotype so they were to be mocked and laughed at. And then movies like Philadelphia where again you die of AIDS. So it was not - that is all I had. So imagine and I grew up Catholic so I was screwed up to say the least. Michaels religious upbringingand later conflicts with his parents about his sexualityinspired the title of his first book. Its called I Cant Date Jesus Love Sex Family Race and Other Reasons Ive Put My Faith in Beyonc.  I went to church recently like a year ago the first time in five Beyonc albums which is about about 15 years for people who are not familiar. Michael is a walking encyclopedia of '90s and 2000s RB and he is really funny. But his book also goes into deeply personal and painful territory. About having to hide being gay from his Catholic mother and having to endure physical abuse at the hands of his dad. Michael and I talked soon after his book came out last year right after hed taken a trip home to Houston.  I drove to my parents' house. I talked to my mom. And so I was saying you are like I you know not to be a braggart but I made The New York Times bestseller lists. And her response was like I do not want you to go to hell.  And I was like well I want you be proud of me. And she then she checked me. She was like Number one I am always proud of you because you are intelligent duh duh duh duh duh. So as of now thats just where we are.  Yeah. Well I want to go back to - to when you were a kid in Houston. Um and - and I want to be able to picture can can you describe the neighborhood you grew up in? What was it like?  Uh it was one of those neighborhoods I think maybe like 30 40 years ago white people lived there 'ecause and then they left. And so you know what happens typically when they leave. Um around you know uh it was you know not the worst but it still was like the hood. You know we had burglar bars um on the house. You know I have heard a few gunshots a lot of ruckus although a lot of time the ruckus was coming from my house. It was a chaotic setting because of my father um his drinking his anger. People would come to our house. They would smoke drink play dominoes sometimes fight. Apparently sometimes knives will be pulled or other things um. And then usually when something happened outside it would come into the house. Or something from his childhood or something else would be triggered then all of the chaos in our house would happen. And by chaos I mean my dad being drunk angry yelling screaming arguing with my mom and it potentially getting violent and us jumping in.  With your mom?  Yes.  Were you afraid of your father as a boy?  Um yes but I would fight him off my mom. Um I had this recurring nightmare where my dad is attacking my mom and he goes to kill her because he would threaten to kill her or sometimes us. And I am reaching to stop it but I cannot. And so then I wake up and that is - it ends. So like in the night she dies and I wake up and I am stuck. So that was a nightmare that followed me. Um -  You could not you could not save your mom in your dream?  Yeah I could not save her. Um you know despite how a lot of that sounds there was still some joy in the house. I will say my - you know people are complicated. My dad would take us fishing. I have really good memories of that. Um he tried. I do not think he had the language or the capability to do a lot of things because of how he grew up. He was abused um himself trying to actually defend his mom. Usually sometimes he would break down and cry after an episode and try to explain what happened to him. While that definitely added context I also kind of even as a kid found itmaybe I did not use the word manipulative but I that was the feeling because what does it matter if you are then in turn doing the same thing to my mother and to us? I have complicated feelings obviously about my dad butI love him but he was a terror I would say. But there was a tenderness there but it is just the um the anger always kind of superseded because of the alcohol and because of the not really dealing with any of that stuff that happened to him. Michaels been trying to deal with the stuff that happened to him as a kid and it hasnt been easy. Therapys been hard to afford regularly. Its expensive just living day-to-day in New York where hes based now. And Michaels writing career took some time to get going. It started with media internships during a summer when he was in college. But they were unpaid which meant he had to take out more in student loans. They got him to New York though where hed spend his nights going to gay clubs for the first time.  I did not sneak out like people in high school 'ecause again I was fighting the obvious for a long time and but then when I was an intern at 20 I was 21 someone uh the younger brother of a high school classmate uh took me to a gay club in the Village. I remember walking in and being like Why are they dancing together? And he was like Bitch because they are gay like we are in a gay club. Did you forget where I - I take you? I am paraphrasing but I did get a Bitch like are you serious? So I was a little confused at first and then I got drunk and Beyonce camewell excuse me Destiny's Child came on Lose My Breath and select B'Day tracks. So it was both. Um and I remember when I finally let go I started dancing because I used to be uncomfortable dancing in public because I think it gave it away. Um -  That youre gay.  Yeah. One of once one of my friends was like Ooh you dance like a a faggot. And she meant that as a compliment um because she is of the community. But uh at the time I was like Ugh why did you tell me that? Um but once I was in the cluband you know liquid courageI felt free and I felt less inhibited. Um I was less awarelike I I enter a space and I just look at everything and I just get so caught up in my head. That also might just be some hood shit to watch your surroundings. But that is what it was and once like you get the liquor you are like oh stop thinking just go twerk. So um yeah I was dancing had fun -  Were you dancing by yourself?  By myself at first and then just with friends and then back to myself. But that was the first time I actually felt joy with that part of myself um because it was like really the first time I got to experience it and not have to worry about anything. It felt really nice.  When you think about yourself as a young man in your early twenties out starting to go to gay clubs when you were kind of scanning the crowd and - and checking people out was it were you thinking about who you wanted to have sex with or who you might fall in love with or a combination?  Uh I was called out recently about being apparently a bit of a romantic. I was like oh forget - fuck you for saying that. But it is actually kind of true. So um Im horny all the time but you know I do prefer I - for the first time I had sex I wanted it to be a lovey dovey situation with somebody I really cared about because if I love you then that means I am more comfortable if Im more comfortable I have more fun. Um so there was a boy that I liked around that time who I wanted to have sex with. Um he - well I gave him head. I was like Teach me. Um and he laughed at me but that is -  Did he teach you? Did he give you tips?  He did. I thought I did a good job first effort. Um but he he would not let me do more and we did not have sex and then I found out he was dating somebody. I was like Oh here we go. A girl and a dude. I was like oh God I am a Mary J. Blige album mixed with like a '90s like Ricki Lake episode. Aint this some fucked shit? Um this is ridiculous. And so yeah how I lost my virginity was very anticlimactic but ideally I wanted to it wanted to be lovey dovey.  Does it feel like now now you are in your mid thirties when you think about -  Ooh mid? Am I - oh wait 34 is mid. I just okay go - go ahead.   Sorry!  Sorry. I I just had a c- I had a mini crisis. I was like Thats next year excuse you! Anna!  Youre not at the exact middle but youre approaching -  I am barely 34. I am approaching mid-thirties. Yes.  The bridge from early to mid-thirties.  Yes.  Um so you are in your mid-thirties now. When you when you think about what you are what you are looking for in your love life is it the same? Is it that same kind of tenderness?  No I mean you know it was not it did not necessarily have to be. I just wanted tender - like I just wanted someone to be kind and understanding for the first time. I mean I do not necessarily need you know tender kisses. Uh why am I quoting Tracy Spencer? The whole - I do not um I do not need that at all times. But in the in in the beginning yeah. I think for now the thing is I would actually like to finally have um a boyfriend and not just situationships in dating and I think one thing that I do not like about myself in the past is that I am so good at turning it off. Um and I also thought marriage was something that might trap you. So even you know before it was like a legal right finally um I questioned whether I would even do such a thing because I saw what it did to my parents. So I - it was sometimes easy for me to kind of create this false sense of intimacy with unavailable people. Because I did have a moment where I finally had to admit to myself you are attracting unattainable people because you are unattainable. You are vocalizing that you you you you purportedly want a boo thing and to have a boyfriend and do all those things. But look what you surround yourself with. Look who you ignore. Look how easy it is for you to cut people off. And so the physical intimacy issue was one thing but it was also like I was not giving a real fight to have a meaningful connection. Changing my mindset has already yielded different results. I am not that far away from having something that is finally real and mine.  Can you give me an example of how changing your mindset has concretely changed your behavior? Are you are you looking in different places?  Yeah. I treat um - I treat dating and the men I might meet with more effort I guess? I will still clip you you know but -  Wait whats that mean?  Like clip somebody like just get rid of him like we are done and it is not going to work. Um and it is not so much because I am looking for a reason to get people out but it is also like you know what I do not think you would be good for me or I would not be good for you. So like you know let us move on. If I know it is gonna be a headache if I know it is going to have me ended up listening to I dunno sad Mary J. Blige albums or like Sad or like Amy Winehouse 'ecause I do not want to be curled up in a ball listening to I do not know Wake Up Alone. No I do not - I dont need those problems or like trying to hit Faith Evans notes on Mary J. Bliges I Never Want to Live Without You. It is like no. If I if I see something I am like let me get out. Mm-mm. That is growth for me.  It is interesting because you like you are at once describing yourself as someone who would like shut it down when you felt vulnerable or could feel someone not responding to you in the way that you wanted to be responded to and not be emotionally available and also wrapped up in the fetal position listening to Mary J. Blige.  Yeah well you know I will say it takes a it - it takes me a long time to get to that point. I have a high tolerance for pain. It takes a while for me to cry and I do not say that as um to be something to be proud of. I actually think that is not a good thing. But I think growing up the way that I did I already kind of knew how to suspend stuff sometimes. Because again like stuff was happening in the house and I had to go outside and go to school and present so I kind of have built up you know certain endurance and for all of that and tolerance. But you know I am human so when I finally get to that point oh I am there. Coming up More about Michaels dating life today and why he always carries a condom. Well almost always.  I used to keep a condom in my wallet all the time and was not having sex. And then when I finally got over it I didnt have it in my wallet. Um. I was so mad recently about that. I blew it. I blocked my blessing.  Last week we shared some of your stories about your relationship with alcohol. Whats working for you when it comes to drinking and what isnt. For our listener Brandy the timing of our episode really hit home. She just started talking more openly with friends about her drinking habits.  I did not realize how much Id been consuming. And having me share that I may clear a whole bottle of wine a night and not even think about it and the shock on their faces like oh girl no you know thats not what we do has been a real eye opener. Brandy say shes looking forward to hearing your answers to the follow-up question we asked which is What do you do when the craving for alcohol strikes and you dont want to indulge? Heres a little of what we have heard far. Ive gotten really into craft non-alcoholic beer... Ill usually splurge on something. I go out on the balcony and take some time to actually relax instead of just chemically relaxing. We still want to hear from more of you about this. Send us a voice memo about what youve done instead of drink when the urge hits. Keep it to 30 seconds or so. And you can email it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After losing his uncle to AIDS when he was a young kid Michael Arceneaux was hyper-aware of the health risks that can come with sex. And he says the threat of HIV and AIDS continues to hang over his dating life.  When people talk about the HIVAIDS crisis they tend to talk about it as if it is like past tense particularly for queer men. I am black so black and Latinx men have really high rates as do black women but it they - its - its it is overwhelmingly high for people like me and my dating pool is a lot smaller as a result. So it is very much still a crisis for me and I you know I have I have quietly seen many people drop off and people still do not talk about it.  Really? Die of AIDS?  Yeah. Die of AIDS um -  Who are your peers?  Yeah. People younger than me or people around my age.  This might be a personal question but I given that how you learned about sex and gay sex was was during the AIDS crisis um have you chosen to to use PrEP?  Uh I have not. Well so that is -  when I first moved here five years ago I went to the doctor and asked about it. She said I was not the ideal candidate basically because I was not fucking enough.   Oh no are you serious?  Yeah it was kind of the equivalent of -  Youre not having enough casual sex?  Yeah yeah I was not having enough sex apparently. Now I just kinda need to figure that out. I think I am open to that.  Because it came up in conversation recently cause I um did not have a condom so I did not have sex. So yeah.  Have you and this is another personal question but um have you ever had sex without a condom?  No.  No?  No no no no no. No I have not. And no judgment to people who have had whatever whatever whatever. When you see someone die like that very early and then you see other people die along the way and you see people die that are still your age and then in some cases where they do not have the money to bury someone so it is like in a wooden casketwhen you know of these things or have seen these things for me at least that does not leave you. So I have never had sex without a condom. Um there was one instance where it almost. But that was stopped. Like it was stopped. Yeah it was stopped because I quickly -  You stopped it?  Yeah I was I I had to catch myself. Because when you drunk and or at least tip even tipsy you know some stuff happens. But no that was that is that is how it happens you know? And while you can you know lead a full healthy life all those things. I if I can prevent it I will prevent it. So I have never had sex without a condom.  You have described like over you have described over your sort of childhood and adulthood like basically like the coping mechanisms you have formed and then how you have tried to adjust them as you as you have gotten older and one of the things you talked about with your dad's drinking and his violence um how have you thought about alcohol and - and what feels comfortable for you in terms of when it feels fun to let go and and when does it feel scary?  Um so I have never notwell I I have been constantly reminded. So I am never not cognitive of the fact that um Arceneaux men can drink. Um a lot of them have a lot of us have really high tolerances or so we tell ourselves. Um well yeah we do. And but - but subsequently I am very much aware of how addiction runs in the family. Um so I did not drink until 21 the same way I did not really go I did not go to a club until 21. And for the most part I have been fine but I I have been concerned in the past because I am reminded that that can lead to something else. And so a couple of years ago there was a moment where I was drunk and I became incredibly angry at somebody. Um and I removed myself from that situation. But I was so enraged. And then I am kicking over trash cans. I am pushing like the newspaper stands down. I I was I was kicking white people's bikes in that area downand I am assuming theyre white because it was the Village um but I could be wrongI was kicking somebodys bikes down. I was I was losing my shit and mind you I am black lanky in the Village. I could have easily been arrested or something and then who knows what could have happened. And so I was really um ashamed of that and it scared me because it reminded me that no matter what I tell myself I am still human and thus susceptible to falling into patterns of those who have come before me. Um I have not had an incident like that since then because I am actually more of a fun drunk. But again I grew up in a house with a lot of anger. And so I you know for me I am actually more like my mom. She can be chill and just take it and take it and take it and then when she blow up duck. And so that is how a lot of times I can be. So I it it it takes a while. But when I blow up I blow up. But then I have a bit of my father in me and I was not again I was not proud of that it was very scary. Um but I had to learn from that 'ecause at that point I was 30 so I knew better but I still did it. And that is when I had to be on and really pause and be like you cannot be acting like this um and you need to watch what you drink.  And did you change the way you drink after that night?  Yeah I never got that drunk again. But also I just took better care of my emotions. My mom is the strongest person I know but she comes from the school of thought that you do not really tell your business. You do not you keep that in and you deal with it because that is what she was taught. My dad clearly he just blurts out stuff in anger. But I did not want to continue that cycle. Um it did not necessarily change overnight but eventually I had reached this point where I thought I needed to make peace as possible with them because if I do not I am going to carry this with me. I think in order to truly forgive people you have to just meet people where they are. And so with my dad what I started doing was just to call him. Just he - we do not talk long. He he talks like a mile a minute Hey there boy you alright? Blah blah blah alright love you bye. And even like Love you I got him to say love you cause I would be like Love you pop and then hang up. We would only talk for a minute. He would ask about the weather you need anything you alright? But I think even just calling and ending with I love you means a lot to him. And so it is good for me that I do that because it shows that like I have forgiven as much as you knowwell no I have forgiven I do not even want to quantify. Ive forgiven. I have made peace with it as much as I can. I am not carrying with me all that anger. You know this is very you know early Celine Dion ballad of me or Mariah Carey but you can heal from that. You can grow and you can be happy. Thats Michael Arceneaux. His book of essays is called I Cant Date Jesus and hes working on his next book called I Dont Want to Die Poor. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Xandra Ellin Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Stephanie Joyce and Joanna Solotaroff also worked on this episode and our intern is Emily Nadal. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Thanks to the Buffalo Bill Center of the West in Cody Wyoming for the use of their studio. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. And you always email us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Michael also wrote a piece in The New York Times last year called The Student Loan Serenity Prayer. Its wonderful and theres a link on our website at deathsexmoney.org. Michael owes about 50000 in student loans and he told me he regrets borrowing so muchand not telling people back in high school that he was gay.  In hindsight I wish I came out sooner because I won one of my best friends in high school like at least 20000. It was a queer scholarship. And she...as not dated a woman since the nineties. Um and so literally -  Wait so you wrote you wrote an essay for your friend  Yeah.  who got a 20000 queer scholarship -   Yeah a PFLAG scholarship actually and that was money 'ecause it was we had a hood high school. So it was like oh no black gay at this place? All the money! Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.