 Quentin Tarantino's seventh feature Inglourious Basterds sixth if you count both parts of Kill Bill as one movie borrows and cheekily misspells the title of a 1978 war film. The resemblances end there. The new film stars Brad Pitt as the leader of a vigilante squad killing Nazis in gory fashion in occupied France. Film critic David Edelstein has this review.  Quentin Tarantino often caricatures himself. Interviewed in a rollicking documentary about Australian exploitation movies Not Quite Hollywood he describes a female revenge flick in which a halfnaked woman is tied to the front of a car. If you like outrageous cinema he babbles you live and breathe for this. You are going who the bleep thought of that. That is of course the cry he wants to elicit from us watching his films. But if such provocations were his only motive Tarantino would not be a major director. His World War II revenge fantasia Inglourious Basterds set in Germanoccupied France is certainly a collection of whothebleepthoughtofthat set pieces. But it is also a switchback journey through his twisted inner landscape where movies and history misogyny and feminism sadism and romanticism collide and create bizarre new hybrids. The movie is an ungainly pastiche yet on some whackedout level it is organic. The overture is stunning. To the twang of Ennio Morricone's spaghetti western music a French farmer watches a Jeep filled with Nazi soldiers travel the long road to his farm. Closeups of his anxious face alternate with long shots of the car coming nearer in a way that compares to both Hitchcock and Sergio Leone. What follows is an excessively unnervingly polite interrogation over the farmer's kitchen table by Nazi hunter Hans Landa played by an elegant and insinuating actor named Christophe Waltz. To watch Landa slowly move in for the kill in a protracted shot of both men is to understand that Tarantino for all his infamous gore is at his best in drawnout dialogues humming with subtext that precede the carnage. Inglourious Basterds has two major strands and many minor ones. The most emotional part of the film centers on Melanie Laurent's Shoshanna Dreyfus a Jew who escaped from that farm and forges a new identity running a Paris cinema. The other half follows the title brigade the Basterds for short. American Jews led by nonJew partApache Southerner Aldo Raine played by Brad Pitt puffing out his jaw to look like Brando. The Basterds are famous for scalping or beating in the brains of Nazis. Sure it never happened. But watching Pitt's Raine taunt a prostrate commandant you so wish it had.  Mr.   I assume you know who we are? Unidentified Man  You are unintelligible Apache.  Mr.   The word you heard of is  you probably heard we as not in the prison taking business we in the killing Nazi business. Cousin businesses are booming.  Mr.   That leaves two ways we can play this out either kill you or let you go. Now throw the piece  'sides you we know there is another crap patrol  around here somewhere. That patrol were to have any crack shots that orchard would be a goddamn snipers delight. You ever wanna eat a sour kraut sandwich again you got to show me on this here map where they are. You got to tell me how many they are and you got to tell me what kind of artillery they are carrying with them.  I will not attempt to diagram the narrative which is full of digressions that are more fun than the main line. But I will say that Inglourious Basterds builds to a chaotic climax in a cinema in which Shoshanna schemes to blow up top Nazi brass at the premiere of a Goebbelsproduced propaganda epic starring a reallife Nazi hero  a blueeyed young Aryan who happens to be wooing her unaware she is a Jewess. But I am afraid on the level of pure staging Tarantino is not up to the phantasmagorical climax. It feels choppy and labored and both the action and Pitt's performance drift into camp. One problem is Inglourious Basterds peaks half an hour earlier in a beer cellar full of Nazis when a British agent and film scholar played by Michael Fassbender and two of the Basterds meet with a gorgeous German movie star played by Diane Kruger working undercover. The scene goes on and on and on endlessly digressive so that you are both laughing and on the brink of screaming with dread. It is that not the bloody scalpings and splatter that makes you say who the bleep thought of that? The answer of course is someone who believes that myth can trump history who says no Fuhrer can survive the onslaught of a world exploitation cinema auteur.  David Edelstein is film critic for New York Magazine. 