I would like book back-to-back like oh Ill meet you for coffee. And then Ill do lunch with her. And then Ill do dinner here. And then I may end up with her. Or I may end up after dinner with the girl that I went to lunch with. This is. Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Lets start by pretending were at a bar. Okay. I want to hear how you do this. What happens? Im going to find a way to get closer to you. Get into your area kind of get into your space. Not too close. And then I just find my way in. This is Jozen Cummings. Hes been picking up women for years. Unapologetically. I hope that Ive become interesting enough at some point where you ask me my name first. Oh you wait for her to ask your name. Yeah I kind of wait He gets the romantic pursuit. How to approach with swagger and just enough of a disarming smile. How do you describe what you do? Well Im a writer. And Im a dating reporter at the New York Post and I set people up on blind dates. You dont really need to say much more than that to get people interested. He hasnt always had a staff job. He was an editor at Vibe Magazine but got laid off during the recession. When youre are a freelancer and you dont have a job you can literally date 24 hours every day. And he did  and chronicled it all on his blog called Until I Get Married. Theres a post about getting bored with sex when you have too much. A how-to guide for being friends with someone you sleep with and tips on using a Groupon coupon on a date without getting caught. But how does dating work when you are not interested in finding anything serious? Jozen's been totally up front about it. If you want to find some dude who wants to marry you he told the Washington Post three years ago Do not start with someone like me. The paper also noted his resemblance to Drake that handsome RB artist. I cant get any girl I want but I certainly wouldnt The way you say that is hilarious. Cus it sounds likemost women you feel like you can. But I do feel like if theyre going to say no to me its not going to be because theres something  oh man this is going to sound  like theres something like ew gross. you know its never going to be that type of rejection. For you when did you first realize that oh I can get girls to be attracted to me. Where did that first confidence come from? The confidence  I do remember a very pivotal conversation I had in high school that I had with an older girl  I was probably 16 or 17 and I worked the deli section of the restaurant. Which was right next to the host stand. And we had a bunch of pretty hosts and all of them were about  if I was 16 they were 18. and though I forget her name You dont remember her name. If I saw her face I would remember her and I would thank her because she did say you know Jozen the number one thing you have to have as a man is confidence. Thats when I just kind of told myself okay get confident. And I think my lack of confidence came from growing up and kind of being that kid that girls were like Not him. When was that in your life? Oh that was that feeling stayed with me all throughout grade school and high school. The boys who got girls to like them I would just see them and say I dont have that. Im not short but Im not as tall as them. I didnt have much athletic ability. Was it kind of in your head at that age or where there moments where you like really were after this particular girl and you couldnt get her to pay attention to you? I mean I remember the first girl I ever liked didnt like me back. Now I remember her name  Roxanne in second grade I started coloring pictures for her at home and then leaving them at her desk and Ill never forget one day the person sitting next to me tapped me on my shoulder and said Turn around Roxanne is trying to get your attention. And I turned around and she just mouths the words I dont like you. And I was just like so upset and so hurt. I remember afterwards I wanted to find a way  like I wanted to dress cooler I wanted to do something. You know I think I cut holes in my jeans. After that to fix it? Yeah like I cut holes in my jeans at the knees because I thought that was the look. I dont even think that was a look. But I think it was a look. I mean I wore sunglasses. I think I picked up a pair of my moms sunglasses. Just being okay with the fact that they were sunglasses. You grew up in California. And then you move to Washington DC for college and go to Howard University. Right. At the historically black university. Yeah. And then you move ultimately to New York City. New York City. Have you dated women of all different races? Yeah Ive dated women of all different races but I mean you know black women were always the women that I dated. But I learned that that doesnt mean that Im dating the same type of woman. And you have a multi-racial background. Whats your background? Puerto-Rican black and Japanese. So I have a multiracial background but I mean I just Roxanne  she was black. That was second grade. Did I like other girls? Yeah. Was it like  when you figure out your type you kind of know your type. Like hes wearing the kind of shirt I like when a guy wears that shirt. Was it a choice at some point that you were like Im gonna date somebody else whos not a black woman and see what thats like? No it wasnt ever made like Im trying to not  date someone who isnt black. I think what I was guilty of and I think a lot of people that I know a lot of men who date black women I dont even know if its a lot but Ive heard it enough black women dont need the approval of men. At least the black women that I know the black women who are my friends. My niece is black and I would tell her this. That you cannot let a man determine your worth. Okay. I dont think that black women need men to make them the hottest thing or whatever to make them feel good about themselves. And I feel like for a while I subscribed to this idea that I was doing a noble thing. Like that I liked black women was somehow progressive. Instead of dating white women. Instead of dating white women. And it wasnt thats not. Because dating is such a personal thing. And I know some people feel differently that its a political  youre making a political statement by dating who you date. You can see an example of that in President Obama. And everybody talks about Michelle Obama and how great Michelle the first lady makes the president look. And for a lot of people its so good to see this black man with this black woman who you know  but I dont want a black woman to ever speak for me like that. I did but like I said I grew out of that. And thats when I once I let that go thats when I started becoming more open to dating anybody because When did that happen? That happened probably sometime in like 2012? Fairly recently. Yeah it did take a long time but one thing that I cus I was single long enough to kind of like start looking at the game a little bit differently. Is it uncomfortable for you to talk about race and who youve dated? No it isnt. I think whats uncomfortable is speaking and this is a conversation Ive had a lot lately with like my mom mostly. And your mom whats your moms background? Puerto Rican and Japanese. Its uncomfortable to feel like I am speaking about if I talk about my dating history and I talk about the women Ive dated Im talking about black women. But its very uncomfortable for me to speak for black women. Like I dont want to be the guy that speaks for black women at all. And its also when you have Japanese Puerto rican and black background  who youre dating is an expression of where you see yourself fitting. Yes it does  in what sense? When youre multiracial which side of yourself its like how youre aligning. In some ways  to be very crass about it. It is it is it is it is. And I imagine coming from California and going to Howard and thinking about your black identity as youre coming of age as youre dating a lot I mean do you think thats part of figuring out who are the women youre gonna date? I used to I think thats when Im speaking to. But I used to feel like very much that they were a gateway. Into or they strengthened my identity. As a black man. Mm-hm. You didnt grow up with your biological father. I didnt grow up with him. I remember my mom dating Did you like check out to see who was coming to the driveway? Or knocking on the door or I had my opinions. What would frustrate me was when I saw that she liked a guy and I could tell when she was waiting for a phone call. I could sometimes see how it was well past the time they said they were gonna call and they hadnt called. I could see that frustration and I didnt like that I didnt like seeing her get let down. When you were at peak bachelor were you ever that guy that might have maybe left your mom waiting for the call? Yeah yeah I was a lot  I was various versions of the guys that were in my moms life that hurt her. So what just say you meet a girl. You have a nice time out. You exchange numbers. You suspect that shes waiting to hear from you a text a call. What would go through your head when you wouldnt get in touch? There was probably somebody else that was keeping me occupied or not even another girl just wanted to hang out with my friends more. Wanting to just go home in peace and not have to share my bed and not have to wake up the next morning and in somebody elses bed and go home. One thing I never convinced myself of though was that I was the only one and I think that kind of helped me square away whatever I needed to in order to be okay with not texting them. So you would tell yourself Im not the only guy out there for this woman. Yeah Im not the only guy out there. You would not tell yourself that shes looking at her phone waiting for me to call. If she is it was always kind of like well thats fine but I never felt like I had all the control. And Ive been let down too. So we all go through it right? There are a couple of people you know I had a relationship with someone who moved from California to be with me. And I let her down. Now everything turned out alright shes You mean let her down like break up with her or let her down by doing something else that ended the relationship. Doing something else that ended the relationship. So you were with somebody else. I was with someone else. And then she found out. And she found out. I want to be able to say that the love that I have is love that I deserve. And the only way Im going to be able to say that is by basically living up to that idea. Did you learn that from the experience of seeing that cheating on your live-in girlfriend at the time seeing the damage that wrought did that lead you to sort of examine Definitely it was a difficult thing in the sense that I felt very sorry for myself and I knew I didnt have a reason. I had no You were sad to have lost her. Yeah. Getting caught was what made me upset with myself in the sense that you dont realize the damage that youre doing until the other person shows it to you and you see it on their face. You see them not being able to sleep at night. You hear them crying. You know its not about the way they treat you when theyre angry at you its that you come home and theres no music theres no television on theres nothing. Theyre just sitting there. And theyre looking out the window or theyre looking at a wall and you caused that. Seeing this made Jozen wonder if he would ever be able to commit. And it made him think about his father Harry. What I made a connection to was here was this woman that loved me so much and I did something to ruin that. To cause our relationship to end and hurt her. And even if she still loved me put her in a position where she could not be with me anymore. Well thats what Harry did to my mother and my mother loved him so much. And even when she talked about him you could tell she loved him. Years later. Years later. But she wasnt going to be with him. Jozens father passed away in 2009. Coming up what he learned from watching his dad die alone. We got lots of responses to our last episode about money and relationships. Maya from Philadelphia wrote in to ask about what to do when you bring different debt loads to a relationship. Shes got student loans. Her girlfriend doesnt. And theyre trying to figure out how to split the cost of a wedding. Lisa Eaton wrote in on the Death Sex  Money Facebook page she was in the same boat when she married her husband in 1992 and they came up with a formula to contribute proportionally to a household account. But Anas BD added Get over the need for perfect autonomy at all times. Marriage is about supporting each other and becoming one legal unit you WILL become dependent on each other for so many things. On the next episode a woman who supported her husband through a debilitating illness and decline. Chaz Ebert on caring for film critic Roger Ebert. When he was very sick it felt like we became one person. There I didnt feel the boundaries that you feel with two people. And I know those boundaries so well because when he got better and he got stronger those boundaries were resurrected. And I became my own person again and he became his own person. But the period where we became one I could almost feel him in my soul. We talk about the recent documentary about her husbands life and death...and how she still feels about his presence. I knew you were going to ask me just the standard questions. I just knew it. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Jozen Cummings spent his 20s dating and sometimes cheating on the women he dated. Which was a lot like his father. I had heard enough stories to know that he was somewhat of a rolling stone and um What do you mean? You know he was just a ladies man to a fault. Made some bad decisions and hurt the women that he loved. Including my mom. Or the women that loved him. I have two older brothers he had two other sons besides me we all have different mothers. And I know from talking to my brothers that their mothers felt the same way about him. But none of them showed up to his funeral. What that showed me was that you can love someone but you can also put them out of your life and I just thought here was my father a man who was loved but nobody wanted to really be there for him. His sons felt a certain obligation but even us we were even like no were doing this because we have to. Its a role we have to play. I didnt want to end up like that. You didnt want to die alone. I didnt want to die alone I didnt want to die alone and loved. Die alone and loved so youre saying these women had fallen in love with him and continued to fall in love with him but because of his actions it was impossible for him to be his companion be by his side and love him. Absolutely yeah. And I never felt  I dont know if its the Catholic in me or whatever but I never felt like just because I was young doesnt mean that Im not gonna  you never know thats one thing that. So it made you think about your own death. Yeah. And what you wanted. You just see him dying and you just think about that well how are you gonna out? I didnt want to go out like that. So I just went ahead and sought therapy. So you have this you had this traumatic breakup with your live-in girlfriend. As your father is ailing. Yes. What did you talk about in therapy. Did you talk about women or did you talk about your father? Um I went to therapy thinking there was something wrong with me thats what causes a lot of people  and the thing that you learn one of the first things that you learn about therapy is that its very much like your therapist just lets you talk. Like I think therapy is great but you have to go in there kind of like know what youre gonna say. Or at least cus they dont Its stressful when you dont know what youre gonna say when you get there. Cus they will just let it hang there. It wasnt until the fourth visit that I brought up Harry. Your father. And that resonated with my therapist. He had an instant reaction when I was talking about our story and my story my relationship with him. And hes like oh youre his son like thats you. He was self-destructive. And he said I know it hurts you that you two dont have a relationship but you need to get that out of your head. You needs to go down there and you just need to listen to him. You need to hear his stories and listen to the mistakes that he made. And I did that. And when I did that he was on his way out. What are you working on now in yourself when you think about what kind of partner you want to be? I think that this will be that this is kind of in line with the spirit of the show but in myself if I can put my budget in myself and my money in myself that is the number one thing that Im working on. My money my finances. Trying to somehow get right and fix everything. Youre in a serious relationship. I am in a serious relationship. So when was that moment when you realized Im gonna do this with this woman? That moment existed pretty much when she allowed me to take her out on our first date. I mean I How old were you? This was recent this wasnt that long ago so I was 32. Im 32 now. But I mean what I see with Gina is somebody who will love me and ride for me like be by my side. But I dont want her to have to have to take responsibility for decisions that I made before she came into my life. And thats kind of what my finances are a reflection of that. And Im really trying to get myself into a better place because I want to take care of her. I want to be able to have a family with her and I want to be able to live a comfortable life with her. And the feeling that I have for now it hasnt been long. Anybody can say Im still in a honeymoon phase but I feel like the challenge even though it hasnt come up now at some point it may of maintaining this feeling that I have. This joy and not forgetting that. And carrying that with me so that I can make good decisions in the future and not necessarily have to realize after its too late that I had a good thing. Yeah thats what I think about a lot. I come from a long line of divorce. My grandparents were divorced before I was even born. And the scariest thing is they my mom my uncles? They all ended up with someone  you look and see that its gonna be okay. And you see that its okay youre with someone after coming out of that and I guess my fear is that Ill be okay if it doesnt work. When you know that thats the case its scary so I just wanted to know if you ever see the relationship youre in now and wonder What if it all falls apart? Yeah. Yeah. Thats what it is to be committed is to face that. No it rears its head in intense ways. The cynicism? Mm-hm. But then what you go back to what I go back to is these are the most important qualities in a partner for me and I could never find what I have in my partner anywhere else. Yeah yeah. I mean thats and do you ever wonder why you had to take thatlike go through whatever you went through to get there? Like thats kind of what I wonder. Is like why did it take all this to get to her? Im thankful for my experiences but you know because she doesnt have nearly as much experience as I do. Right? Baggage. Baggage. Right so she  sometimes Im like you really you got it right the first time. You realize how lucky you are right like Im here. Im like fully arrived like not only do you not get to deal with other guys you dont even get the worst of me like it is really frustrating. I still sometimes wonder why our journeys why some of us have to take a more epic journey to come out on the other end and to be able to see the light you know? That to me is always the thing. Thats Jozen Cummings. Now his blog Until I Get Married is all about Gina his girlfriend. He says God willing his first date with her will be his last first date ever. Death Sex and Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Emily Botein James Ramsay Jessica Miller Henry Molofsky Chris Bannon Jason Isaac Bill ONeill and Jim Briggs. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. If you like the show subscribe. And write us a review. You can find us on Facebook -- Im on twitter annasale -- or email me at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. But its summer -- so get out there too. Just a few weeks left. If youre looking for lovedont be afraid to stand in front of the mirror...and check out your look. For a lot of men that still will be the thing that they do. Theres some version of cutting holes in your jeans and putting on your moms sunglasses. Im Anna Sale. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.