 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty . This week on the show one of the hosts of NPR's Morning Edition Rachel Martin and from NPR Music and NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour Stephen Thompson. All right. Let us start the show.  She is definitely working on her read. I can tell.  Oh my God it is Aunty Betty.  Aunt Betty. Aunt Betty said my name.  I know right? You have made it Steve Thompson.   You have arrived.  Hey you all Sam Sanders here. It is been a minute. There is no theme music here on this show. We start each week with a different song. Do you guys know this song?    My name is L. I am from Queens. I heard about your man he like to lace you with cream.  No.  Oh right it is LL.  It is a rapper. It is LL Cool J.  In honor of his big...  He - a big thing happened to him this week.  You can say it. What happened?  He is one of the Kennedy - am I taking your job? Am I...  Do it. No you are good.  .  Go.  He gets to be one of the Kennedy Center honorees.  Yes he is the first hip-hop artist to have this honor. It is a big deal. So in honor of him I am playing one of the singles from his 1995 album called Mr. Smith. This song is the Who Do Ya Luv remix of his song Loungin featuring Total. I was a little kid when I loved this song. It is really good.  I was an adult when I loved it.  . Anyway you hear these voices. Rachel Martin Stephen Thompson thank you guys for being here.  Hey.  You probably know Rachel from like some radio show called...  Probably.  ...Morning Edition - might have heard of it.  Right.  .  I am super famous.  Now you hosted that show this morning before you came and talked to us right?  I did.  How long have you been up?  I do not even know. I cannot even do math anymore. I have been up since 3 oclock in the morning East Coast time.  What?  Oh my goodness.  Yeah. It is so early.  I hope you...  Usually I can hear little birds so it makes me feel like it is morning and I am OK. But today I heard crickets.  .  And that is nighttime.   That is...  That is nighttime.  That is officially nighttime.  That is officially nighttime.  Yeah.  Well thank you for your service and for being here with us.  We will see if I can finish a sentence.  Yes yes. Stephen Thompson you know from Pop Culture Happy Hour. Also we will talk more about this later but you have a podcast too Rachel.  Oh yeah.  It is called Up First.  It is.  It is a daily 10-minute news podcast.  Everything you need to know.  Makes you real smart real quick.  Exactly.  So we are here to talk about what happened this week in the news in the culture everything. There is a lot this week - a new chief of staff in the White House stock market is up. There are some changes at a little channel called Music Television - MTV - aka MTV. They are still there.   Did you say MTV aka MTV?  MTV aka MTV?  What?  Oh I see I see.  Yeah.  It was a shrug the second time you said it.  It was - did a little Kanye shrug on the last one.  The radio shrug.  Yeah yeah. So we will talk about all of that. But first we are going to start the show as we always do. I want each of us to describe our week of news and stuff in only three words. Who wants to go first?  I think Rachel.  Come on.   That sign meant come on Stephen I have been up since 3.  She is been up since 3.  All right I will go first.  OK.  Stephen. Come on.  My three words are so long ago. It seems like so long ago...  Yes.  ...That we were talking about Anthony Scaramucci.  Oh.  Who is that?  And I - like earlier this week the very briefly tenured I think we can say communication...  Communications director. Although I have heard that like he was fired before his official start day. So he was working but it was not the official start day yet and he actually got fired the day before his official start date which is even crazier if true.  Wow.  But I digress.  Guy had not even started the job before he was fired.  The reason I say so long ago - I was clearing out some emails the other night you know like having a having a hot night...   ...Of deleting press releases. And I hit like a news roundup - one of those daily news roundups that I get from like The Washington Post or The New York Times or whatever. And it was like preparing for life under Scaramucci. And it was...  Lolololol .  And by the time I deleted it which was like literally three days later I was like oh him.  Yeah.  .  That short life.  Yeah.  That ever so short life...  Yeah.  ...That was Anthony Scaramucci.  It happened so quickly. Now like when we step out of the studio...  Life will have changed.  ...We will have to react to some new bombshell that we will have just found out about - so just the incredible ever-accelerating news cycles...  Yeah.  ...That we are dealing with to the point where when your producer Brent Baughman reached out to me like oh do you want to do it? I was like wow you are asking me to do the show on Scaramucci week. And he was like...  .  He was like you know what? We are probably not even going to still be talking about that.  Yeah.  Who knows? Who knows...  Yeah.  ...Where we...  No.  ...Will have moved?  Yeah.  And we move to a lot of places. All kinds of things have happened...  I know.  ...As you alluded to Sam.  I know.  It is been a busy news week.  It is crazy.  We all are trying to keep up. So that brings me to my three words.  Yeah.  Your huddled masses.  I know where that comes from.  You know where that comes from right? Do not we all? This is part of the poem that was written by Emma Lazarus that appears upon the Statue of Liberty. And this was in the ether this week because the Trump administration unveiled their new immigration proposal. They want to cut legal immigration. We have heard them talk a whole lot about illegal immigration...  Yeah.  ...But this is a plan to cut legal immigration by half. They also want to change the preferences. They say this is a more merit-based system.  Sort of point system.  Point system. So people who speak English people who have professional skills that the society could benefit from.  They rank higher.  These people get higher on the list - higher on the preference list than lower skilled workers who do not have English skills in particular. And the family situation that used to be a way that you could kind of jump ahead in line - if you had a lot of family in the U.S. - that no longer is - would be as much of a preference.  Yeah well because right now something like two-thirds of the immigrants that come to America - it is to reunite families.  Right.  And a lot less are coming because of their skills.  Yeah.  And Team Trump kind of wants to flip that.  Wants to flip it.  Yeah.  Yeah.  OK.  They want to flip it. And they say that this is an economic reason. They say that immigrants and in particular low-skilled laborers who come to this country are taking jobs away from American blue-collar workers. And you know what? There is not really a clear answer on this....  Yeah.  ...Oddly enough. It is so frustrating when that happens. But NPR's Amita Kelly - shoutout to Amita - did a whole rundown on this on npr.org looking at the facts of this. And economists do not always agree...  Yes.  ...On really how this breaks down. And what gets emotional for people is when you start thinking about the American myth and who we are. And that - this is where...  Yeah.  ...It really strikes people at their core. Like...  Who gets to come?  Who gets to come? Who gets to be us?  Yes.  And this is what spurred this crazy back and forth in the White House press briefing.  Did you watch it Stephen?  Did you watch this?  Right with Jim Acosta.  Yeah.  And what is his face? Stephen Miller.  Stephen Miller one of the president's top advisers - they put him in front of the podium to explain this. Jim Acosta famously the child of immigrants - Cuban immigrants.  Cuban immigrants yeah.  He is talked a lot about that. And he got into this standoff with Miller about...  It was really hard to watch.  ...The Statue...  Yes.  ...Of Liberty and this poem. And who are we? And it says nothing on that plaque about being able to speak English. And Miller immediately went to this thing about how dare you call this racist? But the fact...  He basically said you are the real racist Jim Acosta.  Right like why are you trying to spin it this way?  Yeah.  And you know if you take it in isolation there are questions to ask about who we let in and why.  But they have always been asked.  Sure.  We have throughout our history had...  Have re-evaluated.  ...Immigration ebb and flow and change the system...  Yeah.  ...Based on where the country is right?  Where the country's at what kind of - what are the labor demands? What are the national...  Yeah.  ...Security threats? It has always been thus.  Yeah.  But this is a particular time. And you take this proposal in the greater context of what the Trump campaign was about...  Yes.  ...Of what the Trump administration has been about what - this very nationalistic kind of ethos...  And a rhetoric that has been antagonistic to certain minority groups.  Absolutely.  So when you couple that with this new point system a lot of folks are saying what do you really mean?  Yeah and they cannot see past the presentation of it...  Exactly.  ...As well and the aggressiveness that then we saw demonstrated in the White House press briefing where it...  It was very aggressive.  ...It immediately got to that place.  Yeah. And what is so funny is like this idea of a point system - that is not new. Canada has a point system. The U.K. has a point system...  Yeah.  ...For folks outside of the EU. Australia has a point system. Donald Trump has even said that he looks up to Canada's point system for immigration. And so I think what is really hitting folks the wrong way is the tone and the rhetoric...  Right.  ...Like you were saying Rachel.  Yeah he is - you know we also saw those - the transcripts released of these conversations that the president had...  Yeah.  ...With the Mexican President Pena Nieto and...  Australian prime minister.  ...Australian Prime Minister Turnbull. And in that transcript with the Mexican president he was like listen I need you to pay for this wall. And if you are not I do not even care but just stop...  Just...  ...Saying it.  Exactly.  Right.  So he is feeling pressure on that front. They are clearly...  On his base.  ...Feeling like they want to get a win but...  Yes.  ...On this immigration policy - I mean they do not have the votes in Congress.  They do not have the votes in Congress.  No...  Yeah.  ...Cause among other things I mean there are massive business repercussions to stemming the tide of immigration...  Yeah.  ...That I am sure will slow down some of those efforts.  Yeah. My three words are kind of tied to this and how Trump is using things like immigration policy to appeal to his base. My three words are because of you. If you guys watched Trump's rally last night in West Virginia at one point he says we did not win this election because of Russia. We won because of you. And those words stuck with me because that you he is talking about is his base...  Right.  ...His core support group. And that is the group that he is been trying to speak to policy-wise for the last two weeks. If you look at the action they are taking against things like affirmative action that is to speak to this base right? The trans ban in the military - that is to speak to his base. Talk of the border wall and reform of immigration - those are all things to speak to his base. And - go ahead.  Well it is just fascinating to me. Usually when that is the - that is what you see in a candidate.  Yeah. And I find it even more fascinating when I see Donald Trump and his White House focusing so heavily on the base while the D.C. political media establishment focuses on just about everything else.  Right.  There was such hullabaloo this week over the announcement of a grand jury in this investigation by the special counsel Robert Mueller. But a grand jury was probably going to happen. It is been - like this is...  It is totally predictable.  Right.  Exactly.  It is totally expected.  And like we spent so much time wringing our hands over Scaramucci and the new chief of staff and the this and the that. Meanwhile Donald Trump is talking right to the folks...  Yeah.  ...That voted him in.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And I mean like when you think of those words - because of you - like the you is his base. But also it is like you could flip the whole word play because of you onto Trump and say hey Donald Trump all the problems you have right now it is because of you. You have created an environment in your White House where people want to leak. You are tweeting things that undermine your staff and your legal counsel. Some of the problems you have if not most Donald Trump are because of you.  Now you say this Sam but Trump has a new chief of staff Gen. John Kelly.  Yeah which we will talk more about later.  Which we will talk more about later. We in the news media have been predicting a Donald Trump pivot. We in the news media - we fall for this every single time.  Every time.  We - like now you hear like well now the Chief of Staff John Kelly - he is a four-star general. We can just now prepare for the fact that everything now...  Everything will be all right.  Will be disciplined and different.  Swimmingly.  Yes.  Swimmingly.  All right. I learned a bit from you guys.  I learned something from you Sam Sanders.  This is a very informative discussion.  I have taught you nothing.   Let us hold right here for a quick break. We will be right back with long distance where we call a listener and ask them what is up where they live. B-R-B.  All right. We are back. In a moment we are going to go around the table and each share a new story from the week that we want to talk about. But first thing we do every week that I love - long distance.   It is where we call a listener out in the country and ask them what is happening in their neck of the woods.   Today from California - San Diego to be exact - Grant are you there?  I am Sam. How are you doing?  I am good how are you man?  I am doing all right.  Happy Friday. You are on the phone with my friends Rachel and Stephen. Say hi guys.  Hi Grant.  Hey how is it going Grant?  Hey how is it going guys?  It goes well.  Good good good.  Awesome.  So it is kind of early over there in San Deezy . It is like eight oclock.  Yeah it is a little early. And it is kind of low-key muggy right now. So I am kind of soaking it in.  What? It is not good weather?  What it is humid in Southern California?    Like we have kind of been having a weird little heat storm here. But it is not too early. I work at Starbucks. I am usually up around 4 so this is - I got to sleep in a little bit this morning.  On that Rachel Martin shift.  I feel you.  Yeah yeah.  Do you open up the Starbucks?  Yeah I do. So we open up at 30. So I got to get there.  Wow.  Well you must get some weirdos at 30 a.m. at a Starbucks.  We get few people.    What do you mean weirdos? I go to the - I would go to a Starbucks. Uh-huh.  As I said you must get some weirdos . What is the like weirdest regular you get on a 30 a.m. - Starbucks?  On a 30 - well we work right off of the 805 so we work - I work off of a really busy freeway. And we have our Fox studio right there. So about every morning a lot of the Fox anchors come in and get seven shots with whipped cream.    I love it.  Oh my goodness.  Is this before or after makeup Grant?  Light soy. Yeah  I - it is before makeup.  Yeah.    And those people need their coffee a little bit just a little bit.   I mean we all do. But you know...  Yeah yeah.  Yeah definitely. That is true. No judgment. I am not looking very pretty serving it to them.   Now I heard besides working at that Starbucks you are also beginning college this fall?  Yes. I am going to go into my second semester at San Diego Mesa College our local community college.  Awesome.  And I am going to try to transfer either to San Diego State or UCSD for political science. So I am in public policy.  Awesome.  Yeah.  I want to ask you as a San Diego resident - there is been a lot of talk about immigration and a new immigration policy push from the Trump White House. What is the talk around immigration where you are?  I feel like a big part of - it is a lot of tension. It is just very increased tension. I have never seen so much activity on social media that relates to immigration policy just from my friends. So...  What are they saying?  It is - so I like it. It creates a dialogue. But there is a lot of tension. People will be driving to work and see a Border Patrol agent has pulled over a car. And they will pull over and take pictures and make sure everything's OK. So people are really worried about one another right now. And it is a really large undocumented community so I can understand why.  Yeah. You know I mean you talk about more of a conversation. I am assuming the conversation is tense. I mean are people...  Yeah it is...  ...Having constructive dialogue about immigration?  Well I try to.   I try to - so I am - being a moderate Republican I like to create the dialogue and try to ask people what their opinions are on it just so I can understand a little bit better. But it does come from a place of tension and from being scared. People are generally scared and angry that they are being targeted for something that they do not necessarily think is deserving of being persecuted for.  And so you said earlier that you are a Republican a young Republican in San Diego. How do you...  I am. Yeah I am a young black Republican from California.  Whoa. Look - how did we find you?   Yes.  So what is it like to have these sometimes-tense conversations as yourself in a place like Southern California?  I love it. I love it.   OK.  That is why I love where I...   That is where I - and I - that is the main reason why I emailed you - is because I just love where I am from so much. The fact that I can have these dialogues and have these conversations with different people about their views and at the same time feel respected for mine is a big reason why I love where I am from. And the fact that I can call myself a black Republican from California and people's first thing is not to say - why? - or in a negative way...  Yeah.  Yeah.  Or you know it is more of a - well let me ask you about your opinions you know? I have not been met with a lot of harsh criticism. It is a lot of people just wanting to talk and that is what I really like.  I love it. What are you going to do...  Yeah.  ...Fun for yourself this weekend?  Fun for myself this weekend - I am going to go to the range. I love golf. I am going to go hit the...  You and our president.  I thought he was going to say shooting range.   In my mind I was just like I do not know. I was like this guy is going to go shoot...  No I - not out here in California. I do not - I cannot - I do not even think I could get a gun until I am 21 out here.  Oh yeah.  How old are you?  I am 19.  Oh my goodness.  Wow.  Gosh.  You are so put together. When...  I know.  ...I was 19 Grant...  .  ...I was a hot mess.  .  I mean were you even...  I was a hot mess at 19...  I am 45 and I am a hot mess.  ...Tapped into like all the politics of the moment? I was not...  Yeah.  Yeah.  ...When I was 19.  Yeah.  .  Well good for you Grant.  So you are going to golf a little bit. What else?  Golf a little bit hang out with the family. I really love my family. I love my dogs. I have a cockapoo and a poochon. So...  This is a standup guy.   Grant's a standup guy.  Totally.  Just all around. Good dude.  You can just tell.  We love you Grant.  Yes. Me and my cockapoos are besties. So we are going to be hanging out a lot this weekend.  .  I am really excited.  Aw.  Wait. Can you send us a picture of you and your cockapoo?  Seriously.  And your poochon?  Yes. Oh my gosh. I love showing off my dogs...  You have to say the word poo twice when you say the name of your dogs. Yeah.  .  They are - shoutout to Bailey  and Pippa . They are...  .  They are listening at home.  ...No. 1 homies.   Yes. Yes. I love it. Hey well Grant thank you for your time. Thank you for your work early in the morning keeping people caffeinated...  Yes. God's work...  Have a great weekend.  Thank you guys...  God's work.   ...For all of your work. I really appreciate it. You guys are keeping me sane getting from work to work. It is...  You bet.  It is really appreciated.  You bet.  Thank you.  I appreciate all your guys' hard work.  Thanks man. Have a good weekend.  Take care Grant.  You too. Take it easy you guys.  See you.   Listeners we want you to talk to us for this segment. If you want us to give you a call and talk about literally anything where you live you should just drop us a note. Tell us what is going on. Email me at samsandersnpr.org. Brent's saying now that you can even feel free to nominate someone who would be great for the phone call if the phone call is not really your personal thing. So like you could say you should call my friend or my grandma...  Wait really? You can tap out?   You can just be like not me but this dude.  This dude.  .  Yes. We might try that. So...  We will  just call them up without warning.  Yeah. Yeah.  .  All right. Before we start our Story Swap quick housekeeping announcement. If you download these episodes on Friday evenings maybe for your evening commute I have to apologize in advance. Next Friday's episode will be a few hours late. I will be in New Orleans at NABJ the National Association of Black Journalists convention. And I will be there recording with some radio friends of mine. But we have some studio issues and I cannot record until late. So the show will be up late. Anyway do not worry guys. It will be up next Friday around 7 or 8 p.m. Sorry for the delay. Thank you for your patience. Godspeed. All right. All right. Now it is time for the meat of the show Story Swap where we each share a story from the week that was. I am going to go first because...  It is your show dude.  Yeah.  It is our show.  Oh I mean it is our show.  .  It is actually...  It is mostly your show.  It is Brent's show.   Let us not even play. It is Brent's show. Anyways what I want to talk about this week is the stock market. The Dow hit 22000 this week a record. And I am wondering why the market keeps going up when D.C. is in such it seems complete chaos. So I began to research this and realized I did not know what I was talking about. So I am going to phone a friend today. I am calling someone who does know about the economy...  Good.  ...And the stock market. He is on the line with us from Los Angeles. Hey. You there?  Sam I am right here.  Can you guess who this is?  I need more words.  Yeah.  Say more words.  No. Really? Rachel Martin I am appalled you do not recognize this voice.  Oh my God.  .  This is so exciting.   Tell us who it is.  It is Kai Ryssdal.  Of Marketplace.  Of Marketplace. Kai...  Yup.   How are you?  How are you doing my friend?  I am good. I am good. You have to tell everybody why I am so appalled you do not recognize my voice.  You guys Kai and I worked together back in the day.  Oh my goodness.  Aw.  I was like an intern. Kai was like - I do not know. You were everything. You were like a host producer reporter whatever. Yeah. So you were like kind of my boss. I do not know. Were you?  He is like yeah. I was your boss.  I do not even know. I do not know.   But if I...  He was fancier than I was.  We were both much younger then. Let us leave it there.  It was our younger years.  Fancier...  Oh my gosh.  ...Than Rachel Martin?  It is hard to believe.  Is there such a thing?  I know. It is hard to believe.  Yes. So for those that do not know Kai Ryssdal host public radio's business and economics radio show of note Marketplace. They have broadcast gosh every day - and some great podcasts as well that help you know about the economy and your money and stuff. So my big question Kai is a simple one. Why is the stock market doing so well?  Because corporate America is doing really well - is the short answer.  OK.  Let us think about what the stock market is right? The stock market - the Dow specifically - is 30 companies. The SP 500 is 500 companies. Those companies are doing really well. Corporate profits are up. They are making lots of money. The dollar's down so their stuff is cheaper overseas. And the economies in Europe are growing. So everything's good for corporate America. They are doing really really well. And that in a very short answer is why the stock market's up. Now the economy is a whole different beast right? Because...  Yeah.  ...The Dow's not the economy. The economy is not the Dow. So you have got to look sort of different ways at that whole thing.  Yeah.  It seems like a lot of what is going on with the Dow is like the promise of deregulation. Is that still...  Yeah. So that...  ...A factor?  Right. So you had the Trump bump early on right? Right after Election Day you had a month of - oh man everything's going to be great because he is going to get all this stuff done. And people and companies quickly realized that was not the case. And obviously we saw it in health care. We are going to see it again in tax reform. It is going to be really hard. But what the administration is doing sort of under the radar without having to deal with legislation is getting rid of a lot of regulations. Companies like when regulations go away. So they are betting on that promise that yeah eventually they will get tax reform done. But regulations are going bye-bye. And that is going to make it easier for us to do business. And companies love that.  Yeah. You know if the Dow is not the real economy - it is a different thing - what numbers should we look at to really see how the economy's doing? I am thinking about figures like wage growth or something.  That is exactly what you want to look at right? And so the jobless report came out Friday morning. And it was good - right? - 200-and-something-thousand new jobs. And that is lovely. Wage growth was up a little bit. But I think you have to look over time. Wages in this economy have been stuck for-freaking-ever. And people just are not feeling it. And so what is happening now is the companies are not yet being squeezed enough by the rising labor market to give their people more money.  Yeah. You know Trump has been bragging a lot about the Dow and the stock market and these numbers. And some on the left have you know critiqued him and said you did not do that. But is not this just a thing that all presidents do? Every president brags about a rising stock market. Obama did it. W. Bush did it. They both saw really big rises when they were president too right?  So yeah. They did see big rises. They did not brag about it because they knew that they would own it if it goes down right? The catch with the president now is that he gets out there. And he - and I am sure you saw the immigration press conference he had with Perdue and Cotton the other day. They get up there and they all do their spiel about the immigration thing. And then the president comes back to the microphone and says I just want to say that as you saw the Dow hit 22000 today. It is great. Everything's fabulous. The catch is that stock markets go down right?  There is that.  And if you own it on the way up you own it on the way down.  So then what should we expect going forward? I mean it is hard to predict. But like the economy is not doing as well as it should it seems for...  Right.  ...Workers outside of this Dow economy. What is next for them?  Yeah so the bigger picture is the economy's not doing as well as it should - full stop right? And what happens when an economy grows as slowly as it has been growing is that standards of living do not rise. I think what you are going to see - certainly through the rest of this administration - is as it continues a pro-business agenda companies are going to do great. Companies are going to feel fine. But unless they feel the need to pass on those profits to their workers and to the rest of the economy we are going to keep seeing what we are seeing now which is the headline numbers are fine. The real economy is meh.  This guy is really good at what he does.  Meh.   That is a key economic term meh.  Meh.   Totally technical.  Well Kai has to host his own show a bit later on today...  Yeah.  Thank you for schooling us real quick.  Oh. Happy to do it.  Have you back some time soon.  You bet.  Nice to hear your voice Kai.  See you everybody.  See you.  All right.   Yeah. He is so good.  That guy.   He is so good.  I feel like I have accidentally acquired some dignity...  .  Just sitting here .  From Kai? Come on.   All right...  He would not mind me saying that either.  That was Kai Ryssdal your friend of mine. He hosts Marketplace from American Public Media. They also have a daily podcast. And they cover this stuff in an episode from this week that is called The Dow Is Not The Economy. Check that out. Thanks Kai. Also they got a bunch of different podcasts that are doing some really good stuff. Check out their whole portfolio.   Rachel it is your turn. You have no phone-a-friend today. It is just you. What is your story?   It is just me. And of course we are going to talk about White House staffing changes. I know. And Stephen alluded to this before. But we have to talk more about John Kelly...  OK.  ...Because he got a lot of attention...  As the new chief of staff.  ...As the new chief of staff we should say replacing Reince Priebus. And it is crazy to me that that only happened on Monday.  Yeah.  Feels like a lifetime ago...  So long ago.  .  So many days ago but yeah. Monday is when he was sworn in in this new position. And so there had been all this speculation. Oh he is going to get rid of The Mooch Anthony Scaramucci the communications director who had that profanity-laced tirade to The New Yorker. But what was more interesting to me was the second person he dismissed...  Who was...  Yeah.  ...The second high-profile dismissal here. This is a guy named Ezra Cohen-Watnick. He was an intel adviser on the National Security Council OK? So the boss of the National Security Council is General H.R. McMaster...  The greatest name.  ...Remember? I know H.R. - so McMaster did not like this guy...  Why not?  ...Ezra. Ezra was someone who is closely aligned with Steve Bannon and Jared Kushner. And those guys protected him. When McMaster said in order for me to do my job right I need to have my own people here...  They would not let McMaster fire him?  They would not let him fire him. And the president too stuck in his corner. So there was a lot of tension for a long time.  Yeah.  So now John Kelly comes in. He is got a relationship with McMaster. I mean...  Yeah.  ...That whole general thing...  The general stuff.  ...Yeah the generals. Kelly benefits from also being really widely respected around Washington.  Yeah.  This is a guy who...  Served under Obama.  He is a patriot. He - I have interviewed John Kelly several times. I covered him when I was at the Pentagon. This is someone who feels patriotism at his core. He is doing this job not because he is always aspired to do it but because he thinks it is right for America.  Yeah. What is one thing that you are not hearing that should be heard in the narrative around who he is?  John Kelly is someone - when I interviewed him right after the travel ban we talked about what America is and what kind of place it should be and whether or not we can still afford to be a place that embraces multiculturalism that is still a pluralistic society. He absolutely believes in what that means for America. He absolutely believes in an America that has been the shining city on the hill - the give me your tired your poor.  Yeah.  Now you try to match that with some of the immigration policies that he has carried out...  Right.  Or some of the personnel in the White House like Steve Bannon who...  Right.  ...Seem to be diametrically opposed to that kind of idea.  Right. So there is going to be some tension in the White House for sure. Also we should not paint John Kelly as some guy who cannot like spew out his own profanities. I mean...   OK.  This is something - this guy's a straight-talker.  OK.  He can be salty at times. The guy's from Boston.  Yeah.  I do not know what that has to do with being someone who uses a lot of profanity...  I saw The Fighter.  ...Sorry.  .  Yeah. Right?  I know how that works.  Do not they swear?   But I actually - I think he has a rapport with Donald Trump you know? I think they have a genuine chemistry...  Yea