Hey its Anna. And before we get to the episode I want to say hello to any of you who might be new to Death Sex  Money and encourage you to check out our Death Sex  Money Starter Kit. It includes some of our all-time favorite episodes from the last six years of the show. Intimate conversations with celebrities and listeners about money relationships infidelity grief mental health and a lot more. You can find that at deathsexmoney.orgstarterkit. Thanks for listening! Were glad youre here.  There is going to be hardship in life. And uh no matter what. And so the best thing to do is be prepared for that. And I was brought up that when the hardship comes get working on it immediately. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. For the past few years Wendell Pierces work as an actor has taken him all over the world.  I was in Montreal. I was in Morocco. I was in Columbia. I was in London and Paris and Moscow. Wendell was shooting scenes for the Amazon series Jack Ryan filming the movie Clemency and for three months last fall playing Willy Loman in Londons West End staging of Death of a Salesman. But when acting work stalled back in March Wendell whos now 56 decided to hunker down in his hometown of New Orleans.  Eating seafood on the lakefront in New Orleans uh in the summertime uh has been a treasure. And I have been able to do that with my father and uh have some crawfish or crabs. It is been great. You know I am appreciating this summer even more because you know it was all the things you did for something that you took for granted. I would just hop on a plane and I would be on a Caribbean beach right now or you know and I realized that if I cannot get to a beach I am going to be like a kid. And you are going to see me Wendell Pierce running around with his garden hose and swim trunks on the back lawn.  And I want to be able to picture this like what color are your swim trunks this season?  Oh I try to be cool. You know big dude like me they tried to look slick right? So I got some like tight little boy short sort of swim trunks.  I hope they are red.  No they are black you know you gotta think slimming. Wendells house is in the Ponchartrain Park neighborhood of New Orleans just two blocks from his childhood home. His dad still lives there. Hes 95 years old and has around the clock care but Wendells been seeing him every day.  I said this is I am going to look on the bright side. And say this is opportunity to spend this time with my dad.  Hm. And what do you find - what is when you think about this time with your dad and think about what is been special about what you have been able to do together. Is there something that comes to mind a moment that would not have happened otherwise?  It is one of those times where you know every day I kind of go hes seen everything. When I explained to him - he cannot hear anything. And I explained to him what was going on with the protests I was waiting to see what he would say. And he figured it out. He goes Oh that is what is happening. Well we will fix this shit.  Well fix this shit.  Yeah. 'ecause he had he had evidence. Of how to do it a blueprint of how to do it and knowledge that what holds us together is stronger than what will be breaking us apart. And that is family and community. Wendell learned early about the importance of both of those things growing up in Ponchartrain Park in the '60s and '70s. As he writes about in his 2015 memoir called The Wind in the Reeds his parents settled in the neighborhood soon after it was built in the 1950s. It was a subdivision created by and for Black working class families after redlining kept them out of other nearby white neighborhoods.  It was separate but equal something ugly but we made it beautiful. It felt like black Mayberry you get on your bike and you could ride around. And I was I felt like I had a parent at every other house you know and they were like you know That is Pierce's boy. And uh I was known as Mrs. Pierce's son 'ecause she taught at the school two blocks from my house.  And when you were growing up like you described it as black Mayberry where you did you feel like finances were tight in your family when you were growing up did you feel really stable?  You know it is interesting Pontchartrain Park was seen as like this Mecca you know. People would come and drive through Pontchartrain Park. Uh uh they actually had buses of white folks who would come through on a tour. This is the first Negro neighborhood in America.  Wow. Really.  The Negro housewife is putting out the laundry. Ah the Negro father is cutting the lawn. You know they brought of all names Dixieland Tours to view black people acting human. And black folks in the city would come too you know. Oh man. Oh you are from Pontchartrain Park. Oh you think you are you are bourgeois. And my parents would always tell me I will never forget. Listen this little house. Which is not big enough for any of us. Cost 13000. And I spent all 30 years paying for it. So remember that.  That detail from your book that when your parents paid off their house they hung up the paid in full statement on the wall.  Oh yeah. Yes indeed. My father framed that and put it in his little museum as we called it. And he would always point to that My house is paid for in full. And um we had a healthy respect for work and understanding that money um allows you to build a life that you want. Uh you should not have a love for money but uh it is important that you uh you try to build your wealth. And my father to this day always says Watch your money. Watch your bread. When you walk out the door Watch your money.  Mm. One one detail that you write about in your book that I have thought about a lot is you it must have been when you were still at home before you went away to school when your when your brother Stacey was having some mental health difficulties.  Mmhm.  And just tell me how did your how did your parents approach that as a family?  My parents believed in sharing everything. If something happened you sat down at the table and they said - we had a we had a family meeting. And so uh even as taboo as mental illness was and still can be and uh in the Black community they said listen your brother is going through some issues at school. Uh and we got to go and get him uh 'ecause he is having a breakdown he is having a breakdown. And they brought him home and they said you know now this is the thing you always have to remember. What happens to one of us happens to all of us. So we have to take care of your brother. And I remember at the time we as a family -- now this is I had never even heard of it then. We went together as a family to therapy. To make sure everybody was on the same page -- these are the feelings that you are going to have you know my parents you may feel that you failed him. You guys are kids you may be scared of who he has become or when he goes through an episode or something do not be its natural. Also understand - that is when I first understood as a kid the doctor was very good explained to me that in you know your brain there is chemicals. And sometimes if you like in science class you put the wrong chemical together you get an explosion. It is just as physical as anything any other illness. And so uh family uh is paramount. And in times like that it was demonstrated you know uh family means everything. Um even as dysfunctional as it may be. Uh I was raised to believe that family is the greatest connection to your past and most likely to be there for you in the future.  How old were you when you were going to family therapy? Do you remember?  Oh let me see. I had to be about 10 11. Ten or 11 years old. Yeah. I was a child.  Yeah. I mean I I I think - like how do you think you know your your brother had left the house. He was no longer living at home and that he had a place to come when he needed help. Like did that do you think that made you more brave in thinking about what you might do when you left the house?  Oh - bravery was uh that was established with my parents right away. I mean just what they were doing just living uh we were conscious of - it is really it was an interesting balance. They taught us that there are those who do not have our best interests at heart. We live in the South. This is dangerous. Be on your P's and Q's. Be aware. But do not ever think you cannot do anything because cant died three days before the creation of the world so do not ever tell me you cannot do something right? Which is a mantra in my family. So hand in hand you know uh those two principles lived in my family. You can do anything go anywhere be whatever you want to be. And at the same time you have to be prepared. Wendell knew from a young age what he wanted to be. After his two older brothers went off to pursue careers in medicine and in the military Wendell fell in love with theater. As a high school freshman he was accepted to the New Orleans Center for Creative Arts a performing arts high school where got to know other students like Wynton and Branford Marsalis. From there he was accepted into the theater program at Juilliard. He arrived in New York in the summer of 1981.  Everyone was on their stoops. Music was playing kids were playing in the streets. A fire hydrant was open you know. I was oh man. I was like Man New York! Skyscrapers and everything! Like the Stevie Wonder tune. I was oh man it was excitement. The other thing is I had uh I had friends here already you know or there. Wynton Marsalis was there Branford would come down on the weekends from Boston. Uh you know so uh they were in school. So I went to Juilliard during the day and then at night I would go and hang out with Wynton and Branford and staying uh and I got another education at the jazz clubs.  What was it like - so you are living with your aunt in Crown Heights right? In Brooklyn?  Yes in Crown Heights.  You are going to jazz clubs. You are exploring New York City. Like um -  And then I eventually moved in with Wynton and Branford.  Oh then that - was that a party house?  Yeah party house you know. Young men in New York you know.   How did you think about romance at that time of your life?  Uh romance was a just as elusive as being a great artist was you know it is something that you had to work on constantly. And like any young man I was chatting up everything that was walking you know. I did not realize it then but they called me The Hound of the Hallways at Juilliard.    In New Orleans in New Orleans we say Hey baby. Right? That is that is a sweet thing right? It is a it is a term of endearment to everyone. What is up baby? Men and women you say it to anybody. And I remember this guy came up to me and said Hey listen man I just gotta tell you. I am not homosexual. And I know you keep trying to hit on me. I am like Keep trying to hit on you? I am not hitting on you man. He said You keep calling me baby. I said Oh man that is a New Orleans thing baby!  So that was my idea of romance.  The Hound of the Hallway is quite a nickname.   Yeah. Because I was being from New Orleans. Hey baby! How you doin' hey baby!  And so when you when you think about like I guess at that point in your life when you are 17 18 years old and you think about what it was about performing that just was like this is the thing this is why I am here. What was it?  I learned I learned early on its closer to psychology than anything else. Creating the world so strong that it induces the behavior. That you do not think about the behavior itself. If someone said you know a loved one of yours got hit by a car outside you would not think about how am I going to get up from this table and run out and look this way and look that way? You would just react because you have a history of of love and a connection to that person. And I learned young that it was creating that world that will induce the behavior when it comes to a particular scene. And I appreciated and I loved that part of it and it made me a student of human behavior. Then I saw an institution that respected that sort of level of study. From nine in the morning until 11 oclock at night we are going to look at every aspect of your human being. And tie that into the work that we are doing. It was that sort of detailed level of examination that I knew that it was nothing - when I left Juilliard there is nothing that I will go through in this business that will ever ever uh come up to the level of scrutiny that we had at Juilliard. Um when you left it could be debilitating. And for me it was for a little while. The one thing I knew with certainty leaving Juilliard was the fact that I was not an actor. I was like I do not know what I am going to do but I know one thing I am not good.  Really? You came away feeling not good enough.  Because the work had been so intense that you know uh I had a little bit of a you know insecurity about it you know? Um not a little it was big. It was and I will never forget the first year -- it took me a year before I decided that I was an actor. You know every time I got a job I had imposter syndrome. I thought oh man. They are going to find out I am no good. Then I got another job. Oh the only job like the only reason I got that it is because that one guy liked me everybody else did not like me then you know something else would happen. And then after a year I said Wendell stop. It does not matter if they like you or not you know go in and do your work. If they choose to work with you good. If not go on. And then that was the thing that kind of sent me off. Wendell graduated from Juilliard in 1985 and three years later made his Broadway debut. He worked steadily after that and then in 2001 he was cast in what has become his most famous role as Detective Bunk Moreland on The Wire. Coming up I talk with Wendell about riding high on the success of that show when Hurricane Katrina hit his hometown.  To quote Dickens it was the best of times it was the worst of times. Uh it was the best of times obviously for my career. And then Katrina happened and uh I really saw how fragile our society is. It is very fragile.  Talking to Wendell Pierce reminded me of the time that the Death Sex  Money team got to spend in New Orleans. We reported from there in the summer of 2015 10 years after Hurricane Katrina and talked with a collection of people about what had happened in their lives during the storm and then after including bounce artist Big Freedia the then-coroner of the city and a partyer turned professor who was raising her three kids in post-Katrina New Orleans.  Ive thought back on this series a lot during this time of pandemic when a really terrible thing is happening to all of us but hits each of our lives in specific and individual ways. If you want to listen back theres a link to that series in our show notes or you can find at deathsexmoney.orginneworleans. And thank you to those of you who have sent in your stories about feeling a rent crunch right now like this listener from LA who works as a freelance artist. Work has been scarce for him since the pandemic started. So he and his roommate decided to ask their landlord if hed be open to a rent reduction until the end of the year.  And we were maybe naive in thinking that he would be I dunno generous or understanding or sympathetic. But that wasnt the case. He said there was nothing he could do. So they paid their rent in full in August but are planning to talk to their landlord again at the end of the month.  I hate to be like argumentative or difficult about this because its not like this guy is some multibillionaire. And I understand that like this is his income but also like its a global pandemic dude! Have some decency! If youre worried about whether youll be able to make your rent over the next few months wed love to hear from you. Tell us how youre dealing with housing instability. Record a voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans in the summer of 2005 Wendell Pierce happened to be in town visiting while on a break from filming The Wire in Baltimore. He and his parents left to stay with family in Baton Rouge and watched from there as there city and neighborhood filled with water.  You saw the worst in human nature. You saw many people die. We had uh insurance companies not recognize anyone's insurance policies like my parents after 50 years of paying them. Then you saw the best of people. You saw people from all walks of life come to help. So every time you would get angered by some ignorant racist bigoted murder or police brutality you saw the kindest most loving giving people opening their homes giving food transportation cars - traveling people from all parts of the country. I had a neighbor come to me with a worried look. Wendell I never heard of these people. They going to build a house and everything. They gonna help me with everything I got but I just I do not know if I should accept it. I never heard of 'em. I said Who are they? Mennonites! I never heard of no Mennonites. I said oh no that is some of the most loving kindest people in the world. Well they do not sound like it. Mennonite? What the hell is a Mennonite? I never heard of that. I am Baptist! You know so.   How did you how did you think about the sets of decisions that you needed to make about how to be helpful to your parents and your family during that time?  I said you know we are going to be away from home for a year at least. Prepare accordingly. And so uh that was the that was the thing that was kind of cultivated in my family. Uh almost like you are on watch you are on call like a fireman. And the alarm bell goes off and you go into action. So I bought a house got furniture moved my parents in. Started commuting between Baltimore and uh and Baton Rouge on the weekends just to make sure they were set and done all of that. And I said I am going to get you back in your home in New Orleans. And I had a friend called me and said Wendell whatever you do do not let your parents go back alone to Ponchartrain Park. It is going to kill them. You have to be there to soften the blow. It is the worst thing you have ever seen. And to go back and to not even recognize the place that you grew up in. I - imagine what it would be like uh in a nuclear winter. You know. What it was you know after after a bomb has gone off. So I was there my parents broke down it was an emotional time. And I said we are going to get you back in this house. Do not worry. You know and my goal was to get them home before they died. They were in their seventies eighties and I said I am going to get you home.  And you did and your mother lived for years back in the neighborhood. Um she died in 2012.  Five years back home before she passed.  So that was about eight years ago now. Um when you think about - I guess when you think about your mother's death and and what it is been like to grieve her and how you think about her now and your relationship with her just what are you what are you thinking about?  I am always uh I am always thinking about um the lessons she taught you know? She was a teacher. So you know it is like when your teacher walks away from your desk and you are left facing a problem on your own. You try to remember what she said how she told you step into the problem how the challenge gets worse as it goes further along and then your knowledge of how to solve it is strengthened in the most difficult times. Um my mother was also a strong strong woman and she always said Mourn me for a day and then live your life. You know do not hold onto it. Oh she would hate when people would just mourn and mourn and on and on and become so debilitated by the passing of someone else. She said that is actually disrespectful to the person that died if you really love them and remember them you move on with them. So I just think about small things. I was thinking about rubbing my mother's back one night before putting her to bed when she was ill and uh thought about how it was this one moment that I prayed with her. Uh I think about it how we laughed. I always think of my mother when I get stewed okra with shrimp my favorite dish. And she would make it for me whenever I came home. And people say Stewed okra? I am like yeah you - you are not from New Orleans if you were you would know how good it was.  Are you are you currently living alone in your place?  Uh yes. Yes. Living alone. I have uh my girlfriend is in New York and she comes down.  Uh huh. When you talked about family being you know it is the connection to your past and it is also the connection to your future. And I wonder if -  I can ask it before you ask it.  Oh wait what is it what do you -  Why do not you have a family?  No I think you have a family. You have a family. That is not the question. It is the question about choosing - I do not know if it was a choice but but being at this stage of life and not having kids um how do you think about that?  I I you know I could still have kids and uh I have to I have to pull the trigger real fast.  I that is the one that is the one fear I guess that I can say that - that is the one fear that is uh debilitating to me. As much ammunition to fight the fights that I have been given as much good fortune that my career has given me why am I still still so fearful to bring a child into this world? I always feel - I feel such guilt. Such an overwhelming sense of guilt that a generation from now there is some young man or woman going through the worst that life can bring them and it is because I brought them into this world. That just - I can just imagine myself seeing my child going through something that is so hurtful um and that debilitates me man. It just makes me so fearful. I always admire people that Oh Wendell my child if you... I said yeah man that - and I think about it and I go that is - that is fleeting. Because that child will then encounter the harshness of life. What they are reacting to is that pure innocence of this new innocent life experiencing everything new for the first time knowing no fear knowing no dread knowing none of the harshness. And um and that is infectious. And sometimes I think that is selfish you know? Yeah. That child is making you feel good that you have to bring it out into the world just to feel good about yourself. Oh I think man that is really cynical when I even say it. I am saying it for the first time. Um and at the same time God rest her soul my mother would always say Oh Wendell if you only would trust and know there is no such joy as when you have a child when you bring a child in the world. It is a joy that you I cannot describe to you and that it does not end with childhood. I feel that with you to this day. And I just wish you would trust that. We had conversations about this. She would always say Oh by the time you have kids you are going to be too old! You know You will not be able to run around with 'em! And I said yeah but I will be able to pay somebody to run around with em.  For you it still feels it feels like it is a it is a question that you are thinking about about whether you want to be a father.  Oh yeah. I think about that more than anything right now. See I love my mother so much and I respect her opinion so much. And I trust her opinion so much that it is her voice that echoes in my head saying Oh you do not know that joy you are missing out on of having a child. I also look at the math and say listen I have got to get them to 21. So you know I got to pull the trigger in the next year or two. So. Oh my God you were hearing you are hearing the machinations in my head when I lay awake at night. So I will see. Thats actor Wendell Pierce at home in New Orleans. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im usually based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Katie Bishop produced this episode. The rest of our team includes Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And thanks to Sam Garrett in Washington D.C. who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Sam and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate.  Do you think about a child taking care of you when you are older?  Uh no. Even though I am giving my all to my father. Because with your siblings there is always one who does the heavy lifting when caring for an elderly parent. And if you are one of the others you are not doing enough. And that is the same with me my brother I cannot get him...oh I am not going to break on my brother. Uh yes I am going to break on my brother. You know I am doing all the heavy lifting. My brother's cool I love him. He is great. But there is always one. So I always know that if I have the one he may be like my brother . You know? So I am not relying on any kids to take care of me when I am old. 'ecause those suckers will forget you in a minute. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.