 This is Financial Therapy from Death Sex  Money.  It did not fit into my narrative for my life or how it could go. That I would have a husband who would gamble. Like that just did not even occur to me as a possibility you know?  I felt that I had just really let Cora down and then I was not in a good place uh with my professional life because everything was has been and was so uncertain at the time that it was like I do not have a purpose. And Im an addict? This sucks. Im Anna Sale. Late last year we got an email from a listener were calling Cora.  My husband and I recently hit a pretty intense rough patch regarding our financial life mental health and the trust in our relationship in general. It is brought about a lot of important growth for both of us but at great expense literally and figuratively. Cora is 26. She lives near Detroit with her husband. And that rough patch she mentioned? It was really rough. Cora and her husband whom were calling Garrett both struggled to find work during the pandemic. Then Garrett secretly got into online gambling...ended up deeply in debtand tried to kill himself. And just a heads up we will be talking more about that later on. I want to emphasize herethis whole series is about the importance of getting help when youre struggling with your mental health. We have resources in our show notes including where to call if youre having thoughts of suicide yourself. Please reach out. Cora and her husband Garrett have been getting a lot of professional help since going through all of that last year. Garretts been getting ongoing mental health treatment and he goes regularly to recovery meetings. Cora goes to therapy and together they go to couples counseling too. But none of that help has been focused on money. Specifically on their tensions around money and their worries about paying off their debt and the financial trust thats been lost between them. Thats all still very present. And thats why Cora wrote in to us when we asked our listeners how money is or isnt working in your relationships.  I am figuring out a plan while my husband works on healing which is all I want him to have to worry about right now. But the debt is truly daunting. It could of course be much worse and I am grateful every day and every minute that he is still alive. But we are in a really difficult space with money. We could use some financial therapy in whatever form. That is where Amanda Clayman comes in. You might know Amanda from the Financial Therapy series she did with us last year. Shes a licensed clinical social worker who specializes in helping people reflect on and sort through all of the emotions that are wrapped up in money.  Our money sort of creates something that we need to deal with or something that we need to talk about. And in dealing with it and talking about the financial issue we end up getting to talk about all of these other really really important issues as well. Over the next three episodes of our show well get to listen in on Cora and Garretts financial therapy sessions as Amanda helps them have hard and really important conversations about money mental health and their relationship as a whole.  I didnt make a decision that was based on valuing our marriage or the time wed spent together. I made a decision out of pain and just shame.  I am like I want to trust you but then I am like this thing happened and I am really struggling with it still.  I was just like hey I understand if you want to leave. I did not have any presupposed idea of like everything's going to go on normal. Amandas first financial therapy session with Garrett and Cora after the break.  This is Financial Therapy from Death Sex  Money. I am Anna Sale. Garrett and Cora met when they were both in college and got married three years ago. Today Coras an artist and a classroom teacher. She just finished her masters degree in fine arts. Garrett is an iron worker. He works in construction. And together they bring in about 90000 a year although a series of layoffs and gaps in employment last year meant that their take home pay went down by about a third. Financial therapist Amanda Claymans first session with Cora and Garrett was over Zoom. Thats pretty much how shes seeing all of her clients these days. Amanda was set up in her recording studio her closet. And Cora and Garrett were sitting side by side on the couch in their living room.  Is this a place where you guys have spent a lot of time over the last year?  Yeah. We were living in a much smaller place before when the pandemic started. And then we moved um mid-pandemic out of that apartment because it was very cramped and we were on top of each other. Um because we were like you know what? We are grownups we are not both in school anymore we can you know be in a house. So we we found this place and have a little more room.  Yeah.  And what has work been like for you during the pandemic?  Do you want me to start?  Yeah yeah.  So when the pandemic started I was in grad school finishing up. I graduated and then I was unemployed and I was on unemployment for the summer. And um and then I ended up getting a job being a teacher like in a homeroom teaching math and social studies and writing and reading. And it is been really amazing.  So Cora you are a first year teacher and your first year of teaching is teaching in the midst of a pandemic?  Well kind of.   Thats amazing. And Garrett how about for you? What has work been like for you over the past year?  Yeah I work in construction so there was a three year long period which is really kind of uncommon where I worked consistently and did not have any layoffs. And then when the pandemic hit I was laid off for two months and then I was back to work again. And then I was laid off again for about a month. And then I was laid off again. And then I worked for consistently for about four months and then I was laid off again. Yeah it was it was it was definitely a drastic change. I read a lot initially. But then I was just sitting in a hammock all the time.  It sounds like youre a person who values structure and consistency.  I really - I have always really liked working I have been working since I was about 12 or 13 years old. So I like really value work ethic and going to work and getting up early and showing up and doing my best during that time. 'ecause I guess I just really like money. I mean ultimately I it is not as cut and dry as all that but that is how probably where it is focused 'ecause money provides you know a certain amount of um freedom. Definitely. And so I guess that is always been kind of ingrained in me. A lot of the things that happened during the pandemic or a lot of the things that have happened in our relationship as of late are probably um not only because of but as a result of a lot of free time. And that is when I that is when I just yeah. Kind of went off the rails a little bit.  What had been building up for you?  In the first layoff was when I uh was the buildup I guess. So that was in March of 2020 I started to get into online gambling. 'ecause I do not know I was really bored and I have a I have an alcoholic addictive tendency um which I am in the process of continually dealing with now in a healthy way. But at the time I just did not have I had been sober for uh uh since - at that point I had been about four months sober. It was uh just kind of the the channeling of my alcoholic brain or the channeling of my addicted brain to do something that would kind of give me like a like a spark. And I am - nobody really knew about it at all. I do not think I really mentioned - the only time I ever mentioned it um anything about it was when I did win some money. 'ecause cause my lizard brain went off. It was like oh my God this is amazing. You know?  Did you identify or recognize any of those behaviors or the the way that you - the sort of need that this was fulfilling for you? Did any of that read as a red flag or did it all seem okay?  You know what? It did not seem okay. It did not seem okay to me at all. Uh but what it did seem was like a little bit of my um uh you know as somebody who was like an addict and a alcoholic and just all those things I was kind of patting myself on the back like oh I am not drinking. So you know I am doing pretty good.   So I can do other stuff?  Yeah exactly. So I yeah that is that is where your mind can trick you into thinking that you are I mean you are not doing the thing that you are trying really hard not to do or you really want to do. I really did want to drink the whole time. But I did not think it was okay. I thought that I was going to be able to catch up to myself. Because I did win money early which is if you think about it probably kind of algorithmically set up so that that happens but in one hand I won 5000. So then just like lights and fireworks went off in my head 'ecause I was like oh well this is working out. So it is not a big deal. And then it progressively got worse or it progressively sped up to the point where I was doing it every day. Like a lot every day. So that went on for about six months. And then it became kind of an uh an addictive thing. It really satisfied something in me for a short time until it did not.  Let us go back to last fall when things were in a really tough place for you guys. Can you tell me what was happening then?  Well there was just a huge distance between us emotionally during that time. And there had been for quite some time. And honestly like I mean when we lived in the super small apartment you know until the summer we did feel like we were on top of each other and it was just you know getting difficult. Um and so when we moved to the house it was really nice but you know it was more expensive to move to a house. And again we are on off your job and then my job had just started. And so I was like really really in it and like liking it and like really invested in it and like spending a lot of my time and energy on that. And then in November we got an email at school that the school was shutting down and um I like I had to stay late at work to like pack up our whole classroom basically to move it home. And I had tried to call him going - like after work. And I like almost ran errands afterwards and then I like something told me to come home and I did. And um and yeah. And you were you were in the bathroom with the lights off and the door closed. And I thought honestly that you were like just stressed out from the day. I think I just said like Hey I am home what is up! You know? And you were like Just give me a minute like give me a minute. Like you kept saying that you needed me to give you a minute and you were like - but it was weird. It was like you just kept saying the same thing in response to me being like you know but I feel like we were so in this weird emotionally distant place that I did not have an alarm bell sooner. So like five minutes went by or something. And then I was like If you do not come out of the bathroom 'ecause the door was locked which was not normal I am kicking the door open. And youre gonna have to fix the lock.   She had to like bust the door down. And yeah.  And you were like you know almost dead. Had tried to kill yourself. And um it was like yeah it was really horrifying.  And Garrett for you like was there anything significant about the breaking point then? Where something happened?  I would lost um like 10000 in like a week. I could not believe how behind I was um financially behind. And how much I had sacrificed and that was when I really - that was my turning point. That is why that is why I tried to kill myself.  Yeah.  Because I felt ashamed. And because I felt that it was unmanageable. Like I was looking at myself from the outside saying this is a sucky person to be with. Like I would not want to be with this person. Um so that is how and that is how I felt.  Oh Cora Cora that look that you gave him just now. What were you expressing with that look?   Just that I do want to be with him the person you are describing you know? 'ecause I love you. No matter what.  I love you too.  And it is hard for me to think that you tried to like leave the world or leave yourself. 'ecause I love you. So.  Yeah. Yeah. I love you too. First of all for the for the record. I was in a place of so much selfish behavior. That is you know that is what it is. It is like selfish behavior. I didnt think that I was capable or that this was the kind of person that I would be.  Garrett was far from alone in getting into online gambling during the pandemic. While most types of gambling went down last year online gambling is boomingit is becoming legal in more places around the U.S. and last year revenue was up 250. Self-reported behaviors like lying about gambling or feeling irritable when trying to quit have gone up too. Thats according to the National Council on Problem Gambling. And studies in recent years have found that people who struggle with problem gambling...have a significantly elevated risk of suicide.  Coming up Amanda talks with Cora and Garrett about what happened when Cora finally found out about Garretts gambling problem and the debt they were in.  I was just like like holy shit is this like am I like what do I do? Like I thought maybe the next step was that I had to like run away.   This is Financial Therapy from Death Sex  Money. Im Anna Sale. Garrett ended up spending a week in the hospital last year after his suicide attempt. It was the start of a lot of professional help for him. And it was the start of more honesty with Cora too. She didnt know about his gambling while it was happening or about the debt he accrued about 18-thousand dollars. She only found out the day she kicked down the bathroom door and an ambulance rushed Garrett to the hospital.  When I figured out what was going on I - well I you know the whole situation was so shocking and I was like do I like should I be in this relationship? Am I safe? Am I you know is this like should I be going through this? You know like I had those thoughts and I was really angry. And then I am like on the phone with my mom and like my you know I am like I do not know what to do. Like this is just horrible you know what I mean? Like it was just like so many crazy feelings and then like the gambling thing but I still did not really know what was going on and -  I mean Cora how did you just in a really basic sense like how did you find out?  How do I start to answer this? You he Garrett wrote...a note. I hesitate to even call it that.   Why do you giggle? Why do you giggle as you say a note?  I cant believe Im laughing about it. It was a series of very erratic sticky notes on the bathroom wall.  Yes.  Which like you have made fun of it now. So I feel like I guess I can laugh about it but at the time it was honestly like a part of me was like this is what you are going to write me? If you are gonna kill yourself?  You said as much really.  That is what you got?  I was on a like uh probably like the seventh hour of like a pretty - like a bender basically.  Okay.  Uh so I was not uh necessarily lucid for the whole experience.  It was really horrible. I mean I had a friend come over that night and help clean up and I like she was like do you want to keep this? And I said no. So I do not even have a real record of what it said but it was basically along the lines of I love you. And you are like amazing. And I do not deserve you and you should be happy. You will be happier without me which again is like so - such a load of crap. Um and then you wrote that you had a gambling issue you had a gambling problem or something and that there was some debt. And then I was like he is exaggerating. Like he lost you know 200 or something. Like that was where my brain went. It went it like went to denial. That is just you know.  Well are you - tell me how comfortable you are talking about the specifics of your financial situation. Are you comfortable saying numbers or or roundish numbers?  Yeah.  So first of all before this happened did you was there any debt that you guys carried that you knew about?  Yeah because I had just gotten out of grad school. And so we had a little over 30000 which we still have in school loans for me. We had not too long before that paid off Garrett's school loans. So we were like you know okay here's the new ones. And then we um what else? There is like you know credit cards that I thought were kind of fine but over the past many months up to this point have just kept not being paid off. And I was not sure why. And then I thought well it is because I am in school. It is because I am unemployed it is because like da da da you know again I was like making excuses for what was happening and he was you know pretty much doing the money thing. And I really should have stepped in in retrospect more but it had always been a thing where like whenever I came into the picture with money I have a more conservative viewpoint on how we should spend our money. And then you are like if anyone is like do not buy a thing that you want us to buy then you are like You think we are starving! Why? And so I was like you know and then I felt bad being that person like to make you feel like I thought that we were failing in some way. So I was like okay I will not you know we are fine. It is fine. I will just let you deal with it. So I had like avoided it. Yeah so then once the gambling thing started we would had like a loan that he had consolidated credit card debt into. And then there was a maxed out credit card and there was another credit card that I did not know was being used. And um and then we had car loans too. Which together all equal to about 30. So it was like suddenly the debt that has already been over my you know the cloud over my head but I am like It will be fine. We will be fine. Everyone in America has debt. Was like doubled and it was it could have been a lot worse. But it also to me it was like it should have never happened at all. So it is you know it is a big thing to contend with. But it is kind of like now I am dealing with all the money stuff. And it is like you know it is getting taken care of but it is still there. A lot of it because we do not make that much. And we have like a life to pay for. So it is just really like it is like a weight. There is this awareness of this thing that is always there.  You bring up a really good point Cora too about like maybe you worry what it means in terms of safety and control to have Garrett have his hands in the finances at this point. And Garrett you may be worried about that yourself.  Yeah. I have thought I have thought a lot about about how much I can be trusted and how much um uh you know impact or how much of participation I should have in these financial matters.  Yeah.  I have made it pretty clear that I am not the most responsible person or at least I was not the most responsible person when it comes to these financial matters. So I I am just here to be supportive in that way. In whatever role kind of makes sense right now. But.  What do you worry might happen?  Um I trust myself um right now. Um but I I do not I do not want to give Cora any reason not to trust me. Um or any reason to think that I might be up to no good or like just my that my behaviors leaning towards the way that things were before this. Um so I I feel I feel like I just want to be in a position of transparency and and not a uh a place where there is any question of that as well.  And Cora how has your trust in Garrett been affected by what has been happening with his health and with money and your financial lives?  I guess I have been struggling with that a lot because I thought I do not know there were like different categories of trust I think. Like I trust him completely and fully like as like an emotional partner and like as a like as a romantic partner or like you know as my - yeah. But um I and I thought yeah the money thing I do not even know how I feel about it still. I feel like I cannot really say yet or define it. And maybe that is just because I am uncomfortable with it. But um yeah. So that has been a hard thing for me to even say for myself.  And thats good information in terms of um in terms of thinking about how to move forward because not only are we considering um how to build something healthier but there is also the recovery from the crisis which has brought you here. And we do not want to just sort of say like here's the picture of financial health. Now let us move toward that. Like like we are just starting from a clean slate. It is so important to give ourselves time to really think carefully about the feelings that come up around all of these changes and around this subject because this is I mean this is really where where I think financial therapy in particular um offers us an opportunity. Because things that are happening in the relationship often come up in our money. So almost always there is one partner that has a particular way of sort of approaching money and approaching life. And that may be very different from the way that the other partner operates and sees the world. So um sometimes that comes out in conflict. One of the ways that it it feels like it it was coming out for you guys was um not conflict but rather a real sense of avoidance and and initially protection. Like Garrett you were trying to on the one hand really protect Cora. You will just take care of it and sort of spare her from that. But on the other hand where that kind of breaks down or where we run into a limit on how effective that is is once things go wrong you are kind of stuck out there all by yourself. So now we have kind of swung the other way where it is like money had belonged to Garrett and then that did not work in those circumstances. Um and there is there is a crisis and now it has swung back all the way over to Cora. And ideally what we would like to put together is something that feels constructed in a really um holistic way that takes into account both of your strengths without letting that individual point of view run the whole show.  Yeah I love that. Yeah that is really because you are right. Like it has totally swung the other way. And like I feel like in order for us to feel like a sense of shared ownership over the things. It is really important for us to have that you know dual thing but I think it feels scary for you know to go in the middle without you know that really intentional groundwork. So.  And some of it by the way maybe like there is an initial plan where like like Garrett you get sort of like you come back in in stages as that feels comfortable for both you guys the two of you feeling safe and that feeling safe in terms of where you are at with your recovery and well try to then set up um for coming out of this process with both of you really knowing yourselves better and knowing each other better and knowing how you can work together. For this to be an area of your life that supports your togetherness instead of feeling like it drives a wedge between you.  Great. That would be excellent.  Yeah. That would be wonderful!   At the end of their first session Amanda gave Cora and Garrett some homework to each think about their individual strengths when it comes to managing money and what theyre not so good at. And then to talk about it. On the next episode of Financial Therapy we hear how that went.  Like I perceived him to get really angry with me and I got really angry with him for getting mad at me for freaking out because I just needed to freak out.  I kind of dont really want our life to be completely dictated by every little thing that could and will maybe go wrong.  We have just found money to be a source of conflict for us in a pretty big way. And it was like it is just been something that has been easier to avoid.  If you are struggling with a gambling problem get help. Call the National Problem Gambling Helpline at 1-800-522-4700. Or to get peer support go to gamtalk.org. And if youre experiencing thoughts of suicide tell someone. Call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. And thanks to Brett Wean at the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention for your guidance on reporting about suicide.  This special series was produced by Yasmeen Khan and Katie Bishop with the rest of the team at Death Sex  Money Anna Sale Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn with additional editing by Anabel Bacon and Jenny Lawton. Our interns are Kristie Song and Mardy Harding. Original music by Isaac Jones. You can find me Amanda Clayman on Instagram amandaclayman and on Twitter mandaclay.  You can check out all of our past Financial Therapy episodes at deathsexmoney.orgfinancialtherapy. Look out for our next episode of Financial Therapy with Amanda Clayman next week. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.