Anna Chlumsky I started to just get antsy 'ecause I knew I wasnt happy where I was. Friends would say I know your problem. You need to act again. Id be like Shut up you know. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Fans of the TV series Veep know Anna Chlumsky as Amy the neurotic top aide to Julia Louis-Dreyfuss character Selina Meyer.  Amy!  Yeah?  So what?  Nothing! Well Ive been on the phone all night with these clueless constitutional law experts of ours. I dont know whats getting their dicks harder an electoral college tie or talking to a girl. But Annas current successat age 35came after years of not working as an actor. She became instantly famous at 10 years old when she co-starred in the movie My Girl opposite Macaulay Culkin.  Youre not nervous as a kid. It was - it was - you know Can you do this? Yeah I can. So it just - it just worked. And it was something that I was good at and that you know pleased the adults. Which is all youre trying to do as a kid.  As a girl do you remember wanting to be in movies?  Yeah. Yeah. I mean I didnt choose it. My - you know this was all kind of more of a financial situation that ballooned. Because it was first like modeling for the catalogues. And then - and my mom figured that that was a good way to put away money for college 'ecause she was a single mom and you know west side of Chicago How are we going to do -  You know. An opportunity is an opportunity. After My Girl Anna kept auditioning for parts and she got a few roles here and there. But when she was a teenager her career started to fizzle out.  It just makes you feel like shit as an adolescent. Most rejections as an adolescent for anybody in any walk of life um you know those make you feel like shit over and over.  When things got hard in your career in your later teen years did it become difficult with your mom?  Yeah. You know but you know I look back and I go she did absolutelyyou know maybe aside from like a few thingseverything right. You know we never left Chicago. We stayed in school. Like we always knew that everything I earned was for college. However unfortunately what ends up happening even if youre trying to do everything right you know when the child is - is earning and it does start to pay for the mortgage the dynamics just change. And you know so I think she - who could see that coming really? Um but - but yeah its - I think no one can kind of like go through a professional childhood unscathed.  Did you feel different from your peers when you were in high school because youd been in movies?  I mean I - I dont think I would have had they not thought I was different. But um it was just a lot - people were like Why arent you showing up to school in a limo? You know and youre like 'ecause I live two blocks from you and you know how much those - those houses cost! Like we have - like stop it! You know like Im not you know rich or Im not this or Im not that. There was - its - it was a lot of yeah just like you know not just trying to get people to know you but first breaking down what people thought they - they knew about you. Being the kid in a movie then becomes like the label and people change and you know some people want to be your friends who never wanted to before. Family members are weird. So I - I became very private and not - not terribly trusting of people. And you know thats something I kind of struggle with to this day.  Do you remember the moment when you decided you wanted to stop acting?  Yeah. Um I went into my agents to do yet another taped audition for something that I knew I wouldnt get. Because it was in a slew - it was in a huge pattern of - of jobs I wasnt getting. Like years. And um so I did it and I got in my little - I had a Neon a Dodge Neon. And I threw the script on the passenger side on the seat and I - I dont know. Its one of those detached moments where its like I just looked at the script and I went I dont have to do this anymore. That was during Annas freshman year of college. She decided to buckle down and focus on her studies at the University of Chicago...  ...famous for its slogan Where fun comes to die. She paid for college with money shed earned as a kid. And at the end of her sophomore year she started dating a freshman named Shaun So.  Did he know who you were?  Yeah. Everybody - everybody you know knew that I was the girl from My Girl and stuff. But the nice thing is he just - he didnt care. He didnt really grow up um watching movies very voraciously. And uh by then I could tell who cared and who didnt. You know what I mean? So like you kind of feel safe with the people who dont care. Anna and Shaun were together throughout college and when she graduated a year before he did she decided to move to New York.  What was - what was the plan? What was your vision?   Oh my plan was to - uh - to write food and travel articles so that my job could pay for the thing I liked the most which was travel and eat.   Smart.  Yeah um but I had no clips you know leaving college. Like I never wrote for the paper. Um you know I never - like thats not something I did during college so its like Oh okay this is what youre going to do. But - I actually sold a couple like - this was when like internet articles were just beginning to pay. And you know so I think I sold like two different articles for like 35 bucks. One on Ovaltine.  You wrote an article about Ovaltine?  Yes!  Was it in praise or in critique?  Oh praise only. I ugh I love Ovaltine. Anna eventually got a job as an editorial assistant for HarperCollins. But the prospect of acting again haunted her.  You know when I first got to New York I saw Mercedes Ruehl in The Goat. And I had this like completely impulsive act when I stood up for the ovation at the end where I went I have to do that. I said it out loud. My mother heard me. My mother my mother of all people like the person who wants me to be in show business more than anything. You know like I would never say this rationally you know? Im like Oh no she heard me! Coming up...how Anna decided to try acting again just after her boyfriend Shaun enlisted in the military.  And then I - I said to him I was like What would you say if I started auditioning again and tried to act again? And hes like I cannot be in training for the army right now and tell you not to take a risk with your life.  Chester Jesus Soria Hi guys...this is Chester Jesus Soria. I am a producer with Death Sex  Money. Annas still out on maternity leave with baby June. You can read more about their adventures out west by subscribing to our newsletter at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. One of our most recent newsletters...also had updates from folks we interviewed last year in our episode called Siblinghood. If you havent heard that episode you can still listen to it at deathsexmoney.org. Shortly after that episode came out we actually got a voice memo from a listener named Edel in Texas who wanted to share her own story. Edel Its not about my siblings...its actually about my relationship with my friends that I grew up with. This relationship with these girls was literally a life-altering friendship. Edel says she fell out of touch with those friends...enough so that she didnt invite them to her wedding. And they werent really talking when she moved to a new country.  When your sibling conversation talked about the breakup of family relationships it reminded me about the breakup of my friendship relationships. It took me a long long time to make my peace with that break up. It really really did. Her voice memo prompted us to look through our inbox for other stories about breakups. And last year we got an email from a listener named Rachel. She wrote to us about two weeks after her boyfriend moved out of their apartment. She described their time together as the best three years of her life and she said It is scary to imagine not having thatand having to meet someone new. Pluswhere do you put all the love you gave that person? Since she wrote us Rachel's met somebody new and she told us that shes very happy right now. Still she says hearing other peoples stories about their breakups could have helped her. So thats what we were asking for todaywe want to hear your stories about your breakups. Romantic friendship family or otherwise. If you want to share your story just email us or record a voice memo on your smartphone and send that in to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Well be in touch before we use anything that you send us. On the next episodeour night with radio show Selected Shorts. Hear two of your favorite short stories about death sex and money read by special guests like actress Kathleen Chalfant. Kathleen Chalfant Until the girl died that was enough for me. To be married to a fantastic man who loved me and was prone once in a long while to a little lapse and a lot of Catholic guilt about it.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. As Anna Chlumsky was navigating through her first few years in New York her boyfriend Shaun moved to Washington. It was 2003. The U.S. had just invaded Iraq and he got a job at the Pentagon.  Basically what he was doing at the Pentagon was analyzing. He was an analyst. And so hes drawing all these conclusions about whats a threat whats not a threat. And hes going Im making decisions about boots on the ground and Ive never been on the ground. So he just kinda felt uh like he needed cred. So yeah he - he enlisted in the Army Reserve.  What was that conversation like between you?  Um very - very akin to a lot of our major conversations to date which is basically like I will support you. You know I cant not support this decision. And you know yet Im scared. And tell me how this is going to work. What will this be like? I mean I wasnt crazy about the notion of course at first. But I - but again its like how can you you know - how can you tell a person that they shouldnt volunteer and be of service and you know be proud of themselves?  How soon after he enlisted did you find out he was gonna be deployed?  I think like a year. There was I guess it was around the summer then of 2004 or '05. I dont remember. The Olympics were on and I was visiting my father. And I had a phone conversation with Shaun where he kind of casually mentioned deployment. Just the possibility of it. And I like freaked out. 'ecause I had gotten into this habit of not thinking it would occur.  Yeah.  So - so yeah then I got really sad 'ecause hes like You know I joined the military. Hes like You know theres a war. Like there will be a deployment some day. So then I had to start beefing myself up for that and - and yeah right around I want to say the fall of that year he - yeah he got called. It was like 'The Call.' And then I cried. I had a friend staying with me. She was there. She saw me cry. But you know you go with it. Around the same time Anna was questioning the direction of her career from the sci-fi division at HarperCollins.  I dont know what it was about that week but like there was a week where I was just crying a lot on my lunch break. She told Shaun how stuck she was feeling.  He was in Arizona doing Advanced Individual Training. And -  So hes just beginning his military training.  Yeah. And I told him about the day that this - that this psychic followed me to work -  You have to tell me more about that.   So theres this psychic that was outside of HarperCollins that you know she would just hand out her pamphlets. And I passed her. And then shes like Wait I have a message for you. Im like Yeah psh. You have a message for everybody. And - uh - she followed me. She left her little post and you know taps me on the shoulder. And Im like Yes? And she says Youre the girl from My Girl. Im like No you know brainer. Like thanks psychic.  Thats your big news!  Yeah. Good for you. And so then she is like - but then she says Youre not done. You still want to do this. So that touched a nerve. So then the phone call that night is to - you know to - to my boyfriend then Shaun. And Im like I dont know maybe I need to go to therapy 'ecause I obviously am so desperate for answers. And hes like Well what would a therapist ask you that you dont already have the answer to?  Ooo. Go Shaun!  I know! Right? Every once in awhile hes got a little nugget. And so then I like asked the question in my head you know. Um you know that led to a little deep dive of Okay Ill call the agent tomorrow. 'ecause I still had an agent holding onto my headshots. And my agent then you know she was like Well great! Go train. Go get some classes.  How long after the psychic did you quit your job?  I think this was in the course of like a week.  Really?  Yeah.  And this is like a job with benefits.  Uh huh yeah. Yeah it was benefits and I mean it was a small salary. I mean it was assistants salary.  Howd you support yourself at that point?  Thats when you dip into the savings.  This is money you earned as a kid?  Yep. Yep. That I still had even after college. It wasnt a lot. But - but it was enough to get me through that first year you know barely. There were a couple of really freaky months there but.  I bet thats such a strange experience. Youre like - youre looking at the balance of the money that you earned when you were a child and youre watching it go down.  Yeah. Yeah.  How much money was it after college?  Um ugh I dont want to say I guess 'ecause then people are going to judge me.  I understand. Okay.  It was less than 50K okay?  Okay. Tens of thousands of dollars.  Tens of thousands of dollars in savings.  Yeah. It was enough to get her through a year in New York and allow her to audition and focus on acting classes...and not on the danger her boyfriend Shaun was facing while he was deployed. He was in southern Afghanistan from 2004 to 2006.  Was there anyone in your life who you could say My boyfriends in a war zone this is what it feels like?  To an extent. I am really bad at asking for help from my friends. Im really bad at it. Um to this day. Like I cant think - I can probably count on my fingers how many times Ive cried in front of a friend. I would tell people like You know this is hard or This happened and I think its because Im missing Shaun. Or you know. But I definitely always tried to put a macho face on it for people. And for myself probably too.  How did communicating with your boyfriendfirst when he was in Washington and then hes in training and then hes at warhow did having that distance change the way you communicated in your relationship? You know we really loved each other for young people you know? And we didnt want to pretend that we didnt have emotions or fears or bad days or whatever. However at the same token I never wanted him to worry about me. Because I felt like that would take his eye off the prize. And - the prize being living. So I think we spoke with more care with one - we treated each other with - with care. While still being very pragmatic people. I think that is also how we can handle it. You know?  So you were like trying to protect each other from what you were going through?  Yeah I think so. I think so. I mean we reached a point where it was like a crossroads too. Cause we were young and we were like Well is this going to be forever or is this not? Like we had to have that conversation. And - and at that point then it was like No you know it was like I really do want you to be in my life. And I really do want you to be - And then it was like Okay we made our bed. No more wondering. No more you know Is this the right thing to be doing at our age? Like no. This is happening and were together.  And youre both in your mid-twenties at this point.  Yeah. I know. Were both a little - were both a little uh - I dont want to say mature for our age. But we are. I mean both of us are kind of like that. I think thats something we both have in common. You know having grown up like with - in divorced households and you know kind of - kind of being somewhat self-reliant and stuff like that. We both kind of were like ready to settle before many of our friends were.  When Shaun got back how long did it take you to be used to each other?  Hmm...I mean not too long. I mean given the circumstances. We always - we - kind of knew that there were like - theres this transition period where you are like Get out of my space. Im glad to see you but come on - but this is my stuff you know? So we - we knew not to pressure ourselves too much to - to have some kind of you know - to be completely like used to each other right away. And so I think removing that pressure helps.  Deciding to get married you said it was something that you both felt pretty clear on. But having both come from parents that had been divorced was that something that you had to work through together or separately?  Yeah I mean we - you know when he proposed you know I said yes. But then about a month later I was like kind of freaking out about it. And I was like you know - because - 'ecause his proposal was very basic. It was - it was Will you marry me? I mean there was no like - I tell friends now who like are getting ready to propose to their girlfriends Im like Imagine she asked you 'Why do you want to marry me?' in your head before you do the speech. Because it is a proposal. Like this is a - there is a - you know its not a gift necessarily. This is a Hey this is what Ive got to offer. This is why Im doing this.  Make your case.  Make me a business plan. So about a month later I was like Why do you want to marry me?! And - and he explained and he explainedyou know from then on I was like Oh Im game. Im in this and you know -  But then of course yeah I freak out. I still freak out. Like you know not having a template necessarily for success. Or for what you think success is. You know theres a lot - theres a lot to be said for this whole well we are making our own template. Like well were doing it our way. Whatever our way is and well figure that out. Anna and Shaun have been married since 2008. They had a daughter Penelope in 2013 and theyre expecting a second child this summer. They live in Brooklyn. Shaun now runs a consulting firm. And when Veep is in production Anna has to be in LA.  What was it like commuting from California back home when youve got a young child?  Tiring. It was tiring. I missed her but I - I mean I missed her like crazy. I mean I miss her today. Its crazy - I mean its wonderful but your heart aches you love them so much. Like it - you ache. Ugh! Anyway. I kept calling it The Momma Bird Commute. 'ecause I was like Alright I gotta go catch the worm and then I will come back. But I gotta catch the worm! Whos gonna - like come on. And Shaun feels the same way when he goes to the office. Its like Okay like I gotta go and catch the worm. And well come back. And you will eat. And you will be happy. You know? So yeah it helps to - to put it in that term.  I love that. Yeah. Um why have a second kid right now?  Um cause - cause the powers that be want it you know. I - I learned um you know you cant really plan. You can have an idea. But um - and Ill say that I had a miscarriage too. So like you know people dont talk about that enough but -  Im sorry.  It is okay. It is - its - its a weird thing to go through. But - because its like - its - you know um we had - we had something where it just didnt grow. So it was just the idea that we had the loss of which is really strange. But - but you still go through it. And like I said I found out that its - a lot more people go through it than we talk about. And its not even that were hiding it. Its just that its so effing uncomfortable to talk about cause you just are not happy about it you know? But I did you do learn that this is like kind of not up to you. Like it kind of is but its kind of not. Theres other stuff at work.  Thats Anna Chlumsky. You can see her in season five of Veep on HBO. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein Andrew Dunn and Rick Kwan. Our interns are Carson Frame and Brandy Gonzalez. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music and we have a link to Anna Chlumskys 2003 article about Ovaltine on our website at deathsexmoney.org. She may have left food writing behind but Ovaltine is still part of her life.  I gave it to my daughter for the first time the other day. And it actually made me so - like it made me - I dont know it was one of those - its almost like having your first Christmas with your toddler. I was like - and she liked it so Im like Oh oh! My daughter loves Ovaltine! Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.