 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR reporter Elise Hu and Morning Edition host David Greene. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am so happy to have you all here - two consummate professionals the Donny and Marie Osmond of public radio...  Oh  wow.  .  David and Elise.  I will take that.  Yes.  Consummate professionals I do not know about but...  David Greene pulling double duty today. He just finished hosting Morning Edition. Now he is here with us. Thank you sir.  Yeah my pleasure.  And Elise Hu who is just back in the United States after her stint as an international correspondent in Korea for how long?  Three-plus years.  Oh wow. Now you are back. You are in LA.  Felt like much longer though.  Yeah.  A lot's - a lot of stuff happened in Korea.  What happened?  We are going to talk about it .  Was there news in the Korean Peninsula?  I do not know. I do not know if you know but a lot of stuff happened while I was there.  Speaking of over there I am playing a song that has been stuck in my head all week because of a movie called Crazy Rich Asians. This song was in there. Let us pump it up.   .  So this song is a cover of Madonna's classic Material Girl by an artist called Sally Yeh that showed up in the soundtrack for Crazy Rich Asians which I saw this weekend and loved. And it kind of represents everything that that movie symbolizes to me.    Two hundred degrees  when you hold me.  This song speaks to the film because all of the things that you are used to seeing and the way that like the West relates to the East are flipped. Like I am so used to seeing American movies borrow cultural artifacts from other cultures. But in this movie Chinese culture Asian culture borrows American culture. They are covering American songs. There is even a plot point in the movie in which one of the characters is at a disadvantage because of her American roots.  Oh wow.  Like everything is flipped.  There is so much buzz about it. I cannot wait. I am going to see it this weekend. I have got to you know support this film. But I think one of the things that Kat Chow wrote about for Code Switch on this was that hopefully there come - there will come a day where there is not just one Asian film so it...  Yeah.  ...So it does not have to represent everything and...  And have so much pressure on it.  Exactly.    Two hundred degrees.  I should point out this cover changed a few of the lyrics. She sings I get the itches when the temperature rises. The weather situation gets worse and worse and my body explodes at 200 degrees.    Two hundred degrees.  I have no idea what that means but I like it.  .  So yeah - all that to say Madonna happy birthday. She turned 60 this week.  She did.  And Crazy Rich Asians happy box office. Anyway David and Elise are here with me to look back on the week of news culture and everything else. We have a lot to talk about including what is going on with the two Koreas. The North and South may be talking nukes soon. We are also going to talk about why the year 2018 has been a weird if not bad year for pop music. Also you Friday listeners I want to send you back in our feed to our latest Tuesday episode because it is live. And I talked with the actor John Cho and the director Aneesh Chaganty about their new film Searching which is a tech thriller unlike any you will see this year. OK. Let us get into it. I am going to start as I always start - by having my guests describe their week of news in only three words. Elise you know this drill. You have done it before. This is your first time doing it stateside though.  I know. So I - because there is been a lot of news from my region and I am fresh off the plane from there...   My stuff is on a boat.  Good one.   Yes.  My stuff is in a shipping container. It does not get in...  Still - oh wow. OK.  But I am fresh off a plane. And so...  From Seoul.  Yeah.  Yeah.  So my three words would be Korean War ending?  Oh.  This is something that we have been discussing for a long time or for most of this year after the two Koreas had their big Panmunjom Declaration at the first North Korea-South Korea summit.  I want to get this right. So this is - so the Korean War that happened in the '50s...  '50s.  ...Was never officially declared to be over.  That is right. It ended in a truce because South Korea actually did not sign the armistice that stopped the fighting. The U.S. which was involved in the U.N. command - so many different countries at least a dozen that fought with the U.S. And North Korea and China were signatories to the armistice. And so South Korea cannot really unilaterally with North Korea end the fighting. The U.S. has to get involved. And there is a lot of talk right now. We are heading into a September that is going to be full of summits. Chinese leader Xi Jinping is going to go to Pyongyang. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is headed to Pyongyang again. And then Moon Jae-in for the first time the South Korean president is also supposed to go to Pyongyang.  Why are they all going to Pyongyang in September?  So September's a huge month because it celebrates the founding. It is an anniversary. You know North Korea loves anniversaries. So North Korea has a huge anniversary coming up. Tons of media are invited as well. And then it is also at the end of that month the U.N. General Assembly in New York.  OK.  And there is been a lot of talk that Donald Trump because he is the executive producer of his life...  Yeah.  ...And his presidency really wants to sign something.  At UNGA.  That is right.  OK.  UNGA? I never want...  U.N. General Assembly.  I know but I never want it - that sounds...  .  The greatest name for a major diplomatic gathering - UNGA.  I always want to say cowab-UNGA .   So he wants a thing to happen at UNGA.  He wants a thing to happen at UNGA so September is going to be crazy with the summits.  OK.  I cannot believe how far we have come since you were in Guam.  Right .  ...When we thought honestly...  Fire and fury yeah. They were going to like bracket Guam.  No you were there. Like North Korea might attack Guam. Like that was not this outlandish idea at that point. And...  I know. It is been a lot of whiplash.  I will say I am interested to see how Donald Trump handles the Twitter diplomacy portion of all this stuff next month. He is been on a Twitter kick these last few weeks more than usual.  He is angry - even angrier than usual. Yeah.  He is angry. And I am like oh we are about to see fire and fury version 2.0.  Yeah but mainly about Omarosa right?   It has to really touch him directly. I do not think he tweets that much about geopolitics. Well he does about trade I suppose.  Yeah.  What if Omarosa got a tape of the Korean ...   Send her there. OK. I love it. David do you have three words?  I have three words. I - my three words are role in democracy.  America.  Wait.  And what I mean is the role - I am sorry.  Oh I thought meant R-O-L-L.  R - yes I could see that. It is like...  So like...  I thought you were talking about the verb rolling.  Does everyone's three words get picked apart...  Rolling democracy.  Like Limp Bizkit.  ...Like this?  .  Does everyone get - does everyone like pick three - I do not remember...  I think your three words are great David.  It is a play on words. So it came up to me because we had these editorials this week. The Boston Globe - the editorial board called for newspapers across the country to all band together on the same day and write an editorial saying that we are not the enemy of the people which is a phrase...  Yes.  ...That President Trump had used.  Yeah...  I mean he has attacked the press. He is talked about fake news. All of that we have been hearing for a long time. But these editorial boards - and there were more than 300 publications that came together and did this - all said we are going to take a stand and...  Issue op-eds in the same day...  ...Issue op-eds. And the one that got me was The Topeka Capital-Journal because they actually endorsed Trump in 2016. I went back. It opened up with he is the best choice at this time to lead our increasingly disillusioned nation into its future. Fast forward to this week and they are saying the enemy of the people is this dangerous phrase which harkens back to the Soviet Union and its war on dissidents it goes back to Jews being called the enemy of the state in Germany. I mean this is serious stuff. And they finish their editorial by saying we are not the enemy of the people we are the people. And this was an incredibly touching week for me both as a journalist - I am sure you guys feel the same way - but also as a former newspaper person to see...  Yeah.  You know it is a struggling industry.  Baltimore Sun shoutout.  And to all stand up together - yeah Baltimore Sun shoutout. And it got me thinking about a lot of things because this is not about Donald Trump. This is not about a Republican or a Democrat. This is about protecting I mean journalism.  The fourth estate.  ...And its role in democracy.  Yeah.  And we are not the enemy of the people.  There was one major paper that said we are not going to do this op-ed with the rest of you guys this week because of the perception of the entire thing. So the LA Times did not do this this week.  Right.  And Nicholas Goldberg of the Times said quote the LA Times editorial board does not speak for The New York Times or for the Boston Globe or the Chicago Tribune or The Denver Post. We share certain opinions with those newspapers. We disagree on other things. We would not want to leave the impression that we take our lead from others or that we engage in groupthink. They go on to say why give them ammunition to scream about collusion?  .  That is a point that some people have made that I mean if - that these editorial boards all coming together play into the hands of a president who is saying that...  They are all tided against me yeah...  ...The entire world of the media's colluded against him. And so you know I respect the LA Times. I respect the papers who did these editorials. They gave me chills. So it is just a really interesting moment.  It is an interesting time. I have riffed before on this show about you know there needs to be pushback on the enemy-of-the-people narrative. But sometimes I feel the pushback is excessively performative in a way that makes us a story more than we need to be sometimes. With that said we are not the enemy.  We are definitely not the enemy.  You guys I have three words.  Let us hear them.  They are this or that.  Ooh.  And I say that because I am talking about the way that we conceptualize a company that is always in the news or making news - talking about Twitter. So there has been a big shift in the way that Twitter relates to the world. Their CEO is Jack Dorsey. For the last week week and a half or so he is been on a press tour everywhere. And he is doing this because it seems as if Twitter is under the harshest criticism that they faced maybe in years maybe ever. Everyone on the left and the right is saying that they have got to clean up their platform they have got to get some of this hate speech off of there they have got to figure out who is real and who is fake on there. And this reached a crescendo when Twitter kicked off the alt-right provocateur Alex Jones from their platform for seven days like a seven-day timeout. And so there are these big questions about what Twitter is going to do in the future to regulate the platform.  Wait. So Alex Jones is back?  He has a seven-day...  He did not get bounced for real?  It is a seven-day timeout. Then he gets to come back.  Oh I did not realize that. I thought it was - huh.  I feel like make a decision right?  Well this is the thing.  If you are going to bounce him just bounce him.  Make a decision.  This is like detention and...  Right.  Yeah. This speaks to the big problem that Twitter has. They really cannot figure out what they want to do. They did tell The Washington Post this week that they are considering things like messing with the feed so you see alternative viewpoints or labeling bots and parody accounts. But my big takeaway and why I say this or that this week is because the existential core of Twitter's problem - and of Facebook's problem - is that we do not really know what these companies are or what we want them to be. We cannot decide if they are completely private companies that can do whatever they want or de facto public squares that have a higher moral obligation to serve the public.  You want them to be both of those things all at once or neither...  That is hard.  ...Like depending on the time of day.  Yeah that is hard. And so until we figure out what we want Twitter to be they are not going to be able to be anything that makes sense to any of us and that makes us happy.  Well there is always going to be members of the audience that are going to be not happy right? I think it is up to the private companies to take a position. Make a decision right? If they are going to be absolutist about it and say hey you know what? We are going to back free speech completely and allow Alex Jones and Sandy Hook deniers and all of these sorts of things and yeah it is going to be nasty But this is our position we are not going to bounce anyone...  Then own it.  Then own it right? That is your position. But if you are as a private company going to selectively - or use your terms of service to get rid of some users...  Yes.  ...Based on whatever policy...  And interpret those terms differently based on the political scene that we find ourselves in you know?  ...Then you are going to have to bounce people like Alex Jones - right? - because that is the position you took.  Yeah.  So make a decision.  Make a decision. You know I am obsessed with this issue and I have been digging deep for the last few months here and there on free speech issues and web platforms like Twitter and Facebook. And in fact I guest hosted today this Friday an episode of Vox's daily news podcast Today Explained. And we spent the whole time going deep on Twitter.  Really?  Cool.  ...And this big question of whether or not Twitter is actually public or private. If you want to hear that wherever you find your podcasts you can find me in the Friday episode of Vox's Today Explained.  I want to listen to that.  I mean you do not have to.  I am going to.  .   All right. It is time for a break. Coming up I speak with NPR's music critic Ann Powers. She is trying to convince me that pop music in 2018 really has not been all that bad. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Elise Hu recovering NPR international correspondent.  I am going to wear that title for a long time.   She is back. She is back.  What was the first food you bought when you got back to the states?  Flour tortillas.  Yes.  Oh nice.  Hello I am a Texan. Flour tortillas and queso man.  Also here with David Greene who pulls double duty every week hosting two shows for NPR - Up First the podcast and Morning Edition. You guys before we get to our next segment I have a question for you both. What was your song of the summer this summer?  I am going give you a K-pop one.  OK.  It is called - it is Red Velvet. The song is called Bad Boy. And now our producer Brent is going to have to look it up.  .  It is really good. Red Velvet hot girl group...  OK.  ...In South Korea - and really all over the world.     This is Bad Boy.  Oh ay ay ay - it is giving me some Destiny's Child vibes.  It is a little derivative.  Well that is what pop is.  .  So interestingly enough when I asked you both to name the song of the summer Elise named a song not from this country and David just had a big question mark which speaks to my central thesis that pop music in 2018 has not been that great.  That is your thesis.  That is my thesis. And so because I can I cold-emailed Ann Powers NPR's official music critic. And I said hey Ann is pop in 2018 bad? Am I wrong to feel this way? She wrote back quote though I am an optimist at heart I have to agree with you.  Oh validated.  Ann agrees. Ann agrees.  Validated by Ann Powers - that is big.  Yeah. So I asked Ann to tell me why. She did. Here is our chat on why pop music is meh in 2018.   So I am right. It is lame this year no?   Well you are right but you know I am also a critic at heart so I have to say you are right and you are wrong. You are kind of - you know everything has more than one side.  There you go.  And so we can talk about that. I mean I think that pop music right now is - it is in a valley. But it is not the first time.  All right. All right. So I want to talk through some of the reasons that we agree that pop music is in this valley shall we say? The first reason is a man that I have spoken about on this show many times before. His name rhymes with fake.   I know it is not Drake.  Oh my God. I have to say we are in the valley of the shadow of Drake.    Kiki do you love me? Are you riding? Say you will never ever leave from beside me.  He is like the cat came back of pop music. That man will not go away.  Oh Aubrey.   But he has been like the biggest pop story of the year. And I think we both can agree that he is part of the explanation for the general tone of pop. How has he contributed to pop feeling a little bit down this year in your opinion?  You know I have loved some Drake in my time.  OK.  And in general I like what he brought to hip-hop. You know I like the emotionality of his songs. I like the singing. At the same time I think there are certain aspects to Drake's music that are sending a template and that template is really long albums that are designed to generate play on playlists - on streaming playlists a lack of focus on hooks because it is really about a voice...    This shit got me in my feelings.  ...That you just want to like roll with.    Got to be real with it. Yup.  Yeah. I mean like when I think of Drake and this album and singles like In My Feelings which we are hearing now they are songs and albums that feel almost formless and shapeless. And you are right. Like I mean they just feel like background music. And Drake is Drake so he can pull that off. But I think that like that vibe has infused all of pop this year and I do not feel hooks anymore.  I know. I mean when was the last time Drake had a hook? I mean Kiki do you love me is sort of a - sort of a hook.  That is a sad hook though Ann.  It is a sad - it is a meme.   Yeah yeah.  I think it was like Lindsay Zoladz the great critic who writes at The Ringer who compared Drake's music to an Instagram feed.  .   And I mean it is not just Drake. I think that we both can agree that another element of the soundscape of this year and the last few years maybe is soundcloudrap. First define it for us I guess.  SoundCloud rap arose on the platform SoundCloud. That platform became a vector for these very young rappers. Some of the artists that you could name-check - well I really like this guy Juice WRLD. Maybe we can hear a little Juice WRLD.  Yeah. Let us do it. This song is called Lucid Dreams.    You left me falling and landing inside my grave. I know that you want me dead.  Oh. OK Juice WRLD. You sound a little down.   Talk me through this Ann. Please.  Juice WRLD is - he is a sad fella but...  Yeah.  You know there is a side to SoundCloud rap that is about this like very emo - really like stemming from emo the style of rock that emerged from punk and sort of blended with grunge or '90s rock as you want to call it and represented young men expressing their emotions and often expressing their main emotion which was like anger at women unfortunately. But strangely or perhaps not strangely given the patriarchy SoundCloud rap is also very popular with young women. Yes.    I still see your shadows in my room. Cannot take back the love that I gave you. It is to the point where I love and I hate you. And I cannot change you so I must replace you.  You know Lil Yachty Trippie Redd 21 Savage - all these young guys - artists with you know interesting strange names that sound a lot like YouTuber names. And it is all very intertwined - right? - with online life.  Yeah.  This is music for kids who are...  Online all the time.  Online from the time they are like 10. They are making music from the time they are you know that age. But it is also characteristic of the generation that also grew up taking psych meds. You know I mean there is a SoundCloud rapper called Lil Xan X-A-N for Xanax.  Like Xanax?  Yeah. But the one thing Sam though is it does - it sounds very much the same if you are not deeply in it.  Well this is the thing. It is like I do not hear a hook...  Yeah.  ...Which is the same thing I feel about Drake. And they all - all these songs just bleed into each other.  Yeah. But I think maybe that is the point because it is like you are rolling...   OK.  ...In different many ways.  Yeah.  And there are things that jump out. You know there is - there can be forms of hooks or maybe they are like proto-hooks or you know like...  There is Gucci Gang.  ...Lil Pump. Yeah. I was going to say that is my song. That is my jam. Gucci gang Gucci gang Gucci gang.  We got to crank that tune.    Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Spend ten racks on a new chain.  Yes. See? That one has a hook. I wanted more of that in this year of pop.  It is from last year.  See? There you go. OK.   Come on Lil Pump. Bring us back.    Gucci gang Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang. Gucci gang.  OK. So we have Drake who is making ambient albums. We have SoundCloud rap the ascendant sound in pop. But there is also this phenomenon I think of the Internet and technology itself setting the tone of pop. We are knee-deep in the age of streaming. And that itself has also changed the sound of music itself too.  Yeah.    You can pretend you do not miss me. You can pretend you do not care. All you want to do is kiss me. Oh what a shame I am not there.  This song is called Bitches Broken Hearts by Billie Eilish. What is her deal? Where is she from? What is her situation?  Born in 2001.  Oh my Lord.   I know. She is from Highland Park LA. So...  Oh.  ...Shoutout...  Shoutout.  ...To my old neighborhood.  Yeah.  But she also came up on Soundcloud you know? And I think of her as part of this kind of Lana - post-Lana Del Rey generation of women singer-songwriters. Or you might even say - although this is making the post so recent - but post-Maggie Rogers - Alaska. You know their voices are attractive. The production is lush.    Somebody new is going to comfort you like you want me to.  For me it feels very diaristic.    Somebody new is going to comfort me like you never do.  Very quiet - do not bug me. Do not talk to me. Come on in. I will draw you into my world. That seems to be the tone. Now why does that work these days? Well the writer Liz Pelly has coined a term that I think is really useful. And it is lean-back listening. Or she talks about lean-back listeners. She wrote about this in The Baffler. And what she says she meant is a listener who thinks less about the artist and the albums and more associates music with moods and activities. That is a direct quote from Liz.  And that is - I mean that is a direct outgrowth of like the rise of Spotify where they give you these playlists with the names of moods.  Well I took the Billie Eilish song from one of my favorite lean-back listening experiences on Spotify which is down in the dumps playlist.   Oh Ann cheer up.   Sometimes you just want to be in that space.  Yeah but this is so weird though. I mean like the way that we listen has changed because of Spotify.  Yes.  It is just a constant stream. It is almost as if Spotify has turned pop music for us into what NPR is for a lot of listeners - background noise.   Yes. And this is - what is my latest NPR name from one of those memes? This is Floral Cohen  bringing you hook notes.   I love it. I love it.  .  I will say I mean like I long ago and far away was a music composition major in college. And I realized that I like all kinds of music. But the music that I like most has evidence of like complex composition. And there is resolution and completion. And there is movement to a point. And there is verse leading to chorus to bridge. And there is you know like a thematic arc to a song.  Right. Right.  And a lot of this playlist music has no thematic arc. It is a great note but it is one note.  That gets at the heart of what I am trying to understand about it because I do believe - and this is the optimist in me or the poptimist in me that there is a story. There is always a story. It is maybe not my story. But something is hooking people in to this music. And if it is not an arc - what - maybe it is a different - maybe we can find a different metaphor. Is it a wave? Is it like a vibrational line?  A wave.  Like a soundwave?  It is a sonic wave.  Sonic wave...  A Soundcloud.  Oh hey. Has anyone patented that? That is a great phrase.    Gucci gang Gucci gang Gucci gang Gucci gang Gucci gang Gucci gang Gucci gang...  That was Ann Powers music critic for NPR. Thank you Ann. If you want to hear more of Ann on pop music she has a whole book all about it. It is out in paperback now. It is called Good Booty Love And Sex Black And White Body And Soul In American Music.  Love it - she is a poptimist.  I cannot wait.  She is the poptimist.  David Elise - back in the studio with you guys now - do either of you own any Gucci?  No.  Elise does .  Yes you do.  I am Asian.  . All right. You guys time for a break. When we come back we will play my favorite game Who Said That.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests in studio at NPR West - Elise Hu former and recovering international correspondent and David Greene who pulls double duty every week hosting two shows for NPR - Up First the podcast and Morning Edition a little show you may hear on your radio some days. I am glad you both are here.  We are glad to be here.  Yeah?  All together in the studio - this is fun.  Are you guys ready for the hard part of the show?  Can I just say Elise wins and like go...  I was about to do the same thing to you. I was about to just abstain.   Now it is time for my favorite game which I am making you both play...  OK.  ...Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  This game is so simple. You know how it works. I share a quote from the week. You all have to guess who said that or at least get close - get the story I am talking about get a key word. I am not a stickler. I am not Alex Trebek. It as not Jeopardy. The rules are real loose.  You should be more like Alex Trebek though and overpronounce French.  Wait like French words?  Right. Any time there is a French word he overpronounces it.  You are like a super-watcher of Jeopardy.  .  I only watch Black Jeopardy. I only watch Black Jeopardy.  It is the best.  It is the best. All right. Anyways you guys ready for the first quote?  Yup.  Here it is.  Yup.  That aioli you are so fond of - I hate to break it to you but that is just mayonnaise. Who said that? This was like the talk of Twitter this week.  Yeah. Elise you take that one.  Is this on a cooking show?  No it was some written words. Where would you expect to find some writing that tackles the hot topic of mayo?  Well it is - I know - there was all - the hot topic was that millennials killed mayo right?  Yes. That is it.   We will give it to you. Yes. That is it.   Woo.  Yes. So - OK. This was a quote from Sandy Hingston. She writes for Philadelphia Magazine. And she had an article this week that touched off an Internet debate. The article was called quote How Millennials Killed Mayonnaise - I can never say mayonnaise. Mayonazay .  You got it. It is fine. I think...   I think you are actually saying it the right way. We have like - we have made it wrong.  Can we stop with the how millennials killed X storyline? Stop it.  But they killed mayonnaise and I am actually happy about it.  We did not kill mayonnaise.  Mayonnaise is delicious.  I used to love mayo. Also everyone eats aioli still. Mayo is fine.  Mayo is...  Mayo is fine.  ...Disgusting.  Get out of my house.  .  Hey what do you do when you go to Amsterdam and you need to dip your fries?  A maybe I do not dip it. And if there is...  .  And there is nothing you should dip fries in except for a Wendy's frosty ketchup or vinegar. That is it.  Oh Wendy's frosty - I am there all the way. We are doing that the next time we get it.  No you need that Whataburger ketchup - just a little bit of sweet.  Oh yeah. That is the best ketchup.  Oh yeah. No. Totally. That is in the ketchup category.  Or some mayo.  No.  Anyways to the point in the piece this writer called Mayo the Taylor Swift of condiments quote pale and insipid and not nearly exotic enough for our era of globalization.  Which is so untrue because mayo is globally popular.  Yes.  There is nothing in Japan without mayo.  Yes.  And then I just brought up northern Europe.  All right. David you have a point.  Thank you. Thank you.  No thank you.  I do not feel like I earned it but...  You earned it. You earned it.  ...OK.  Ready for the next quote? All right. Quote There is no need to put something so immodest and ugly in such a historic spot.  Oh. Oh. Oh. This is the urinals in Paris.  Yes.   .  Way to go David. Way to go David. Two points for David. You were worried...  David's enthusiasm about this...  I know right?  ...Is delightful.  I get really excited about public urinals.  Yes.  It is delightful.  Yes. So that quote was from Paola Pellizzari. She was interviewed about this new plan of public urinals in Paris on city streets.  Which was done in theory to take care of the problem of public urination.  Yes.  Make sense of that for me. You are concerned about public urination in Paris so you put up public urinals.  So make it even more public.  Yeah.  Yeah. And these are like big red urinals where you can just sidle up to them and let it go.  Yup.  In public.  And they are not - they are like really conspicuous. These things are bright-red.  .  They look like bright-red trash cans with...  Yes.  ...An opening in the front.  NPR wrote they are completely exposed eco-friendly urinals. They are not subtle. They are bright-red and in heavily trafficked areas - for example near the Notre Dame cathedral.  Perfect.  You are going to have a red urinal outside of Notre Dame?  Perfect. I mean better than...  Peeing...  ...Relieving yourself on Notre Dame.  ...On Notre Dame.  Who are these people peeing on Notre Dame?  Well just on the side of it.  Sounds like a lot of drunk guys. I am - that is what - I mean it - honestly that sounds like part of the problem.  How about this Paris you fix your problem by taking away the wine? Do that.  Nobody wants to do that.  Nobody wants to do that.  That is true. David you are up 2-zip.  Yeah.  This is the last quote but I will say it is worth three points.  OK.  So if Elise gets it she wins .  He lost so much faith in me I am never going to be invited back. I am so bad at this game.  This is wrong.  I am so bad at this game.  You ready?  Unless I lose.  This is a good quote. It is someone who is been in the news a lot this week. Here's the quote. You are hardly in a position to determine what separates stars from divas since you were neither one or an authority on either. Who said that?  Well...  What kind of diva would say this kind of thing?  Omarosa?  Who is the diva that we are all celebrating this week?  Aretha Franklin.   Yes David.  Oh my God.  That was a quote from Aretha Franklin. She wrote it in 1993 to a New York Post writer who dared critique her outfit. In this '93 article a writer named Liz Smith wrote about Aretha Franklin wearing a bustier. She said Aretha Franklin must know she is too bosomy to wear such clothing but she just does not care what we think. And Aretha said not in my house.  .  Today is not the day and I am not the one. And she wrote back and clapped back and that is the side of Aretha that I am celebrating this week after her death. She was always a woman who controlled her narrative who said what she wanted to say and did not hold back. So on top of the voice she had a soul. I am going to miss h