 This is FRESH AIR. For the next three Sundays HBO presents Show Me A Hero the latest TV drama from that network by David Simon creator of The Wire and Treme. Show Me A Hero is based on a true story and stars Oscar Isaac as a rising young politician in Yonkers N.Y. in the late 1980s. Our TV critic David Bianculli has this review.  By now viewers know what to expect from a David Simon drama. You expect an intense study of a precise location as with Baltimore in The Wire and New Orleans in Treme. You expect flawed fascinating and unforgettable characters like Omar in The Wire just to name one. And you expect the story to raise issues especially about race and politics that are unfortunately relevant to today. Show Me A Hero a sixhour miniseries presented by HBO over three weeks checks off all those boxes. It is based on Lisa Belkin's nonfiction book of the same name which examined events and emotions over a heated political issue in a specific time and place. The time is the late 1980s the place Yonkers N.Y. and the issue is public housing. The city had been found guilty of building all of its governmentmandated public housing units in poor black neighborhoods and was ordered to build new ones in more affluent areas. Many white Yonkers residents rose up in anger making the housing issue central to the local election. Into that heated battle steps an ambitious young politician Nick Wasicsko played by Oscar Isaac from Inside Llewyn Davis. David Simon and Show Me A Hero cocreator William F. Zorzi who contributed to The Wire approach this complicated piece of history by coming at it from several illuminating angles. We get to know councilmembers judges lawyers newspaper reporters. But we also see the housing issue from the points of view of citizen activists lowincomehousing residents and other streetlevel perspectives. The same goes for Isaac's character of Nick Wasicsko who decides to run for mayor of Yonkers against the local incumbent. We see him in contentious public and private meetings. But we also see his very human side when he gives a ride home to a young secretary who works in the same government building. She is played by Carla Quevedo. As he drops her off he leans in and plants an unexpected kiss then reacts to himself after she leaves.    Thanks for the lift.   Yeah no problem. You know it is on the way to the ItalianAmerican Forum tonight so...   Every night's another event huh?    Yeah well...   It is crazy.   I know. If you want to be the mayor you got to work at it right?   Yeah.  And well do not tell anybody but I always wanted to be the mayor.   Really?   Yeah.   .   It is true I swear. I used to talk about it all the time growing up. The other kids used to call me the mayor.    Really?   It was not a compliment.   .   But you know I tried to take it as one so...   Yeah. All right I better go in. My parents will worry about me.   Yeah OK.   Have a good night OK?  All right yeah. It is just...   That was weird.   Was it?    I just  you kind of caught me off guard. I better go in now.   We should talk.   OK on Monday.   OK.   All right bye.   Goodnight.   Yeah goodnight.   Woohoo.  In public Nick is a lot more reserved at least at first. He is surrounded by people with more power played by actors who fill their roles aggressively  Winona Ryder Alfred Molina Jim Belushi Bob Balaban Peter Riegert LaTonya Richardson and Catherine Keener all make strong impressions here. And no one makes a stronger impression than Oscar Isaac in the leading role. Virtually every character in Show Me A Hero has his or her good and bad times. But only Isaac's Nick seems to take it all so personally. The drama's title comes from the F. Scott Fitzgerald quote show me a hero and I will write you a tragedy. And the title fits. Show Me A Hero is directed by Paul Haggis the writerdirector of Crash whom TV fans may remember as the man behind the underrated quality classics Due South and EZ Streets. His visual touch and taste are evident here. And he is also a good fit with Simon because he frames scenes in a way that expects  almost demands  that attention must be paid. Early on in the first episode here's a behindcloseddoor meeting about the housing issue presided over by Jim Belushi's mayor. Also present among others are local politicians played by Winona Ryder and by Oscar Isaac.    Twohundred units and four possible sites. It is not the end of the world guys. We spread it around. No district gets more than one site. No site gets more than 50 or so units.   I am thinking maybe we double the number of proposed housing sites.   Eight sites means less units in any one neighborhood less anger from voters we spread the paint thinner.   Or we dump all of them in Spallone's district either way.    Like I said it is better to be on the inside when a deal goes down. I am asking you all to be cosponsors. I am not going to bother with Spallone on them. We know how they stand.   Christ an election year.   Tell me about. Look I know you guys would rather do nothing and let the judge pick the sites himself but the judge as not buying that. He put it on us.   I cannot be a cosponsor. I just cannot have my name on it.   Come on Frank.   Yeah but you can vote for it right?Or Angelo will put 3 of the 8 sites in your district.   Look I understand complying and that the law is the law but what about our appeal?   We should have never appealed in the first place not a chance in hell they will overturn Sand.   But were still paying the lawyers to carry to the Second Circuit so if you wanted to the voters are fighting in the courts you can.   Honestly guys I think this is the only responsible option we have. You think about it over lunch and I want a yes.  You will need to pay attention to get all the nuances packed into this miniseries. But it is worth it. At a time when racial tensions and blustery politicians are dominating headlines this 25yearold true story could not seem more timely or since it presents some actual solutions to political posturing and deepseated racial hostilities more valuable.  David Bianculli is the founder and editor of the online magazine TV Worth Watching and teaches TV and film history at Rowan University in New Jersey. On the next fresh air...    Caption  I leapt out of the closet. And four months later my father killed himself by stepping in front of a truck.  We will talk about the Tony Awardwinning musical Fun Home with Alison Bechdel who wrote the memoir it is based on and with the show is songwriters Lisa Kron and Jeanine Tesori. I hope you can join us. 