The word widow  that word almost makes you feel alone. I think thats why in the beginning I rejected it and people would say they would write Rogers widow and I would say please no write Rogers wife. This is. Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Chaz Ebert married her husband Roger in 1992. She was 39 a divorced lawyer and mother of two. He was 50 and up to that point a life-long bachelor. Roger was already famous. His poetic populist movie reviews for the Chicago Sun-Times were widely syndicated. He was best known though for his thumb  whether it was up or down  and for sparring with Gene Siskel. Gene Siskel died of a brain tumor in 1999. Three years later ROGER was diagnosed cancer of the salivary and thyroid glands. In 2006 his lower jaw was removed. Roger eventually lost his ability to speak and eat solid food but he kept writing reviewing and tweeting through hospital stays rehab the improvements and setbacks. Chaz was right beside him throughout. You see that in a new documentary called Life Itself. It chronicles Roger Eberts life up through his final days when he died in April of 2013. The first time I saw a clip of Roger in the hospital I gasped because I did not know that he was that  I mean he looked sick. But then you see that he has the same twinkle hes the same Roger and you see all of his life-affirming qualities. Whats it been like touring the country and talking about your husband and your marriage and his death as youve introduced this movie to the world? You know in the beginning Anna touring the country to talk about losing Roger to promote the movie Lie itself was a little surreal it was a little painful in the beginning. But I love talking about Roger. And its sort of cathartic because it gives me a chance to relive the good times with him and the times before he was sick and not just the times when he was ill. But it also allows me to sort of reflect on the grace of the time that he was ill because he was so  the only word I can think of  he was so joyful. He really accepted everything and it made it easier to live through those times. I want to talk about your love story. Roger wrote in his memoir of you she fills my horizon she is the great fact of my life she has my love she saved me from the fate of living out my life alone which is where I seemed to be heading. The film reveals that you two met in AA. Thats correct. What do you think sharing that sharing going through the process of sobriety recovery  How do you think that played into the early days of your relationship? I tell you I think it was a gift because when you are someone who is sober and youre very grateful for being sober you realize thats a process that increases your compassion for other people. It really helps you to minimize the small talk and youre more willing to talk more openly and honestly with someone about things that are important in life. And so when Roger and I first met I think we fell right into a conversation that turned out to be our lifelong conversation with each other. That very first night. He was so charming and so smart and so funny and just sort of no BS kind of guy. And I really I was attracted to that. Is that how you thought of him before meeting him? No I did not. I have to be honest with you Anna and it still pains me to say this but before I met Roger when I used to watch he and Gene Siskel on the TV show I actually sided with Gene most of the time and I thought that  I dont know there was something  I dont know why I did but once I met Roger and discovered what a great guy he was of course he became my favorite. Did you think he was a bit of a loud-mouth before you met him? No no no no. Thats not what I thought. You know what I thought? I thought that he hh God I hate saying this. I told him that I thought that he let Gene beat up on him too much. And that I thought that he should fight back more. Thats really beautiful that even before you knew him you were his advocate. You know? Youre like come on Roger! Yes. You both had lived full lives before you met. Hed become famous he won his Pulitzer Prize. Youd been a civil rights activists youd married and raised two children and become a litigator. Were you surprised that this was the guy you were falling for? I was surprised only in the sense that he was of a different race. But we had so much in common when we met that I dont know if I was surprised. I mean some years before some of my friends wouldve been surprised. Wait what do you mean? When I was in college I was the head of the Black Student Union and I was in college in the late 60s and very early 70s and so I also participated in marches and you know I would go to college campuses and speak on the same card as like Angela Davis and Shirley Chisholm and I marched when Dr. King not in Washington but when Dr. King came to Chicago my dad and I marched with Dr. Martin Luther King so I was an activist. And so I think the people who knew me then wouldve never thought that I would marry someone who would marry someone who was not black. Ill just say it that way. Did you feel comfortable falling in love with a white man? I did I felt comfortable falling in love. But when it became serious and I knew we were going to marry I did talk to my mother about it. And I asked what do you think people would say and she said it doesnt matter what people would say. What do you say? What does your heart say? Thats what you listen to. Yeah and your heart said I love Roger. My heart said I love Roger. And I think that they there was always acceptance right from the beginning and my family accepted him right from the beginning as well. As far as I knew. No one ever expressed anything. And the one thing that I also did was I made sure Roger made his own friendship with my son and daughter. I didnt want to stand in as the intermediary because I saw when people are blending their families if you start out as the intermediary thats the role you have to play forever. And I didnt want to do that. And so right from the beginning he and my son and daughter became friends. And so when their children were born he was the grandfather right from the beginning. Life Itself shows Roger surrounded by Chazs family during a hospital stay. He gives his teenage granddaughter Raven another in a long line of movie recommendations. Coming up Chaz Ebert talks about how her marriage changed as Roger neared death. He talked about the oneness of the world. And that and believe me that is not how Roger spoke. He was very much a Darwinian Mister Scientific. Since the start of the show you have been sending in your stories about death  some about personal losses some confronting it day in and day out. Ben Yudin wrote in from Cincinnati. Hes a 34 years old Orthodox rabbi and hospice chaplain. He said he didnt plan on working around so much death but it just happenedas he served residents of a retirement center We should be the ones to care for them in their last hours not strangers. To be honest it has been an incredible journey and I have experienced parts of life that most people my age are terrified of. I want to hear more of your stories about death  and Im curious about about funerals. That time of constant reflection on the person youve lost and what it means for the rest of your life. Share your story of a funeral that changed your life. Maybe it was someone close to you  or not. Im interested in memorial services where you left different than how you arrived. Send an email or even better   a voice memo with your smartphone to record your voice --- about a funeral that changed your life. Send it to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode  another sort of life-changing moment. When comedian Chris Gethard started dating Hallie Bulleitt he fell hard and developed a sudden interest in interior decorating. It was like okay I have not had my stuff together youre giving me a chance. So look at all these frames and all this bedding. I mean I could tellhe went out and bought new bedding like hes totally trying I didnt want her to be in my house with all my unframed posters and all my crappy bedding. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Chaz Ebert stopped practicing law when she married Roger and ran the business side of things for him. They worked side-by-side throughout their marriage. As he became sicker and was only able to communicate through a computer Chazs role grew. At some point he asked me to be his voice. So we would do some things on the computer and then he would say but I want you to say this. Its important for you to say this part. You know and so we  when he was very sick it felt like we became one person. There I didnt feel the boundaries that you feel with two people. And I know those boundaries so well because when he got better and he got stronger those boundaries were resurrected. And I became my own person again and he became his own person. But the period where we became one was a very interesting period when I think back on it. Because I didnt realize that thats what was happening. I dont even know how to explain it. But I actually did feel him in my soul when we became one person. What changed between you two when he was no longer able to talk to you with his voice? Almost nothing because Roger and I developed almost a mental telepathy. We were so in tune with each other that we actually could speak to each other without words or without even being in the same room. Like a deep ability to understand what he was prompting like what he wanted to communicate? I dont know to me I actually heard his voice in my head. Really? Yeah. And I know that happens  sometimes when he was in the hospital I would wake up in the middle of the night and I would call the hospital and I would say oh my God he is so cold would you please go in and put the warming blanket on him? And the nurse would come back and go well how do you know? Did he call you? And they would say well he couldnt call you he cant speak. And I said I dont know but he just told me it was cold. See you know I have to tell you. I knew you werent gonna ask me just the standard questions. I just knew it. And I had a little trepidation because I know Im probably gonna say things here that I probably shouldnt say but Well lets pause and talk about that a bit because I in thinking about our conversation I was wondering where those boundaries are for you. Because No you know what Im gonna tell you Anna there are none. And thats why I was a little  no you can just ask me anything and if something gets too hard or too Ill tell you. Alright? When was the last time you heard his voice in your head? Hmm. Very recently. He still talks to me. Yeah he does. You feel his presence. And you hear it I mean you hear it. Yeah I do. You know Anna I have to  and I say this I dont know why Roger and I were brought together I do feel that theres  it almost feels like a destiny to it because there are some parts of our getting together that didnt make sense. And our bond was so strong that I wondered about it. I mean and now the fact that he still is in touch with me and communicates with me thats also  I mean its a wondrous thing. Does that make you feel less sad? It does. Its very comforting because he lets me know that hes okay. Hes more than okay. He is blissful. Because when he was nearing death in the documentary it shows that he died when he was ready to go and you werent quite ready for him to go. Thats correct. And do you feel like its been reassuring to know that he was ready? It is so reassuring It just makes me smile to know that he is this I dont know what he is. I dont know what form were in. But I know that its something thats comforting. And it feels so natural and so normal and I know that there are a lot of things that we shut down talking about in our society because things that we cant prove. But now I firmly firmly believe in an afterlife. Did you believe in an afterlife before he passed? I dont know. I dont know what I thought happened after death. I havent had this experience  Ive lost several family members my mother my father two brothers and two sisters and the rest I havent had an experience like this that Im having with Roger where he kind of reports back. So I dont know what I thought about the afterlife. I have zero fear of death. Zero. What I do talk about with my children and grandchildren is living. We dont talk about death so much as living. And telling them to do find their passion in life and live it. Because we dont know how much time is promised to us. Thats Chaz Ebert. Roger Eberts wife. A little less than a year before his death Roger wrote a blog post titled Roger Loves Chaz. Her love was like a wind forcing me back from the grave. Does that sound too dramatic? You were not there Roger wrote. The documentary about Roger Eberts life and death is in select theaters across the country through fall of 2014. The complete list is at rogerebert.com. Its also available for instant streaming on Amazon or iTunes. Death Sex and Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Emily Botein James Ramsay Jessica Miller Henry Molofsky Chris Bannon Mitra Kaboli Bill ONeill and Jim Briggs. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. If the you like the show  tell some other people. Share this episode on Facebook  or write us a review on iTunes. Im on twitter annasale. Again send your stories of life-changing funerals to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And thank you again Chaz Ebert for sharing your story. I just knew that when I talked to you I just knew it I thought this is going to be a disaster. Do you feel like it was a disaster? Yes because I shouldve stuck to my script. But I do really think youre not the only person whos experienced this when theyve lost a partner. Yeah but most people are smart enough not to say it. Im Anna Sale. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.