 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with the second day of our latenight week. Later this week we will hear from Jimmy Kimmel Jimmy Fallon and Questlove who leads the band The Roots and will be moving with Fallon to The Tonight Show early next year. Later in today's show we will feature an interview with Conan O'Brien. First we have an interview with Jay Leno recorded in October 1996 after the publication of his memoir Leading with My Chin. Leno succeeded Johnny Carson as the host of The Tonight Show in 1992. Although it is a position he would always dreamed of he left The Tonight Show in September of 2009 to start his own primetime show in NBC and Conan O'Brien became the new host of The Tonight Show. But just a few months later in January of 2010 Leno's show was cancelled. In a very controversial move he returned to The Tonight Show leaving O'Brien without a TV home until a few months later when O'Brien started a new latenight show on TBS. Next February Leno will leave The Tonight Show for the second and we assume final time and it will be Jimmy Fallon's turn to take over. Before we hear the interview our TV critic David Bianculli is going to talk about Jay Leno's contributions to latenight TV. Hey David welcome back.  This is fun. I am glad to be here.  Yeah. And you brought a clip to get us started before hearing the Jay Leno interview. What did you bring?  This is Jay Leno's first appearance on the old Tonight Show. What is great about hearing these old clips is that you can hear that they are going over with the audience. And these are people  nobody knew who Jay Leno was and he is out there in a horrible '70s suit but he had good jokes.   David Jansen's commercial for Excedrin The man looks like a headache. See when I was a kid we were never allowed to have headaches. See my folks grew up during the Depression so consequently they make you feel very guilty about everything you know. I mean even now I go home for a weekend hey dad pass the salt. We never had salt when we were kids. We had to live without salt. We did not have underwear potatoes. We ate dirt every day of the week. Your mother and I hunted wild dog for food. We had nothing when we were your age.  That is Jay Leno in 1977 his first appearance on The Tonight Show. Now that Leno is preparing to leave The Tonight Show for real this time...  Again yeah.  ...yeah. How would you describe his place in latenight TV?  Well what he ended up doing was finding and acceptable average. I mean when he started when he was up against Letterman Letterman beat him for the first couple years. But then once Leno came ahead he was unstoppable. He never lost that audience. And the reason why NBC did all the dumb things it did with primetime and bringing him back is because Jay Leno had numbers that nobody else was getting. And so he was very successful. And I think he was successful at being middleoftheroad at being a broadcast comic which is what The Tonight Show certainly was under Johnny and under Jack Parr and under Steve Allen. And he did continue that.  So middleoftheroad wins the big numbers.  Well it does except the numbers are shrinking now and the audience is changing now and how much of a television program they are watching or whether they are even watching it on television is changing now.  You told me a great story that I would like you to tell our listeners. You interviewed Leno when he was in that transition leaving The Tonight Show and preparing to host his new 10 of the clock primetime show.  Yeah. He is kind of wary of the press. I mean it is pretty much a given that more people prefer Letterman to Leno and he feels the heat of all of that. But I started off the interview by reading a couple of quotes of people basically saying this new guy is never going to match the old guy and The Tonight Show is just a shadow of what it was and I do not know what NBC was thinking. He is going how many more of these am I going to have to hear? And I read him two or three. And then I said these are from 1962 when Johnny Carson took over for Jack Parr. And suddenly he lightened up I mean completely and he sort of talked about the idea that in history when a popular host leaves and another one comes in no matter how good that person may be there is a learning curve and there is a resistance. So he got that part of his place of history.  So David why do not we hear the interview that I recorded with Jay Leno? This was back in 1996 just before his program celebrating his fifth anniversary as the host of The Tonight Show.  OK.  Jay Leno welcome to FRESH AIR.  Thank you.  Like most young comics your ambition when you were starting out was to eventually get onto The Tonight Show.  Yeah.  What was the most memorable part of your first shot on The Tonight Show?  Most memorable would be  well I got heckled my first shot which was a horrible experience. But luckily I would worked a lot of clubs so I could deal with that and Johnny seemed to like that. But our producer Fred de Cordova you know he would say to you OK here's the deal. He would come over and he would say  and Fred was somewhat of a legendary figure having you know directed Jack Benny and all these people. He would say After you do your standup routine if I go like this waving my hands towards me that means come over and sit down to Johnny. If I put my hand up like this stay on your mark. If I wave you away go behind the curtain. But whatever you do do not move until you get my signal. I said yes sir. I walk out. I do my routine and thank you good night big laughs thank you thank you very much. I look over and I see Fred about to signal me and his phone rings. I see him hello. Now he is talking. And I do not know what to do. And the audience is now getting into that  you know we are down to that odd one or two clap. And I am still standing there. So the applause picks up a little bit more as if people are going oh all right just get lost will you you know. And I am going hi  and he is talking away you know da da da da da da. Now the applause has all but stopped. Fred puts the phone down he looks over completely forgetting  oh come here come on oh thank you. You know I realize it was only maybe six seven seconds but of course to me I might as well have been up there an hour and a half at this point just hanging waiting to get Fred's signal to come over and sit down next to Johnny. So that was pretty scary.  On your first shot on The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson did he laugh at your jokes?  Yeah he was very good actually. He was a terrific audience. I mean that is what the The Tonight Show is. It is not trying to get the audience to laugh. It is trying to get Johnny to laugh.  Right right.  But you know the audience gets the cue from the host.  Right.  And if Johnny is laughing they are enjoying it more.  Did Johnny Carson give you advice about your standup act or later on about guest hosting or hosting when you took over?  Not so much about hosting but he did about you know the first time I did The Tonight Show  well actually I was the guy that was sort of the last of my graduating class to do The Tonight Show. By graduating class I mean all the guys I sort of started with Robin Williams  and well not Robin I mean Letterman and oh guys like George Miller and so many of the comics. They all did it before me. And you know Johnny came in one night at The Improv to see me. Harvey Korman brought him in and you know there are two kinds of comedians. There are comedians that have a lot of attitude and not many jokes. There are comedians that have a lot of jokes but not much stage persona. By attitude I mean those kind of comics who can get on stage and go hey pal. Nice hat. All right? What did you win  somebody guess your weight? You know that kind of thing. And they are loud and they are boisterous and they are just funny in their nature but there are no jokes. And then there are other comedians like well you take a guy like Steven Wright who are just natural joke writers you know very monotone. They tell the joke a certain way. And to me the best comedians are the ones that combine both those elements. You have a joke and you have an attitude. I remember Johnny came to see me and he said you know he thought I was funny but I was not ready for the show because my jokes were too far apart. You know I did not quite understand what he meant but I listened. And then I started watching his monologue and I realized you know he is doing 15 or 20 jokes in a space where I was doing five. I mean I could get on stage and  being sort of physically big and loud and imposing  I could get a laugh where there was not any but that really  that was great for a nightclub but not for TV. You know the idea being on television if the joke does not work your funny attitude will carry you through. And if your funny attitude does not carry you through your joke will carry you through. And if they both work you have got a killer joke you know.  Now how do you work up your opening monologue?  How?  Well and how do you feel  and also how do you feel about having writers writing with you? I am sure during the years that you were doing clubs you were writing all your own material and I would think it would...  I was writing all my own stuff. And there is this arrogance that a lot of comedians had and I certainly have it or at least had it. You know I can do this. I can handle it. I mean like the first 15 to 20 times I hosted The Tonight Show I said I do not need cue cards. I will memorize it. And I did OK. But then I realized this is ridiculous. If you are going to this every day you cannot memorize you know 11andahalf minutes worth of jokes. I mean you will go nuts. You will go crazy trying to do this. And then I gradually got into it. And now the way it works is we tape the show from five to six and then we have a meeting. I go home at maybe 30 8 of the clock. Nine of the clock I start to put the monologue together. Eleven of the clock Jimmy Brogan he is the guy that works with me on the monologue we go through maybe 500 or 600 jokes that we have prepared that day or everybody's prepared. And they are not all jokes. Some are just punch lines. Some are just setups. Some are did you hear about the guy who did this odd thing in Iowa question mark. You are trying to make a joke out of that. Sometimes it is a complete joke from a writer. Anyway we will try and put at least half the monologue together by two or three in the morning. And then I get into work about 30 and through the course of the day and you are writing jokes constantly as you are picking the red MMs out of some rock group's you know dressing room because whatever you know you are still dealing with show business people.  We are listening back to a 1996 interview with Jay Leno. We will hear more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   It is latenight week on FRESH AIR. Let us get back to our interview with Jay Leno recorded in 1996 after the publication of his memoir Leading with My Chin in which he wrote about his early days in comedy. When you were starting in comedy there were not comedy clubs yet not as we know them. Some of the venues that you played included retirement homes prisons mental hospitals. This is through a state program in Massachusetts. I think you got like 10 bucks for a performance?  We used to get 10 bucks a show to do old people's birthday parties for the state. We used to do prisons. I did a show at like Walpole State Prison. And prisoners are not a good audience you know because comedy is based on a certain civility. How folks. How are you? You know. And when you got a guy sitting in the front row and he is got a little blond kid on a choke chain wearing underpants sitting on the floor next to him that is not an ideal audience you know?  What material would you do in your prison...  You just do your regular act. I only had my act growing up whatever. You know I used to do these psychiatric homes and you know they would get like you know and this is not to make fun of psychiatric patients but you know you go hi everybody how you doing? And then like in the middle of your act there would be a guy in the corner going...   And then orderlies would come in  this would just break the mood of the whole room you know. Hey anybody here from Boston?   You know hey hey calm down there fellow. How you doing? You know... Oh.   Well did this give you confidence performing in front of people who either...  Well it was fascinating because you realized  it was not until I performed at like this place Lenny's on the Turnpike in Boston that I ever got a professional audience. You know I could always say in my own mind well you know the audience it is a psychiatric hospital. They did not laugh because there is obviously something wrong with them.  You could say  right if they do not laugh they are crazy.  Yeah. It was like strip clubs.  Yeah.  When I play strip clubs they would not laugh or applaud or do anything. But it gave you the confidence just to stand on stage because the people were not paying any attention to me anyway. I mean there is a story in the book about playing this club called the Mineshaft where  it was in Minnesota. People would pay 5 to get in and then for another 5 the customers would get a miner's hat with a light on it. Now there were no lights in the club. It was just a big empty building. And then women would come out and dance. And of course the guys had the lights on their heads and they would look at whatever part of the women they wanted to look at with the light and I would just be standing in the darkness telling jokes. Hi everybody. How you doing? Occasionally somebody would look over at me and I could not even look at them because they had the bright light on their head. So if they looked at me ow it burned my eye. I had to look away. So most of the time for the whole week I was just standing in darkness while guys looked at these women with those miner's hats on.  You were probably one of the most hardworking comics in show business when you were getting started just performing anywhere and everywhere to get experience. But sometimes you would get billed  you would get booked in really inappropriate places. And my favorite story about that is when you were booked I guess it was a Catskill resort at a Hassidic at an Orthodox Jewish resort.  Yeah there was this...  And you were booked as what tonight Jay Leno Jewish storyteller.  I was billed as a Jewish storyteller.  What did you do?  This agent in New York would come into the clubs and he would say I need a comic this Saturday it pays 50 you know. And I remember one time before I get to that story this guy sent me up to a job and it paid 100 for the weekend. And I thought well that is pretty good 100 for the weekend. And I remember afterwards the owner of the hotel came over and said boy that was very good. You know normally we do not like to spend 1200 on an act but we really enjoyed you. And I realized the agent took 1100 commission out of my 100.   You know it was just a nightmare. Anyway that the last time I worked with him. The first time he sends me to up the Catskills at the La Chaim  Resort or something like this. And I said what is it? Just a nightclub. I said what kind  I said is it mostly  oh no you go up there. So I finally find this place and it is all these cabins way back in the woods nice people but it is a Hassidic resort. And I pull in there and it says on one of those  one of those bad signs you know you pull on a trailer and it is got the flashing lights around it tonight Jay Leno Jewish storyteller. So I get there and I walk out onstage and it is all Hassidic. You know and I do not even speak Hebrew you know. And I said there is been a big mistake you know I am not really a storyteller I am not even Jewish. The guy made a mistake  da da da. And this guy said oh do your act let us hear what you do you know.   So I did my  and they were very nice and I mean they were polite. You know you just  I felt bad for them and they felt bad for me and they were nice people. It just it was not what they had bought you know. It was a horrible job.  You know I think it is funny in your book you talk about how when you were getting started in comedy or maybe this was even before you got started when you were growing up the comics meant adult guys usually from New York usually Jewish who spoke more to your father than they spoke to you.  That is true. When I was a kid you had Alan King you had Rodney Dangerfield and these guys were always funny but they always came from the point of view at least to me was these kids today with the long hair you cannot tell the boys from the girls I will tell you. You know...   And all that was funny. My father would laugh at that. And then I remember seeing Robert Klein and George Carlin and David Brenner and Steinberg and these guys would come out and suddenly I noticed I was laughing more than my dad because their humor was coming more from my point of view especially Robert Klein. He was a guy who was I felt like me middleclass normal parents not  not rich not poor just normal you know watched the same TV shows as a kid that I watched Joked about the same kind of things that I watched. And that was a big change in comedy at least for me.  So how did you figure out where you material was going to be?  I figured it out from watching those guys. You know I said to myself boy these guys make fun of the same kind of things that I think are funny. These are the same things I talk about with my friends. I mean prior to them I do not think you would have seen Alan King come on The Ed Sullivan Show and do jokes about Jimi Hendrix. You know it just did not  you know it did not happen.   No it would be about Jimi Hendrix mowing his lawn.  Right right Jimi Hendrix with the hair like that you know. But I mean suddenly here were guys on mainstream television talking about things only kids  you know now adults by Rolling Stone albums you know what I am saying? But back in the '70s there were adult records you know you had Henry Mancini and Frank Sinatra and then you had for the kids you know The Rolling Stones and The Beatles whatever. And nobody ever did jokes about The Beatles on mainstream television. These were the first comedians to sort of parody younger people's lifestyles.  You know we were talking about how hardworking you were as a young comic just trying out everything that you could playing every place you could play. When you moved to Los Angeles you moved there before you had a home before you had any money and you often ended up just like sleeping on the steps to the comedy clubs or sleeping in the alleys behind comedy clubs.  Yeah I used to get picked up in L.A. for vagrancy. And what the cops would do is they would just put you in the back of the car and you would just drive around with them on their shift all night. And being a comic you know this worked well somewhat to my advantage but actually no. The first time I got picked up you know they would see you let us move along where do you live? I do not kind of live anywhere. All right get in the car. What do you do? I am a comedian. Oh yeah? Tell us a joke you know. So then you would sort of try and come up with every dirty joke you could think of to tell these cops all night and har har that was  and that worked pretty good. Well they let me go. But then two or three nights would go by and the cops would go hey are you that comedian guy our partner picked up the other night? Yeah. Get in the car. All those jokes you were telling  so you know two or three nights a week I would have to ride around until dawn telling jokes to different cops because they would say hey have you seen that kid on the street pick him up he is got some funny jokes.  It must be strange for you knowing so many comics so well and having been in the position of being a young hardworking comic really wanting their big break to now be the guy who could give a young hardworking comic a big break.  Oh man it is a nightmare.  And I am sure you do not want to hurt anybody's feelings. On the other hand you want to have the best show you possibly can. So it is probably a really awkward spot.  Oh it is horrible because I used to think well now that I am hosting The Tonight Show I can go anywhere. But now you cannot go anywhere because you walk in and go oh gee there is Larry I have got to hide you know.   I mean that is what it is. I mean you know you have friends that come up to you that   you know when I first got the job men women comedians would come up to me and they would go hey Jay you know Johnny would never put me on but now you have got the show it will be great man I can come on all the time. And I would have to say but you know if you were not good enough to get on with Johnny it is not good enough to get on with me. You have got to make it funnier. And you know I lost a lot of friends that way. I mean it is just they are people that I love dearly as friends but the material is not strong enough or maybe it is really oldfashioned you know. It is just you know old jokes about I do not know hippies or airline food or whatever it is. And you just say you know you have got to update the stuff. And they just do not get it.  Jay Leno recorded in 1996. He leaves The Tonight Show in February. Our latenight series continues in the second half of the show. Each day the interviews from our latenight series will be added to our latenight theme page and available for downloading on our website freshair.npr.org. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR. 