Big Freedia Once you know it was approved by mom there was no other worries. Brother sister uncles aunties -- none of them did not matter if they accepted me or not long as mom did. This is Death Sex  Money in New Orleans. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale and I am standing on Painters Street in the Gentilly neighborhood of New Orleans. It is windy and it is hot.  Do what you do.   How do you introduce yourself? Will you just introduce yourself into the microphone?  Big Freedia the Queen Diva the Dick Eater ya besta believe her. Big Freedia is one of the biggest stars of New Orleans bounce music. Bounce started in the late '80s and early '90s. Its a New Orleans brand of thumping bass-heavy hip hop that you move your hips to.  Oh yeah. Cuttin' up shakin'. Cuttin' it loose. In the late '90s Big Freedia was among a new crop of queer performers who started dominating the local bounce scene. And as she and other artists moved outside New Orleans in the years after Katrina so did bounce.  It just be like so surreal that I am just like even a bounce artist. Like it never was in the plan. It just -- I guess it was destined to happen but it just was never in the plan. Big Freedia was born Freddie Ross. When she started performing she picked the name Big Freedia in part because she liked the way it rhymed with Queen Diva. Freedia doesnt identify as trans. She says she is comfortable using either pronoun but usually uses she because she says that seems to be what her fans seem to use the most.  She tells me as we stand on this quiet residential street that shes been working on her act for a long time.  You know I had a signature call that I would just be hollering around everywhere and everybody knew me by this signature call. They would be like Oh that is Freddie in the club. He...  And tell me the signature call.  You are trying to get these people to wake up.   You did it.  That is just always been my thing since small and before I even became Big Freedia like I was known just for that all over New Orleans. Freedia is in head-to-toe denim -- a sleeveless button down shirt and ripped jeans -- with black and white high-top sneakers. She has long multi-colored fingernails.  They are bad right now. I gotta go today when I leave. They are horrible. Shes wearing her long hair down but she uses her whole arm to sweep it off her neck every few minutes. She also has a small towel in her pocket to wipe her brow every so often. I am not similarly prepared.  You want to sit under the -- so were out of the sun?  Sure. Why not? A neighbor offers to let us sit on his front porch...  Somebody live there? ...And we settle in on the porch swing. Freedias known for her hard-charging call-and-response lyrics and for the dancers who surround her on stage shaking it in hot pants. But Freedia got her start singing gospel music.  Basically hanging with one of my friends in the neighborhood. She sung at the church choir. And she invited me to church and then it started from there.  And you went by yourself not with your family.  Right. By myself. Well with my friend...  How old were you?  Um maybe like 8 or 9?  What'd you like about it?  I mean just the fun we had. The spirit that would be in the church. To see like these Jesus drill teams and you know going to different churches to perform.  What was your favorite hymn to sing?  When I was really young my pastor used to just break out with this you know  Let Jesus fix it for you for you. He knows just want to do what to do. Like he used to just come out of nowhere with it and the whole church used to just like start praying and getting on their knees. You would be feeling all of that. All of that would just be like -- you could feel it in your bones.  Were you religious when you were a kid? Going to church?  Yeah definitely. I was a baptist. You know I am baptist so you know always going to Sunday school reading the Bible trying to live by the word that is what it was about.  Was it hard for you to go to church and also be realizing you were gay?  I mean not really because I guess because I started so young before I even realized that I was gay. And um I felt accepted. Whatever it was I never felt like I could not like go and praise God. So there would be sometimes when the pastor would have a sermon that is particular talking about homosexuality and you know I would feel offended on those particular Sundays or whatever but I still would stand up with pride and you know hold my head up and just keep it going. And people would always come talk to me especially after that sermon. Like...  Really?  Yeah they was...  What would they say?  I mean just like you know Do not worry about pastor. Like not any particular say ...not in particular say Oh we know you are gay but they would just be like Do not worry about pastor's sermon today. You know he gotta preach about everything. And I am like I am fine you know. And it was not just me it was the organist who...you know. So when I got older I would be able to like communicate with the organist and we would be able to talk about it. And we would just like -- you know it would not even bother us after -- you know we had been there so long it was like Pastor's gotta hit on everything you know?  When did you come out?  About 13.  13 years old?  Mmhmm.  How did you do that?  I told my momma at my birthday party that I had all my friends at. And I pulled her over and I sit on her on my lap and I was like...  You sat on her lap or she sat on yours?  She sat on my lap. I was too big to sit on her lap. Shit I would have probably broke my mama.    She was only like 120 lbs. And I was probably like 250. And so . Oh. See?     Girl I am 'bout to get up from here. Let us move. I do not want...You heard that thing! I do not want these people's bench to come down girl!  Yeah the porch swing we just heard a little crack so why do not we sit on the steps here.   Girl I say 250 and baby the thing...like it was about to come off the hinges. That is too funny.    Yeah but she sat on my lap and um...I was just like Mom I need to tell you something. And she is like What boy? And you know I was like I am gay. And she was like I already know.  You know like...  That is what she said?  Yeah. That is exactly what she said. Like moms know their kids more than anything. If you pay attention to your kids and if you are the right type of parent you watch your kid from small. But like once I got older and I used to talk to like my cousins and my aunt they was like Yeah we used to have family meetings about you. And you know we did not know how to accept it. And we saw it. And it was like even when she knew it was still something hard for any parent to accept. And it had to grow with her and in time it grew and it grew really strong and the love that we had was just unconditional. Like she was my backbone and she protected me everywhere. She would not let nobody mess with me.  And when did you come out at school like with your peers?  Oh child once I told my momma I just started queening out like right then and there. Like I just started turning into a little queen every step of the way...  Like what did that look like?  Just like you know I guess starting to flirt with boys and you know twistin and snappin and arguing and fighting. It was the whole nine yards of growing up especially in New Orleans in a black public school and just was like...had to do what every other gay kid had to do fight for their life and fight to be strong and stand up and you know let people know that you are not no joke in who you were.  You had other friends who were gay...  Oh yeah. Most definitely.  ...who did not feel as comfortable...  Oh no. I mean was scared to come out used to be hidin' you know not wanting people to know. Like if we went out they would like bring a bag of changing clothes and like change in the car like to get more you know gay or whatever. And it was just like I was so able to be out and free.  And were your boyfriends able to be that way?  Oh no they was always undercover. I mean all the boys was undercover. Like most of them still are now. You know. They just downlow boy do not want nobody in their business but they like men. Simple.  Was it hard to have to be secretive with your first boyfriends?  No. Being that you know I realized that the way we grew up is that we were attracted to the boys that we grew up with. So you know everything had to be a secret. You know what I am saying likeand it kind of makes it spontaneous you know when you are young that you are kind of sneaking around. But you know at a point you get tired of that. You definitely want to be known you want to be on forefront. And its just like okay now we been messing around too long. I still gotta be a secret? You know cause when you first start it is okay but when your love grows for somebody and yall get closer you wanna be you know feel more appreciated and you wanna feel loved. And you know I just tried to move on from those particular boys and tried to look in a different space that I never looked in before. And it just so happened a boy came along who who swept me off my feet and was not afraid to be out and in the open which is Devon my current boyfriend. And so I guess if Devon would not have come along I would still be sneaking around with some dude.  And you met Devon when you were away from New Orleans after Katrina?  Yes. Right after Katrina. Right before Katrina Freedia had just moved into a new apartment and was hosting her family who decided to stay and ride out the storm.  Just had set the house all up -- laid all the furniture out decorated it and then you know we go to store maybe like two week -- a week before Katrina hit. I am like I gotta fill the house up make groceries all the cabinets so we went did that. Next thing I know Katrina hit a week later. Coming up how they escaped and why Freedia decided to come back to New Orleans. Freedia was born in 1978 at Charity Hospital in New Orleans. Its an enormous art deco-style building near the Superdome that was known as a place where anyone insured or not could go to receive care. Dr. Kiersta Kurtz-Burke It is a pretty solid WPA-era building that has a lot of memories for a lot of people in New Orleans -- people that were born there people that worked there. Kiersta Kurtz-Burke was one of the people that worked at Charity or Big Charity as it was known to locals. And it was where she spent the days during and following Hurricane Katrina as the hospital flooded and the power went out.  I have very clear memories of every single moment of every single day that we were in the hospital. Kiersta is one of the five people who I spoke with about the 10 years since Hurricane Katrina. On the next episode in our series In New Orleans she talks about what happened after she and her patients were finally evacuated from Charity and when months later the surprise announcement came that Charity would not be reopening.  I really had no idea that we would not all be in the same place or be able to say thank you to one another. That is still something I would love. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Big Freedia is physically imposing 6'3. Since she was a kid shes hasnt been afraid of taking up space.  I was big and proud...My mom made me always stand proud. But the threat of violence was there. Just after Freedia came out to her mom she learned that a gay man in the neighborhood whom she knew as Sissy Shannon was sodomized with a broomstick and beaten to death. And in 2004 when Freedia was dropping a friend off in her car a man approached the driver side and fired his gun.  What the motive was I dont know to this day still. Cause I just got the hell away from there. Freedia was shot twice. One of the bullets is still in her forearm.  Piece of metal.  In my damn arm. It shook Freedia. She stopped performing.  Just that whole process of getting to be well known and working and then feeling like you have having to look over your shoulder. She felt panicked when she tried to leave the house. It lasted about six months.  Until my mama pushed me back out. She was like oh no this is not going to work. How are you gonna survive? Then of course I had to in order to feel safe I had to go get a gun and start carrying the gun to make myself feel more protected and um it is just been that way ever since.  You still carry?  Everyday.  Is it on you right now?  Mmhmm. It is not on me physically right while we standing right here cause I am not worrying about it while I am doing the interview but it is definitely in my car.  And so will you just kind of describe where we are standing right here?  Well this is my old house that when Katrina hit this was the house that I was living in and um got totally under water. I remember it like it was yesterday. It was just so funny that day because um a lot of times we took the storm for granted and we just we are like Play outside you know. Oh the storm is gonna pass. And so forth and so forth. But this particular day the storm did not pass the storm actually hit. And once the storm hit everything still was fine but like hours later you saw the water started coming and the water started rising and it was just unbelievable just to see how fast the city had filled up with water. And just like to see all three of the cars get you know underwater. The tree on the side of the house you know hit the house and opened the ceiling knocked off one of the columns we had like...It was so scary.  And who were you with?  Me my brother my sister my uncle and my sister's newborn baby. They were all on the second floor of the duplex. It is not here anymore. The rest of the block is tidy rebuilt houses. But where Freedia lived is just an empty lot with overgrown grass.  I do not know why they did not build it back. During Katrina as the water rose Freedia and her family punched a hole through the roof to try to signal for help.  Some people in the neighborhood just like random people rescuing everybody out there houses. And they came on the boat. Like we handed the baby out first. And then all three of us went one by one. They was trying to pry the door open to get us out but that would not work so was had to climb out the window.  And how long between when the boat picked you up...how many days was it until you got to somewhere dry with electricity?  Oh. Maybe about six or seven?  Wow.  Yeah because actually we was going to the Superdome. When we got to the Superdome they was turning everybody around the Superdome saying Do not go in the Superdome. Go to the Convention Center. So then as we are walking to the Convention Center me and my brother we decided that we were gonna go loot. You know to get us some drinks or whatever and you know make sure that we had some stuff.  Was that the word that you used?  Yeah. Everybody was like We gonna loot you know? So he went one way I went one way and we said we was gonna meet back in like 20 minutes. That 20 minutes turned to not seeing my brother for months. And once we got to the Convention Center it was like everybody had to move outside it had done got super hot inside of there. Everybody using the bathroom had done ran everybody out the Convention Center anyway. It was just like feces everywhere you know urine smell. It was so strong. Soon as you opened the Convention Center door that is all you smelled. So it was just like sleeping on the ground in front of the Convention Center waiting for the buses. And then when the buses finally arrived to come everybody just like so anxious to leave they about to turn the buses over like really like rocking the buses. It was just you know it was a survival time.  And you were well known in New Orleans...  I was.  ...when Katrina hit.  Very much.  Did people recognize you?  Not really. I mean I had done grew a full beard. Like full face...  Because you could not shave or just that it was not a priority?  I could notI couldnt shave!  Are you comfortable when you have beard growing in?  Oh no honey . I have had baby smooth face since I was a baby. So I do not like...    ...when I have hair in my face it irks me and it drives me like no...I gotta feel smooth.  So you said nobody could recognize you because you have this beard.  Right. And you know a few people did and I stopped a few people and was like It is me or whatever. But it did not matter who you was at the time. If you had money if you had a nice house nice car...it did not matter who was. Everybody was in the same boat Trying to survive and get away from New Orleans.  You were away for two years. Why did you come back?   No place like home. There is no place like New Orleans. Just like I missed all the food. I missed being able to go everywhere that I know. Houston was so big. Child I was lost in Houston. It is just...I...Little ol New Orleans. That is what I need in my life.  Was it hard to come back after going through that here?  No. It was just like...You know the money was plentiful you know. A lot was happening after Katrina I mean money slinging everywhere you know everybody has FEMA checks girl.  You had FEMA Fridays at the club?  Oh yes. FEMA Fridays at the club and FEMA checks. That was the most important. Baby they were spending that money like crazy. Like water.   How do you think about Big Freedia and what Big Freedia sort of represents in terms of sexuality and what it is to be a man in New Orleans?  Well I just feel like you know I am me. I am so different than most people think that I am. They see one thing but they just really do not know the real me. Like when I am at home I am just chilling and I am relaxing. It is like I am very laid back. I am not as flamboyant as people think. You know like I like to be just low key. You know I have always been that way but always confident and when it is time for me to stand and step up and be out loud I know how to do that.  The signature call comes.   Right. The signature call comes very loud. And proud.  Freedias also now the star of a reality show called Big Freedia Queen Diva. Its broken ratings records for the cable network Fuse. Freedias mother Vera was a character on the show initially and the show covered the aftermath of Vera's death from cancer in 2014.  It is been difficult. It is the most difficult thing that I have to wake up with everyday of my life now. So I always keep my family around always talking to my brother and sister to try to keep us all connected even more closer now that we have lost mom. And um...You know just to keep myself sane I just like do therapeutic stuff You know cook and you know which is a relaxation part for me you know making really good food. I just do what I can do. You know I pray constantly. And that is what is been carrying me my prayers and all the people that is praying for me. And I am just happy my mom is not suffering anymore. She was suffering so bad in these last days. And I had to release her to god. After we talked Freedia was heading over to her mothers old house. She and her sister were working to make it more comfortable for their Uncle Percy their moms brother who was with them during the storm.  His leg was just recently amputated so I am back into taking care mode just like I was with my mom. So I am back into a space where you know it went from my mom to my uncle now. And it is what it is. But God has the last and final say so.  You take care of a lot of people in your life.  I do. And that is why I am blessed. Big Freedia. Shes written a book called God Save the Queen Diva. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Rachel Aronoff Benjamin Franklin. Special thanks to Anna Hiatt Zoe Azulay Stephanie Billman David Herman Rick Kwan Andrew Dunn and Joe Plourde for their work on our series In New Orleans and to Laine Kaplan-Levenson for reporting help in the city. All the episodes in our series are at deathsexmoney.orginneworleans along with beautiful pictures of everyone featured in the series by photographer Rush Jagoe. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. This is the Outer Borough Brass Band performing it. Thanks to band members Jeff Pierce Scott Bourgeois Rick Faulkner Joe Scatassa and Jason Isaac. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. If you like the show subscribe to us on iTunes...and leave us a review. It helps other people find the show on the iTunes charts. Big Freedia is also a world record holder. She convened a gathering of the most simultaneous twerkers to set a Guinness World Record two years ago. But I asked her if sometimes when shes looking out at the crowdand seeing beginning twerk-ers...if its not a little embarrassing.  Sometimes I see them and I mean I just fall out because it just be so funny that they just -- They do not have it and they just trying so hard but just their enthusiasm of them trying so hard...  You are laughing and saying Get it girl. You tried.   Right. You tried but girl it just not working for you. And I mean that is what it is about though inspiring people to want to live out on the limb and do something different and be you know go outside the box on what they normally do. You know what I am saying like -- that is what it is about. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.