 So you dont know me so this is a hard question to answer perhaps but  You will be fine. Youre going to be just perfectly happy. Is that what you were going to ask? This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. And I know I told you wouldnt hear from me until after I am married but I had a nice conversation with Cindy Chupack who wrote a book called The Longest Date Life as a Wife. And I wanted to share it with you before I go off to do this thing. Cindy is an Emmy-winning television writer and producer. She worked on Everybody Loves Raymond then Sex and the City then Modern Family. So shes been part of this massive change in the ways we tell stories about marriage and family in America. Particularly for women. Cindy grew up in Oklahoma and moved to New York after college. She got married at 25 and then divorced two years later when her first husband realized he was gay. After that her writing career blew up and she did a lot of dating. She married her current husband Ian 10 years ago when she was 40.  You know when I first met Ian I thought he was the opposite of what I needed cause he really didnt seem to want to settle down at all. So it really felt like hes not just looking for someone to put in the spot of wife for him hes really kind of fighting every instinct he has and just unable to walk away from me. So it felt sort of solid for both of us I guess that we were kind of wanting to walk away from each other and couldnt.  You dated for about two years before you married is that right?  Yeah.  And how long were you engaged?  Really a short time. It was maybe four months.  Does that time of deciding to get married before you got married Looking back is there something you did while you were engaged that you feel that youre glad that you did together?  Um well I definitely freaked out right after he asked me to marry him because what I think happens with a lot of men is they...they um finally ask someone to marry when they want to have a kid. So it was sort of all tumbled up in one package. But right after he proposed I threw my birth control into the ocean you know in sort of a show of good faith and then I immediately thought just wanted to dive in after it. Of course years later I realize that I was taking birth control completely It was doing nothing because it was of course so hard to have a baby. But at the time I still thought that was in control of whether or not I was going to get pregnant. And I was so nervous about it. So I was a little bit freaked out about the thought of immediately marrying this guy and starting a family with him. And then the wedding itself seemed really overwhelming to me because hes opinionated and you know youre...youre figuring out how you function as a couple. Its the first thing you kind of manage as a project together. And he just you know had big ideas and was really insistent that Sweet Home Alabama be one of the songs  and this DJ we had really didnt want it. And um everything feels magnified like is this how hes going to be forever? This song Sweet Home Alabama is this emblematic of just hes going to dig in on crazy things? You know I dont know.  Or do I just give in does it matter? Anyway we did play that song at our reception and it went over quite well.  Before you married you did have to deal with money.  Yeah that...that continues to be fun probably.  I tried to write honestly That was one of the hardest things I thought because you know the question of if a woman makes more money just how does that pan out? I supported myself for a long time and Ive had this house and Ian um came into the...into our union with a lot of debt and a job he hated where he could make money. And he really just did not like corporate law and he got involved in some pro bono work defending Guantanamo Bay detainees. Now he does prisoner rights. And Im so happy he loves what he does now. But he was basically leaving a job that kind of did pay to try to do something that mattered and I was supportive of that...in theory.  But I think I was just trying to tease out in my book how it affects things. And I know I was working at Modern Family for awhile with guys who were kind of joking complaining about their wives spending so much money on things. And for men its kind of bragging rights to talk about your spouse spending a lot of money but theres no world in which women canyou know my husband bought a Jeep he didnt need...and some pot. You know theres not really a great place to laugh about those things with people without women kind of judging you but we just kind of had to work out a system that worked for us of you know how to just try to make the money not an issue we dealt with every day.  And what would come up for you when you wouldlike in the very back of your head like the things you couldnt say out loud?  I guess the part of me feels like he doesnt really get to decide these things since Im the one making the money. More of the money. And thats not necessarily true or a good way to think butand I sometimes think have men been feeling this way a long time. You know I think theres just a different thing built into our society for when women who are supported by men have opinions versus men who are largely supported by women. But its still an uncomfortable conversation especially saying this right here into the radio with no feedback. I just imagine men and women at home with their jaws dropping going well I feel either women will judge me and think Why would you marry someone who isnt contributing? and feel very judgmental about that or feel Well shut up. Youre lucky that you make enough to support the two of you and men have been doing that for a long time and... Theres just not a really great forum for this.   No. And you admit that also in your book the feeling of like shouldnt I have more control and decision making because of what Im bringing financially?  Yeah like vacations. I just sometimes think Dont I get to decide? But yeah but then hell have ideas and then well do them and well have so much fun you know. He definitely is more of a partner in every other waynon-financial waythan anybody I could imagine. I mean hes really involved in raising our daughter and hes a great support and partner for me and you know reads what I write and I love the work he does so you know if you could just take that money part out of it its all really good. But that money part is a strain. Coming up Cindy tells me about a relationship shes been in for even longer than her marriage the one with her beloved therapist.  Shes seen me through the whole thing.  Shes got like the whole parade of men. I saw her just in some moments where Im sure she was like OK now youre off track. You might remember that the team traveled to New Orleans last month. We talked to people about the 10 years of rebuilding after Hurricane Katrina and about some of the other things that have happened in their lives since like running for political office starting a new business mourning a mother. One of the people I talked with was just beginning the adoption process when Katrina hit. That was delayed. But five years after the storm she and her husband brought home a little boy from China. We know where he was found. We know the orphanage he was placed in. We went to visit it. We met some of the people. But there are a lot of question marks and um I wish I had those answers. And I mainly um wish that I could speak to his birth mom. I mean I wish that I could send her a little picture of him. And I miss that in such a profound way that I just never knew was possible to miss somebody that youve never met before. Look out for our stories from New Orleans next week. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. While we talked I told Cindy Chupack I was getting married really soon.  What sort of advice do you have for me?  Well one I guess a lot of things. I mean Im not afraid of therapy with your husband and you know I brought almost every boyfriend I ever was about to break up with to therapy so if you did a montage on my therapists couch you would have almost everyone I ever dated. And then...and then I brought Ian and he was the first person who it felt like we actually got somewhere. And we dont have a stigma that were breaking up because were going. And we just go for tuneups. We dont go all the time. But I think we...when we were going through trying to have a baby we were very There are just times when I couldnt reassure him in the ways he needed reassuring or he was kind of exhausted and tired and sad and I was exhausted and tired and sad and sometimes that works to your benefit cause you can...you both understand what youre going through but other times you just dont have gas left to give the person what they need. And just kind of thinking of it of as an emotional flu like sometimes you just have an emotional flu and even though you cant explain why you need to be in bed or watch the Real Housewives of Beverly Hills for four hours or you know whatever it takes to just unplug and recharge um you cant always explain why thats going to help. And it might look to your partner like is this what I think my fear is or maybe Ians fear is is this who youre turning into? So now youre going to be this person in pajamas watching The Real Housewives. You know theres always that fear when youre married Is this it? Is this going to be the rest of our lives? So I would say whenever you get that feeling just try to remember It doesnt have to be the rest of our lives it might just be today. And its OK.  During the hardest moments has either of you talked about the option to leave?  Yeah. I think part of my evolution dating was that I got used to I can get out of a relationship Im not happy with. I can leave at any moment. I dont have to just be the sad girl whos broken up with. I can leave if this isnt what I want. And I did break off some relationships and I think I still had that empowerment when I went into the marriage like if this doesnt work for me I am out of here. I just felt always on the edge of I could leave this and it felt comforting to feel that way. Um and I dont I cant remember what changed that I started to realize like I dont You know the thing Probably what changed is that Ian never did that. He never threw that around. He was trying the old Lets try to solve this problem before we go to sleep. And if I was running off to a hotel which I would do sometimesthat...thats the new version of running off to your mothers houseI would run off to a hotel. Um so um I think at a certain point he also kind of threatened that he wasnt sure it was right. And that really scared me cause he had always been solid and Id always been the histrionic one. And when he also let that in as a possibility I realized how hurtful it was and that I shouldnt be just throwing that around.  Were you married when Ian first said that?  Yeah. It was pretty It was several years in I think before he threatened that and it was like what?    Youre not allowed. Youre not supposed to say that.  I can say Im leaving and you convince me to come back. Yeah it was scary to hear and to think it might be real. I mean weve gone through some rough patches and I do not even know...it was just when we were both out of gas really. I mean just...Not any one thing just sometimes it felt like we were so out of gas with just life and work and you know sometimes you just need to say aloud just how...how frustrated you are and then youre better...to let it not be a seething secret I guess.  So your book is called The Longest Date Life as a Wife and reading it as someone whos about to become a wife it just reminded me again about how pro-spective the decision to get married is.  Uh huh.  Can you tell me  Did the book make you feel nervous? Or more relaxed about it...  No it sort of made me feel like Oh you think theres this work you can do to be prepared. But...  Yes.   ...thats this grand illusion. Um. You just have to trust that youre going to be able to tackle things as they come.  I have found letting go of control is really the lesson of marriage for me. I didnt realize what a control freak I was until I had someone I was married to who I could not control.  And I would say just you know my own life and especially being in the same house I was in before where everything was kind of ordered andits not like I was a total neat freakbut I just I wrote there. It was my kind of oasis. I was in control of it. And then this man his things this Saint Bernard now this child. Were in this same house and um its so full of life. Theres life in my life now. And its big and messy and out of control but its what was missing. And I you know its not easy to embrace sometimes if youre used to being able to feel like you can have the answers and you have...you can control it. You just cant. But thats the nature of love and thats kind of whats great about it is that you end up going places and learning things that by yourself you wouldnt have otherwise. So its just uncomfortable.  Cindy Chupack. Shes currently working on a new HBO show starring Sarah Jessica Parker. Its called...Divorce. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC.  The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Rachel Aronoff Benjamin Franklin and Joe Plourde. Special thanks to Anna Hiatt for her help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. You can email us anytime at deathsexmoneywnyc.org And next week look out for our stories from New Orleans. So Cindy Chupack wrote about the good and the bad about life as a wife. What she hears back what a great husband she has.  I really tried to make sure that I was examining what part of it was my fault and maybe I just went a little too far because  Ian comes off really well. In fact at one point I was like you are not allowed to leave me for someone who reads the book and thinks youre dreamy.  That would be the opposite of what Im trying to accomplish with this book. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.