Rachel Ward When somebody dies people are definitely - like they do not know how to talk to you about it which I think is totally normal. Like I have - I have been on the other side of it where like somebodys been like So-and-so died and Im like Oh I dont know how to respond even though this just happened to me! This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Rachel Ward had been a widow for two years the first time we talked back in 2015. And it had been a long two years.  I guess Im kind of hoping this is also sort of a juncture in my life and like a transition point.  Youre hoping.  Hope so. Shed just written a Medium post that went viral. It was titled Im Sorry I Didnt Respond to Your Email My Husband Coughed to Death Two Years Ago. It was her effort to be done with all the social awkwardness that comes with death.  Its always really stressful when I have to tell somebody. It is such a like - you really have to figure out - you have to do a lot of like on-the-fly decision-making. Like Ive been kind of dick about it a few times where Ive just been like Oh yeah mm did you know Im a widow? Or like Yeah I know how you feel. My husband died. Like Ive delivered this news in like a pretty terrible way before. Anna Sale Whats going on when that happens? Like what - are you making a joke?  Yeah or Im just gonna get this out here in this like big fast way and then hopefully like as fast as it came itll go. Rachel was 32 when her husband Steve died. He was 35. They lived in Washington D.C. and had been together for more than a decade. Steve had a history of heart problems. But he was back at work after his most recent surgery. Still he was not feeling great.  We honestly thought he had a cold and that it was like just not really clea - like taking a while to clear up because he was stressed out about starting this new job. Like I - Im really - like - I dont know why - why it didnt occur to us that this could be a complication.  And when did you realize it was serious?  When he - when he coughed up blood. Like he was - he was coughing and I could tell there was something in his chest. And I was like Okay dude! Cough it up whatever it is! Which in retrospect is horrifying. And right as I was like getting my phone he collapsed like onto his knees and then he fell onto his side.  Did you go with him in the ambulance?  Yeah I sat in the front seat. As I was leaving the house I grabbed a pair of his flip-flops 'ecause I was like Hes not wearing shoes and theyre loading him into an ambulance. Hes going to need these when we leave later tonight! I dont know. You know like so clueless about what was actually going on. But once - once I was in the ambulance that was sort of the first time that I was like Oh shit this is really bad. Steve was coughing because his lungs were filling with blood. Turned out he had an infection likely related to his surgery that they didnt know about. Just a few hours after he collapsed at home Steve died in the hospital. Rachels sister met her there. So she wasnt alone when she went in to see Steves body.  Its traumatic. You know theyve got him all bundled up basically wrapped up in stuff up to his chin because Im sure what was under there was terrible and they didnt want us to see it. But they had cleaned off his face. And so we go in. We see the body. And then we come out and a nurse kind of like has me by the elbow and shes like walking me out of the ER and she says Its okay to cry honey. You can cry. And I was - I like knew intellectually that I was probably in shock and I was like Ill do that later I guess. And I said to her But he was such a good husband. And she said Yeah but he did a shitty thing today.  I was just like Are you kidding me lady? Like I was like proud of it actually because it felt like she was like This bitch can take it. Like she totally just like - she read the room and she was like I got a zinger for this one.  It was - it was like perfect. I almost feel like there are like parallel universes that exist. Like theres a universe where she didnt say that and I went down like a totally different grief journey. And theres the universe where she did and I was like Mm well. Like that kind of like shrugging emoticon. A shrug. Like what you do when you are trying to not let a terrible thing get at you and just push forward. That is what Rachel did--initially. She went back to work three weeks after Steve died. Shes a radio producer and was nostly working overnights for NPR. She also packed up her things and moved in with her sister.  I basically never went home to our apartment. I slept there a couple of nights but I slept on the couch not in our bed. And - cause it just felt like the upstairs was like haunted. Like the last place he had been alive and like it had all of this like kind of like - it just felt - when I say it felt haunted I mean like it felt weighted. It felt like there was like something emotional up there. So I didnt - I didnt go up. I tried not to go upstairs very much when I was at the house. And I wasnt there very often.  So you were married for three years when he died?  Yeah.  What did you learn about the paperwork that comes with death?  I - I mean like this is embarrassing but I have not done a lot of it. Like its two years out and I havent probated his estate. I havent - hes still - Im still on his phone plan. So in like November of 2013 I noticed that I didnt have cell service anymore. And I was like Whats going on? I normally have service here. And then I got home and I like called ATT and they were like Yeah we cut off your phone cause you havent paid for it since August. And so I told whoever was on the other end of the line I was like Well heres the thing. My husband died. I thought - I thought it was just being paid for out of our like whatever account. And she was like Well do you want me to like switch the service over and put it in your name? If you do that you might lose all of his voicemails and - that are like on his phone. And at that moment like I just like started weeping on the phone with this poor ATT lady. And she was like Well technically now that youve told me hes dead Im supposed to like initiate this action but Im just going to delete all this stuff and try to get off the phone with you cause youre crying. Um so that was kind of the last time I dealt with ATT. Its just another one of like these like very minute chores that have a lot of emotional baggage that I just you know - its just hard to do.  Yeah. When were you - when were you the saddest?  Um. Maybe like a month out. There was - there was a period where I was very aggressively trying to like not let go of memories. Like the thing that was most upsetting to me was the idea that I would forget things. So I started keeping a diary so I could like write down little memories as they came to me. Um. The story of like what actually happened to the best that I can remember it I like made myself sit down and write down these details. And I guess thats processing thats important to do. I felt like I was hearing Rachel do that processing in real-time. And it made me want to wait to share her story to see what happened next. So we did. Coming up what Rachel told me after two more years of grief and life after death.  I had like sort of absorbed this like floating grief wisdom that you do not you should not change anything for a year. I think for me the floating grief wisdom for me should have said two years.  Youve been sending us a lot of suggestions for our Welcome to Adulthood podcast playlist. We want to know about the podcast episodesfrom ANY showthat you think contain important life advice. Especially for people who are taking their first steps into adulthood. We have heard about episodes about personal finance...work-life balance...surprise pregnancies. You can suggest an episode by going to deathsexmoney.orgadulthood or by texting episode to 70101. Well share the playlist with you in a few weeks. And if youre in your 20s and need some life advice we want to hear from you. Were heading to LA for a live show on Wednesday October 4. Well be talking all about what we learn in our 20ssometimes the hard wayand giving some advice. Actors Niecy Nash and Alia Shawkat will be there along with other special guests. You can get tickets and find out more on our Facebook page. So if you are in your 20s and having trouble figuring something out or just need some feedback email us or send a voice memo to deathsexmoneywnyc.org to ask for advice. Like our listener Ariell did. Shes 27 and sent in a long list of things shes wondering about  How to deal with shifts in relationships with your parents as you get older? How to not date online? How to meet people outside of Tinder or Match and Bumble and Hinge? How I am taken seriously as a young female professional? So people in your 20s send us your life questions. Again our email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode another take on widowhood. This one with nearly thirty years of perspective from Katie Couric. Her first husband Jay died in 1998.  You know I mean you can ask me anything about it but it is just it is soit is so painful.  Did you have an opportunity to ever fall apart?  Oh yeah. I fell apart all the time. But I really tried to not fall apart in front of Jay. And I think you know looking back on it there is probably a lot of dishonesty.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. I reached out to Rachel Ward again this year because I wanted to know how she was doing and what had changed since the first time we talked.  I noticed that your name on Twitter right now is Young Crone.   Yes. Yeah.   How did you pick Young Crone?  Actually my friend came up with it. Oh we were just joking around. I cannot remember. But it definitely feels right. Like I felt like I re-experienced adolescence after Steve died. And in a lot of ways I still feel like that is happening to me. But I also feel like old you know because I am an aging person. I am 36 years old. And that is older than a lot of my peers who on paper have like an equivalent life position. You know like just moved to New York City and are single except they are 26 and I am 36. Soon after that first time we talked Rachel left her job at NPR and moved to New York City where she took a job at Gimlet the podcasting company producing the show Surprisingly Awesome. Then she bought an apartment in Brooklyn using some of the money from Steves life insurance.  And do you live by yourself?  I do. Well I have a roommate. She is a Calico cat. She does not lift a finger.  Do you have a picture of Steve in your new apartment? Like that is prominently displayed?  Well I have like a little - like shrine sounds kind of weird to say but I have like a little like spot on one of my bookshelves that is like our wedding photo. This photo album that has an image of him on the front that I made right after he died. And I also have framed - we got engaged after a hockey game. And so I have the tickets from the hockey game in a little frame so I have like that all sort of displayed in one spot. And it used to actually be like the first thing you saw when you walked into the living room and looked at the bookshelves. And then I migrated it over to the like second place you that you would look after I would been living there for a little while.  Why did you move them?  I actually moved them at my sister's suggestion. Um and I am guessing that the reason that she thought I should move them was so that they did not communicate like to any potential like suitors like This guy's still very much on the front burner.  Do you feel interested in dating? RW. Yeah I do. I mean I have been on dates. Um. It feels super hard to date. The thing that I think about is that like dating is a long process. And like if you wanted to be - like lots of people when they get to a relationship that is sort of like their partnership that is the end result of like meeting and hanging out with a lot of people. And then like you know a bunch of relationships that last for like three weeks or six months or two years. And when I think about the rate at which I am moving I feel like many many many years away from like approaching having a stable partnership like I had before. Because I just have not - like I went on uh like last month I think or two months ago it was the first time I would gone on two dates with the same person. So at the rate I am moving it is... you know.  Do you feel like that is - I mean it is interesting because dating is hard for everyone in New York City. And then you have this...   Wait you think this is not original material?   I think it is a lot pressure you have on top of dating being difficult. For you it has the added pressure of am I not. Am I not succeeding in dating in New York City because I am not ready? Or because I have not done enough work or put in enough time with my sadness?  Right. Or like there is something even more fundamentally broken like before even all of the like widow stuff. Like what if I have been like broken since like kindergarten? And like Steve was a fluke.   Hm.  Like What if I like scammed him into being my partner? And I will never be able to run that scam again. It is expired.  How do you think you are doing with your grief and with thinking about Steve's death?  Um. I actually feel moderately okay in my grief. Like I feel like I understand like some of the dynamics of like when in the year I am going to feel a little less capable or more capable. Among people that I already know I feel pretty comfortable bringing him into a conversation and being like Ah Steve used to say this really funny thing. So in relation to my own grief like I think I am going to give myself a 6 out of 10. The thing I worry about is being like stuck a little bit. You know like it feels like there is some sort of like I have to be like cooked to a certain level and I am just like not. So the thing that I worry about with being stuck is like what if I never cook and I am like I am never in another relationship again. So that is that is the thing that I like periodically will sort of like - my mind will sort of wander to that. But I have also lately been having some really nice like realizations about how it is kind of great to be single and not have to like not have to like do the kind of like draggy parts of relationships.  Yeah. When was - when was a moment that that flashed before you recently? Where you were like I am into this.  Every time I go to bed whenever I want and I sleep across the entire bed and then like I do not care if the top sheet is tucked in at the end or not. Like that is - I do not know. This actually weird that that is the example that I am giving because I do not think sleeping next to another person - like that is actually a nice thing.  But there is something nice about not having to compromise at all.  And I guess that is just the moment like right before bed is when I am often am in sort of a reflective space. And so that is what I am thinking like ah this is good.  Mh hm. Do you miss Steve?  Yeah.  Yes.   When do you miss him?  Um also right before I go to bed. Um and when I am confronting like anything in my life that requires like a level of patience because I am often impatient in the face of like a even moderately complicated problem. Uh. Oh yeah! I often like to have jokes I want to tell him. I am like oh my god you will - like I frequently find myself like with like some like joke that like is not quite right for Twitter. And then I have to like - I will like get out my phone and like scroll down my contacts and be like who is going to get this? Because like the person I want to send it to does not exist anymore. And also like when I when I use his jokes I often - I try to credit him as much as possible when I steal his jokes. Um borrow his jokes? Eh he abandoned them. They are my jokes now. When he willed me his jokes. So I talk about him a lot in that context.  As we are talking there is part of me that is wondering like - do you buy the idea that there are stages of grief? Like that there is somehow this like you are going to graduate from one level to the next?  I mean intellectually I am like fuck Kubler Ross. Like you do not know me. And after Steve died a lot of people were like you know the stages of grief are fake right? Like I felt like I had a lot of support for the idea of like this is going to come and go. And like you are going to think you are fine and then like suddenly you are not going to be fine. Like I have to remind myself all the time that grief is not linear or that that is the like paradigm I have chosen to like participate in. But I think by thinking like - by having that like sort of like sneaking suspicion that the reason that I have not been in another relationship is because I am not - like I have not like passed some internal test is - is internalized belief that there are stages of grief.  What would be the the the grief wisdom that you would pass on? Like what have you what have you learned about death and about grief that you would say to someone who suddenly lost someone they loved?  That is really hard because I feel like especially right after I had like no bandwidth to help other people process their experience. Let me think about it for a second.  So I have a mentality to propose and a tactical solution. So the mentality I would propose is to um just ignore the stages of grief. Like that is not a real thing. Do not hold yourself to any timeline.  This is so fucking ironic that this is the advice I have! Like do not expect anything of yourself and it is ok to let yourself like float a little bit for any period of time. Um which is sort of the advice I got from Nina Totenberg.  No less an authority than - was go back to work like as soon as you feel like you can like throw yourself into your work. And I would say like sure but like more than that just like make sure that you are not judging yourself against some like pre-trauma standard. So that is that is my mentality advice. My tactical advice would be to start journaling. I cannot believe I said journaling like it is a fucking verb. No I mean like keep a journal. Ugh! But I feel like it is a useful document for measuring progress. Because if you are going to blow off Kubler Ross you need some way to like benchmark.  Have you had you probated Steve's death?  Like his will?  Yeah.  No. I have not.  I do not even know how to do that.  Does it feel like something you are avoiding or just like an errand that you have not gotten to?  It feels like - like a chore I have not done. But you know if I interrogate it like even a little bit it feels like the reason the chore is not done is probably because I do not want to deal with it. You know? It actually entails some emotional work that I have not done or like am scared to do or whatever um. Yeah I do not know. That is also the kind of like kind of like even moderately complicated task that Steve would have done.  Mm hm.  So I am just waiting for him to do it. Thats Rachel Ward. She still works for Gimlet and also co-hosts her own podcast on the side called Seltzer Death Match a show about finding the best seltzer in America. She also has an essay in an upcoming book from the website Modern Loss. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Mankaprr Conteh and Kent McDonald. Thank you to you both for all you did for us this summer. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Email us any time at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. One more thing Rachel says about being a Young Crone? Do not knock it 'til you have tried it.  Like I used to go to these house shows in D.C. where I would be like the oldest person there by like a decade and like just be like welp this is where we are at. Yeah that is the thing about Young Crone. She does what she wants. She is very empowered. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.