  From NPR I am Sam Sanders It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today we are going to talk about farms and race and the Mississippi Delta. My guest is Vann Newkirk. He writes for The Atlantic and he is out with the cover story for the magazine all about those three things. The article is called The Great Land Robbery The Shameful Story Of How 1 Million Black Families Have Been Ripped From Their Farms. This piece chronicles how over decades through legal and illegal means through government programs and individual actions white people in Mississippi basically swindled black farmers out of thousands and thousands of acres of farmland. The Scott family plays a big role in this story. They were one of the largest black landowning families in the state of Mississippi. And this family descends from Ed Scott Sr. He was born in 1886 just one generation removed from actual slavery. Ed Scott Sr. built a farming empire that by the time he died in 1957 was more than 1000 acres. The Scott family like many other black families lost a lot of that land so much so and in such predatory ways that eventually the federal government had to pay the Scott family millions of dollars. The story of the Scott family and thousands of other black families in the Delta losing their land and fighting to get it back it is a story that is hugely relevant to our politics right now and conversations about systemic racism and inequality and reparations. Our conversation like Vann's story begins with Willena Scott-White. She is the granddaughter of Ed Scott Sr. and Vann told me what happened to her family and why it happened to so many others like them.   Really I met Willena Scott-White by chance. I was at a book signing in Oxford Miss. and she was there and you know we just started talking a little bit. And it was clear to me almost immediately that she was a person I was looking for. She is an amateur historian. She has collected almost every single piece of her family history going back to like 1880-something in these binders that she keeps in her kitchen. She wants to build a museum. And she is also possessed of the same kind of impossible spirit of will that her father and grandfather were. So she - it became clear that she was going to help me tell the story from 1880-something to now in a way that almost really no other person on Earth would be able to do it  She humanized it. I mean I love how in the lead you are talking about how she comes to the pickup truck with the pork chop sandwich for you. Like she is just like real people. But you know the story of her family this black farming family you kind of traced their history and it shows how for decades if not centuries black farmers in the South were swindled out of their land.  Right. So I used the story of her family of the Scotts who were one of the early sets of - one of the second generation rather of landowners - of black landowners in Mississippi who over the course of a century they kind of - their story is this rise fall and rise again. They amass a thousand acres of land. They make it through all these signature moments in Mississippi civil rights history. You know they are down the street from where Emmett Till was lynched.  Wow.  The farmland is literally around the corner from where Fannie Lou Hamer was laid to rest. They - Ed Scott Jr. provided lunches for the Freedom Riders. And...  Really?  Yeah yeah. They have this long history there. And they are like a you know like a - I do not want to - like Forrest Gump was the bumbling version of this but they are this - their stories weave in and out...  Weave through history.  Woven in and out of history.  Yeah. Wow.  And they do really well. Even facing discrimination as black folks they still manage to overcome - keep overcoming. When they are not offered municipal water services they decided to dig the pipes themselves. Like they are those type of folks.  Yeah.  But when they come to a spot where they really do need federal help they are not given what they deserve and what they are entitled to.  Yeah. So let us talk about that. So this family like many other black families after the end of slavery they tried to acquire land. A lot of - these folks knew how to farm and they wanted to now farm for themselves. And basically as soon as freed black slaves began to legally acquire land once they were free white people tried to get them off of it. What kind of stuff were they doing back then?  So back then it really was a Wild West you know. There was not a whole lot of legal intervention if say somebody wanted to just kind of lean on you.  What does that mean to lean on?  Well somebody would come to your land with enough guns and say well you know maybe there is pretext or you know maybe you were late on a loan and we have got to take it off your hands but sometimes there was not pretext. Or back then you know there were not a whole lot of banks that black folks could go to so...  Yeah. And they had to rely on just the kindness of white people to get credit and loans. And you know those credits and loans would be distributed unfairly.  Right. It got a little bit more sophisticated as we got into the 20th century. You had people defrauding black folks out via tax assessments so you would have a state or local or even federal tax assessor come and say your land was worth way more than what it was worth so you could not pay the taxes.  Oh the taxes would go up.  Yeah yeah.  Wow.  And that was just a common way of doing it. You also had - lots of black folks could not get money from the banks which itself was a way to get them off their land. But when they could not get money from the banks they had to go to the plantation owner for money. And the plantation owner could say I do not want you competing with me so I am not going to give you any money. And when the federal government got involved it gave white folks even more tools and an arsenal to run black folks off their land. So it became standard in the 20th century for all farmers to ask the federal government for money for helping with planting. And the way it was administered was by locally elected boards. So most of the folks who were on these boards were like the plantation owners because they could vote. So if they did not want a black person owning land they thought you were better off with a sharecropper if you were uppity too loud if you protested a little bit they could...  They could just deny it.  Deny you - and also they ran all the places where you needed to get equipment from. It was like a beginning-to-end racket where at any point where you needed help from somebody else white folks could pull the plug.  So what exactly happened to the Scott family to Willena's family? Because at one point her family had - what? - like a thousand acres or something and then it began to be stripped away from them.  Yeah. So they just - they build this thriving agricultural enterprise that the whole family - you know distant relatives cousins - all get involved in. It is one of those situations where like you know third or fourth cousins will be living in like the same square mile. And everybody will be working on the farm right? And they did build up under Ed Scott Sr. and Jr. about a thousand acres of land become one of the largest black landowners in the state. And they are kind of a symbol even among the civil rights movement of black self-sustainability. You know the civil rights movement when it starts in rural areas especially is very much about like it is agrarian. It is about getting folks back to the land. It is about sharing the fruits of the labor with the community and making sure that people can own the means of production over their food. And they are a symbol of that. You know they - Ed Scott Jr. is not just a landlord. He sends - the folks who work for him he sends their kids to college. They built this big community that is almost like a model community for civil rights in the South.  And then what happens?  Well then - here's the drop right?  .  In the '70s and '80s farmers across the country not just black farmers not just the Scotts face a huge inflation crisis. It becomes almost impossible to farm at any type of scale without federal money. And to that point the Scotts had been able to mostly avoid federal funding. They were just that successful.  Gotcha.  And so Ed Scott Jr. finds a white lawyer who helps him go down to the Farmers Home Administration Office.  That was a federal program.  That is a federal program run by the USDA. They give out loans. They go down there and they - OK they give him a little loan that he needs for - to grow his crops. Comes back the next year without the white lawyer and with a new truck and they claim - the guy in the office was like whoa whoa whoa oh whoa whoa hey you got a new truck and you do not have the white guy with you. What is going on here?  Wow. So he was mad at this symbol of his success. And he was also mad that he was there without a white guy.  Yeah. I guess you know he was a little uppity.  Wow.  And so very quickly the local people who were administering federal funds become hostile to the Scott family. And this is when - also the time when people across the country outside of the South start eating catfish. And the reason why that happens is because lots of different programs both federal and state in Mississippi start pouring in billions of dollars into creating from nothing a catfish industry.  Why? I do not mind it. I love me some catfish but like...  Well I love me some catfish but you know...  .  ...It is super profitable. It is during a time when - I mean they just like kind of find a new market. But also it is another way when row crops - when stuff you plant in the ground is failing they found this new market where they could - you need a certain type of soil and that soil is found in the Delta. So you could almost immediately transform these farmlands if you dig them - just dig them - you could create catfish ponds.  Catfish ponds. OK. So then the Scott family tries to do that. Does the government help them do that?  No. The government's busy giving so much money to white farmers and they basically give the white farmers millions of dollars from the federal government to go into catfish. And it saves lots of their operations. Black farmers do not really get that.  This is so extreme the disparity between what these federal programs give to white farmers versus black farmers. The USDA had to pay out some billions of dollars for that disparity recently right?  Right. In the '90s one of the largest class-action suits against USDA against the federal government is the black farmers lawsuit Pigford v. Glickman. And the Scotts are actually one of the largest plaintiffs in that case. During the '70s and '80s the USDA essentially disbanded its civil rights office. They had no way for these black farmers to even adjudicate or make complaints about what was happening. And they also had folks like these agents who were - discriminated against the Scotts they were operating on similar premises across the South. So in the '90s a lot of these folks including the Scotts got together and won a 1.5 billion settlement. Another billion was added by the Obama administration. And so in just 14 years from 1950 to 1964 in just Mississippi the amount of land lost or stolen it comes close to perhaps 7 billion.   All right. Time for a break here. In a minute Vann explains a sort of epiphany he had as a millennial writer working on this story. BRB.   What was your biggest takeaway biggest lesson learned for you in working on this story?  As much as I was interested in doing the story the deeper significance of ownership of a thing of having land of having a place to put your name on of having a place to put your kids' names on I do not know if I quite understood that significance.  The scale.  The scale. You know like I am a millennial. We rent everywhere.  We do not own nothing.  We move across the place you know. We do not want to own anything.  Yeah.  I did not - I do not know if I ever really understood why my great-grandmother was so adamant that my - in her will that nobody ever sell her house or her farmland or the acres she owned across the street from where she lived. I do not know if I understood that until I wrote this piece. And going and seeing on the Scott's property they have their own cemetery where Ed Scott Jr. and Sr. are buried and where the current generation of Scotts intends to be buried and seeing that and realizing that there is this metaphysical significance to this place for them you know that...  That is powerful.  That is powerful. Yeah.  Yeah. You know it is - so part of my backstory that really came to the forefront reading your piece and prepping for this interview my father was a rancher. I grew up in south Texas. And he owned about 200 acres outside of the Cuero-Yoakum area in east Texas. Texans will know exactly where that is. And he - you know he farmed on it ranched on it. At one point he had several hundred head of cattle on the land. It came down to him through his family. But after he died we sold it and you know the money went to good use. It helped me pay off my student loans. But like I wonder especially reading your piece like as a black family should we have kept it?  Well if you talk to some of the advocates I talked to  they have very strong feelings about people keeping their land. But you know we understand everybody has - No. 1 is valuable and people have their own circumstances and got to make money right?  Yeah.  How do we balance those things?  Well it is also like what is our historical debt to our ancestors? Like at a certain point I never asked my father while he was alive how hard it was to keep that land whether or not his - him and his family struggled in maintaining it what they had to fight to have it. I never asked. And now I do not know and I wonder if like - I do not know. This is getting real deep now. Like did I abandon some of that legacy?  Well not to sit you on the couch and psychoanalyze you but I think about this specific dilemma quite a bit because you know you said you - that paid your student loans off. It seems like there are so many ways in which especially black folks are kind of set behind that we have to like triage our lives to take one injustice or one thing we would rather hold on to and pay for the other thing right? So would your folks have been dishonored to know that you used that to get an education? I do not know. You know those are tough questions. You know for me my family the two things that we are all about were education and land ownership. And if those two would come into conflict I do not - would they have understood you know if I had to pay off my loans with selling a piece of the house? You know that - those are tough questions and we are put in those tough situations by history.  Yeah more than other folks. Is your family a farming family? Because you are from the South right?  Oh yeah yeah. My grandmother still owns a farm that I spent a good portion of my childhood on. You know I used to go take care of the ducks and the pigs and the dogs. So yeah I used to run around to get burnt by hot wire as a kid. That was a jam.   Does she have any war stories about some of the stuff that the folks in your piece went through?  Yeah. The fun stuff about this is actually after running the story hearing all the stories from my family about people coming to take the land about you know all these big companies. I am not going to name them here so - I do not want to get in trouble. But yeah big companies came in and tried to take the land and almost everybody in my family has one of those stories.  And they fought.  And they fought.  This is the thing that is so crystal clear in your story and I just like have been grappling with this since I read it. Like the story of these farmers the story of the Scott family it shows that like our government is not better than us. Our government is a manifestation of us. So whatever isms as a society that we are dealing with they become part of the way the government implements itself you know?  Right.  If you have a population that is grappling with racism the outcomes from that population's government will probably be racist you know? What goes in comes out and so like how is there any way to have a government that is fair unless you get all the people that help make the government and vote for it and select it and fund it make them fair too?  Well yeah not only is the government us how we govern - how we behave ourselves in the collective it becomes imbued with national mythology and significance right? So one thing that I wish I would talked about a little more in the piece is this is land that is first stolen in the first place right? It was stolen from Indigenous Americans from the Choctaw in Mississippi. And that becomes part of the national mythology. It does not become something oh - where lots of people are looking at it like oh this is evil. People took pride in that for most of American history really that they had wrestled  this land from Native Americans. And that became part of - the frontier spirit in Mississippi was these white folks went out there in their plantations and they tamed the land that was stolen that was taken from - for them by force. So that force narrative that dominion narrative becomes a part of the culture of the South of Mississippi in particular. And it has no choice but to permeate every other piece of legislation. Every other piece of organization we build on top of that foundation it is still in that foundation.   Time for one more quick break. When we come back we have not even begun to talk about what happens to the land once owned by black farmers after they lose it. BRB.   One of the things you write about is that when we see a bunch of farmers across the country start to sell their land off to some big farms and such you know these big corporations increasingly farmland that goes to these big companies a lot of it ends up with TIAA. This is the retirement and pension fund.  Yeah.  What in the world?  So...  I have TIAA retirement. That means like I own little bit of some catfish money? What is this?  Yeah. You own a little bit of the Delta. So you should go down there...  OK claim my stake.  ...And take a lot time in your place.  Yeah.  Yeah. The reason why I brought them into this story is not because I think TIAA and other pension funds are necessarily like the villains of the story. It is to show exactly what happens and how the - over generations and decades a theft becomes legitimate. And to me they are symbols of how Wall Street in America kind of papers over every single thing right?  Yeah. Well - because TIAA did not do anything illegal. They bought this land later but the land was stolen from other folks before. And so now they kind of have stolen land. Like what is their responsibility to that fact?  Yeah. And not just necessarily stolen land. Like what is your responsibility in a region built by slavery that was stolen as a matter of course where sharecropping created every single parcel of arable land that is ownable now and on top of which the theft that I write about in this piece happened? What is your responsibility there? How can you build ethical guidelines in investing that account for all of those things and do not just say oh maybe we should not invest here? I do not know. Those are questions that you know I am - I do not know if I am smart enough to answer those questions but I do want to have people asking them.  Yeah. Well - and a company as big as TIAA them buying up farmland that is just proof that this stuff has a good return on investment. Like they are making money off of this. So like this land is worth a lot.  Well it did not used to be actually. It is only in the last 10 years or so 12 years or so when anybody thought that farmland was a good investment class.  What changed?  What happened - number - two things happened. One was the Great Recession. The Great Recession made all kinds of real estate more attractive across the country. And you saw corporatization in Wall Street...  Because it got cheaper?  Got cheaper the dollar got a little weaker and real estate itself just became - you know it was a buyer's market. When you have people lose a lot of their land it is just - you know scale is the No. 1 thing investors are looking for. And when so much is on the market they can achieve that scale. The other thing that happens is we are looking at a resource crisis. That is basically inherent to the human condition right? We have too many people on Earth. And one thing we know will increase in value almost infinitely as a population goes up is food.  Oh. Yeah.  So there it is.  TIAA is not stupid .  Well if you are looking for a retirement fund if you want to invest long term there is almost nothing better you can invest in that is more stable in this world economy than food and land.  Wow. How much land this farmland catfish land does TIAA own?  TIAA owns about 80000 acres of land in Mississippi. Most of that is in the Delta.  Wow.  And if you go over to Arkansas it owns about 130000 total acres.  Well - and you know just talking about TIAA and kind of going back to some of the conversations in our politics right now when you think of a big issue on the left like reparations to really get at all of it and to make some of these folks like the Scott family whole it requires a conversation not just about what the federal government needs to do but about what some of these big companies like TIAA might need to do as well.  Right. What is clear is that TIAA alone owns about as much land in the Mississippi Delta as do black folks. When you include just one or two of the other pension funds because TIAA is not the only one they clearly surpass what black folks have owned and perhaps what black folks have ever owned in the Delta. That is remarkable. You know these are - you know if you put them all together it is probably about seven or eight companies that own more than like black folks can dream of owning you know? And that is something that is just so mind-boggling to me.  Yeah. Well - and like some of the very land that TIAA owns was taken from those black farmers over time. That is something.  We cannot - we cannot get to the actual provenance of all of the land in those portfolios and that is something I do want to stress just because it is impossible. It is impossible to do. So what I will say here is you know we know that these areas - and we have plots that are adjacent to places we know were watered by theft in the blood of black folks. We know lots of these places were built by sharecropping. So what I will try to make clear here is that it is unclear exactly which plots of land are owned by TIAA and which ones were stolen from black folks.  What ended up happening to Willena Scott-White and her family? You know they had all this land. They lost a lot of it tried to pivot to catfish. They had this lawsuit. Like do they make it out OK? Did they ever become made whole?  You know they got millions of dollars back from the federal government. They got most of the original land back that was both in the catfish plant that Ed Scott Jr. created and in some of the other fields that he was farming. They got most of it back. They are still at work right now in clearing some of it and in planting soybeans across most of it. Right now if you go out there it looks like the rest of the farms - big soybean farms you know? But I still get the sense that this is like all farmers really at that level still difficult and it is added difficulty because they are starting from zero you know? They do not have the decades of productivity now. The land was fallow in lots of places for years. They had to clear it. They had to basically invest money that they should not have had to invest back into the land to make it productive in the first place. So they are definitely starting if you are looking it at from similarly situated...  From scratch - less than scratch.  From less than scratch. If you are looking at similarly situated farmers with the same amount of land they are definitely you know starting behind the eight ball compared to those folks.  I wonder what would have happened to Mississippi the state where the Scott family is if these black farmers were not treated so poorly. You know at one point you write in the piece the state was majority black. Now it is majority white. And the majority of farmers there are white. Could there have been a majority black farming state in Mississippi if this history did not happen?  We are not lucky that I have editors actually because I had a pretty lengthy kind of piece written that was almost like a speculative fiction piece of - this piece.   Some Afrofuturism...  A little bit of Afrofuturism yeah.  ...Delta style. I love it.  That got cut for what are probably obvious reasons.  .  I did do a lot of thinking about this trying to retrace the individual pressures that moved people out during the Great Migration. And I identified land lack thereof as probably the major factor. So let us say people did not move and did get the right to vote in Mississippi Alabama South Carolina and Georgia - right? - just those states that swath of states. You got four states that are going to be at least 40 black I believe going into the present day post-voting rights. That is four states where you are going to have reliably probably one or two black senators you are going to have a pretty strong black Electoral College vote for how many elections you know? You have got 40 years' worth of elections 50 years' worth of elections post-Voting Rights Act. How much would that have changed America?   Vann Newkirk thank you so much. I have been a fan for so long and I am so happy to share this story and share a bit of you with our audience.  Well thank you. Thank you for having me.   Thanks again to Vann Newkirk. His cover story in The Atlantic is called The Great Land Robbery. It is out now. Listeners we are back on Friday with our usual wrap of the week of news and culture and everything else. For that episode every week you can share with me the best thing that is happened to you all week. Record yourself on the phone send that file to me via email to samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. You might hear yourself in Friday's podcast episode and also maybe too on the radio. All right. Listeners per usual thank you for listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon. 