Hey its Anna. Weve been talking about alcohol on Death Sex  Money.what you like about having it in your life...and what you do when you dont want to drink. When I crave alcohol... Uh...what else would you do? Uh First always think of water instead  Sometimes I pray. I cook. I cook. Im a chef. Thats what I do. Instead you should try for a dopamine rush get a work out or eat some chocolate or something fun. We asked these New Yorkers how they deal with the urge along with you our listeners and we put together this little special audio extra. Because this came up a lot when you shared your stories about alcohol that you could use more tips about what to do instead of having booze...whether youre sober or not. Like Rachel whom I talked to in our episode a few weeks ago. Shes a therapist who has two little kids and a habit of relaxing with one or two drinks most nights. She told me that she wants to drink less but is trying to figure out how she can still give herself a treat.  Chocolate works pretty well. I have definitely used that as a substitute sometimes. Um sometimes though I will just try to kind of acknowledge the impulse and just like yeah like I really wanna I really wanna mix that drink right now but instead I am gonna turn on  this music really loud and sing ridiculously and dance around for five minutes and see if it passes. You know it is like you have to kind of surf the urge.  When you all are surfing the urgea lot of you skip alcohol by swapping in something else. If the craving gets very intense Ill usually splurge on something like french fries. I will instead choose Perrier or Pellegrino. Sometimes Ill stop by a store and get myself a bottle of Topo Chico which is the most bubbliest bubbliest bubbliest mineral water ever which is really distracting! I make myself a cup of tea I go out on the balcony and I take some time to actually relax instead of just chemically relaxing. Ive gotten really into craft non-alcohol beer. Its perfect because it can ship to your door and you dont have to sign for it. So what I like to do when I cant have an alcoholic drink is I replace that craving with a Malta India. It comes in a container that is glass and it looks like a Corona bottle. So it looks like a beer and it even tastes like a beer too you just dont get a buzz. The physical act of holding that beer bottle or drinking out of a fancy glass is something else we heard a lot about. Its amazing what can happen when you pour something non-alcoholic into a wine glass. All of a sudden you just feel that much more sophisticated. So I just swap my GT for a  straight tonic but I ask the barman to make it look like a GT. Put it into a gin glassyou know put all the various herbs or spices in it fill it with ice and its a great way to be drinking without actually drinking. But when you say no to a drink...a lot of you worry youre saying no to other things too. A listener named Abby really liked hanging out with coworkers at happy hour. But wanted to drink less so  I joined a recreational soccer league! Its a good excuse both to myself and to others to say no to happy hour when I have a soccer game on weeknights. And of course I still have a drink now and then but everything in moderation right? How much you drink...is also connected to whos in your life...and whos not. Like for Brandon.  I recently ended a two year relationship with my boyfriend and since Ive moved out Ive realized what a big of a role alcohol played with the two of us Now that Im on my own when I have a craving I find myself diving into a home improvement project. I am in the process of reupholstering my dining room chairs and my next project will be upholstering an old wingback chair. So a lot of you recommended distractions when you get the urge to drink.but theres some feelings you cant get away from.  I noticed that I have an inner turmoil tantrum like response to not having a drink. This is a listener named Claire.  Alcohol for me became this self medication and adult reward. So a few months ago I started really cutting down on alcohol and I noticed that when Im abstaining from drinkingeven though I know Im doing right by my body and I will see the benefits... Ill end up eating like a whole bag of candy or making an equally sweet mocktail and having this like it really is like a small tantrum. As if I am a kid that cant have this adult thing that I so associate with celebration and relaxing. Relaxing. Thats really what youre reaching for when you go to pour that drink. And some of you told us instead of drinking now Ill smoke pot. I will take some CBD. Now I use a little bit of tincture in my tea at night and its been a really nice alternative. So I dont know if thats replacing one vice with another but it seems to be working for me! That is another episode. Thanks to all of you who sent in your tips and to intern Emily Nadal for taking to the streets of New York for us. Head on over to our Instagram to see some photos you sent us of what you do instead of drink...weve got a picture of Brandons reupholstered dining room chairs there...and they look great. And you can submit your own photo to deathsexmoneywnyc.org Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.  