 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. I am not much of a cook but I love talking about food with Bridget Lancaster and Jack Bishop of the Public TV series America's Test Kitchen. When they talk about preparing food they are really good at explaining why the recipe works. Bishop is the editorial direct of America's Test Kitchen. Lancaster is the lead instructor of its cooking school. They contributed to the new  Do It Yourself cookbook which Jack also coedited. They are going to talk about preparing summer foods and then they are going to answer some cooking questions from the FRESH AIR staff. Bridget Lancaster Jack Bishop welcome back to FRESH AIR. So let us start with a good way to make fruit last a little bit longer by making an easy refrigerator jam. And I am assuming a refrigerator jam it is not like a canned jam. So it is not going to last for a really long time on your shelf it is going to last for what a few weeks in your refrigerator?  Yeah that is right probably up to three weeks at the maximum. And you know I think a lot of people do not know that they can make jam very easily and just store it in the fridge. You do not have to make a huge batch and can it to preserve it for months and months. The refrigerator...  How easy is it?   If you can boil some fruit you can pretty much make refrigerator jam. Basically it is you know you can use raspberries strawberries blueberries with sugar. It is usually  for strawberries it is roughly a pound and a half of strawberries that you have hulled and cut up into chunks and then you mix it with a cup of sugar a little bit of lemon juice. You bring all of that up to a boil and then you mash the heck out of it with a potato masher. And this does a couple of things. It  the boiling very rapidly helps to release some of the pectin the natural pectin in the fruit. So you do not need to add any of the boxed liquid or powdered pectin which is a natural thickener found in some fruit. But also the mashing helps to release that and gives it that nice course texture. But all in all you are cooking this for about 15 to 20 minutes on the stovetop. You can check it...  You are boiling it that long?  Yeah yeah boiling it for about 15 to 20 minutes. It is actually pretty quickcooking compared to a lot of jams which will call for cooking for 30 minutes or more to really reduce down to a jammy state. So after about 15 minutes you can check to see if it is done. And there is a really cool trick it is kind of an oldfashioned trick where you take a metal spoon and put it in the fridge for a little while maybe 10 minutes so it gets supercold and then you dip it into the hot jam mixture and see if it all comes off the spoon in one big clump and you know it is going to be thick enough after it sets up. And so after it is done and you have figured out that it is at the right thickness and it is not going to be too thin later on you can just put it in a container a nice glass container is great cool it down to room temp and then cover and then try not to use it in the first few days but it will keep up to three weeks.  Do not use it in the first few days?  No you try not to use it all in the first few days. That is the problem you just want to...  Oh not to use it all oh because it is so good.   OK.  It is just so much fresher than the really longcooked jams. And since you can make a little bit of it you do not mind doing it more often.  So that chilled spoon is it in the refrigerator or the freezer?  You can put it in the freezer it is best and it is a great little trick because you know I do not know if you have ever made jam and you go and you let it cool down or you can it or you put it in a container and then you go to use it after it is all cooled down and it is still too thin. But this you know makes it so that you can predict the thickness after it is cooled down. So you just take that frozen spoon dip it in the hot jam mixture and it will cool it down instantly so it should come off in one sliding clump.  A lot of people have a whole lot of tomatoes because many people who have any kind of garden at all have tomatoes in it and then they give some to friends and there are still plenty left.   So do you guys have a good tomato recipe to make the tomatoes last?  I love to ovendry them. So this is  you know if you love sundried tomatoes this is a little less dried than that. So it is a little closer to fresh a little juicier by ovendrying them but the idea is the same is that you are basically dehydrating the tomatoes and concentrating their flavors. And it is  this recipe is really best with a meatier tomato. So if you are growing a lot of plum tomatoes or some of the heirloom varieties that are really meaty rather than juicy it is very very simple. You simply cut the tomatoes. If it is a plum tomato you take the core out cut it in half put it cutsidedown on a wire rack inside a baking sheet. And in order to make cleanup easier often we will put some foil on the bottom of the baking sheet. And the wire rack is going to promote nice air circulation when this gets into the oven. And you can toss  you should toss them with some salt and pepper and some olive oil. If you want to add some herbs herbs de Provence is really nice because that is lots of herbs all in one mix and it is dried. It has lavender and fennel and thyme. But you can use whatever herb you like. And we start out in a hot oven so it goes in at 425 for 20 minutes and the idea is that will blister the skin and then you can come back about 30 minutes later 20 minutes later when the skin is blistered and peel off the skin with a pair of tongs. So rather than having to individually peel the tomatoes by hand you are letting the heat of the oven do that. And then once you have taken those skins off you put the temperature down to 300. So it is basically really drying rather than roasting the tomatoes and let it go for three or four hours. You know when it is kind of brown around the edges and shriveled you can taste them. They are done. And then you put them into a clean container cover them with olive oil and you have got them probably for about three weeks that they will last in the refrigerator. I put them on sandwiches slice them and put them in sandwiches salads make a mayonnaise with them. It is really great to puree. You can sort of dress up some Hellmann's or Kraft with freshly ovendried tomato is a really great you know accompaniment for a piece of fish or sandwich spread. And it is a really simple way to preserve a lot of tomatoes.  It sounds good. What is the absolute easier thing to do with a lot of tomatoes?  Well the easiest thing to do is to slice them put some olive oil and salt on them.   I knew that.  But we are not  but we are not quite there yet but I am with you that at some point you feel like there are more tomatoes than you can possibly eat.  Yeah you run out of friends to give them to basically.   I think one of the advantages of the oven drying is it allows you to you know think about them in ways you would not. But I think my favorite sort of cooked application is to just make a really simple pasta sauce. And I do not really bother with seeding or removing the peels. I feel like I will eat the whole tomato other than the core. And just chop it roughly put it into a hot pan with some good olive oil some garlic. The secret is to not overcook it. It is a fresh tomato and so when I see people take a fresh tomato and then cook it for two hours I do not really understand the point of it. So really five minutes maybe 10 just until the juices are drawn out of the tomatoes you have added some herbs salt and pepper and you have a simple fresh pasta sauce that is better than anything you are going to make the rest of the year.  Oh that sounds good and it really does sound easy.  It is really easy I promise you.  Well thank you for that. So I am  you know we are talking about how to make good tasty and creative use of any extra fruits and vegetables that you are not going to be able to eat fresh quickly enough. So how hard is it to make you know a decent pickle out of your extra cucumbers?  Actually a lot of people think that making pickles is complicated and there certainly is the oldfashioned way which is a naturally fermented cucumber but  or any other vegetable. But quick pickling has kind of become very very popular. It is just as easy as bringing up to a boil some vinegar maybe a little bit of sugar salt definitely. If you want to steep herbs or any kind of spices in there you boil the spices or herbs in the brine mixture kind of the pickly brine mixture. And then you pour it over your cucumbers or we have a great recipe for dilly beans. So if you have got you know green beans that are you know littering your yard and you cannot eat enough of them it is great for that too. I use the same method. So you pour it over the vegetables. I use the same method with watermelon rind as well. You know there is  you know you give you kids you cut up a watermelon you give it to your kids and you are always left with this bunch of rind and you do not know what to do with it. But the outer rind is actually really like dense cucumber. And to me it is even better than the pink flesh. So it is the same thing you chop up the rind after you have peeled off the green part you bring this vinegarsalt mixture up to a boil add whatever spices you like pour it over the vegetables let them cool down to room temperature and then those can go in the fridge for a week maybe 10 days. They get a little bit softer than a traditional pickle and the vinegar does all the work of making it nice and sour. But it is so easy. You can pickle just about anything pickled beets; green beans as I said; watermelon rind; of course cucumbers. There is bread and butter pickles which you slice the cucumbers really thin and actually simmer them in the brine before packing them away so easy.  Oh all right. My guests are Bridget Lancaster and Jack Bishop of the Public TV shows America's Test Kitchen and Cook's Country. They have contributed to a new cookbook  Do It Yourself. More after a break; this is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guests are Bridget Lancaster and Jack Bishop. They are both with the Public Television shows Cook's Country and America's Test Kitchen and they have contributed to the new America's Test Kitchen cookbook the  Do It Yourself cookbook. And Jack Bishop is also an editor of that book. So it being summer and all ice cream is particularly wonderful. There is a recipe in the new book for you know how to really easily make a chocolate ice cream shell. So I would like you to share the recipe and tell us like what is the magic. Like how does the liquid chocolate turn into a nice you know crunchy shell?  And instantly too I mean...  And instantly yeah.  Yeah that was always one of my favorites memories is we would go to Dairy Queen and you would get the cone of soft serve and ask for a chocolate dip and they dipped it in the mixture and it went in liquid and it came out solid with that crunchy sort of chocolately topping.   I would call it a brown topping more than anything. And actually they sell a product at the store too that does the same thing. The problem with anything like that is it maybe does not have enough chocolate flavor enough flavor in general for our needs and our desires. But the chocolate ice cream shell the magic ingredient to that is coconut oil. Coconut oil is solid. I keep a jar of it in my pantry. It is solid at 70 degrees. At around 74 degrees it turns to a liquid. So that is pretty much the big secret. So for this particular recipe we added a little bit of vanilla and some instant espresso and a little bit of salt.  So hang on a second conversely it is liquid at 74 but as soon as it gets to 70 it is solid so if you put it over ice cream it is going to like magically transform into solid immediately.  That is right. So it is liquid as you pour it so it needs to be above 74 as you spin it onto your ice cream. As soon as that hits your icecold ice cream it is magic in front of your eyes. It sets up. It turns into that crunchy hard topping that you can crack through with a spoon. And we dolled ours up. We actually added real chocolate into it instead of just cocoa. So we have got four ounces of semisweet chocolate in that to a third cup of coconut oil. And we just microwaved that together and then we added in the vanilla a little bit of instant espresso and a little bit of cocoa powder. After it is cool for about 30 minutes believe it or not this will stay on your counter for two months.  Wow.  So in a relatively solid state. So when you have got your ice cream there and you want to pour some over your ice cream you just scoop out a little bit into a bowl. You can melt it in the microwave at a nice lower heat. You just want to melt it above again 74 degrees and then you can spoon it over your ice cream. The kids love it. What am I talking about? I love it.   That sounds really good.  And it is a lot of fun.  And you also for summer have a recipe for coldbrewed coffee. What is the advantage of brewing your coffee cold as opposed to brewing it hot and then making it into iced coffee?  It is all about flavor extraction. So when you are using the proper temperature for traditional coffee  it is 205 degree is the ideal temperature to extract all of the flavor compounds relatively quickly. But you get a lot of bitter notes a lot of those tannins. A lot of people who think they do not like coffee when they taste coldbrewed coffee it is a revelation. And coldbrewed coffee is what it sounds like. You are using roomtemperature tap water and you are using time. So obviously you are not going to have a cup of coffee in two or three minutes if you are using cold water but if you are willing to give it 24 hours some people like to go 48 hours you can  we do a superconcentrate. So we use way more coffee than you think you would need and then we will use it in the French press. And so the coffee is in the French press and it is brewing for 24 hours. You just you know put the coffee in you add the cold water you want to stir it to make sure the grounds are swollen and evenly hydrated. Then you plunge and you have got your concentrate which can go into the refrigerator for several days. And then you can reconstitute it. It is basically strong enough that you are  when you are ready to make iced coffee you add one part of this coffee concentrate and one part cold water or two parts if you want a milder brew and it is really beautiful floral fruity notes of the coffee none of the sort of heavier bitter notes. And you know you do this with good coffee. I would not do coldbrewed coffee with mediocre alreadyground beans. But if you want to get some nice coffee an Ethiopian coffee or a Kenyan coffee which have a lot of those floral fruity notes it is just an absolutely great way to appreciate the coffee. And because you do it in advance you have iced coffee on demand in your refrigerator when you want it.  It is brilliant in a vanilla milkshake too.   Oh nice.  I have tried it in there a few spoonfuls.  Jack how often do you make the coldbrew coffee?  I will say pretty much all summer. I have got some concentrate sitting in the refrigerator. I love  I have a cappuccino every morning but when it  during the summer at lunchtime I like to have iced coffee. And I am a very impatient person who does not want to wait for it to cool off. And I also do not want it to be completely diluted. I mean the great thing about this is a lot of people make hot coffee when they want iced coffee and then they throw a ton of ice in and it is kind of basically brown liquid that has a lot of harsh notes. And this is totally smooth. It is a really revelation and the fact that you can do it in relatively large quantities you do it you know once every four or five days and make enough concentrate that will last for the next four or five days. And I make coffee once and enjoy it for many days afterwards.  OK so this is  I am wasting this question on people of such talent and expertise as you and I am showing off my total inexpert abilities in the kitchen but  so here's my question. I tend to eat out a lot because I am just so tired after a day's work and then I have to you know I do a lot of preparation at home at night. But when I do cook it is  it is not a pretty sight. I mean like what I tend to do is microwave some chicken breast until it defrosts and then I microwave the chicken breast. So what is the fastest thing I can do to cook the chicken breast so it is tastier than it would be in the microwave but I am not going to like totally dry it out?  Is this a bonein skinon chicken breast or boneless?  No no it is just like a chicken cutlet kind of thing.  Pan saute it.  Pan saute it?  Yeah just heat up a little bit of oil in your skillet until it is just starting to smoke mediumhigh heat. Dry off the cutlets a little bit of salt and pepper and you know each side maybe depending on how thick the cutlet is a minute and a half two minutes.  That is all?  That is it.  And I am going to give you an alternative which is to do en papillote the French technique but use aluminum foil and to simply put the cutlet...  En papillote means in paper?  In paper. It is traditionally made with parchment paper but you can do it with aluminum foil.  That is called en .   And take the  put them in a single layer. So if you are doing two chicken cutlets you know do not stack them on top of each other. I will put some sliced vegetables juicy vegetables like tomatoes are nice you can do some zucchini you could also julienne carrots or leeks and then put a little bit of fat of some sort a drizzle of olive oil a little bit of butter mashed up with some lemon zest and fresh thyme. Put a pat of that on top seal it up put it on a baking sheet 15 minutes 400 degree oven you open it up and all of those flavors have mixed together. It is kind of look cooking but you did not actually touch the food while it was cooking. You just put all the raw ingredients together in the packet and let them sort of comingle in the oven until the chicken is cooked through.  That sounds really good. I am going to try that.  It is great with fish too and it creates its own sauce too. It is really nice.  So you kind of put the foil underneath and then pinch it together on top so it makes like a little dome?  Yeah and you can fold it over. If you are doing it really neatly you will do like a sort of square package and fold the edges over very crisply and then fold them again into a sort of nice sealed package. You might also want to put a splash of white wine of vermouth in there especially with some fish I love that. It gives it a little bit of natural juices. Do not go overboard. Like a tablespoon is going to be enough just to get some juices going especially if you are using like leeks or carrots rather than tomatoes which are going to create some juice. And it is just really simple and just make sure that it is sealed. You know you can check it with a thermometer if you are worried about the temperature or cut into it but usually 15 maybe 18 minutes if it is a really thick chicken breast in that foil packet at 400 degrees with some vegetables and a little bit fat. You are going to need to add some olive oil or some butter but not a lot. A tablespoon is going to be plenty per serving and it is going to be great.  Bridget Lancaster and Jack Bishop will be back in the second half of the show. They are both with the Public TV show America's Test Kitchen and they have contributed to the new America's Test Kitchen  Do It Yourself cookbook. Three of the recipes they discussed are on our website ovendried tomatoes; sour dill pickles and the chocolate ice cream shell. That is at freshair.npr.org. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This morning while I was preparing my interview with you I thought I would ask everybody who works on FRESH AIR if they had any questions they wanted me to ask you about issues they have been having with food preparation. And so I have some for you and I would love to hear what your answers and I know everyone who works on FRESH AIR would love to hear it too and I am sure our listeners will as well because they are probably having some of the same issues. Let us start with something really basic. Hamburgers. Lots of people are grilling them for the summer. And both Sam Briger and John Myers of our show want to know like to make a really good hamburger on a grill like how thick should you make it? Like what should the size of the patty be? And how do you know when they are done? Because it is so easy for it to be rare in the middle or just to accidentally overcook it.  Well a couple of things. I think that if you are going to be grilling the hamburger one of the reasons you want to be grilling it is to get that great crust on the outside and in order to give the grill enough time to put a crust on it it is going to have to be a fairly thick patty. You know if you are starting with a really thin patty it is going to be overcooked by the time it gets wellbrowned on the outside so make it fairly thick. Another thing that you want to  and fairly thick means probably  I do not know Bridget; I would say three quarters to an inch thick seems about right. That sounds better. One of the tricks we found is that a lot of times...  Did you thin it toward the edge or keep it that way all the way through?  No. You are going to put a divot center Terry.   Because what happens is when the burger is on the grill the muscle fibers shrink and what is a flat patty turns into a tennis ball. You get this sort of rounded burger that then is very difficult to put toppings on or put on a bun. And so the way to prevent that is to anticipate the rounding and to put a divot in the top of it so that means simply going around and pressing about a half inch depression in the sort of center half of the top of the burger and that will naturally puff up on the grill it will puff up and therefore be flat. So those are a couple of things. The other big thing is that you know there is a lot of fat in a burger but they still can stick to the grill. And so preparing the grill properly so that you are able to flip it without losing portions of the burger is really important. And a really simple trick is to take a wad of paper towels that you dip in vegetable oil hold them with a pair of tongs and use those to grease the grate right before you put the burgers on. It even better with fish  which is always sticking  is to oil those grates. And you do not want to be spraying things because that could be really dangerous. I have seen people spray you know use cooking spray outdoors. You do not want to be doing that because you can you know get the aerosol to ignite. So you just simply take a wad of paper towels hold them with a long handled tongs they are dipped in oil and you just rub them right back and forth where you are going to cook.  Oh that sounds good. And you were not kidding about the divot.   I was not kidding about the divot.  OK. Speaking of flipping this is a question from John Sheehan from FRESH AIR. Since you know bacteria are such an issue when you are working with raw chicken so you know and you do not want to contaminate any surfaces or any cooking utensils with bacteria. So if you are cooking with you know a spatula or tongs what do you do to make sure that you are not contaminating those utensils with bacteria by touching them to the chicken before the chicken is cooked and the bacteria are killed?  This is a great question. I have been asked this before too. So officially I am going to tell you that every time your utensils touch the food that you should either clean them or have a few pairs of tongs available. And actually if people knew how we set up our stations at the Test Kitchen the test cooks will get a big container and they gather all their tools there. And then they have these kitchen crocs and each of these containers may be has four or five different pairs of tongs. And we use a lot of raw food lot of raw meatso contamination is definitely a concern. For myself you know if you are flipping over chicken I would rinse it under hot water or you know quickly wash it off. If I am out on the grill the trick that I use is I will stick the tongs through the grill grates quickly over the charcoal so that any  that basically it is incinerating any bacteria that might be on the actual tongs. But Jack I do not know what to do. Well I think the biggest concern is that last time you touched the chicken. Mmhmm. And so you know the first 10 times that you are touching the chicken is not really... It is still raw. It still raw or it is still not cooked. But when you are going to take the chicken off of the grill and onto a platter I want to use a clean pair of tongs and I want to put it on a clean platter. You know the platter that you used to bring the food out of the grill is not the platter that should be bringing the food back indoors.   Absolutely. Yeah.  Because  yeah. And people do not think about that. And so I will always have a clean platter and a clean pair of tongs for that last transfer of the cooked food onto a clean platter. I am less concerned about crosscontamination while it is still cooking because you know the bacteria is right on the exterior which is going to get hot and five seconds later... It is going to be cooked off. ...that bacteria is going to be cooked off.  That sounds like a really good advice. Our next for the question comes from Phyllis Myers of FRESH AIR. And she just had I think at a friend's house a kale salad that was massaged with salt. And it sounded to me like a massage therapist have come in and kind of given the treatment to the salad. But I have never heard this before it. I am told that kale salad is really popular right now. So I no kale can be a little bit tough. What kind of tips do you have for a good kale salad?  Believe it or not we tested the massage theory in the kitchen and it works.  Oh.  So your  Phyllis is onto something. You do want to start out with the young tender leaves. I mean at certain times of the year especially in the winter you can get kale that has been out in the field gone through a couple of frosts and is just big and hearty. And you could massage that for several days and you are not going to want to eat it raw. It is really meant for cooking. So the first thing is to shot properly if you really want to have a kale salad. I actually think the Italian variety of kale; they sometimes call a dinosaur kale Lacinato kale  see different names. But it is got a kind of mottled dark green surface. It is a little bit bumpy and I just think it has a nice flavor. It makes a better salad. So small leaves and you are massaging them in the bowl for about five minutes. Now that seems like a lot of work actually for salad. I am not sure I am going to make kale salad and massage it for my guests.  How the massage kale? I do not even get it. What are you doing?  You are basically putting the kale in the bowl and with your hands just rubbing it. And I guess what you are doing  I am going to sound very sciencey here  is that you are breaking down the cellular structure very gently. You are not trying to mash it or mangle it but you are making the leaves a little bit more tender. The outside of the leaves can be a little rough and I think you are basically kind of work using your hands as emery boards. Exfoliating.   You are exfoliating with kale so that it seems a little bit more tender when you go to use it in a salad. And it definitely preserves its fresh flavor so you are not cooking the kale in order to soften it. So you definitely get a fresher flavor. But yeah if the kale was under some stress and needed a massage you probably do by the end of it after massaging the kale.   OK. So this next question about food comes from Danny Miller. And he wants to know like when you are grilling eggplant should you salt it first to drop the moisture. And he asked this in part because he tends to do that and Danny's wife Mary goes with that is just a myth and Danny goes with his the salt. So you could see there is possibilities here for really serious marital conflict over this.   The eggplant years.  Exactly.  I would say well it depends on two things the eggplant and how thick you are slicing the eggplant. One of the great things about the grill is that it lets any kind of moisture wick away. So if you have thinly sliced eggplant  just say your regular purple eggplant  you thinly slice it brush it with a little bit of oil. It is going to go on and off the grill very quickly. It is probably not going to be an issue. However if you are going to slice it a little bit thicker or into thicker planks I would still salt it. I would salt it leave it be in the Test Kitchen is press the eggplant as well. So after you have salted it you can put it in between some towels or paper towels and gently press on it and that compacts its structure a little bit  makes it meatier and it makes it so that it does not get mushy on the grill. And then a little bit of olive oil some herbs over a hot fire and very quickly on and off.  So the answer is? Yes it is. Yes salted if it is cut thick.  I would say yes unless he wants to save his marriage.   And then I would go with his wife's opinion.  No. No. But it sounds like this is a you know if it is sliced thin and then you do not really need the salt or...  Sliced thin you do not really need to. But I actually like to salt everything before it goes on the grill anyway just for flavor. So you know good 10 minutes with salt on it is not going to hurt anybody. That is the happy medium for them. They can meet in the middle.  My guests are Bridget Lancaster and Jack Bishop of the public TV show America's Test Kitchen. They have contributed to a new America's Test Kitchen cookbook called DIY Do It Yourself. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   My guests are Bridget Lancaster and Jack Bishop of the public TV shows America's Test Kitchen and Cook's Country. They have contributed to a new America's Test Kitchen DIY Do It Yourself cookbook. Before talking with them I asked the FRESH AIR staff for food questions they wanted answers to. Here's a question from Teresa Madden of our show. She has a lot of zucchini from her CSA the Community Supported Agriculture community farm that she buys her produce from. And she does not have a grill and she does not have good air conditioning or maybe any air conditioning so she cannot grill and she does not really want to cook on hot days in the summer. So what can she do with the zucchini that is left over?  I have a revelation if you have never had a rough zucchini salad. Now this is a good use for small to medium zucchini. You know if you are getting two pounds zucchini that are kind of watery and full of seeds I am not sure I would use this recipe for it. But if you have got six or eight ounce you know what I would call medium or small zucchini sliced them really thin. You know if you have a mandolin you can get an inexpensive plastic mandolin at any house ware store and you just basically slicing it as thin as you can. If you have got a great sharp knife you can use a knife as well. But at least you know and eighth of an inch better at a 16th of an inch thick. I like to slice it on the bias so I can get sort of longer pieces of the zucchini. You can do it wit