 Hello. Hello. I am Sam Sanders here in LA right now talking with my friend Linda Holmes who is in D.C.  Hi Sam.  Is it cold out there?  It is really cold.  .  It is really cold and windy. My dog does not like it at all.  Linda hosts the wonderful podcast Pop Culture Happy Hour. She hosts it from D.C. Linda what do you love about D.C.?  I love the theater in D.C. I love the beautiful snowy days in D.C. even when they are really cold. I love the opportunity to see random famous politicians and other media figures walking around on our streets.  Yeah.  What about you Sam? What do you like about LA?  Gosh - everything - I love the weather even though today it is raining - really strange. I like how laid-back people here on the West Coast are. I also like the fact that I have two NPR member stations in my backyard. LA has KPCC and KCRW. And in this month of giving I am giving to both of those stations because I like them both.  That is right. And here at NPR we are in the home territory of WAMU. And we love them as well. And so if you want to give to your local station like Sam and I are going to be doing go over to donate.npr.orghappy and give them your support just like Sam and me.  And you can give more than once to more than one station with more than one link. You can also give to NPR stations through donate.npr.orgsam.  That is pretty fancy Sam. It is your name right there.  I am trying.  So go ahead and give us your support and donate.npr.orghappy or donate.npr.orgsam. All right Thanks buddy.  Thank you.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR reporter Nathan Rott and reporter for KPCC Southern California Public Radio - Priska Neely. All right. Let us start the show.   Whoo.  We have never had a whoo to start. I like that.  Oh OK.  Can you do it again?  Whoo.  OK.  Really? That is never happened before?  Never happened before.  .  Also never happened before.  OK.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE - here today with two great guests as Aunt Betty said - two friends of mine - Priska Neely early childhood reporter for KPCC and Nate Rott reporter at NPR covering quote the ever-changing face of the American West.  Whoa.  Yeah.  .  It is catchy huh?  There is a title.  Happy weekend glad you all are here. We are joined in studio today by Janelle Monae.  I wish that were really true.   I would be so excited.    Pynk when you are blushing inside...  This is her song Pynk...    ...Baby. Pink is the truth you cannot hide.  ...Which I think had probably the best music video of the year. But I am playing Pynk by Janelle Monae because her album Dirty Computer was just named by NPR Music as the best album of 2018.  Awesome.  I do like her.  Sam do you remember when I dressed as Janelle Monae at a Halloween party of yours in like 2010...  I do remember.  ...I think?  It was a great look.  And no one knew who I was.  I knew who you were.  You did.  You were ahead of the time.  But like everyone was like...  And your vindication is now.  ...Oh I like your hair and I like bow tie and you know anyway.  Your vindication is now...  I was ahead.  ...Because Janelle Monae is the artist of the year according to NPR...  Whoo.  ...Album of the year. And fun fact - all of NPR Music's 10 best albums this year were made by women.  That is awesome.  Huh.  And they said we did not plan for it be this way. It just happened this way.  It is the year of the woman.  Also fun fun fact - Spotify released its list of most streamed artist this year. Drake topped the list - he is a dude - followed by Post Malone. The five most streamed songs on Spotify this year - all made by men.  Moral of the story is if you want superficial shallow...  Wow.  ...Popularity go to the guys. But if you want critical acclaim...    We got the pink.  ...Go to the women.    Pink like the inside of your baby. Pink like the walls and the doors...  I mean like I do not dislike Post Malone. I like some of his music.   Oh dear. What is about to happen? What is about to happen right now?  But some of it - I am just like - I am like what?  I just - just look at him.   OK. Congratulations to Janelle Monae and to all of the other artists honored by NPR Music this week. Check out that list and other lists about the year in music at nprmusic.org.    ...Like the holes in your heart. Baby pink is my favorite part.  OK. We are going to start as we always do. I am going to ask my panelists to sum up their week of news in three words. Nate I feel like I think I know where you are going to go with this because I know what you have been covering recently - starts with the a C ends with limate.  And it...   Climate.  Yes.  Climate change.  Yes. Go ahead. What are your three words?  All right - so my three words are kicking the can...  OK.  ...Because I have done a lot of reporting recently about communities that are trying to address - or they know climate change is coming. They just do not want to be the ones that fully take it on.  That is like all of us right?  That is like all of us right?  Yeah. Yeah.  And there is been a lot of news in that regard this week...  OK.  ...If you look at what happened in France right? France was trying to pass a tax on gas.  Yeah.  There were protests in the street rioting 250-some people injured.  And the tax would be to help offset climate change?  It would basically say hey we are going to charge you more for your diesel and your gasoline - right? - and your car because transportation is a huge contributor to greenhouse gases.  Yeah.  People were furious about it. And it is one of those taxes - this is the thing. You have got to figure out climate change. How do you basically tax carbon in a way that does not affect poor people the most? And...  Yeah because if it is a flat tax it is more of a percentage of low-income folks' income.  Right. And this happens in California. It comes up all the time right?  Yeah.  Like they were talking doing a gas tax here an increased gas tax here.  And like this is the thing that I think we are finally talking about. The effects of climate change over time will lead to political unrest.  Oh yeah.  You know...  Big time.  ...No one's thinking about that yet. I mean but there is also some climate news from the U.N. this week. There was some summit.  Yeah. So there is a summit in Poland where you have got climate scientists world leaders all gathering to talk about climate change and the issues it presents. There is obviously the Paris climate accord. They are going to do check-ins to see where nations are for that. It is not great news. We are not really...  You are not hitting the mark?  We are not hitting the mark.  And I also heard you did a story this week that basically warned us about rising sea levels.  Yeah.  You can dig into that for a while?  Yeah. So I went to like this town called Del Mar. It is one of you know countless coastal communities around the country that are basically trying to figure out like - they know that sea level rise is coming. They it is happening. And so how are they going to prepare for it?  Well move right?  Well so here's the thing right? So that is what is complicated about the story. And the story that I tried doing was basically saying like this is how difficult even the conversation of climate change can be because people in this town essentially thought the second you start saying retreat it is called managed retreat might be a thing...  Because then like we know the sea level's going to rise to our house. We got to move.  Right. Well it is a strategy you might want to think about.  OK.  But if you put that into a formalized document homeowners property owners were like my property value tanks.  Right.  So they want to try to do sand replenishment - so put more sand on the beaches. They want to have more hard defenses - so like keep seawalls up. And another effect of climate change is not just the sea levels are coming up. It is that in California we are going to have potentially huge torrential rainstorms kind of like we saw yesterday record breaking rain in LA. That is going to cause inland coastal flooding that could end up being an issue.  Yeah.  Not to mention the fires.  Not to mention the fires - that is been a thing.  Which you have covered for a while.  Covered that.  Priska it feels like whenever I hear these stories about how real-life people are reacting to potential effects of climate change a lot of the resistance to doing what needs to be done to address it is sentimental. I do not want to leave my house. I do not want to leave my place. I do not want to give up my big car.  I mean I think it is just like so many other issues. You do not want to make a big change or you do not have that real shift in your mindset until something happens to you. Like until it is your town until it is your house that has burned until - you know I mean I think it is hard for people to kind of conceptually wrap their head around a change especially when it comes to taxes.  Yeah.  Like if paying more is the answer it is hard to see that as a solution until you know it is kind of hitting you personally in a tragic way.  Yeah. Oy on that note.  Yeah as not the lightest note for a Friday.  Yeah. Priska do you have three words?  I do. Mine are also not light.   That is fine. It is fine.  So mine are kind of in the form of a question - where to start? Thinking about that you know kind of along with what Nate had just said. But you know this is the beginning of the legislative session...  In California.  ...In California. There were like a hundred bills proposed this week. And you know also I have been thinking about this because for much of the year I have been covering a topic that is very heavy. But it is the issue of black infant mortality. Black babies in the United States are twice as likely to die in their first year of life than white babies.  Wait. Wait. Stop. Twice as likely.  Two times more likely to die in their first year of life...  Across the country.  ...Across the country.  Wow. Wow.  And this is not new. This is something that is been - this gap in birth outcomes has been there for decades. And the leading cause of the deaths is prematurity. Babies are born too early. They are born too small. And they do not make it either out of the hospital or from complications later in their first year of life.  What are the three or four biggest reasons for this disparity that you know?  So the focus right now is really on the social determinants of health and the ways that racial discrimination the history of racism in this country is having an impact on health. So the focus is on looking at the role of chronic stress and how black women throughout their lives carry that stress - and that during pregnancies...  Due to the effects of racism?  Yeah because of the effects of racism and how that you know demonstrates itself during pregnancy which is a stressful time...  Really?  ...Causing preterm birth...  Yeah.  ...Causing some of the other conditions. So OK how do you deal with that?  So you mentioned this week that California - the state House is back in session. Are they trying to tackle this issue?  Well you know my three words - where to start? In LA County the rates are actually higher. Black babies are three times more likely to die.  My goodness.  And this is something - we have new leadership in the health department. So the conversation about racism is new in LA. Having the head of the Public Department of Health  come out and say racism is something that we need to focus on stress alleviating stress in the lives of women caused by racism...  That is a big deal.  That is something that has not been said. That is something that in the Bay Area they are talking about. In Sacramento this week they actually reported a huge dip in the numbers of infant deaths over the past few years. And they have - you know it is just a sustained focus. You have to have a leadership who cares about this over a sustained time. They had 14 million put into their plan.  Sounds like there is some parallels between this issue and climate change.  Yeah.  Absolutely.  Saying that there has to be sustained attention and someone has to just start.  Something we have known about for decades just have not addressed.  But I will say that you know talking about it...  That is a start.  ...Where to start talking about it - OK really trying to move past the talk to action.  America talk it out.  Yeah please.  Stop kicking that can.  Yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests today - Nate Rott reporter for NPR's National Desk and Priska Neely covering early childhood for NPR member station KPCC. You are wearing a KPCC sweatshirt.  I am. You know...  Swag.  ...It is a way to be casual on a Friday but also professional because it says...   ...The emblem of my workplace on it. That is my strategy.  That is what my slippers are for too.  Your NPR slippers.  Yeah. I have three words you all.  All right. Let us hear them.  No more hagiography.  What is...  Whoa.  ...Hagiography?  Writing about someone or talking about someone as if to make them a saint.  Ah.  Oh.  And I am bringing this up this week...  I got a...  ...Because I think the media industry has done this all week with recently deceased President George H.W. Bush.  Hmm.  One I think that the news media and journalists should always hold politicians at like a healthy remove...  Right.  ...Even in death. But I think when we cover these politicians in such a fawning manner we lose a teachable moment in which we can talk about the complicated legacy of someone like H.W. Bush as well as the country. Priska?  Is your objection that - to exalt like a political figure like this? Or is it just kind of the way that we cover funerals...  It is kind of both.  ...Now...  I think...  ...Like you know...  Yeah.  ...The all day Aretha coverage.  Oh yeah.  Yeah. Or like yesterday there was a camera showing the train that he is on right now going back to Texas.  Yeah.  I really think that like the media as a whole - news media as a whole has bent over backwards to cover the death and multiple funerals of this man in an overly sentimental overdone and performative way. I think we turned into funeral criers this week. And it is not the role of journalists. Like things that we miss out on when we do not have a conversation that accepts nuance in his life is that like he had a really weird history with race. He had a complicated legacy on AIDS. People do not know that George H.W. Bush went from being an ardent supporter of Planned Parenthood to voting against family planning and taking away funding for family planning. And I think for me the true lesson of George H.W. Bush's life is how his tenure in the GOP and how he changed over time shows how that party has changed over time.  Right.  And that is interesting.  I think it is hard you know in death - I do not think in general people know how to respond to death you know kind of like on an interpersonal level...  Yeah.  ...Just what to say. But also you know it is hard - and when you talk about legacy - to figure out a way to balance in a respectful way the negatives in with the positives.  Yeah.  We saw...  And I think there is a tendency to just focus on the positives.  Yeah.  Because it feels disrespectful otherwise.  We saw this with John McCain too...  Oh...  ...Right?  ...Yeah.  I mean it was a...  Yeah.  But let me - I do not know that I even truly believe this. But I am just going to play devil's advocate for a second...  OK.  ...And say we are so divided it seems like as a country right now. And when you have these sort of massive funerals at least like - at least it kind of brings people together.  Yeah.  So is that a bad thing?  But here's my pushback on that. It is not the job of journalists...  For sure.  ...To push the nation towards a moment of national unity. Call me crazy.  .  Cranky old Sam.  I am cranky.  Hmm.  I am cranky about it. Anyway...  None of us are saints.   That is right. That is right. It is time for a break. Coming up we are going to talk about the state of Brexit right now explained by a real live Brit. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Nate Rott covering the environment for NPR and Priska Neely covering early childhood for NPR member station supreme KPCC.  Whoo whoo.  KPCC.  You are whooing today. I am into it.  I do not - I feel like I am - OK. Yeah.  No. I like it. Can you...  I will stop.  ...Give us another one?  I will stop.  No. Give...  I feel like you want me to stop.  Give us one more whoo.  Whoo whoo.   All right. Before we get back into the news I want to play you all a song.   How does this song make you feel?  Nice and slow start...  Relaxed.  Relaxed. Keyword - relaxed.  Take your mind. Step back.  It is like...  To a distant place.  ...One of those YouTube meditation videos.  Count to five.  Yeah.  Breathe in.  You are beautiful.  Thanks.   So this song is called Weightless. It is by Marconi Union. And a recent study found that playing this song reduced people's anxiety by 65 percent.  Oh.  Wow. I can feel my shoulders just like...  Yeah.  ...Opening up...  Right?  ...Right now.  They had participants attempt to solve difficult puzzles while attached to like sensors. The puzzles induced stress. And the scientists played...  What kind of puzzles? Word puzzles or...  I do not know. Maybe - I do not know.  ...Jigsaw?  Puzzles.  OK.  So the scientist played certain songs to see if the songs brought down their stress levels as they took the test. This song worked.  What do you listen to when you are like writing? When you are writing a long piece what do you listen to?  The frantic beating of my heart.   Priska what do you listen...  What  destress yeah?  No I do not listen to music when I am - I just talk to myself out loud a lot...  .  ...So I listen to the sound of my own voice.  Nice nice.  I do do a lot of puzzles jigsaw puzzle - I am in a puzzling phase right now.  OK...  Oh wow...  What about you? Any music to destress...  So I listen to like - this is going to tell a lot about my personality - but like Braveheart Pandora. I am still on Pandora guys. All right?  .  Like...  Braveheart Pandora...  That is not bad.  No...  Spotify - if you go to like - there is like Hans Zimmer who is the composer for like all the Batman movies...  So movie scores?  Movie scores man. Then you...  Yeah I could see that.  Yeah. Interstellar - the Interstellar soundtrack. Tell me you cannot write to that.  That will motivate you.  Yeah.  I could imagine that being very...  But like destress. Like Friday night you are tired. It was a long week.  Yeah. I am not listening to that because that just make me feel like I am in it you know?  If I really want to just like calm myself down I play gospel music.  That is what I was going to say.  Yeah. Give me that Jesus.   Hallelujah.   Now it is time to talk about a story that is causing me lots of stress...  Uh-oh.  What is it?  ...Talking about Brexit.  Why is it causing you stress?  Because it is unresolved. This story has been in our view for like over two years now and it is still nowhere near being done.  It is the other side of the pond man.  I care about them .  He cares about the world.  They affect us. And it is weird because like usually there are some stories that I glom onto and want to talk about all the time. And with those stories I tend to learn more and know more about the story the more I follow it. With Brexit the more I follow it the more confused I am.  The less you know yeah.  It is such a complex thing. And I mean it is in the news recently because the U.K.'s Parliament has to vote on an exit plan on Tuesday. And Theresa May the prime minister there got this deal approved by EU leaders a while back. So it is in crunch time because the actual Brexit exit has to happen by like March of next year. Anyway all the new headlines have me even more confused. So I called up - you guys both know him well. I called up the BBC's Rich Preston. I hear a lovely accent.  Is that Sam Sanders?   Yes it is. Hey Rich.  Hey.  How are you? So Rich told me that no matter what happens on Tuesday everyone in the U.K. is going to feel it.  Being part of the European Union is something that affects your everyday life. And many people would argue in a positive way but many also would argue in a negative way. So for example when I was covering the Brexit referendum I went to a guy that has a factory producing smoked salmon. And he was campaigning to leave the European Union because he said that bureaucracy from Brussels was you know taking over his business and costing him a fortune you know? He was only allowed to sell packets of fish for example if it had a warning label on it saying this product contains fish.  .  People also argue that Brits should not be bound by legal rulings that come from the European Court of Justice. So it is these kind of things. And then...  Yeah.  ...Immigration was a huge talking point.  That is a big underlying issue right? Like I mean...  Immigration was a big one.  ...Because right now to be part of the EU all of the countries in the EU have something like open borders and free passage between these nations?  That is right. There is something called the Schengen Agreement which means restriction-free travel basically. So I have a British passport. If I wanted to go and live and work in Paris and France I could. If I wanted...  Yeah.  ...To move to Berlin Germany I could. And as the European Union has got bigger obviously that is meant it is easier for more people to move around. And in the past few years that is been a particularly contentious point here in the U.K. on Brexit.  Yeah. So then as things stand now - well for one feels like this thing sure has taken a long time. The vote was - what? - some two years ago and Theresa May is still trying to get an actual plan for the Brexit through. There is a plan that she got approved by EU leaders last month?  Yes. And that is going to a U.K. Parliament vote on Tuesday. So at the moment there is five days of debating underway about this deal that Theresa May says she is agreed with EU leaders. Now the...  What is in the deal?  Well  it is just shy of 600 pages long.  OK. Read it all right now. Go.   I think the big issues are immigration trade and bureaucracy. Now you have got to remember Sam we are talking about 43 years of treaties to unpick here.  Yeah.  But these are the kind of big issues. So immigration we have kind of discussed. And one of the things that the plan says is that people who are currently living and working in a different European country will be able to stay there and live and work there. Bureaucracy - we will incorporate the laws that we already use into British legislation. And then MPs here can take their own time to go through things and discard ones they do not want and keep ones they want. On trade the transition period of Theresa May's deal says the U.K. should stay in the customs union and in the single market. That helps frictionless trade i.e. moving goods across border without issues. But it is possible this transition period will not even allow enough time to make all these arrangements. So it might be that with permission from the European Union this transition period could be extended until 2022. I mean the vote as you said was in 2016. So people who are really vocal Brexit advocates are not going to be happy about that. They want us to be out. They really want us to just leave. So...  ...Yeah. But if you leave abruptly does that just throw things into chaos?  Yeah. So what you might hear being thrown around is the phrase no deal a no-deal Brexit. And that literally means leaving the European Union without any sort of agreement. And if that happens without an agreement in place then it ends.  .  It ends where you know all of a sudden we are not part of the single market. We revert to World Trade Organization rules for customs and things like that. Immigration - there will be potentially visa checks. It would be a tricky period. But some people would rather have no deal. Some people say that the reason we are in this mess in the first place is because of these layers and layers of bureaucracy and treaties and rules and regulations. And the whole point of the Brexit vote was to get out...  Get of it yeah.  ...And to just be our own you know country again.  So from what I am reading over here it seems like everyone hates this deal. People that want to leave hate it. People that want to stay hate it. The EU hates it. The Parliament hates it. Is that the case?  When the government first started negotiating Brexit the general view was that they were doing a good job. That view's deteriorated over time and now more and more people think the government is doing a bad job of handling Brexit. One important thing to flag is that they also pin some of the blame on the EU. You know there is 27 remaining EU member states we are negotiating with and lots of British people saying they are digging their heels in they are being stubborn they are making it difficult for us. But confidence in...  It is supposed to be difficult right? I think it is supposed to be difficult to leave this thing .  It was never going to be easy no. But confidence has kind of dwindled. The problem Theresa May's got is that many of her own politicians are against it. So when it comes to this vote on Tuesday honestly it does not look like she is going to get it.  So right now with where things stand it seems like no one can agree. There is no consensus. This deal might not make it out of Parliament. Knowing that what is in - likely a scenario of what comes next? Like if you had to make a bet on where this thing moves next what would you say is going to happen?  What is going to happen? Do you know what? The BBC has a bunch of political correspondents covering this and I am not sure any of them could answer that question.  Really?  It is so impossible to say. It depends so much on the mood of lawmakers and the mood of the country in the...  Yeah.  ...Run-up to this vote...  Yeah.  ...On Tuesday. Theresa May as I said at the moment does not look like she has the support in the House of Commons. Who knows if she will be pushed out and there will be a general election and the Labour Party will win and they will strike their own deal? There really is no way of knowing.  Yeah. All I know is whatever happens with this thing I fully expect to see fireworks in Parliament. And I am going to have my popcorn ready over here .  Do you know how they vote in Parliament?  Tell me.  Do you know how it is done on Tuesday?  Tell me.  So Parliament is hundreds of years old obviously. They literally vote with their feet.  .  A vote is called. A bell rings. It is called a division bell. And that gives MPs just a few minutes to get to the division chambers. And as they are walking up to the House of Commons they literally turn either left or right and go down different hallways. And then they go in the hallways. Their names are taken. The numbers are tallied. And that is how they vote.  Got to say I am heartened to know - well not heartened but I find some solace in knowing that you all do not know what is going on with the politics over there either.  It is a real head spinner a real head spinner.  All right man thank you.  You are welcome.   All right Rich did not put me at ease at all.  I did not know that is how they voted either.  Oh I know. It is pretty cool huh?  Learned that.  Learned that. Are you guys following Brexit closely?  No.  No not really.  I feel like in order to stay sane there are certain stories I have had to unsubscribe from.  Which are Brexit and what else?  Just you know certain things that are happening. You know it is like I cannot - I get overwhelmed in some world news.  I had to like dip in and out of all the Cohen and like Mueller stuff that is going on...  Oh yeah. Yeah totally.  ...Because it is like a spy novel.  I mean there was a major earthquake in Alaska...  Yeah.  ...Like one week ago. And I feel like a lot of people have forgotten about that already.  That is true. That is true.   You know there is just - there is so much. And I feel like a lot of people to stay sane have kind of started skipping the newscast - so you know not staying so tuned into everything. I do not think that that is good but I think that sometimes it is necessary.  Anyway thanks again to Rich Preston of the BBC. I will be watching across the pond. I am looking. I am into this story.  I mean - and it does speak to like - it is similar to a lot of the issues that are happening here - right? - where it is people make a decision and then they are living with the effects of that decision. And it is sloppy. And it is messy. And who really knows where it is going to go?  On that note...   ...It is time for a break. When we come back a game that will have an ending a definitive ending - Who Said That?   Hi it is Linda and Sam. We are back to remind you to support your local station and all of the rest of public radio. Where do they do that Sam?  Donate.npr.orgsam or donate.npr.orghappy. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Priska Neely covering early childhood for KPCC and Nate Rott covering the environment and the ecology and the West...  The West.  ...For NPR - the West.  The West.  I like it. I like it. You all it is time for the best part of my week every week Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Never get tired of hearing that.  No.  I know. I also feel like one of you will know all of them and one of you will know none of them.  Do not say that. Do not say that.  Ooh which one are you thinking?  OK I am just going to go ahead - and I am tagging out. I am tagging out of this game right now.  Well I know you both personally and one of you does not really follow pop culture at all.  You are looking at me Sam.  .  Do not put that kind of pressure on me. You know this game stresses me out Sam.  I know. I know. I know.  I am going to leave.  It is OK.  .  The game is very easy. I share a quote from the week. You all have to guess who said that or at least get the story I am referring to. The winner gets nothing.  I am going to win this now that you have called me out man.  OK we will see.  Oh my gosh let us just do it.  Come on.  First quote first quote - feed two birds with one scone. Who said that?  No.  PETA.   Yeah PETA said that.  Oh this is what - the bacon thing.  Yes.  Yeah.  So this week People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals aka PETA urged all of us to stop using what they call quote anti-animal language. So certain phrases that we use they said are anti-animal. So their suggestions were as follows. Instead of saying kill two birds with one stone you should say feed two birds with one scone.  Wow.  Be the guinea pig becomes be the test tube. Beat a dead horse becomes feed a fed horse.  So here's the thing.  Feed a fed horse.  If you keep feeding a fed horse though...  That is also hurting the animal.  Oh oh beat a dead - yeah OK I think they could do better.  Is PETA going too far?  I mean it is interesting that we say those things all the time. I did say to kill two birds with one stone earlier this week and I was like why am I saying that?  But are birds out here saying please stop saying that Priska?  But why am I saying that?   Why am I trying to kill birds?  I do not know.   You know it is just like one of those sayings - you are like why is this is a saying?  Nate you got one.  OK.  Priska you are at zip zil  zilch nada.  And that is where I am going to stay. I am trying to lose.  Oh wow OK all right.  Looks like I am bragging on the playground later.  All right.  .  Ready for the next quote? It is if you look up from your cellphone you will see we are doing a show up here.  Oh is this Patrick Stewart?  No.   No.  is it Patrick Stewart?  If you could turn back time.  If you could find a way.  Who is that?  Cher.   Yes there was an event an incident at the Cher musical this week.   Wait let us step back. There is a Cher musical?  There is a Sonny and Cher...  Wow.  ...Musical on Broadway. And this week that quote was tweeted by the actor Jarrod Spector who was in that Broadway show. It is called The Cher Show. And Jarrod Spector tweete