 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. As a rule I do not interview puppets on was really happy when my guest Kevin Clash brought Elmo with him. Elmo is the little red monster Muppet from Sesame Street that young kids just love. Although they do not care who the human is that is performing Elmo as an adult it is fascinating to hear Clash's story of how he created Elmo's personality and made him into a beloved superstar. Clash has performed Elmo on Sesame Street since 1984. The new documentary Being Elmo is about Kevin Clash and how he fulfilled his lifelong ambition of being a puppeteer which was not considered the coolest fantasy by his classmates when he was growing up. While he was home sewing his own puppets kids mocked him for playing with dolls. But he kept at it and by the time he was in high school he was a puppeteer on local TV kids' shows in Baltimore. Let us start with Elmo's Song which later was adapted into the theme for Elmo's World a segment hosted by Elmo which is a feature of Sesame Street. The song starts with Elmo at the piano and Big Bird and Snuffy dropping by. Of course it is Kevin Clash singing as Elmo.    Everybody  Snuffy Big Bird come see what Elmo did.   What have you done Elmo?   Elmo wrote his own song.   Really? What is it called?   Elmo's Song.   Oh clever title.   Yeah wish I would thought of that.   Do Snuffy and Big Bird want to hear it?   Sure.   Sure.   OK.   This is the song la la la la Elmo's song. La la la la la la la la la Elmo's song.   I like it.    La la la la la la la la.   To think he wrote this alone.   Singing La la la la la la la. He loves to sing la la la la Elmo's song. La la la la la la la Elmo's song. He wrote the music he wrote the words. That is Elmo's song.   Wow that is great.   Yeah I wish I had a song.   Yeah well Big Bird can sing Elmo's.   How?   Well just sing Big Bird instead of Elmo.   Great idea.   Here I go.   This is the song la la la la Big Bird's song.   It works.    La la la la la la la la Big Bird's song. La la la la la la la la la la la la...  Kevin Clash welcome to FRESH AIR. So how would you describe Elmo physically and how do you describe his personality to anybody who does not  if there is anybody who does not know Elmo?   Well physically he is just a little  he is a little red monster. He is about threeandahalf years old. He has a lot of energy loves hugs and kisses and loves to laugh.  So kids just like love Elmo. Are parents sometimes mystified by how much their kids love Elmo?   Especially when they are  when they have a child and the first thing that the child says is Elmo instead of mommy.  Does that happen?  Oh yeah I get that a lot. It is like do you know that my child's first word was Elmo? No I get that a lot. But they are very surprised by it but also they understand it too. So it is nice. It really is nice to be a part of their life with their child.  So you actually brought Elmo with you and I should mention you are in a studio in New York at the NPR bureau in New York and I am at our studio in Philadelphia. So we cannot see each other.   No.   And there is Elmo.   Hi Miss Terry. How are you?  I am good Elmo how are you?   Elmo's good. Elmo was just in Philadelphia.  Yeah but he did not come visit us did he?   No Elmo did not know you then but Elmo knows you now.   Elmo how come you always describe yourself as Elmo and you do not say me or I you say Elmo?   Elmo just was born that way. That is just stuck with Elmo.  OK and do you feel bad because you cannot hug me and I cannot hug you because you are in New York and I am in Philadelphia?   No Elmo will be there soon and we can have a play date together.    Is that OK Miss Terry?  Yeah yeah that is perfect. I do lots of play dates.   So now let me get back to Kevin Clash here.   If you must.  Excuse us Elmo. So do you feel somewhat transformed like once he is on your arm?  Yes yeah. You know it is interesting. When you are a performer you really do not think about  once you go into the character you do not think about yourself. It is pretty interesting because you are watching a TV that is showing you what the camera is shooting and sometimes you forget that you are performing at the same time and you tend to laugh at what you are doing but you are actually performing it. It is a little strange but it is something that happens because you are creating something and you are thinking about that character.  This is interesting so you have to be physically hidden. We have to see Elmo but you are hidden because the kids are not supposed to see that there is you know a Muppeteer. So is there a little video monitor hidden with you so you can actually see what is going on?  Yeah we actually have you know a monitor that is down that shows us exactly what the cameras are shooting.  What are some of the things you have to do to remain invisible?  Well I think what is interesting is we have found over the years of performing especially on Sesame Street we have a lot of children that will visit. A lot of parents  you know people who know people on the show and everything. And what we have found is that they really do not care about us about the puppeteers. You know they have watched these characters on the show you know on TV for so long like close friends. So it is interesting when  and you saw it in the doc they really do not look at me when they see Elmo. They run to Elmo because it is a friend of theirs that they have been talking to and communicating with and singing with for so many years that we have found that they really do not  the delusion is not broken by seeing us puppeteering the character in front of them.  So how much do you like that meeting all these kids who are totally starstruck by Elmo?  It is the sweetest thing. You know I get humbled by it all the time the things that they tell Elmo the things that they  I mean the expression on their face when they see their friend it is really...  Do they tell Elmo secrets? Have you heard a lot of child secrets?  They normally  a lot of things that they tell Elmo is you know when they got new shoes or a new dress or stuff like that or they go to school or they got a new pet or they got a new sister or brother. It is more those things. It is really really sweet. The time that it really really changed and it really scared me is when 9/11 when that happened. A lot of children were relocated from schools down in that area and so they asked Sesame Street if some of the puppeteers some of the characters and the cast could go and meet and greet these children. And I remember I used to you know go and do you know appearances like that and they would be coming up and giving Elmo a drawing of Elmo. And it was very scary to see these children bringing up drawings with the tower and a plane hitting one of the towers. It was  and you know it is very hard for me because I do not know what to say to them. You know I am there to really entertain them and take them away from that.  So what did you do?  Well I just said well you know yeah that was really scary but Elmo's here for you and give Elmo a hug and let us sing. You know I tried to pull them away from it as much as possible because you know again you know again you know mommy and daddy they are there to explain a little bit more you know but we are there to really entertain and try and take them away from it.  And when you say let us sing do the kids know the songs? Do they know Elmo's World?  Oh it is very  yeah. I mean I can go around the world and I could sing that and children will sing it. That is how popular the song is.  They are probably singing it in different languages languages that you do not know.  Right but I know the melody. So it is really sweet.  So is Elmo dubbed in other countries?  Oh yeah.  That must be weird though because it is like it is your puppet it is your thing and you are hearing somebody else's voice doing Elmo and the voice is such a big part of it.  It is wonderful. It is amazing. It is pretty funny too I mean when you hear Ernie singing Rubber Duckie in German or you know in South African. You know it is really  it is wonderful actually. I actually got to meet the voiceover person that does it in Amsterdam in Holland and he is 60 years old and beautiful voice I mean wonderful Elmo voice. It is really cool.  If you are just joining us my guest is Kevin Clash and he performs the Muppet character Elmo and there is a new documentary about him called Being Elmo. Let us take a short break and then we will talk some more. Is that OK with you Elmo?   Yes. Excuse  Elmo was drinking some milk sorry.    You caught Elmo just when he put the cup up to his lips sorry.  That is OK. All right so we will take a short break and then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Kevin Clash and he performs the character of Elmo for the Muppets and he has been fascinated with puppetry since he was 10. There is a new documentary about him and about his lifelong passion for puppets you know for making puppets and performing them and the documentary is called Being Elmo. So you have created a lot of puppets over the years but Elmo was basically a discard. When you came to the Muppet studios several puppeteers had tried to do something with Elmo and nothing ever really came of it.  Yeah actually I got Elmo by default.  Tell the story of how you got Elmo.  Well Brian Muehl who is a wonderful phenomenal puppeteer he started performing Elmo. He actually originated Telly Monster and Barkley on Sesame Street. He started performing the character first and he decided to pursue his acting and writing. So he left the show. And so the character had to go to someone. So Richard Hunt was the next in line and Norman Stiles who was their head writer at the time really did not like what Richard came up with. He just had the character yelling and it was not  it did not really sound like a kid. And so Richard really did not you know need the character. So he threw the little red monster to me and he told me to come up with a voice and I came up with the voice.  So how did you figure out what the personality was going to be?  Well the character was already developed when I actually got the puppet. So I knew that it was a threeandahalfyearold and it loved playing games and through the games he would learn things. He always talked in third person. So all of those things I knew. So really I came in and I really thought about OK he is a threeandahalfyearold little child and he has a lot of energy. So I thought OK this falsetto voice would work for him.  And the whole idea that like Elmo really loves to be like kissed and hugged and how did that come up?  I think all of us tend to try to get some type of catchphrase or something that the puppet does that gets you into the character. Like Jim Henson with hiho Kermit the frog here or say Fozzie saying wokka wokka or Miss Piggy saying moi. The laugh for Elmo was the hook for me to get to where Elmo needed to be. And so that is really how that happened. It was interesting Lisa Simon again the producer at the time she took me out to lunch and she said you know I really think the laugh is really too much. And I was like OK I do not know what to do with that because I was so used to it. And again like I said it was that little  the connection I had to performing the character. And then of course the big hooplah about the Tickleme Elmo doll and everything and so we left it to where Elmo laughs a lot and loves to laugh.  How do you get Elmo's facial expressions?  You know I love the  simplicity of characters of the Sesame Street characters. I love that it is just you know an orange nose and two eyes and no tongue just a black mouth. And you just find that by just the tilt of the head or you know looking up it says something. There is an emotion there. One thing that I found that was not really built into Elmo is there is a little bar underneath the fur that keeps the eyes on and I found that by moving that around I could expressions with Elmo's face. But it was not meant  it was not meant for that but it works.  So was it great for you to get like your own show within Sesame Street Elmo's World in 1998?  It was a lot of fun and it is been a lot of fun. I mean it is  you know the writers came together and talked about what concept would work because at the time the show was skewing much younger. There were a lot more younger kids watching the show. And they thought that Elmo would be the right one to speak to those  that age group. So they came up with Elmo's World and it was a wonderful show. I mean it was chock full of so many different really cool things that  and especially that theme song. Man I heard you know so many parents say to me just as soon as my child hears that you know Elmo's World theme song they are running to the TV.  How old were you when Sesame Street started?  I was about  it started in '69. So I was nine years old.  And what about the first puppet you ever made?  Actually it was Mickey Mouse. It was made out of felt and then from there I did Hansel and Gretel puppets and then started building my own from there. There was a little puppet called Arte that had silver hair. And I grew up watching and listening to you know listening to Motown and watching commercials. So I was influenced by that. So the live shows that I was doing I really used all of that like with  Helen Reddy had You and Me Against the World I had a mom skunk and a little baby skunk and they sang You and Me Against the World the mom sang it. I did you know Debby Boone had You Light up my Life I made two lightning bugs. With commercials I had a mummy climb up on the puppet stage and start to sing I Am Stuck on BandAids Because BandAids stuck on me.   So you know I watched  and you know all my puppets knew how to do The Bump and The Robot all the dances that were out at the time. So I really was influenced by TV and music and I incorporated them into my live shows.  So there is this great story in the movie about how you made one of your puppets from  I think it was like the fur lining of your father's coat.  Oh yeah yeah.  That must have gone over big in the house. Yeah go ahead.  Well you know I just got this energy of just you know I wanted to make a monkey puppet. And so I saw the lining of my father's coat and I took it out and I cut it up and I made a monkey out of it and realized what I had done afterwards. And I actually hid  after I built the puppet. My dad came home and he saw the puppet. I put it on his  my mom and dad's dresser and he saw it and asked my mom about it and he called me and he said what is his name? And I said his name is Moandy and he said Next time ask. And so you know yeah. I mean they were always very very supportive of the things I did. I mean they were very  I mean they disciplined all of us. I mean  but they were very creative people themselves. So they knew where that was coming from.  In what ways were they creative?  Well my mom she sewed a lot and she taught me how to sew on the Singer sewing machine and she sewed clothes her dresses and also what she would do is she would take some of the material that was leftover and she would cover some of her shoes with that same material. So she was very creative in her own way. My father drew a lot. We had pastel colors and paints and stuff that he would  he loved drawing and stuff so...  So that is how you learned to sew from your mother?  Oh yeah well I had gotten  there was a show called Romper Room that originated in Baltimore at the local station that I was working at. And it was  Romper Room and Miss Nancy was the lady that was the host of it in Baltimore. The producers of the show asked me could I make a doctor puppet for not only the Baltimore local Romper Room but all of the different television stations that had their own Romper Room in different cities because they wanted to talk about health. And so I designed the puppet and the character's name was called Doc. And I had to build 35 of them. And they only paid me like 10 apiece for them.  Oh no.  But my mom said listen I cannot sew all these for you. I have to teach you how to sew. So that is when she taught me how to sew. And I sewed all of them myself and built them all myself.  How old were you?  I had to be still in high school.  Wow they really ripped you off.   Yeah but you know what? The experience was wonderful. You know I cannot  I was very lucky to get so much experience because that helped me  Jim Henson was very surprised at the amount of experience and things that I knew once I met him and you know and showed him what I could do.  So what was most interesting to you when you first got to look at the Muppets up close and examine how they were made?  Just the artistry the brilliance of how they made them. I mean I was  please I was  it was Elmer's glue and you know whatever and staples with me. I mean I did not know  you know I was just going by what I could see. And when I actually saw you know an actual Sesame Street Muppet the fur was so I mean thick and rich and the different threads that they were using. And you know touching the eyes and how  you know I could just find plastic spoons and stuff. You know their eyes were really hard and the plastic was really hard and so that meant it could last. And so it was really amazing to me how they made the mouths how they you know how they sewed the mouths together. It blew me away. It was so different. You know you can get with so much looking at it on TV but up close and being able to really examine it it was a dream come true for me.  Kevin Clash and Elmo will be back in the second half of the show. The new documentary about Clash is called Being Elmo. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Kevin Clash who has performed the Muppet Elmo since 1984. He turned the little red monster into one of Sesame Street's most beloved Muppets. The new documentary Being Elmo is about Clash and how he fulfilled his lifelong ambition of being a puppeteer.  By the time he was in high school he was a puppeteer on local kids TV shows in Boston. From there he worked on the longrunning CBS kids show Captain Kangaroo.  So after doing local TV shows and Captain Kangaroo how did you get to be a Muppeteer?  Well saw a show on PBS called Call It Macaroni where I saw Kermit Love who helped create Big Bird and Snuffy the Snuffleupagus for the show. And I asked my mom could she find a way of getting in touch with him. Well she called the PBS station the local PBS station and got his number and she called and left a message and he called back and said whenever I was up in New York come and visit him. Well I  that was around 12th grade and we were going up for a trip so I went and talked to him and he said listen this year we are already cast for Sesame but there are some other projects that I have that I would love for you to be involved in. So I started working with Kermit and then lo and behold he asked me to do the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade and  because they needed more puppeteers because the classic Muppets Jim and all of the Muppeteers were going to be on this other float that was promoting the first Muppet movie. And so that is where I got to meet Jim for the first time was at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.  So when did you realize that Elmo was not only catching on it was becoming a sensation?  I think the research department went out they normally go out and they watch the show with kids and see how they react to certain characters and Elmo just I mean hit the charts as far as them really connecting to the little red monster. And also not only laughing with him and enjoying him but also learning what they are supposed to be learning from you know the specific curriculum that was in the scripts with him. And so that is when I knew. Then of course the next step after that is I started performing him a lot more which meant that there was a lot more scripts being written for him so that meant that he was doing what he was supposed to be doing for the show.  One of the big outcomes of the popularity of Elmo was the Tickle Me Elmo doll. And the year that they came out like for Christmas you could not get one. It became this incredibly hot commodity because it was just selling out everywhere. And you describe in the documentary about you being Elmo that when you first saw one in a store and realized it was called...  Yeah.  ...Tickle Me Elmo you but that does not make sense the title does not make sense.  Yeah.  Explain why.  Well it should  me  Elmo never says  it should be Tickle Elmo but it was called Tickle Me Elmo. But you know...  And you were not in on the decision? They did not ask you?  No. No. Not at that time. I mean I was not involved like that. I was really just a puppeteer at that time. That was in '96.  So you really did not see this until you are in the store.  Yeah. I was out with my daughter actually in like a Baby Depot or something like that and I saw the toy and I picked it up. I said oh that is what that is for. Okay. And I bought it. Took it home and...  You bought it. That is great.  Yeah.   Yeah I did buy it. And like maybe two weeks later I got a call saying that at the end of that week Toys R Us was saying that it was going to be the number one selling toy at Toys R Us. And then analysts were saying that it was going to be the number one selling toy for that Christmas. And you know you have got to understand I am a puppeteer. I do not know anything about merchandising or products or anything. And so I just was happy that it was something positive.   That is all I really knew. But it was fascinating the big hoopla about this toy. It was unbelievable.  I am sorry I just lost my train of thought for a second.   That is okay.   Thank you Elmo. You are so reassuring.   That is very generous of you to step in and rescue me they are. So because you have had to crouch so much over the years like hiding your physical self Kevin Clash so that Elmo would be seen while you would remain invisible are there parts of your body that hurt a lot?   Oh yeah. I am 51 now so  but you know I know that physically working out is something that is really really important. So you know sometimes I go away from it for months at a time and then I come back to it because I know that that is the only way I can physically perform these characters. You know we sit on  roll around like ottomans that very low to the ground with wheels underneath that we roll around the set on and that is how we get around on the set you know...  Sitting or lying down?  Sitting. Sitting. Sitting. So oof you know so we yeah we do have to do like you know situps and crunches and pushups and things that you know that we  to keep our bodies in physical shape.  So you are one of the producers of Sesame Street now. What is your title?  Well I am you know coexecutive producer of Elmo's World. And now we are actually you know Elmo's World is going off and we are actually doing a new format so I will be coexecutive producer of that. Yeah but also I direct the shows and stuff like that so it is a lot of fun.  Let me just get this image. So you are on an ottoman hidden beneath the camera performing Elmo while directing?  Yeah. Yeah. Well you know I block it out. I mean I have an assistant director to really  once I get out there and I start performing the character he has to call the shots. You know I mark all the  I mark the script up as far as what shots I need and everything. And then the assistant director will call those shots out because I am down on the floor performing Elmo at the time.  So do you say things like you know Cookie Monster I need more of a smile or...  Oh sure. Yeah. Definitely. I mean if I am performing Elmo and another character says something that is oh you know that did not work. Let us start over again...   ...at the same time. But you know Jim was that way too. I mean Jim was directing and performing at the same time you know so I am just you know walking in his footsteps.  So before we say goodbye I want to say like I feel like I should talk more to Elmo but I have no idea what to say to him.   That is okay.    It is okay. It is okay.  Elmo you do not feel left out of the conversation?   No no. Elmo has been talking for years.  Okay.  Years.    Elmo wants to give Mr. Kevin is 15 minutes of fame.  Kevin Clash it is been great to talk with you.  Nice talking to you too Terry.  And thank you Elmo.   Thank you for having Elmo.  The new documentary about Kevin Clash is called Being Elmo. 