 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. I have been an admirer of the work of actor and director and producer Griffin Dunne who is best known for his role in Martin Scorsese's After Hours. But it was not until a few weeks ago that I realized Griffin Dunne was the son of Dominick Dunne who is famous for writing about the famous. He wrote novels about the rich and famous and covered real celebrities and highprofile murder trials for Vanity Fair including the trials of O.J. Simpson and Phil Spector. Murder trials became his obsession after his daughter the actress Dominique Dunne died after being strangled by her exboyfriend in 1982. She played the oldest daughter in the film Poltergeist. Dominick Dunne died last August at the age of 83. Griffin Dunne gave a funny and moving eulogy for his father. We are going to take this opportunity to talk with Griffin Dunne about his father whose final novel has just been published posthumously. It is called Too Much Money. Griffin Dunne welcome to FRESH AIR. And I am very sorry about your father and glad for the opportunity to talk with you about him. Mr.  Yeah me too.  Did you usually read your father's novels? Mr.  From the  you know his first one from  he has always you know printed it out and given me the you know the looseleaf pages of every single one and you know I have given him some real bum advice.  Really? Mr.  Oh yeah because you know his  as a reader it is his  his journalism is something that is  you know as a reader I am just more sort of taken with and his novels are particularly Two Mrs. Grenvilles and some afterwards I remember reading People Like Us and Tom Wolfe's book had just come out and I said Dad oh my God this is in the same terrain and they are going to you know criticize you and it is going to be  and you are taking on these people and it is  everything I said could not have been more wrong. It was his biggest seller and I worried him about nothing. So nonetheless he still gave me his books and with always a reminder like boy you sure called it wrong on People Like Us. What do you think of this one?  One of the things that newspapers have picked up on in your father's novel Too Much Money is that the character in the novel admits that he is closeted and he is been celibate for almost 20 years and he says Cannot die with a secret I am nervous about the kids even though they are middleaged now; not that they do not already know I just never talk about it. And earlier this year he described himself in an interview for the Times of London. He said I call myself a closeted bisexual celibate.  Mr.  That is a great phrase.  Yeah. So that was not a revelation to you? Mr.  No it was not but it certainly was never a conversation a family conversation either. I mean it was you know I would say closeted celibate. He was as closeted in his heterosexuality his bisexuality and  what am I missing there  celibacy. The conversation itself was closeted. It was not the elephant in the room. It was not  quite honestly you know once you are  I think I guess it might have been  you know all of us sort of were aware of it but I think it  you know you get to a certain age where you do not particularly want to have the conversation anyway. It is never been  but I was very I was very kind of touched and I certainly have never seen him mention you know reference his sexuality before and it kind of put a smile on my face because I thought it is so typical of him to come out and then leave.  Mr.  So  and here I am you know...  Answering the question. Mr.  Being asked and answering the question. It is just perfect.   Well he says you know I am nervous about the kids even though they are middleaged men now. Did he have reason to be nervous about revealing this as far as you were concerned? Mr.  No of course not no. You know we always just sort of left it in his court if he was going to talk about it or not and you know he is  you know it is something that we  the siblings would talk about but never with him. I do not know. I do not feel a great loss in that aspect either way.  So when you say you knew was is because you could just tell or because... Mr.  I think I think you kind of like get a vibe. He would have  he had a great friend who was also a great friend of my sister's and I noticed that the  you know when my sister was killed that the friendship continued that he just sort of went from being my sister's best friend to my father's best friend. Years and years later when dad was dying in Germany  well he got an infection I went to Germany to get him and bring him back to where he lived you know for another month or so  there was the friend who we had not seen. I do not think he would mind me mentioning his name but I have not talked to him so I will not. But obviously a  when I arrived in Germany there was Norman. I will just say his name. He would be fine. There was Norman and I saw this incredibly close friendship. I think it had long since been celibate I assume but here he was the only person that dad felt comfortable enough asking him to come to this clinic to look after him. It was a stemcell clinic and you had to go with someone. They would not allow you to be a patient unaccompanied. So he called Norman and Norman went there and he was there looking after him and I saw the  I saw this history. I saw how long what affection and you know real history between these two men and it was kind of for me like for the week I was there it was like getting to know a brother I never  a stepbrother I had never met. You know even though I would known Norman off and on over the years this was real quality time that the three of us were having and you know I was really  it is one of the real kind of touching grateful memories I have of dad's last months.  So you are saying at one point you think Norman and your father had been lovers? Mr.  Absolutely oh yeah sure.  If you are just joining us my guest is Griffin Dunne. He is an actor writer producer director and his father is the late Dominick Dunne who died in August and posthumously published is Dominick Dunne's new novel Too Much Money. So we are using this as an opportunity to talk to Griffin Dunne about his father. You gave a beautiful eulogy for your father which was actually published on The Daily Beast and in that eulogy you talked about how your father used to go to funerals years ago years ago used to go to funerals of mobsters and movie stars and this was long before your father was famous. Mr.  Absolutely.  Why would he go to those funerals and how would he get in? Mr.  Well he was of course fascinated from such an early age by celebrity by notoriety by crimes. You know they had  you know he was of the generation of you know as a little boy it must have been the Lindbergh kidnapping to  you know then the Black Dahlia. And so crime and of course movie stars and fan magazines were a huge part of his life. So when he moved to New York it was really just by sheer geography that he lived a block or so away from Campbell Brothers Funeral Home which is you know where  the place to be seen open casket.  Mr.  That you be buried. And of course you know everyone from Valentino to I think Mar  not Marilyn but you know pretty  you get the idea and of course the famous mobsters  that was the goto place. And so when there is a viewing particularly in those days they did not have you know velvet ropes or guest lists. You could  they did not presume you knew the person or did not know the person. You could just wander in and go into their main viewing room and get in line and have a peek at Vinnie the Chin or you know there was one with  I think he went to  oh God he went to so many of them. They were not all just movie stars too. Sometimes they were  Clifton Webb was one. You know he was a great actor died somewhat obscurely and there was hardly anybody there. And the people that were there were very grateful that dad and his great friend Mark Crawley were  even though they did not know him they were grateful for the company. So you know it was the beginning of his fascination with  well I think it was the beginning of him kind of finding his voice whether he knew it or not of how that would how he could use all the kind of ridiculous voyeurism and actually find a voice as a writer.  My guest is actor director and producer Griffin Dunne. After a break we will talk more about his father Dominick Dunne who died in August of bladder cancer. His final novel has just been published. It is called Too Much Money. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is actor director writer producer Griffin Dunne and we are talking about his father Dominick Dunne who wrote about celebrities and celebrity trials for Vanity Fair and wrote several novels the latest of which was published posthumously. It is just been published. It is called Too Much Money. Dominick Dunne died over the summer at the age of 83.  Your father wrote about celebrities he covered their trials invited them to his parties went to their parties. Being around celebrity was always important to him. Do you understand why it was? Mr.  Yeah I mean I understand that it was a part of him that you know was kind of  was really rooted in having a father who would not  his own father who would not acknowledge him who you know he was of four brothers and three sisters and he was the outcast. He was the one that you know really did look at these fan magazines and you know was not interested in sports and I think he had a real strong dream life of you know going to the movies and you know imagining himself there. I think it is not a particularly untypical story of why so many people move to Hollywood or New York and become you know fameobsessed in a way and I think he is one of those stories of like  his family could not give him the security and glamour. He always wanted to be somewhere else and it was on that screen. It was you know with those people and going to those parties and smoking those cigarettes and you know drinking those drinks and being at the Stork Club or wherever it is. He  I think he thought about that a lot and those kind of  you know those kind of that kind of drive and imagination will eventually lead you right to the Stork Club.  You say he was an outcast in his own family when he was growing up. He said that his father used to call him a sissy and beat him. Mr.  Yeah yeah yeah. He is always said. My Uncle John who is younger than him does not have a memory of that just to show you how different their relationships were but he would  Dad would tell a story about  my grandfather was a doctor. He died before I was born and he used to tell me the story of his father beating Nick with a belt and getting a phone call  you know back in those days the phone was out in the hallway and getting a phone call with the housekeeper saying Dr. Dunne you are wanted on the phone it is the hospital. And he is beating Dad and he says hang on one sec. And he goes and takes the call speaks to  uhhuh no give him two CCs  gives some medical advice instructions on the phone to the hospital hangs up the phone and then picks up the belt and goes right back on beating him. So it was like a  you know that would have been a pretty traumatic thing for a kid but it was  it just seemed to be his relationship very particular with just him you know him and his father. And I have always thought that had something  so much to do with him picking his fights with  you know taking on the bullies.  So since your father wanted to be around famous people and be  you know get to the Stork Club when he actually was around famous people and made his living from writing about those famous people and became famous himself did he feel differently about fame when he became the object of it? Mr.  Well one there was not a day in his life where he could not get over how famous he was. It just was like  that he was famous that he was recognized that he was recognized by a cab driver. He would go  he would literally I mean 20 years later he would go You are not going to believe that this cab driver knew who I was. Really? You are that amazed by that? He goes I just  I cannot believe it. Not a day goes by Griffin. I cannot believe that I am famous. I cannot believe it. So it brought him  this is open enthusiasm guileless just joy. He loved it and I used to keep a voicemail on my cell phone from a call. He used to leave incredibly long voicemails and he called me from the chateau once and he would go Griffin you are not going to believe this. I just took an elevator up with Bono. Do you know that Bono knows who I am? I cannot believe my life. I cannot believe my life. I just love it. I cannot believe it. Bono he knows who I am.  Mr.  It just put such a smile on my face every time. I just used to listen to it you know? And it would just crack me up.   That is really great. So what did fame and celebrity mean to you growing up? Because you were surrounded by it off and on through your father. Mr.  Yeah and you know and it sort of carries on. I grew up in Los Angeles and in New York and I ended up in the entertainment business. But my relationship to celebrity when I was young in terms of Dad because before the you know Icannotbelievehowgreatmylifeis chapter before then it was the  in the '60s when I was growing up where he was obsessed with getting the acceptance of celebrity and giving you know dinner parties just about every night and his priorities were really to get  here it was confounding to me to this day still. He was a television executive but would give parties for the greatest filmmakers and producers and actors of the '40s '50s and '60s and I mean the people that were there you know as I became you know a film buff later on I still cannot get over the roster of directors and  that were in his house. But at the time I was just a kid who we would actually be bundled up in you know our bathrobe and pajamas and checked into a hotel if it was going to be a particularly rowdy party.  What do you mean by rowdy? Mr.  Well you know these  this was you know they partied. There was like you know there was drinking and dancing until dawn and they would go home and shower and then you know go to the studio the next day with a hangover. And so it was a  you know we would have  their parties were real  real affairs real like lots of drinking and you know people  people really let loose. You know dad used to document these photos and you would see these incredible encounters that he would have. I do not know why  nobody seemed to bother that  were bothered that he had a camera and he would take pictures of like fights and tears and then raucous uproarious laughter and it looked like a lot of fun. And they would all get dressed up. I mean in those days people put on tuxedos you know three nights a week and hired you know orchestras to play in their living room and stuff. So you know it was a swinging time. But he was such at such a  at the mercy of these people he was entertaining. It was almost like if he could not  they were not real unless you know they liked him and came to his house and then you know when it all went wrong for him financially and his marriage falling apart all those people who ate all the food and drank the booze they turned out to not be his friends and he was just  he was a great venue for a great party and he had great taste and they were you know beautifully decorated these parties but as far as having real relationships with these people these legends they were pretty shallow at the end of the day and everyone left him and he was totally broke.  Now I read that your father was the stage manager early in his career of The Howdy Doody Show? Mr.  Yeah.  Did that mean a lot to you? Were... Mr.  Well Howdy was before my time.  It was before your time okay. Mr.  But I certainly grew up knowing who he was and he used to tell great stories though about what they would do before the show on The Howdy Doody Show you know with the crew of all the incredibly filthy things they would make Howdy do.  Mr.  They would just cry with laughter at you know the compromising positions they would do right before  right up to the 10 nine eight  before the...  Mr.  So I have a different image of Howdy.  That is really funny.   You write that your father was a man of exquisite taste who produced art and directed his life but the storyline lacked the substance that your mother craved. And they were married for how many years before she left him? Mr.  Actually 10. Only 10. About yeah.  Mmhmm. So when you say that his storyline lacked the substance that your mother craved what do you mean? Mr.  Well because he really you know he would be the first to say this you know he became quite evolved out of this period. He was a very superficial guy. He really needed those parties and who said what about him and the acceptance. He would literally iron the invitations that he received to other people's parties and events into a scrapbook. He wanted to live every moment as it was happening. Getting the acceptance of you know Selznick or someone like that was  that he went to this party; it is all he could talk about. And mom was like okay what is there? And you know she did not want to go  they went out like five nights a week. And I think mom just got sick of being dragged around. You know she had health problems and you know dad was extremely driven. He really thought this was really important. It was a high high priority I think more than  I do not say this as a whiny kid I think  but more than family. It was you know he really he is the first to say you know about those days he really lost his way. He lost and it cost him his marriage. It was never a moment he doubted how much he loved my mother and I think one of the great great regrets of his life is that the marriage fell apart. And the marriage fell apart because of you know his character at this time. It was not substantial enough.  Who did you stay with when they separated? Mr.  Oh my mother.  Your mother? Mr.  My mother. Yeah and you know we had a funny  and not haha funny but reaction to when we were told about the divorce. Dad you know they would obviously made the plan and we were all like oh I guess I was like nine and seven and my sister was five and  my brother was seven. And they obviously planned you know let us not be hysterical when we say this. And we were seated on a couch and dad said your mother and I have decided she wants to divorce me. And he totally changed the game plan. And I remember as a kid looking at my mom just rolling her eyes going oh god. And he was devastated you know crying of course and you know and he really could never get her back. And it was not until mom became sick...  She had MS. Mr.  She had MS. Yes and was wheelchair bound. And well really you know when I guess when my sister was killed is really when they got back in each other lives and they really banded together. And he was with her you know dad spent Christmases and Thanksgivings with us when my mother moved to Nogales Arizona and he became you know in our lives as a father as a well divorced but as still the husband to my mom you know right up to the end from that moment he was by here side. And I think it took her a while to get use to quite honestly. But he was the one that could talk to her when she was really sick. You know she was very she was now by that point you know in bed and the disease had given her a  it was difficult for her to talk. She could listen but it kind of left it being a onesided conversation. Dad loved that. He could talk and reminisce with her and you know do you remember the Starks and how we went to that house? Well you know they got rid of that house. Now they are moved over and he would just go on and on and she just loved listening to him. It was really poignant to see them.  After your mother left your father he went through a period where he had kind of spiraled downwards and then I think he was like drinking and having problems. He... Mr.  Mmhmm.  ...and it got to the point where he had to sell everything. He even sold his dog. Mr.  Yeah. Yeah.  And then he moved to New York and ended up living around the corner from you. You talk about this a little in the eulogy that you gave for him. Mr.  Yeah.  He ended up living around the corner from you in this like little Manhattan apartment that had a window that overlooked the airshaft which was not exactly like the celebrity life he was dreaming of. But talk about what your relationship with him was like then. Mr.  Well it was sort of my favorite period. I mean it was a you know he did indeed sell all of his stuff and Norman and my sister helped him you know tag it. It was literally a yard sale. And this is a man who loved his objects and that is also what I meant in the eulogy about art directing his life. He knows the provenance of everything he owns and so it must have been incredibly painful for him to sell these you know everything from fireplace banisters to you know incredible objects. And so then he moved to Oregon to write. He sort of his car sort of broke down there. But when and it was in there in this cabin that he forced himself to write. He had no phone. There was no way to reach him and every all the correspondence was by letters. And my letters that I would receive from him by this time I had moved to New York and was starting out as an actor. The letters would you know start off at five pages and then a week later they go to 10 and then sometimes there would be 20 singlespaced letters  page letters. And I realized that he was using them as like a workshop to write to find his voice. And so when he came to New York it was  he would been by this time maybe a year or two sober and he would been attending meetings you know one a day and kind of finetuning his material in the rooms actually. And so when he came to New York and lived around the corner from me in the Village you know we would have lunch get together somewhere in the neighborhood. And you know I was one of those kids who moved to New York and be in the Village and where James Dean was and you know I loved all these you know kind of the street figures and I kind of wanted to have a Damon Runyonesque kind of relationship with the people on the streets which never quite happened but you know the boxer was like my kind of image  so I would come in New York. Well then all of a sudden Dad moves here and we are sitting outside you know a cafe or something and all these street people I have always seen in the neighborhood would all go hey Nick. You know these Bukowski lookalikes and you know crossdressers in hair nets they would all come up and say hi to him. And I go how do you know these people? And he would go; I know them from the rooms. And he was a star attraction in the AA meetings. And...  Mr.  ...it was like I just loved him.  My guest is actor director and producer Griffin Dunne. After a break we will talk more about his father Dominick Dunne who died in August. His final novel has just been published. It is called Too Much Money. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is actor writer producer director Griffin Dunne. We are talking about his late father Dominick Dunne who wrote about celebrities and celebrity trials for Vanity Fair and wrote several novels the latest of which was just published posthumously. It is called Too Much Money. A turning point in the life of your father and in the life of your whole family was the murder of your 22yearold sister Dominique by her I guess exboyfriend who wanted to continue being her boyfriend. He strangled her to the point where she was basically brain dead and then the family had to decide you know whether to pull the plug and they decided to go ahead and do that. And then there was a long trial. I do not know if it was long but there was a trial afterwards. And it seems that like that was a complete turning point in your father's life like personally professionally emotionally  in every imaginable way. Mr.  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah it was. It was you know it was  he was told by Tina Brown who he would just met before leaving for California for the trial which was a about a three and a half month trial. He...  And this is Tina Brown right before she became the editor of Vanity Fair. Mr.  Exactly. I think she had just  maybe it was the same week. I mean literally she  and she had only just hired Marie Brenner and it could not have been newer. I do not think she would published an issue yet. Anyway she suggested to dad that he keep a journal of this experience and indeed he did. And ended up you know writing about the trial that just nobody could have conveyed it the outrage and the injustice and just how  what a travesty that whole experience was than dad did. And he wrote this probably as you know as far as maybe you can put a critical thing on it probably his greatest piece.  The man who killed your sister was convicted of manslaughter and given only 20  only two and a half years which I know your father considered a grave injustice. He was really angry. And one of the things  describe what happened when the judge said at the end  you know. Mr.  Well first of all two and a half years  I am really my  helping like I am my father's son because I have this like the kind of stuff I actually do not  but I feel compelled to sort of continue for him about this and because this was such a tough time. But he  this two and a half years was really  it was arrived at because this judge his name is Judge Katz and his career gratefully was ruined as a result of this because of what Dad wrote about him. But this man sent away the jury while people were testifying  women were testifying  about his previous history of violence against women which by the way my sister was completely unaware of. And they also the jury did not witness this killer Sweeney go after  get up to leave during this testimony that he did not like of one of the women he tried to strangle a year or two earlier and stormed out and was wrestled in a rage to the floor. So the jury missed all of that. So we saw him as he was. The jury somehow it was portrayed like  you know it was a different time too in justice and the attitude towards women's violence  women being victims of violence. And particularly in that time you would portray the victim that being the person that was killed as being the perpetrator of their own crime. And so you would basically trash the victim. You would kill them twice. And so the way they talked about  the defense  the way they talked about my sister was just unspeakable. And then they sent away the jury so they did not even see what this guy was. So I do not know what the jury was thinking. I guess they thought oh the rich girl deserved it or the poor guy with his prop Bible really believed in God and now he is repentant or you know whatever. But they gave this ridiculous sentence this insult and  to Dominique's life. And Dad  this judge said at his closing argument as his closing before adjourning he said I want to thank the jury on behalf of the court and the defense and the Dunne family and Dad stood up in the courtroom and said do not thank them on our behalf we do not thank you. And information was suppressed. You did not see what took place here. You have made a grave mistake. And he was dragged out of that courtroom. And  proudest moment you know for all of us. So  and it was then that he  that that article I think just all I think he probably just wrote it pretty quickly after that and sent it off to Tina and you know that was  that became his voice.  Were you in the courtroom every day of the trial too? Mr.  Yeah yeah. It was you know they would you know my mother was in a wheelchair and they would say to  the defense would try to have my mother removed because she was in a wheelchair because you know it might prejudice the jury. Yeah they would have  those conversations took place for the jury. One time my brother was crying and the defense in the middle of his crossexamination happened to see that Alex was crying. And he said Alex Dunne has tears in his eyes your honor he has to be ejected from the courtroom. That boy has tears in his eyes. You know it was that kind of... You know it was really tough. And you know my mother also did  came out of that experience transformed and angry and articulate and started her group called California Center for Victims of Homicide which is a very powerful group here that speaks on behalf of the victims  and has been responsible for a lot of legislation.  I want to end by asking something about your father's funeral. You wrote a beautiful eulogy for him which you know was published on the Daily Beast. And I just wonder what it was like for you to give that eulogy because you are grieving your father has died. And at the same time when you give a eulogy that is so wellwritten and that has to be said in front of what I imagine was a large gathering of a lot of very famous people  it is almost like having a speaking engagement while you are grieving. So what was it like for you to have to rise to that particular occasion while mourning the loss of your father? Mr.  Well first of all my dad  this is sort of the running theme too of the funeral itself which was an extraordinary event that my wife Anna and I sort of produced for lack of a better word. My dad has been talking about his funeral for at least 10 years. He has been whenever he got on planes he would send me new revisions of who should speak and who he is ever fallen out with is off the list.  Mr.  And who the pallbearers should be and the ushers and it was like and he would have a sense of humor about it somewhat but he was dead serious. Sometimes he would have a rewrite that would happen in the middle of the night. He would be in London and the thing at Claridge's there was a little fire that happened and he would go I am just running out of the door right now they are evacuating the hotel. If I do not make it out of here I do not want so and so to be speaking at my funeral.  Mr.  And so it was a you know long time in the coming and totally unjustified. He was not even sick when he was starting to think about this stuff. And I think that climactic  the most incredible moment that I ever had at a funeral or  but the proudest moment I ever had as a father was my daughter got up and  Hannah  and she always knew she was going to sing. She always knew that she wanted to sing a song and it was a song called My Funny Valentine and she wanted to explain to them that it was you know she had always received anonymous flowers from my secret admirer ever since she was little. And she always knew it was from Poppy and then she wanted to break into the song a capella. And the moment that the church had heard she was going to sing a song and they said no it has to be a religious song. They do not allow secular songs. And I told my daughter and she said no way I am getting up there I do not care. See I was not  did not raise her strict Catholic. So she goes I do not care what they do. They are going to have to drag me off the stage those priests ought to just drag me off. And I said honey well first of all it is called an altar.  Mr.  And I said we are  you can do this. I am listing you as a spea