

This is FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli of tvworthwatching.com sitting in for Terry Gross.

Saxophonist James Moody died yesterday after suffering from pancreatic cancer. He was 85 years old. Moody first became known for his 1949 recording of I am In the Mood for Love. His reworking of that melody was so good it became the melody of a new song with a lyric by Eddie Jefferson called Moody's Mood for Love. Here's James Moody's original 1949 recording.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG I am IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE

 James Moody began his career in 1947 in the early days of bebop playing with Dizzy Gillespie's big band. By the end of the '40s he would left the band and moved to Europe. Moody returned to the States in the early '50s to lead his own band. He played with Gillespie again during much of the '60s but in the '70s Moody left the jazz scene to work a steady job in a Vegas hotel band.

When he returned to the jazz world critic Gary Giddons wrote that there were few living musicians he enjoyed hearing perform more than Moody. Terry spoke with Moody in 1996 after the release of his delightful recording of songs associated with Frank Sinatra. Here's Moody singing on the title track Young At Heart.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG YOUNG AT HEART

Mr.   Fairy tales can come true. It can happen to you if you are young at heart. For it is hard you will find to be narrow of mind if you are young at heart.

You can go to extremes with impossible schemes. You can laugh when your dreams fall apart at the seams and life gets more exciting with each passing day and love is either in your heart or on its way.

Do not you know that it is worth every treasure on earth to be young at heart?

 James Moody welcome to FRESH AIR. And I want to say that I think this new album is delightful and it is really delightful to hear you sing and to sing a song that is not a novelty song.

Mr.  You know when you have strings like that it makes you think you can sing you know.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

 What do you think of your voice?

Mr.  Well the funny thing is I am not as concerned with my voice as I am with my lisp that I have you know because I am partially deaf. And I was born that way and it does not mean that I have a speech impediment it is just that I do not hear S's so  because my wife always tell me when I am singing Mood for Love that I would say you give me a smile and it sounds like you are saying you give me a mile.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Mr.  When I am wrapped up in your magic you know in the lyrics.

 Well has that held you back from singing? Are you selfconscious about that lisp?

Mr.  No really not at all because I say what I say. I have been doing it for 71 years talking. So if I say you know fairy tales can come true. You know I do not know too true. It can happen to you if you are young at heart.

SOUNDBITE OF SCAT SINGING

 Oh I love that.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

 How old were you when you realized you had a hearing problem?

Mr.  I was born that way and I never realized it. I still have not realized it because I hear what I hear and that is it. See if you do not know what you are missing how can you say what I miss you know what I mean?

They were insistent that I wear a hearing aid because I would hear so much better and I put this hearing aid on and I am telling you I thought I was going to go nuts with the clanging and banging that I hear you know banging and you could hear the tires of the car. I said Oh my goodness if people hear this. I mean it is nervewracking.

So what I did was I turned it off. And they said Oh is not that much better? I said It certainly is.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Mr.  You heard that joke did not you Terry about the guy says Oh man he says boy I just spent 4000 on this wonderful hearing aid you know. And the guy said Yeah? What kind is it? The guy said It is 12 of the clock.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

 It took me a second right. So did music sound different with the hearing aid?

Mr.  Oh I would not dare do that. I would not dare put a hearing aide on and play music because if I put the hearing aid in then it is banging and clanging again or clinking yeah.

 Tell us the story of the band that you played in in the Air Force and this was right after you got out of college.

Mr.  Well the band that played in the Air Force it was an unauthorized Air Force band because when I was in the Air Force it was segregated. So threequarters of the base was Caucasian and onequarter was Negro. And they wanted to have a Negro band. So they formed one.

And then Linton Garner Erroll Garner's brother he was drafted and he came to the base where we were and then Pop Reeves he was drafted and he wrote some things for Benny Goodman. And I never will forget Linton Garner one day he asked me he says Moody he said play this scale for me.

So I said  Da da da da da da da.

And he said Well. I said Well what? He said Is that it? I said Yeah. He said My boy you are in for a rude awakening.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Mr.  So anyway but little by  but you know I would like to say one thing Terry. When I was in Greenville North Carolina I was 18 years old right? And I was living in Newark New Jersey. Do you know that the German prisoners of war used to come into town and jump off the truck you know with the PW on their back and those hats and go into the restaurants and eat and we could not?

 Wow.

Mr.  Yeah.

 How did you feel about serving in the Air Force knowing that your own country would not let you into certain restaurants?

Mr.  Well what could you do? You see because in the first place like there was nothing  when I  after I left and went to Europe and would live I was living in France I would send my mother a letter and I would have on there it had like the land of the brave. I would put the land of the  you know or something you know USA. And my mother said Jim do not do that. I mean you will get in trouble you know.

But hey it was the truth you know because like it was their land not mine.

 you joined the Gillespie big band after you got out of the Air Force.

Mr.  Yeah.

 And it was a very innovative band. It was one of the first big bands really playing the new music of bebop. What was it like for you to be in this band? What were the most exciting parts of it for you?

Mr.  Well the most exciting about that band was when I grew older and found out where I was. When I first was in that band Thelonious Monk was the piano player. Ray Brown was the bass player. Milton Jackson was vibraharpist. Kenny  Klook Klookmop  Clarke he was the drummer. That was the rhythm section along with Howard Johnson Cecil Payne all the people like that.

Now if I would have known where I was like I would have fainted.

 Sure.

Mr.  So I am glad I was naive. I did not  I was not that hip. So I did not know who I was. I mean I knew but I did not. You understand what I am saying?

 Yes I do. And what was Dizzy Gillespie like as a bandleader? I think you have called him your musical father.

Mr.  Oh yeah. Dizz was wonderful man. Like we knew each other and was all right but I got to really know him better when I played in the quintet. But musically I mean he was a bad boy. He was bad.

And Dizz was always studying too. Like he would always  you know he would sit down at the piano and look at this look at that oh look at this. And he would stop me. He said Moody this is where everything is. See the piano? I do not care what the instrument is that is where it is trombone violin trumpet saxophone flute. This is where it is. You look at it and you see everything.

When you play the piano all the notes are laid out there for you you know and all those notes on every one of the instruments. So Dizz said You want to really know what is happening you learn the piano.

 Did you? Did you learn it?

Mr.  Well I can play the changes yeah yeah yeah. I can sit down and I can pick out what I have to do.

 Saxophonist James Moody speaking to Terry Gross in 1996. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.

SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC

 Let us get back to Terry's 1996 interview with saxophonist James Moody. He died yesterday at the age of 85.

 Your first solo was recorded with the Dizzy Gillespie Band. This tune is called Emanon which is no name spelled backwards. This is I think in 1947. Do you remember your solo on that record? Could you sing it?

Mr.  Yeah I remember it. I remember it because I was not supposed to take the solo. The baritone player was supposed to take it and he did not show up or something. And the solo was...

SOUNDBITE OF SINGING

Mr.  Something like that.

 Now how come you remember it? Do you remember it from actually playing it or from listening to the record?

Mr.  No because a lot of times when we see each other like sometimes I am talking to Jimmy Heath and  section we called each other because he is a wonderful saxophoner. Some of the guys and we will talk and somebody says oh yeah man you remember Emanom? Do it again.

SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC

Mr.  And we would all sing it for a moment together.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG EMANOM

 Now the most famous solo that you have ever taken was on your first recording of I am in the Mood For Love. And then Eddie Jefferson a singer who was working with you wrote a lyric to your solo and that became the song known as Moody's Mood for Love. Let us hear the Eddie Jefferson version of Moody's Mood for Love his lyric to your solo.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG MOODY'S MOOD LOVE

Mr.   There I go there I go there I go there I go. Pretty baby you are the soul that snaps my control. Such a funny thing but every time you are near me I never can behave.

You give me a smile and then I am wrapped up in your magic. There is music all around me crazy music music that keeps calling me so very close to you turns me your slave.  anything baby just let me get next to you.

Am I insane or do I really see heaven in your eyes bright as stars that shine up above there in the clear blue sky? How I worry about you just cannot live my life without you. Baby come here do not have no fear. Oh they wonder why I am really feeling in the mood for love.

And tell me why...

 Now what impact did Moody's Mood for Love have on your career?

Mr.  Well if I do not do it to this day people said I have not been there. I think that goes to show you. Like no matter how much I practice if I do not say there I go there I go or play you know then it is like I have not been there.

But like I am not  it does not make me feel like oh I do not want to be doing this. I mean I love doing it. And it is been very good to me that solo. And I am honored and privileged I believe you know to be able to do it.

 Now I want to take a pause here and play something that is basically an outtake but it is such an entertaining outtake. And this is something you recorded in 1958. The tune is called The Moody One and you stopped...

Mr.  I goofed.

 Yeah.

Mr.  On the record date.

 Well let us play the outtake and hear the goof.

Mr.  I goofed. I goofed I goofed on the record and they left that in there yeah. I remember that.

 Here it is.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG THE MOODY ONE

Mr.   Better do it again . I goofed. Yes I goofed on the record.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

 Were your outtakes usually as entertaining as this one?

Mr.  Oh sure that is like the bloopers you know. Like that is just my blooper. That was my way of doing it you know. But anybody when they do something like that they always say something that is a little comical you know.

 Were you surprised that this actually ended up on the record?

Mr.  Well yeah because like you know finally they said Yeah we are going to leave it on there too. I said what? Yes we are going to  I do not care. And then I would go and play it. The people said I goofed I goofed on the record.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

 I want to ask you something else about Dizzy Gillespie. You were very close with Dizzy Gillespie. Were you close to him when he died?

Mr.  Yeah. We were with him. I had him in my arms. There was  John Faddis was there.

 The trumpeter.

Mr.  Yeah Jacques Mouliel and his son John Motley and myself. There were five of us in there with him when he passed. And you know what is funny? I told John I said John you mark my words 10 years from now there are going to be 50 people in the room with Dizzy Gillespie you know?

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Mr.  You know? And there was no music playing. There was nothing. I mean Dizz was just  he was just sitting there but you know trying to breathe deep trying to get his breath. And his eyes were closed you know what I mean? And yes he never opened them and finally he took the last one and that was  so yep that was it man.

 Was he conscious toward the end? Did he know that you were there?

Mr.  Well the night before he knew that we were there the night before because Mike Longo and myself we went to see him and we said Oop Pop a Da and he tried to mouth Oop Pop a Da. And then the thing he did was he took his finger and put it up to his lips and made his  tried to make his jowls go out like he usually did you know how he would do. You know and  but he was too weak. But we smiled you know and all like that. And I said Micko let us go man. We will come back tomorrow. I said that to Mike Longo you know.

So you know then when I went back the next day like he was in bed that night and then when I went back the next day he was sitting up. They had him in a chair sitting up. And he was you know trying to breathe. So anyway yeah. Yeah but I mean I just  it is not the same. Nothing was the same anymore without Dizz you know.

 You must feel like you owe so much of your career to him because he gave you your first job and then you played with him off and on for so long.

Mr.  Yeah I did when I was 21 years old my first gig yup yup. And even now like I tell people that  when they ask me they said Well what do you remember of Dizz?

I mean many things and what happened is sometimes I will say Ah that is what he meant. You know it might because everywhere that I have gone in the world no matter where it was I was there first with Dizz. Dizz took me everywhere first. I go to Africa Sweden Germany France all except Paris. I went there first alone but then after that everywhere else was with Dizz. And now when I go to those places and I am going boy I say Oh man.

And for the longest time I used to call my wife. I used to call Linda my honey and tell her I said Honey I called you and you were not home. You know? And she says Honey I have been home all day. I said Well I said but I called  and then I would say the number. And she would say Honey that is Dizzy's number.

 Oh wow.

 James Moody speaking to Terry Gross in 1996. The influential saxophone player died yesterday at age 85. I am David Bianculli and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli of tvworthwatching.com sitting in for Terry Gross.  Saxophonist James Moody died yesterday after suffering from pancreatic cancer. He was 85 years old. Moody first became known for his 1949 recording of I am In the Mood for Love. His reworking of that melody was so good it became the melody of a new song with a lyric by Eddie Jefferson called Moody's Mood for Love. Here's James Moody's original 1949 recording.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG I am IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE   James Moody began his career in 1947 in the early days of bebop playing with Dizzy Gillespie's big band. By the end of the '40s he would left the band and moved to Europe. Moody returned to the States in the early '50s to lead his own band. He played with Gillespie again during much of the '60s but in the '70s Moody left the jazz scene to work a steady job in a Vegas hotel band.  When he returned to the jazz world critic Gary Giddons wrote that there were few living musicians he enjoyed hearing perform more than Moody. Terry spoke with Moody in 1996 after the release of his delightful recording of songs associated with Frank Sinatra. Here's Moody singing on the title track Young At Heart.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG YOUNG AT HEART  Mr.   Fairy tales can come true. It can happen to you if you are young at heart. For it is hard you will find to be narrow of mind if you are young at heart.  You can go to extremes with impossible schemes. You can laugh when your dreams fall apart at the seams and life gets more exciting with each passing day and love is either in your heart or on its way.  Do not you know that it is worth every treasure on earth to be young at heart?   James Moody welcome to FRESH AIR. And I want to say that I think this new album is delightful and it is really delightful to hear you sing and to sing a song that is not a novelty song.  Mr.  You know when you have strings like that it makes you think you can sing you know.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER   What do you think of your voice?  Mr.  Well the funny thing is I am not as concerned with my voice as I am with my lisp that I have you know because I am partially deaf. And I was born that way and it does not mean that I have a speech impediment it is just that I do not hear S's so  because my wife always tell me when I am singing Mood for Love that I would say you give me a smile and it sounds like you are saying you give me a mile.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Mr.  When I am wrapped up in your magic you know in the lyrics.   Well has that held you back from singing? Are you selfconscious about that lisp?  Mr.  No really not at all because I say what I say. I have been doing it for 71 years talking. So if I say you know fairy tales can come true. You know I do not know too true. It can happen to you if you are young at heart.  SOUNDBITE OF SCAT SINGING   Oh I love that.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER   How old were you when you realized you had a hearing problem?  Mr.  I was born that way and I never realized it. I still have not realized it because I hear what I hear and that is it. See if you do not know what you are missing how can you say what I miss you know what I mean?  They were insistent that I wear a hearing aid because I would hear so much better and I put this hearing aid on and I am telling you I thought I was going to go nuts with the clanging and banging that I hear you know banging and you could hear the tires of the car. I said Oh my goodness if people hear this. I mean it is nervewracking.  So what I did was I turned it off. And they said Oh is not that much better? I said It certainly is.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Mr.  You heard that joke did not you Terry about the guy says Oh man he says boy I just spent 4000 on this wonderful hearing aid you know. And the guy said Yeah? What kind is it? The guy said It is 12 of the clock.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER   It took me a second right. So did music sound different with the hearing aid?  Mr.  Oh I would not dare do that. I would not dare put a hearing aide on and play music because if I put the hearing aid in then it is banging and clanging again or clinking yeah.   Tell us the story of the band that you played in in the Air Force and this was right after you got out of college.  Mr.  Well the band that played in the Air Force it was an unauthorized Air Force band because when I was in the Air Force it was segregated. So threequarters of the base was Caucasian and onequarter was Negro. And they wanted to have a Negro band. So they formed one.  And then Linton Garner Erroll Garner's brother he was drafted and he came to the base where we were and then Pop Reeves he was drafted and he wrote some things for Benny Goodman. And I never will forget Linton Garner one day he asked me he says Moody he said play this scale for me.  So I said  Da da da da da da da.  And he said Well. I said Well what? He said Is that it? I said Yeah. He said My boy you are in for a rude awakening.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Mr.  So anyway but little by  but you know I would like to say one thing Terry. When I was in Greenville North Carolina I was 18 years old right? And I was living in Newark New Jersey. Do you know that the German prisoners of war used to come into town and jump off the truck you know with the PW on their back and those hats and go into the restaurants and eat and we could not?   Wow.  Mr.  Yeah.   How did you feel about serving in the Air Force knowing that your own country would not let you into certain restaurants?  Mr.  Well what could you do? You see because in the first place like there was nothing  when I  after I left and went to Europe and would live I was living in France I would send my mother a letter and I would have on there it had like the land of the brave. I would put the land of the  you know or something you know USA. And my mother said Jim do not do that. I mean you will get in trouble you know.  But hey it was the truth you know because like it was their land not mine.   you joined the Gillespie big band after you got out of the Air Force.  Mr.  Yeah.   And it was a very innovative band. It was one of the first big bands really playing the new music of bebop. What was it like for you to be in this band? What were the most exciting parts of it for you?  Mr.  Well the most exciting about that band was when I grew older and found out where I was. When I first was in that band Thelonious Monk was the piano player. Ray Brown was the bass player. Milton Jackson was vibraharpist. Kenny  Klook Klookmop  Clarke he was the drummer. That was the rhythm section along with Howard Johnson Cecil Payne all the people like that.  Now if I would have known where I was like I would have fainted.   Sure.  Mr.  So I am glad I was naive. I did not  I was not that hip. So I did not know who I was. I mean I knew but I did not. You understand what I am saying?   Yes I do. And what was Dizzy Gillespie like as a bandleader? I think you have called him your musical father.  Mr.  Oh yeah. Dizz was wonderful man. Like we knew each other and was all right but I got to really know him better when I played in the quintet. But musically I mean he was a bad boy. He was bad.  And Dizz was always studying too. Like he would always  you know he would sit down at the piano and look at this look at that oh look at this. And he would stop me. He said Moody this is where everything is. See the piano? I do not care what the instrument is that is where it is trombone violin trumpet saxophone flute. This is where it is. You look at it and you see everything.  When you play the piano all the notes are laid out there for you you know and all those notes on every one of the instruments. So Dizz said You want to really know what is happening you learn the piano.   Did you? Did you learn it?  Mr.  Well I can play the changes yeah yeah yeah. I can sit down and I can pick out what I have to do.   Saxophonist James Moody speaking to Terry Gross in 1996. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.  SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC   Let us get back to Terry's 1996 interview with saxophonist James Moody. He died yesterday at the age of 85.   Your first solo was recorded with the Dizzy Gillespie Band. This tune is called Emanon which is no name spelled backwards. This is I think in 1947. Do you remember your solo on that record? Could you sing it?  Mr.  Yeah I remember it. I remember it because I was not supposed to take the solo. The baritone player was supposed to take it and he did not show up or something. And the solo was...  SOUNDBITE OF SINGING  Mr.  Something like that.   Now how come you remember it? Do you remember it from actually playing it or from listening to the record?  Mr.  No because a lot of times when we see each other like sometimes I am talking to Jimmy Heath and  section we called each other because he is a wonderful saxophoner. Some of the guys and we will talk and somebody says oh yeah man you remember Emanom? Do it again.  SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC  Mr.  And we would all sing it for a moment together.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG EMANOM   Now the most famous solo that you have ever taken was on your first recording of I am in the Mood For Love. And then Eddie Jefferson a singer who was working with you wrote a lyric to your solo and that became the song known as Moody's Mood for Love. Let us hear the Eddie Jefferson version of Moody's Mood for Love his lyric to your solo.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG MOODY'S MOOD LOVE  Mr.   There I go there I go there I go there I go. Pretty baby you are the soul that snaps my control. Such a funny thing but every time you are near me I never can behave.  You give me a smile and then I am wrapped up in your magic. There is music all around me crazy music music that keeps calling me so very close to you turns me your slave.  anything baby just let me get next to you.  Am I insane or do I really see heaven in your eyes bright as stars that shine up above there in the clear blue sky? How I worry about you just cannot live my life without you. Baby come here do not have no fear. Oh they wonder why I am really feeling in the mood for love.  And tell me why...   Now what impact did Moody's Mood for Love have on your career?  Mr.  Well if I do not do it to this day people said I have not been there. I think that goes to show you. Like no matter how much I practice if I do not say there I go there I go or play you know then it is like I have not been there.  But like I am not  it does not make me feel like oh I do not want to be doing this. I mean I love doing it. And it is been very good to me that solo. And I am honored and privileged I believe you know to be able to do it.   Now I want to take a pause here and play something that is basically an outtake but it is such an entertaining outtake. And this is something you recorded in 1958. The tune is called The Moody One and you stopped...  Mr.  I goofed.   Yeah.  Mr.  On the record date.   Well let us play the outtake and hear the goof.  Mr.  I goofed. I goofed I goofed on the record and they left that in there yeah. I remember that.   Here it is.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG THE MOODY ONE  Mr.   Better do it again . I goofed. Yes I goofed on the record.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER   Were your outtakes usually as entertaining as this one?  Mr.  Oh sure that is like the bloopers you know. Like that is just my blooper. That was my way of doing it you know. But anybody when they do something like that they always say something that is a little comical you know.   Were you surprised that this actually ended up on the record?  Mr.  Well yeah because like you know finally they said Yeah we are going to leave it on there too. I said what? Yes we are going to  I do not care. And then I would go and play it. The people said I goofed I goofed on the record.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER   I want to ask you something else about Dizzy Gillespie. You were very close with Dizzy Gillespie. Were you close to him when he died?  Mr.  Yeah. We were with him. I had him in my arms. There was  John Faddis was there.   The trumpeter.  Mr.  Yeah Jacques Mouliel and his son John Motley and myself. There were five of us in there with him when he passed. And you know what is funny? I told John I said John you mark my words 10 years from now there are going to be 50 people in the room with Dizzy Gillespie you know?  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Mr.  You know? And there was no music playing. There was nothing. I mean Dizz was just  he was just sitting there but you know trying to breathe deep trying to get his breath. And his eyes were closed you know what I mean? And yes he never opened them and finally he took the last one and that was  so yep that was it man.   Was he conscious toward the end? Did he know that you were there?  Mr.  Well the night before he knew that we were there the night before because Mike Longo and myself we went to see him and we said Oop Pop a Da and he tried to mouth Oop Pop a Da. And then the thing he did was he took his finger and put it up to his lips and made his  tried to make his jowls go out like he usually did you know how he would do. You know and  but he was too weak. But we smiled you know and all like that. And I said Micko let us go man. We will come back tomorrow. I said that to Mike Longo you know.  So you know then when I went back the next day like he was in bed that night and then when I went back the next day he was sitting up. They had him in a chair sitting up. And he was you know trying to breathe. So anyway yeah. Yeah but I mean I just  it is not the same. Nothing was the same anymore without Dizz you know.   You must feel like you owe so much of your career to him because he gave you your first job and then you played with him off and on for so long.  Mr.  Yeah I did when I was 21 years old my first gig yup yup. And even now like I tell people that  when they ask me they said Well what do you remember of Dizz?  I mean many things and what happened is sometimes I will say Ah that is what he meant. You know it might because everywhere that I have gone in the world no matter where it was I was there first with Dizz. Dizz took me everywhere first. I go to Africa Sweden Germany France all except Paris. I went there first alone but then after that everywhere else was with Dizz. And now when I go to those places and I am going boy I say Oh man.  And for the longest time I used to call my wife. I used to call Linda my honey and tell her I said Honey I called you and you were not home. You know? And she says Honey I have been home all day. I said Well I said but I called  and then I would say the number. And she would say Honey that is Dizzy's number.   Oh wow.   James Moody speaking to Terry Gross in 1996. The influential saxophone player died yesterday at age 85. I am David Bianculli and this is FRESH AIR. 