 To most of the world the American guitar genius Jimi Hendrix seemed to appear out of nowhere when he first caught on in England. The real story of course is different. He spent years on the Chitlin' Circuit taking any job he could get and recording with who ever he could before being discovered and whisked off to London. A new Legacy box West Coast Seattle Boy has recently been issued with four CDs and a DVD covering materials from throughout his career. Much of its music has been available only on bootlegs. The first CD will surprise many fans. It shows Jimi Hendrix as sideman to a number of artists. Rock historian Ed Ward has a review.  Unidentified Artist  I know that I will never love again. I know that I will be my only friend. But if I could I would like for you to see the lovesick  man I have turned out to be turned out to be.  One afternoon in the mid'60s I was on MacDougal Street in Greenwich Village when I heard some music coming out of the Gaslight Club. I stuck my head in to see a band doing a sound check and recognized John Hammond and his black backup band all wearing suits. The guitarist played his instrument upsidedown but it was too loud for me. And anyway they were not open yet and someone chased me away. That was the one time I saw Jimi Hendrix. He was with his band Jimmy James and the Blue Flames who did recording or backup work. They also played clubs as themselves and a few months later were doing just that across the street from the Gaslight at the Cafe Wha? where Chas Chandler former bassist for The Animals caught their show and asked the guitarist if he would like to go to England with him. It was the end of four years' struggle for Hendrix one which started when he and his friend Billy Cox got out of the Air Force in 1962 and went to Nashville to find work. Cox did okay but Hendrix was too odd for the local scene although he got some club work. In 1963 he said goodbye to Cox and headed to Harlem and eventually hooked up with a band from New Jersey.    I am a freak for music. It is in my soul. I cannot help it if it moves down to my toes. I said I am a witness. I am here to testify. I want to tell you all about it. I as not going to tell no lie. I feel the rhythm cha'll it is in my feet. Itchy heels baby. I feel the beat. Oh it is in my soul. It is in my soul ya'll. It is in my soul. Oh I want to testify. You cannot knock it if you have not tried it. If you feel it do not you try to hide it. Everybody throw your hands up. It just makes you want to shout. Do not be scared to let it all hang out. Oh if it is in your soul if it is in your soul if it is in your soul oh stand up and testify.  The Isley Brothers were from Teaneck and had had a huge hit in 1962 with Twist and Shout. Their gospelsoaked performances made them favorites on the road and Jimi joined their road band early in 1964 after recording the epic Testify which featured his unbridled guitar playing. It did not sell and when the Isleys' tour hit Nashville later that year Hendrix got off the bus and went back to working with Billy Cox. But before that he would gotten a chance to lay down a guitar part on what became a smash hit record by Don Covay.  Mr.   Have mercy have mercy baby. Have mercy have mercy on me. I went to see a gypsy and had my fortune read. She told you your baby's gonna leave you. Her back is packed up under the bed. Have mercy...  It is ironic to reflect that when The Rolling Stones recorded this song not long after Covay did they were playing Jimi Hendrix's guitar parts before anyone in England even knew who he was. From Nashville Hendrix went to Los Angeles where he hooked up with a soul singer named Rosa Lee Brooks and cut a single with her called My Diary which went nowhere. He hit the road shortly afterwards to join the band of a package tour with Sam Cooke Jackie Wilson and the Valentinos  which was Bobby Womack and his brothers. The tour stranded him in Kansas City but another band came through and took him to Atlanta where he wound up backing  and recording with  Little Richard on one of his most extraordinary singles.    You never treat me kind. You are poor honey all the time. You do not mean me no good. I would leave you if I only could. Baby I do not know what you got. Honey I do not know what you got but it is got me. I believe it is got me.  I am not sure how that session happened but the second voice there is Don Covay. Life in Little Richard's band was hard and although the single did okay the star was past his prime commercially. Hendrix wound up back in Harlem and got a call. The Isley Brothers were now signed to Atlantic. Would he like to record with them?    I know you like to dance. How about give somebody else a chance? I like to express myself. Get back you are ruining my hair. Oh move over honey let me dance. I need some room so I can really really work out now. Oh but if you do not move over then I cannot dance. I want to show you show you what it is all about now.  Only one single came out of it Move Over and Let Me Dance which shows signs of Hendrix's emerging style and the deepgospel Have You Ever Been Disappointed where Jimi channels Curtis Mayfield's reverbdrenched playing. And someone at Atlantic remembered the guitarist's phone number because in August 1965 not long after the Isley session he was asked to do a guitar part for a single by Ray Sharpe a Houstonbased soul singer who was recording for Atlantic.  Mr.  I want everybody to join in and help me get this feeling now. It is very easy. All you got to do is follow me. I want you to clap your hands.  Some singles for a New Jerseybased producer followed tours with Joey Dee and the Starliters and King Curtis kept a few dollars coming in and  whenever he could get booked  there were those Jimmy James and the Blue Flames gigs. Then in January 1967 came a single Fire recorded in London and the world changed.  Mr.  All right. Now dig this baby.  You do not care for me. I do not acare about that. You have got...  Rock historian Ed Ward reviewed West Coast Seattle Boy  The Jimi Hendrix Anthology. I am Terry Gross. 