 Our next guests collaborated on Winter's Bone a film that won the grand jury prize for drama at the Sundance Film Festival. It is winding up on a lot of end of year top 10 lists and it tops the best of 2010 list of our own film critic David Edelstein. Our guests are Debra Granik the director of Winter's Bone and Daniel Woodrell the author of the book on which the movie is based. Terry spoke with them earlier this year. Winter's Bone is set in the Ozarks in a poor community where people have turned to cooking meth to make a living. The main character Ree Dolly played by Jennifer Lawrence is a 17yearold girl. She is taking care of her two young siblings because her mother is mentally ill and her father who cooks meth has gone missing. After being arrested and putting up the family home for his bail bond he disappears. Unless Ree finds him she will lose the family's home and have nowhere to go. To find out where her father might be she goes to the homes of relatives and other people her fathers knows most of whom are also in the meth business. They are not interested in talking. In this scene Ree is looking for Thump Milton the leader of this meth underworld. As she approaches Thump's house she is met by his wife played by Dale Dickey.   Ms.   You got the wrong place I expect. Who might you be? Ms.   I am Ree. My dad's Jessup Dolly.  Ms.   You as not here for trouble are you? Ms.   No madam. Ms.   'ecause one of my nephews is Buster Leroy and did not he shoot your daddy one time? Ms.   Yes. But that as not got nothing to do with me. They settled that their selves I think. Ms.   Shooting him likely settled it. What is it you want? Ms.   I got a real bad need to talk with Thump. Ms.   And he as not got no need to talk to you.  Ms.   But I need to. I really really got to madam. Please. Some of our blood at least is the same. As not that supposed to mean something? Is not that what is always said? Ms.   As not you got no men could do this? Ms.   No madam. I do not.  Ms.   You go wait in the yard somewhere by that coop and I will tell Thump you are here. Ms.   Thanks.  That is a scene from Winter's Bone the movie adaptation by Debra Granik of Daniel Woodrell's novel. Debra Granik Daniel Woodrell welcome to FRESH AIR. Now the man that Ree the character in that scene is trying to see Thump Daniel Woodrell in your novel Winter's Bone you describe him as having a face that is a monument of Ozark stone with juts and angles and coldshaded parts the sun never touched. His voice held raised hammers and long shadows.   That is a man I do not want to meet.   Now that we heard a scene from the film Daniel Woodrell let me ask you to do a short reading from the book that the movie is adapted from. And this is another scene in which Ree is trying to find out what happened to her father now that he is skipped bail. And in this scene she goes to see her father's brother. Would you read that scene for us? Mr.  Sure. What is this all about anyhow? I got to find Dad and make sure he shows in court. That is a man's personal choice little girl. That is not something you ought to be butting your smarty nose into. Show or do not show that choice is up to the one's that going to jail to make not you. Uncle Teardrop was Jessup's elder and had been a crank chef longer but he would had a lab go wrong and it had eaten the left ear off his head and burned a savage melted scar down his neck to the middle of his back. There was not enough ear nub remaining to hang sunglasses on. The hair around the ear was gone too and the scar on his neck showed above his collar. Three blue teardrops done in jailhouse ink fell in a row from the corner of the eye on his scarred side. Folks said the teardrops meant he would three times done grizzly prison deeds that needed doing but did not need to be gabbed about. They said the teardrops told you everything you had to know about the man and the lost ear just repeated it. He generally tried to sit with his melted side to the wall.  That is Daniel Woodrell reading from his novel Winter's Bone which is adapted to the new film of the same name by Debra Granik.  Daniel what are some of the things you most wanted Debra to know about your area that you drew on for the novel and you felt that she needed to understand? Mr.  Well it is been a way of life for a long time. Im  to me the Ozarks was more or less settled by people who largely wanted to be left alone originally. And there is still just a strong thread of that running through a lot of the people who have been here awhile this sense of privacy and do not ask too many questions about other people's business. And there is so much physical beauty and yet it is always been difficult to make a living in the Ozarks. So there is a lot of the attendant poverty that goes along with that. And yet it is in such a beautiful setting that I really wanted her to appreciate that.  Debra what struck you most that you had not seen before? Ms.  I feel like I had not seen a variety of handbuilt houses. That was not familiar to me or houses that may have had one part built from another form of housing but yet a form of trailer or a kit house and then additions or small addons very much built as needed or as could be afforded. So the texture of people's homes were extremely rich and diverse.  Did you decide to shoot in actual homes? Ms.  We did choose to shoot in actual homes. It would have been a very difficult feat and probably with very little fruit to like imitate those homes or build a set that replicates it. Instead we did come to believe that the only way that we would get the film just jammed with visual detail that was very precise and very much from those coordinates where we were filming was to actually go the full tilt and say  could we over time gain access to collaborate with certain families and then work on their properties film. And that in the end meant like basically from A to Z. It was people's vehicles their clothing objects in their home.  Daniel Woodrell the missing father in your novel Winter's Bone cooks crank and everyone in the extended family seems to be involved in the business. Why did you want to write about characters who cook and sell meth? Mr.  Well it is been a pretty widespread issue around here for the last 15 or 20 years I suppose. And from my own house I could throw a rock and hit a meth cook right now. And it is just pretty ingrained and it is a way to make some quick easy money. You do not really have to be a master scientist to cook it or anything and you can turn a quick profit. And at one point we had a number of people nearby who were engaged. And when they have been using crank for a few days in a row you do not know what they might be  they might do. So  and all manner of things did happen.  Like what? Mr.  Broaddaylight violence. I used to have a neighbor who'd chase his girlfriendwife with a table leg after he would been up too long in the broad daylight down the middle of the road. And things like that were happening petty crime.  So when you saw your neighbor chase his wife with a leg of a table did you call the police or just let them to do their thing? Mr.  We went out.  Yeah. Mr.  My wife will not let me just stand there if somebody's going after his wife like that. So at one point in like two years we had six domestics that were so close to our front door we felt required to be the ones to go out and break it up. And that was all happening then and it has not happened again now in some years so  all associated with the burgeoning of meth in the neighborhood.  Daniel Woodrell and Debra Granik speaking to Terry Gross earlier this year. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   Let us get back to Terry's 2010 interview with filmmaker Debra Granik director of the awardwinning movie Winter's Bone and Daniel Woodrell author of the book on which the movie is based.  Debra your previous movie was about a woman who is a coke addict. She was played by Vera Farmiga and she is the mother of two  just as in your new movie Ree is the older sister of two children and she is basically bringing them up on her own. So it is that combination of taking care of children and drugs that hold these two movies together  that and the fact that the word bone is in the title of both of them.   So tell us why stories where drugs have an impact on a woman taking care of children are stories that you want to tell. Ms.  I in these situations the stakes are just so high when drug use is an issue and children are present so that the behaviors of a female who is responsible for children it is just the pressures to do the right thing are even higher. The responsibilities are even higher. And I think that part of what fuels Ree in Daniel's novel is that she does feel the stakes are high for her. It is not just whether she could go out and sort of make her way and escape a bad situation but that she does feel that she has these two young people that are very much tied to her their wellbeing is completely tied to her. And so I feel like in any novel or film the  that responsibility  that existential responsibility if you will raises the stakes of what that protagonist is going to do what choices she will make what moves she will make.  Daniel Woodrell in Esquire magazine in 2007 in the Esquire 100 issue you were number 63. And your entry was written by Benjamin Percy. And I want to quote what he had to say about your novels. He said Pick one up and you will find blood and hay barbed wire and whiskey a Ziploc bag of crank. You will find barroom brawls and trailerpark meth labs guns a stripper with peroxideblond hair. These are books for men.   I think that is kind of funny since Debra you adapted one of his books into a movie and really related to the fact that it had a strong woman character. So Daniel Woodrell is Ree an unusual character for you? Is it unusual for you to be telling a story from a woman's point of view? Mr.  Well in a way she is sort of the combination of  or an elaboration on some female characters that I have kind of written about all along usually in smaller roles. But I think I have always included a lot of women in my books and they are usually pretty potent women. But in this instance she just was clearly the straw that stirred everything here. And once I started writing on it she became more and more prominent and I realized it is basically going to be all her.  I do not want to give away too much of the movie so I will just say here that there is a scene where a couple of women beat up another woman. And then a man basically wants to know like did a man hit her? And so one of the women says  this is how she says it in the movie. She says No man hit her. I put the hurt on her. And then in the book the way she says it is No man here touched that crazy girl. I drubbed her good myself. So there seems to be almost a code here  that like bad for a man to hit a woman; okay for a woman to hit a woman.   Daniel is that the code? Mr.  Well I would not say it is code but I think there might be some ancient perception that that is a fair fight.  Right. Right. Is that why you did it that way? Mr.  Yes. Yes. And I have seen a few women brawls that were every bit as nasty as anything I have seen men do so it definitely happens.  Where did you witness them? Mr.  Just at different establishments around my life and places. And one was in the Ramada Inn parking lot  actually one of the most savage I ever saw in broad daylight.  What happened? Mr.  A finger got bit off.  Whoa.  Mr.  Yeah. And she spit it at the other woman's foot.  Oh no. Mr.  And I thought no I have not even seen guys do that.   Wow. That sounds  that sounds... Mr.  Well they were serious about wanting to hurt each other.  Sounds like she had some pretty sharp teeth among other things. Mr.  Yeah she did. She must have had to break it and gnaw a little to get it off.  Daniel I am going to ask you read another page from your novel Winter's Bone. And in this paragraph Ree Dolly your main character the 17yearold who is taking care of her two young siblings is thinking about and worrying about her sibling's future. Mr.   Ree's grand hope was that these boys would not be dead to wonder by age 12 dulled to life empty of kindness boiling with mean. So many Dolly kids were that way ruined before they had chin hair groomed to live outside square law and abide by the remorseless bloodsoaked commandments that governed lives led outside square law. There were 200 Dollys who were living within 30 miles of this valley. Some lived square lives many did not but even the squareliving Dollys were Dollys at heart and might be helpful kin in a pinch. The rough Dollys were plenty peppery and hardboiled toward one another but were unleashed hell on enemies scornful of town law and town ways clinging to their own.  So in your novel Winter's Bone Ree the main character is considering joining the military. You were in the Marines. Why did you enlist? Mr.  I was getting in just a little bit of mischief and it seemed like the military would be a good idea all the way around. So I went in the week I turned 17 and both my parents thought it was a good idea. So it removed me from the scene for a while.  But it sounds like it did not work out the way you expected. Mr.  No there was trouble to be found there as well. And as my father so often said I found it so.  When did you start to write? I presume it was after you got out of the Marines? Mr.  That is when I began to more seriously investigate it. It I was always attracted to the idea I always loved books and my mother made sure I knew how to read before I went off to school. And I knew pretty early on that I would like to be a writer if it was possible. It really was not until my early 20s that I really decided to dedicate myself to it full tilt and see if in fact you had the ability to do it.  How did you figure out what you were going to write about? Mr.  For a long time I wrote stories about working class life. And I had a professor say you know that is always going to be hard when you just do straightforward kind of kitchensink realism. And as I let that sink in for a couple of years I began to realize there were other kinds of fiction I also liked that could almost blend. They almost  they complimented each other really. Social...  Who were you thinking of? Mr.  Well social realist fiction and crime fiction have a nice overlap. So I was turned on by all the writers in the canon but I was also always turned on by James M. Cain and Chandler and Thompson and all the others.  A lot of book critics in their reviews have mentioned that you should be better known than you are. That is kind of like a common refrain about you.  Mr.  Yes.  Sure you have heard that song sung a lot.  Mr.  Uhhuh.  So you know it often works that once a movie's made if it is adapted from a book the author of that book becomes a lot better known. Are you hoping for that with this movie? Mr.  I think it is unavoidable now so I have decided to hope for it.   Well I hope you get it. Mr.  Right. Thank you.  Well I want to thank you both so much for talking with us. Debra Granik congratulations on your new film Winter's Bone which is adapted from my other guest Daniel Woodrell's novel of the same name. Thanks very much to you both. Mr.  Oh thank you so much. Enjoyed it. Ms.  Thank you.  Filmmaker Debra Granik and author Daniel Woodrell speaking to Terry Gross earlier this year. She directed the movie version of his book Winter's Bone and the film is landing on several end of year Top 10 lists.  You can join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter at nprfreshair. And you can download Podcasts of our show at freshair.npr.org. For Terry Gross I am David Bianculli.   On the next yles of the lonely and aimless. Stephen Dorff tells us about playing Johnny Marco in Somewhere a film about a Hollywood actor who examines his life after a visit from his daughter. We will also talk with Sofia Coppola who wrote and directed the movie. Join us for the next FRESH AIR.  