 Hey you all. Before we start the show I want to tell you about a new way that you can support this podcast keep this show going and also help out local public radio stations. If you go to this website donate.npr.orgsam you can find a local station of your choosing and support it. And that will also support this show and keep it coming to you every week for free. What I did not say Tuesday is that this is not just a giving challenge. It is a competition between me and other NPR podcast hosts to drive the most donations. I will tell you more on that later in the show. But basically let us win this thing you all. Go to donate.npr.orgsam. Keep this show going. Support local public radio and make me smile. Thank you.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show host of The Nod from Gimlet Media Brittany Luse and from FiveThirtyEight Politics and ESPN's 30 For 30 Jody Avirgan. All right let us start the show.   This here is a remarkable...  Hey you all. This is NPR's Sam Sanders here - It is BEEN A MINUTE. Each week we start with a different song. I will explain this song in a second. But first joining me from NPR studios in New York City while I am here in D.C. Brittany and Jody. Hello.  Hello.  Hello - whoa.  Thanks for being here.  Sorry let me do that one more time.  .  Hello.  Keep the first take in there...   Holy crap.  ...So we can prove to the Internet that Jody's not perfect.  I thought I did all my coughing in advance of the taping. But no.  Do you guys know this song?  Yeah. I - the last time that I heard it I think I was at a party for people who are age 30 and over.   I say that because I am age 30. But yeah it was definitely like you could see the people who had been brought along by older friends because they were like 23 and they were like Bad Boy what?  .  Who? Huh? What?  Well I am playing this song in honor of the royal wedding that is coming up between Meghan Markle and Prince Harry the redhead.  Yes hot ging . Prince Hot Ging.  .    Meet me at the altar in your white dress. We as not getting no younger so we might as well do it.  So this is So So Def remix of the Jagged Edge classic Let us Get Married.   Let us get married. Baby let us get married.  I love this song because there is a rap in the song from Run-D.M.C. member Reverend Run.    What is going on across the sea? It as not nothin'. I as not frontin'. Shorty coming with me.  .  Brittany is mouthing along.  You know the words? Rap it.  No I just - I mean...    Girl you done made me change my life.   Change my life.    Keys to the Bentley. Now they call you the preacher's wife.   Call you the preacher's wife.   Is it weird that my secret hope is that as he is walking down the aisle Prince Harry busts out this rap?  Yeah.  That should not be a secret hope.   That is a public hope.  That is a public hope.  That is a public hope.    We as not getting no younger. We might as well do it. Been feeling you all the while girl I must confess.  Well you guys I am so glad you are here. You both left your own podcasts for a bit to talk with me. Jody from ESPN's 30 For 30 also the FiveThirtyEight's Politics podcast. Brittany with her wonderful podcast at Gimlet all about black culture called The Nod. Thanks for taking a break from those endeavors to chat with me today.  Of course.  No problem. Like it is...  We have got so much to talk about.  I am...  I am so excited.  I am a big fan of both your podcasts.  Man...  And I am not just saying that to say that though I would say it just to say it even if it was not true. But it is true.  Thank you.  Yeah.  That is like...  I was on a long road trip recently in Texas. And I played a lot of The Nod. And let me tell you the Drake episode was just the pinnacle.  .  All right. We are here to talk about what happened this week - more movement from Republicans on a big tax bill more sexual harassment literally everywhere and other stuff as well. But as we tape this we got to say the week is not over yet for us. We are taping the show at 10 a.m. on Friday. And we just learned that Michael Flynn - he was a former Trump national security adviser - he is pleading guilty to lying to the FBI about his conversations with Russia's ambassador to the U.S. So there is one more wrinkle in this whole Russia investigation. By the time you listeners hear this you will probably know more about it than we know now. But we wanted to mention that so you would know where we are coming from. I do not know what to make of this news. More to come I am sure right?  Yeah. I mean look I am processing this at the same time. I just got to the same four news alerts that everyone else did.  .  I will say that like it is always worth reminding people that these are slow-moving things.  Exactly.  So we have these big moments where everyone's attention - but you know they - generally investigations like this at least if you look at sort of history - they do not happen you know boom boom boom boom boom. The pace can speed up. The pace can slow down.  Yes.  And it is always just worth reminding people of that - that this - you know this can take a while.  Yeah. That is because I think that like a lot of people process stories like this long after they have already kind of been tied up through like movies and television - you know what I am saying?  .  There is like a lot of fictional depictions of things that are similar to this. But in real life - like when you are not trying to pay attention to like you know how an audience is going to digest a narrative - in real life you are just following trails of information. And trails of information can go in any direction. And it is just kind of like I do not - I have actually recently turned my news notifications back on.  Oh.  And I am actually not regretting it.  Yeah.  I think I needed a little bit of a break. And now I am kind of back into it. But it is just important to take it with a grain of salt - that like just because there is like a bombshell on Friday does not mean that next Tuesday Donald Trump is going to be walking out of the White House in handcuffs.  Exactly. So let us begin the show as we always do. We each have to describe this week of news and how it felt in only three words. Brittany you are up to this challenge. I feel it. What are your three words?  OK. So my three words are keep it coming. I felt like - OK so obviously since October it is just really been a deluge like even if...  Deluge of what?  ...You really think about it - a daily trickle of a new sexual predator losing his job...  Yeah.  ...Or at least getting found out...  Yeah.  ...Which is like part frustrating and saddening when you think about like you know survivors or victims of you know these guys' crimes. But also it also does kind of get me to do just a little bit of a Crip walk to work. Like...  Really?  .  ...I am just so happy when these dudes get fired. You do not even know. But for me I just really want to keep this coming and keep the conversation like going on because I could not help but think about Ann Curry...  Oh yeah.  ...When I thought about Matt Lauer this week...  Or Tamron Hall...  Or Tamron Hall.  ...Who I miss every day.  I miss her every day. I mean...  Former host of the show.  Yeah I know. But the thing I keep thinking about is Ann Curry was all but pushed out of her position on the Today show through like bullish behavior - really ridiculous really nasty behavior.  And she called out the kind of boys' club culture of that show.  Exactly the words that she used. And like a lot of times the boys' club nature of a show go hand in hand with other types of abusive behavior. Do you know what I mean?  Oh yeah.  And the thing I keep thinking about is people keep talking about men like Louis C.K. or Matt Lauer or Harvey Weinstein or Charlie Rose as sort of like these you know - these fallen heroes or these men who have you know legacies that have now been besmirched. But my thought is like you - if the only way that you can maintain your power is through abuse and through assault and through bullying then you were never savvy enough or good enough to have that position in the first place.  Yeah.  Also this notion that there is you know only one person in the world who could do that job. And when we have lost the you know - often the white man who was doing that job - that you know it is going to be impossible to find someone to replace them or whatever. I mean you know I have been somewhat heartened that the conversation has turned at least in some circles to this notion of lost opportunity for so many people.  Exactly.  It is not just about the predatory behavior and the sort of awful - you know the awful behavior by these men. But it is about the ripple effect of that and all of the things - all of the women who did not get opportunities all of the women who would be stars...  Exactly.  ...That we do not know about because of this. And you know I think that we are having a real conversation about that in addition to sort of you know having a skip in our heels as we see these men fall.   What I keep watching is how the men react and what statements they issue once they are called out.  Can I actually like start to float a half-baked idea that I have been a little afraid to say out loud...  Say it.  We are open.  ...But I am going to say it out loud here...  Do it.  ...To you two. I am curious if we think there is a good response possible. I mean you know there is part of me that says no you did these things like you do not get to have an opportunity to have a good response to these allegations or to losing your job. But we have seen a big variety of responses all of which have spelled unsatisfactory.  Yeah.  And I wonder if either of you feel like there is something that someone can say in that moment where we...  I mean not really.  ...Would not react that way.  It is like asking Judas for a good response after he...  Right.  ...Got the thirty pieces of silver.  Yeah.  It does not matter. It is been done.  That was a Bible reference that I do not know.  You know this. Oh my - come on Brittany.  Yeah. But you get the gist?   Were you raised Christian?  I get the gist. I was. And I tell you...  Judas killed Jesus...  Judas killed Jesus with a kiss.  I feel like that is pretty high on the list of story.  Yeah. And then he got 30 pieces of silver for doing that.  Now that is something I did not know. There you go. Easter explained. But no. Jody to your point that is a question that I think about a lot. And to me I think that like there is no good verbal response. People actually - they just do not want to hear from you.  Exactly.  Yeah.  They want you to go away.  Go away.  They want to go away. But some of the things that really motivated this behavior which is like a fear of loss of power and loss of money - you still have that power and that money and I want that. That is the thing that I want - I am like why do not you come - like to me you should be required when you are fired - you should be like OK - someone needs to work with you. And you need to come up with a list of - I do not know - 30 women and people of color that should have your job instead of you.  Yeah.  Then I will be like OK I am feeling this.  Jody you are up next. Describe your week of news and such in only three words.  The three words I came up with are forest for trees.  OK.  You know it is no great insight on my part to point out that like we are living in head-spinning times where it is kind of a little hard to tell which stories are of consequence and which are just the freak-out of the moment. But this week I thought was particularly one where it was a little hard to parse that. And you know I think there are some pretty distracting trees out there often in the form of tweets from our president. But you know as I was saying earlier I think it is important to try and really figure out what are the real conversations that deserve the time and the sort of mental energy? And what are the things that you know - I do not like that word distraction actually because I think everything you know is important. But some - you can only sort of allocate your mental space and our sort of collective energy on so many things. And you know I think I am obligated to talk about polling since I work for the FiveThirtyEight Politics podcast.  You are not. You are not. But you can.  But I am going to Sam.   OK.  But no. I think one prime example of this is actually in polling and in particular this Alabama senate race. We have seen a lot of people sort of glomming onto individual polls last week showing that the Democrat was up and this week showing that Roy Moore is coming back into the lead.  And now Roy Moore...  Yeah sorry.  For those who have forgotten possibly he is been accused of sexually I guess assaulting several teenage girls when he was in his 30s.  So you know last week there were some polls that showed Doug Jones up the Democrat. And the next week there are some polls that showed Roy Moore up the Republican. Obviously whether Roy Moore wins by two points or loses by two points has an effect on whether there is someone who is accused of sexual predation in the Senate. But in a larger sense whether Roy Moore wins by two points or loses by two points as a Republican in a state where you would expect the Republican to win by 20 points that is a force that we should keep our eye on in terms of understanding the sort of national political climate. Like regardless of whether he wins or not this race says a lot about the state of the GOP.  But I want to push back a little bit...  Sure.  ...Because Roy Moore is a very unique candidate. He is accused of sexually assaulting several teenage girls. Not every Republican that runs for Senate in 2018 will have that same baggage.  But people are forgetting that this race was really close even before those allegations about Roy Moore. This was within a few points. And so I think there are some tea leaves here about 2018. And you know I would say for a lot of Democrats who may find themselves disheartened if Roy Moore - for good reason - if Roy Moore wins by a couple of points there is still nevertheless another broader storyline here that I think is probably baked in. I mean we will see. If Roy Moore ends up winning by 15 points then you know we are back to...  Yeah.  ...Kind of changing our priors as we were discussing before. But I think this race does say a lot about the national picture. And you know to be perfectly honest I think it means that - I think it says a lot about how screwed the GOP might be going into 2018.  So my three words are still not there. And I am talking about this GOP tax bill. As of this taping of the show on Friday morning it seems like this tax cut bill will pass the Senate. But - and this is a big but - there are still some steps left in this process before that bill becomes a law. The Senate bill and the House version of that bill have to be reconciled. And there are a lot of things in the House bill that may not survive that final reconciliation process. There is also still some really huge issues in the Senate at least about just how much these cuts will cost and how much it will affect the deficit. And to make it even more challenging for the GOP some of the senators at play here that could decide this bill's fate - they are not up for re-election. They also do not like Trump that much either. So the GOP is rushing to get this done this month because they really do not have any big key signature bills that they have passed in this entire year. And do not forget we also might face a government shutdown next week.  Yeah. We will see what happens with this bill. But we may come out of 2017 with very little signature legislation. And I mean I think the - you know by all indications as soon as we get to 2018 we are back in campaign mode. You know it is not like Congress is going to get a bunch done.  Yeah.  They are going to be right in campaign mode. And it will be very interesting to see what all these elected officials are going to be touting when they are back home and there is not much to tout.  All right. Time for a quick break. Coming up more news of the week a long-distance call to a police officer. And if you stick around later we will hear from listeners sharing the best thing to happen to them all week. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders and we will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders talking today with two rock stars Brittany Luse from Gimlet us The Nod. Hi.  Hello.  And Jody Avirgan from the FiveThirtyEight Politics podcast and also ESPN's 30 For 30. Hello.  Hello there.  All right guys. Quick yes-or-no answer. This week the No. 1 movie in theaters is Coco. It is a big hit. Critics love it. It pays homage to Mexican and Latino culture. It is a great thing. But Pixar who made the film is getting lots of beef because before the film showed in theaters there was a thing that viewers had to sit through. There was a 21-minute Frozen short that you had to watch before the movie. Apparently everyone hated it. Turns out this Frozen short was actually a half-hour Frozen TV special that never made it to TV.   So my question for you guys - would you ever sit through 21 minutes of something else that was not the movie that you paid to see before you got to the film that you paid to see? Yeah...  I mean...  ...Or no?  Yeah I probably would.  I do want to say that many times the shorts that run in front of Pixar films...  Are so good.  ...Are fantastic.  Because they are seven or eight minutes long.  But because they are seven or eight minutes. Twenty-one is a lot of action.  You could give me 21 minutes of Beyonce and Jay-Z redoing their vows. I am still like if I did not pay for that I do not want to see it.  What if the lights go low...  Where is my movie?   What if the lights go low and they play the first 21 minutes of this podcast?  Ugh.   I was going to say I think a lot of people...  I am not paying 13 for no podcast episode.   I was just about to say my podcasts are online for free.  For free 99.  For free.  Exactly. Anyway - apparently they have already pulled the Frozen short from the film. Mexico theaters were like we will not show this. So they just stopped.  .   Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance.   We call a listener somewhere in the world and talk to them about the news. Today on the line we have listener Charlie Velasco . Charlie you there?  Yes I am here.  Hey Charlie. How are you?  I am doing good. I am doing good.  Good good. First of all you are on the phone with me and two of my friends Brittany and Jody.  Hey.  Hi Charlie.  Hi Brittany. Hi Jody.  So we should say the service is a bit spotty because we are reaching you in Puerto Rico right?  Yes correct. I am in a little town called Humacao in Puerto Rico.  OK. How is it going out there?  It is great. I work with Las Cruces Police Department out of New Mexico. And we got asked by FEMA to come out and assist their state police officers.  Wow. So what does that have you doing every day?  Initially when we - essentially we did not know what we were going to do. But once we touched ground they have no lights. They have no service. They have no electricity. So we are running basic intersections. And we are helping people get to the places they need to be - get there safe and get there on time.  So like crossing-guard-type stuff.  Yes.  So just to give people context and the reason we called you this week Charlie - it is been almost three months since Hurricane Maria and Hurricane Irma hit Puerto Rico. And the island is still suffering. It is about - they said about 50 percent power generation right now which means among many other things there are no streetlights.  Yes no streetlights whatsoever. And everyone's trying to go to a bank. Everyone's trying to buy gas for their motors. Everyone's trying to get food. And we are just trying to get them there safe.  So many folks from your squad are out there?  There are six of us.  OK.  We have Sergeant Allen Sergeant Quezada Officer Prado Officer Herrera Officer Soto and myself.  How long will you guys be out there?  We got sent here on November 10 - what was supposed to be a two-week stay.  Oh.  When we got here FEMA and Puerto Rico state police asked for an extension. So we will be staying until December 9.  Wow.  Charlie can I ask you a question? How much does it feel like you are still in crisis recovery mode? And how much does it feel like you have settled into some new normal?  This is a complicated question because when you drive around there is no lights. Some places are abandoned. Roads are destroyed. Buildings are down. But then you meet the people. And you talk to the people. And the hospitality and their spirit is so up that it is a contrast to what you are seeing. And there is a saying around here that you see all over the places - it says Puerto Rico  which means it stands up on its own. And it is basically what it is doing. Little by little they are getting back to normalcy.  Yeah. You know it is so interesting because we hear these stories about the recovery still going on in Puerto Rico. But there is this other plot as well. Like so many Puerto Ricans have left the island and might not come back. When you talk to Puerto Ricans is there this feeling that the island may not ever be the same like the population might be drastically decreased for a while?  No. No. Actually I have heard people left.  OK.  There is a  that I am working with at the police force who sent out his son 16 years old. He sent him to Indiana to live with family members.  Wow.  But he sent him because he currently has no power and water. And he wanted his son to live a normal life in the next year and go to school.  Yeah.  He said you are going to return. And they will come back. And I have asked people do you think Puerto Rico's going to be the same as it was before the hurricane? And they said yes.  I am wondering Charlie so just some background - so my boyfriend is from Puerto Rico. He moved here from San Juan five years ago to get his master's degree.  OK.  And his parents still live in San Juan. So I hear so many different stories from people in different positions about what is going on in Puerto Rico. And I am wondering from you out in Humacao what do you think the thing - the No. 1 thing is that news coverage is getting wrong?  Getting wrong. I would say how fast Puerto Rico is bouncing back from such a tragic disaster - and in the sense of when we - when I left the United States when I left New Mexico to come here I thought I was going to come into like total destruction. We have all seen the pictures of the palm trees...  Yeah.  ...And trees that are just bare.  Yeah.  But there is a lot more green that I have seen in the - since I got here three weeks ago. So I think the news is not covering how fast Puerto Rico is coming back together and the spirit that the people have.  Wow. Well that is good to hear.  Yeah it is really good to hear. It is getting there. It is getting there.  Yeah. But it is still - I mean - there are still some I guess troubling statistics. There is still - what? - hundreds if not thousands that are in shelters still. What is it? Fifty percent capacity of power right now. We do not even know at this point what the ultimate death count is going to be. There is still some unknowns.  There is a lot of unknown. And people here have been telling me that - oh actually you reminded me - they told me that the death count is one thing that the news is getting wrong because they do not know what happened to those people. They do not know where those people are.  Yeah.  And yeah places like San Juan like Ponce - the bigger city areas are bouncing back a lot faster. But the more rural areas - those places are the ones that are hurting the most right now.  Well I hope you get to take a little time off this weekend. But thank you so much for the work that you are doing. And stay strong.  Thank you Sam.  Take care Charlie.  Thank you.  Thanks.  Bye.   Listeners we want to talk to you for this segment. If you want us to give you a call and hear about anything in your neck of the woods just drop me a note. Tell me what is going on - SamSandersNPR.org. It is time to talk about our main story of the week. It is a thing that we did not see as much in the headlines this week but it is still worth talking about because it is going to affect all of our lives. I am talking about net neutrality. Basically the idea is that Internet service providers cannot discriminate about the speed or access to any one site or part of the Internet. Everything on the net should be treated equally by these ISPs basically. And we are talking about this because on December 14 the FCC - Federal Communications Commission - led by Ajit Pai - they are set to drastically change how the government enforces these ideals of net neutrality. Basically they want to take away a lot of the regulation move the regulation from the FCC to the Federal Trade Commission and kind of push more towards a free-market approach. And a lot of folks are very very mad about that. And you have been hearing some hypotheticals that make it seem as if the world will end if these rules roll back. So I wanted to spend some time now - if you guys are OK with it - to go over three big misconceptions about net neutrality. How long do you think this idea of net neutrality has been a thing?  Maybe - I think it is been like - what? - 20 almost 25 years.  I mean legally this FCC ruling would be about a 2010 and a 2015 law but I do not know if the concept of net neutrality...  Yeah the...  ...How far back that goes.  So this is the thing. This is one of the big misconceptions. A lot of people that want to roll back the Obama era rules they kind of assume that Obama made it up.  I think the biggest misconception is that this is an Obama administration invention.  I talked to Tim Wu. He teaches at Columbia Law School and he actually created the term net neutrality. He basically told me that this idea has been around for decades - at least since the '70s. If you parse it pretty carefully even before. But this idea that the Internet should be free and neutral that is been around. And he also told me that the concept of net neutrality was enforced by the Bush administration - George W. Bush - but they did not call it net neutrality. Because they are Republicans they called it...  Net freedom.  Net freedom.  Freedom.  Oh God.  Yeah well not surprising - I mean it is interesting. That word freedom can kind of be embraced by both sides of this argument. You know you could say net freedom as in the Internet should be a free space in which there is an equal exchange of ideas and access. But you can also say freedom from a marketplace standpoint where you know we let the free market sort it out and there are going to be winners and losers in the classic free market sense. But I do like your first point reminding us that this is like a more fundamental conversation about what the net should be.  Should be.  Exactly.  And I think that a lot of early thinkers of - about the Internet - you know people who grew up in an era when that - there was this incredible promise of the Internet being this place for free democratic exchange of ideas have seen over the last 30 years-plus you know that kind of slowly slowly erode. And this I do not think is going to be the determining factor. I mean I think this last election - certainly the last couple years - has shown us that the notion of a free completely democratic Internet is not there regardless of the specific rulings around net neutrality.  Yeah you know in talking about how Obama changed all of this - his FCC they did classify the Internet differently which allowed them to regulate it further. They basically argued in court that broadband Internet is a utility.  Yeah.  ...That it is a necessity for modern life and because of that they can regulate it even more. And that is really what the utility companies now are pushing against and what Pai the current chairman says that he really really hates.  I mean do you guys buy that argument - to think of this you know - to change the paradigm and start thinking of this as a utility or start thinking of this as sort of an infrastructure thing that you know government has tended to have a role in those moments?  You know every time I want to think that I think about some auntie in my family or some cousin who just like does not use the Internet. So it is like people do live without it.  They do live without it. But I think about like - so I recently turned 30 and now I can like regularly look into other people's faces and just see how much younger they are than I am.  .  And like by the time my kids let us say are in high school the - there is going to be a population shift in the United - like enough of a population shift enough changes in technology - and God I just think about smart homes and it is like - and like how that is something that is slow - like that used to be a Disney Channel original movie.  Yeah.  Yeah in like the late '90s - and now it is actually becoming a reality. By the time...  All of our life is The Jetsons.  All of our life is The Jetsons. By the time my children are in high school it is going to be increasingly difficult to say that it is not a utility in like at least the nominal sense.  That is true. That is true.  I mean Sam think about your auntie. I mean a few generations ago you may have had - we may have all had you know an auntie who did not have a paved road in their neighborhood.  Yeah.  You know and then we had you know a government provide that. And so I think that there is some analogies there.  True true. Second misconception - this idea that anyone knows what happens next this idea that anyone actually knows what is going to happen once these rules are rolled back. I talked to Cecilia Kang. She covers tech for The New York Times and she basically said beware of any hypothetical that is too hyperbolic.  What I do hear is that immediately you are going to see big change. You are going to see sites that are blocked. You are going to see stifling of speech. And I am fairly confident that the companies would not want to do that because their consumers would not stand for it.  Lots of advocacy groups say well as soon as Comcast can block their competitor they will block their competitor. And the next day you will not be able to access large portions of the Web. That is probably not going to be the case.  No. It is rare that in any type of industry that you can just make a grand sweeping change like that especially one that like - that consumers so directly interact with all of the time you know?  Oh yeah because they will call you.  Exactly. They will call you. They will blow you up. So I think that like on some level I do think that like the industry is beholden to like its consumers. But I do not know. It is like boiling a lobster. Do you know what I am saying? It is like by the time you realize that you are hot you are about to die.  You are really hot.  Exactly. And so I think it is just going to be - I do not think that anything's going to happen overnight. I just think there is going to become maybe you know the type of future that was described in the tape is something that could exist 10 years from now but it is not going to happen like next April.  Yeah. What lots of folks that I talked to say will probably happen in the next few months once these rules are rolled back is you will start to see kind of a tiered pricing model for access to certain sites. So like your Internet service provider might say this base package gives you X Y Z but if you add 15 bucks a month you also get fast Netflix access.  Like cable.  Exactly. It is going to be cable-ified .  ...Like how I do not have OWN.  Yeah well...  ...Even though I pay 85 dollars a month .  .  So one thing - it is funny that in the cable world where see people obsessed with unbundling and then in this world that notion of everything being tiered and split out is the kind of - is the clarion call that people are really worried about. I know that they are not pure sort of one-to-one metaphors but I also do think that we are going to see some backlash to the unbundling. Then all the people who have been calling for TV unbundling are going to start to realize like oh wait now I am lost in a sea where I have to pay like you know X amount for this HBO GO and then X amount for Netflix and X amount for this. An