 One of the music highpoints of the year on our show was Catherine Russell's performance. I consider her one of the best jazz and blues singers around which is not to say she is wellknow  she is not. She worked for years as a backup singer for Paul Simon Steely Dan David Bowie and others. But for the past few years she is been performing and recording under her own name. A lot of the material she does is jazz blues and pop dating back to the 1930s and '40s. Her father Luis Russell was a pianist composer and arranger worked as Louis Armstrong's music director in the mid1940s. Her mother Carline Ray performed with the allwomen's band The International Sweethearts of Rhythm. Catherine Russell came to our studio after the release of her album Strictly Romancin. Accompanying her was Matt Munisteri who plays on the album and served as its music director.    Everything's been done before. To share a kiss a moment's bliss and hear you whisper you love me sweetheart it is thrills as old as the hills but it is new to me. Oh everything has been done before. The birds that sing the song of spring always sing above me yet with you their singing is something that is new to me.  Life is strange. We hate to change from what is tried and true. Although I know I am only doing what the others do yet it all seems new. Oh everything's been done before. To fall in love with stars above began with Adam and Eve but when I am with you I just want to do what is been done before.  That was fabulous. Thank you so much for performing that. That is Catherine Russell singing in our studio accompanied by Matt Munisteri on guitar. Thank you so much. That is so  I love your voice so much. I love a lot of early jazz and pop and one of the things I love about your work is that you love that music and you bring it to life in such a beautiful and committed way.  Thank you very much.  And you know the language of it. I mean I think a lot of singers do not have the right rhythm when they sing old songs because they grew up with rock and they just do not feel a jazz rhythm. But you grew up with jazz.  I grew up with jazz but I grew up with rock too. I grew up with blues. I grew up with classical. My mother had an old radio in the kitchen when I was growing up and we used to listen to William B. Williams Make Believe Ballroom.  On WNEW in New York. Yes.  On WNEW yeah AM. Every morning I was listening to Ella the Mills Brothers Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme Judy Garland whatever. Peggy Lee everything that was popular of the day which  and before that. So that was late '50s early '60s now. So that really kind of formed my appreciation of phrasing of how the people sang these tunes in those days. So I always you know was in the mirror with a toothbrush when I was a little girl trying to sing these songs and everything.   Now I grew up with that radio station too because my parents listened to it. And I hated it then. I really hated it because I wanted to hear rock 'n' roll.  Yeah.  But you grew up with parents who were jazz performers.  Yes.  You know your father the late Luis Russell was Louis Armstrong's music director for a while. Your mother sang with the International Sweethearts of Rhythm during World War II.  Yes.  Which is an allwomen jazz band. And so did the fact that they loved the music bring the music alive for you?  Yes. My dad's music was some of the first music I ever heard in the house growing up and my mother was so happy that I kind of took to it you know when I was very little because I liked to dance and I loved swing. And so yes I would say that their appreciation of traditional and different types of jazz kind of formed my young ears with that.  Were they determined to get you to love the music? Did they play you things and hope that you would love it?  No. You know mom played a lot of different things. So she is happy that I did but she also let me listen to a lot of things that she did not particularly like. I grew up on American Bandstand so if there were groups on there  she never told me oh turn that stuff off I hate it. Never. She always let me listen to my Led Zeppelin records loud.   You know. So she you know got me a little stereo and I had it you know the kind that you pick up and I had that in my room when I was growing up. And she never said turn that down I hate it this is terrible. She always let me listen to everything I wanted to listen to.  We are listening back to an excerpt of Catherine Russell's interview and performance. There is more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   Let us get back to an excerpt of the Catherine Russell concert and interview recorded last February in our studio after the release of her album Strictly Romancin'. Matt Munisteri was with her to accompany her on guitar. So I would like you to do another song that is featured on the new album. And this one is called Romance in the Dark. And I have to say it is a very sexy song especially the way you sing it.  Thank you.  So tell us why you chose the song.  It is just such a  I love the blues. And I just love the pictures that the song creates with the lyric.  In the dark it is just you and I. Not a sound baby not one sigh. Just the beat of my poor heart in the dark. In the dark I get such a thrill when he places his fingertips upon my lips and he begs me please be still in the dark.  Oh soon this dance will be ending and I know baby you are gonna be missed. Gee you know I am not pretending 'ecause you know it is fun fun to be kissed in the dark. I know we will find what the rest what the rest what the rest have left behind. So just let them dance while we find romance in the dark. Yeah.  Oh soon this dance will be ending and I know pretty baby you are gonna be missed. Ah honey but gee I am not pretending when I tell you it is fun fun to be kissed in the dark. I know that we will find what the rest what the rest what the rest have left behind. So let them dance while we find romance oh baby in the dark.  Whoa. Catherine Russell it has been really very special to have you here performing today. Thank you so very much.  Well thank you. You have no idea. It is been so special for me and I just want to say dreams can come true.   And Matt Munisteri thank you so much for being here today.  Catherine Russell with Matt Munisteri on guitar recorded in our studio last February after the release of Russell's album Strictly Romancin'. We will close with a track from it.   Hello? Hello? Is this Harlem 77711? Hello John? Is this you?  I tried to phone you. I hope you as not sick but I am checking out goom'bye. Nice to have known you. You were my big kick. But I am checking out goom'bye. You tried no trick. You found a new chick. But I was too slick. I am in the no you have got to go the gig is all done.  It is too bad our bliss had to miss out like this. I am checking out goom'bye.  And John? Huh? Oh no no no. You breaking up baby.  You can download podcasts of our show on our website freshair.npr.org and you can follow us on Twitter at nprfreshair and on Tumblr at nprfreshair.tumblr.com. 