 If you watch Late Night with Jimmy Fallon you know what an uncanny ability he has to do other people's voices like Neil Young and Bob Dylan. Lots of people who cannot stay up late enough to watch the show see his impressions because they go viral on the Internet. Jimmy Fallon became known for his impressions when he was a cast member on Saturday Night Live but he became even betterknown on SNL for coanchoring Weekend Update with Tina Fey. Fallon took over Late Night from Conan O'Brien when O'Brien left to prepare to host The Tonight Show in 2009. Every Friday on Late Night Fallon does a feature called Thank You Notes in which he writes and reads messages addressed to the things that have made him grateful during the week. I spoke with him last May after he published his book collecting those thank you notes. One of the things I love about your show is it gives you an opportunity to do your music impressions. You are amazing when it comes to doing music impressions of people like Neil Young and Bob Dylan. So let us just hear an example of it first. So this is you doing the Willow Smith song Whip My Hair.  Willow Smith. Yeah.  And she is the daughter of Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith.  Yeah it is a very good hiphop song. It goes...  I whip my hair back and forth. I whip my hair back  yeah. It is a big hit song. So this is me doing Neil Young doing Whip My Hair with Bruce Springsteen.  OK. So here it is.   So that is Jimmy Fallon doing Neil Young. We did not have time here for the Springsteen part.  Yeah.  Maybe we will get to that a little later. But so what is so interesting about how you do this is you are not only doing Neil Young's voice you are rewriting the song the way Neil Young would sing it because he is such an idiosyncratic singer in terms of the way he remelodicizes things. So can you talk about like doing Neil Young?  Yeah. I always kind of had a Neil Young impression  like everyone does you know. But he is a great writer.  I do not.  Oh come on.   You must have sang along with a few songs. I have heard you do Harvest Moon.   But I mean so I have always just had  as an impressionist you kind of  I think every impressionist has a Neil Young let us just say that. And  but you never know what to do with it you know once you have it. It is like doing a  having a Jack Nicholson impression. Everyone's got one. What do you do with it? So there is a great writer  let us just say a tip of the hat to my writing staff. A writer said Why do not you do a version of Neil Young we will do a nice version of Willow Smith's Whip My Hair? And I go Oh that is funny. Let us that would be cool. I go Also Bruce Springsteen's coming on. Well do you think he would do a duet like with me if we wrote a fake duet with me as fake Neil Young and him really as him? He goes let us get to it. So we sat down. We had a guitar. He had a guitar. And we just sat around my office and I am trying to think of like how Neil would do it and it is a lot of G chord into D chords and maybe throw in like an A minor in there. And it is like  whip my hair back and forth. Just whip it.  You know and they get the harmonica going the harmonica thing around the neck. And then I go  and Bruce is going to come in. He is going to be like you got to whip your hair. Whip my hair back and forth. You got to whip your hair. You know he is got to jump in with the energy. And I go  and so we recorded it on our phone you know with just a scratch recording of me and him and we were laughing and we recorded the thing and we send it over to Bruce Springsteen's manager. And Bruce Springsteen his manager gets it and he goes Bruce loves it. He thinks it is hilarious. His kids know Whip My Hair and so  and he is seen you do Neil Young on the show and he is game. He goes Here's our idea. Do you want Bruce to dress like young Bruce from the '70s? So I  right out  my mouth is  my jaw's  I am like of course. Yeah. I did not even think that he would even put on a  I mean when are you going to get Bruce Springsteen in a wig? I am telling you right now...  And a fake moustache and beard.  Yeah and a fake beard. And I mean this is from the Born to Run era you know floppy hat. This is cover of Newsweek and Time magazine Bruce Springsteen where you go Whoa. This is the future of rock and roll Bruce Springsteen. So the fact that he is game for this I go Okay we will get a beard and we will get  he goes And we will get a floppy hat. I go no problem. He goes And Bruce said he is going to bring his sunglasses from the Born to Run tour.   That is so great.  His actual mirrored sunglasses. I go Okay. He is game. So he comes over. They put the  he brings his sunglasses out. They tape a beard on him because he did not want to put glue on his face. So he has a beard taped to him. And he goes You got the floppy hat? And we put the floppy hat on him. He goes Whoa this looks exactly like it. This is great. This is great. I go Also we have a wig. Do you want to try the wig on? He goes No no no. What are you trying to do to me? No I do not want to wear a wig. I do not want to wear it. I go Okay no problem no big deal. So everyone leaves the room. It is just me and Bruce. We are kind of laughing. And the doors close and I go Hey it is just us. You want to just try the wig on? He goes what? I go Just try the wig. I mean it is got curls on it. It will be I think it will look  it will be the final touch. He goes All right hurry up. Put the wig on. So I put a wig on Bruce Springsteen and I am putting this wig on him and he is laughing. And then we put the floppy hat and the beard and the glasses and he looks in the mirror and he goes Whoa. And that was it.  And then to top it all off Springsteen throws in a little Thunder Road thing toward the end.   Yeah.  So why do not we hear the part where Bruce Springsteen comes in and joins you as Neil Young?   Whip it real good. All my ladies can you feel me?   Whip your hair.   Doing it doing it whip your hair.   Whip your hair.   Do not matter if it is long or short.   Whip your hair.   Doing it doing it with your hair.   Whip your hair. Whip my hair.  So that is such a great moment. Were there Neil Young records you just steeped yourself in before doing that? Do you listen to a lot of the performer you are going to do before you do them?  Yeah. I think I have one of those things  when I grew up  you know I have always done impressions. So I think if I listen to a record long enough  so I go  I will listen to Harvest and I will listen to the whole album and then I could do Neil Young. You know I can listen to you know Blonde on Blonde you know and I will do Bob Dylan. You know I can watch an episode of Jerry Seinfeld and by the end I am just walking around my house you know talking like Jerry Seinfeld. What is that? What are you doing? Who is it? What is going  you know I just have that thing when I grew up I would just start talking like people. You know I always had that. I would go visit a friend of mine's house and I would come back and my mom would like You are talking like Joey Gonzalez because I would sound like my best friend. I would just imitate him you know.  Now I read that the first imitation you did was James Cagney and I thought that is crazy because when I was growing up  and I am older than you are  all the impressionists did Cagney you dirty rat. And that was like during the Ed Sullivanera. You did not grow up during the...  Frank Gorshin yeah.  Yeah you did not grow up during that era. You grew up during the Saturday Night Live era when people were no longer doing James Cagney. So how did you end up doing Cagney impressions?  It is more of a  it is a technicality. I did it  I was two years old when I did that impression. So I was a baby. And my mom would say Jimmy do James Cagney. And I would go You dirty rat.   So I already had an act. I already had an act at two years old. And then I did...  How did you know about Jimmy Cagney then?  I grew up in an IrishCatholic family and I think they force you to watch every James Cagney movie. I mean Come on kids. Come on in.  Yankee Doodle Dandy too?  Oh of course. Song and dance. That is the advanced years of Cagney. Yeah. But you start off with the gangster movies. I mean every kid loves a good gangster movie.  Who does not?  But I mean I watched yeah Angels with Dirty Faces White Heat.  Do you ever get into trouble with celebrities who you are imitating? Do they ever like not like it and not take it as a compliment?  You would think they would. I just saw  recently I did a Donald Trump impression. And I saw Donald Trump. And it was  my impression was basically because I was thinking as the president got on and announced that Osama bin Laden had been killed he announced it right in  he interrupted the last 15 minutes of The Celebrity Apprentice. And I go Man this is perfect right? I mean that is a doublewin for Obama. So I said We have got to do Trump. I have got to do some press conference where he is like this is amazing a beautiful beautiful evening. The president  you know it is like did you really have to interrupt the last 15 minutes of one of the greatest boardrooms in the history of Celebrity Apprentice? Beautiful people there fantastic job. And then he will say like I mean why could not you have waited until the show that is on after me which is  let us see what it is. Let us see what is on after me. Oh yeah the news. Why could not you have interrupted the news with the news?   So I did that. So I saw Donald Trump at some event. And I go Hey Mr. Trump. I do an impression of you tonight on the show. And he goes Oh you do great impressions. I go Yeah but I am doing you tonight on the show. I just want to let you know. And he turns around to his whole table he goes Jimmy Fallon's doing an impression of me tonight on his  I go Will you stop it? I am trying to tell you something mantoman so that you do not get caught offguard. I do not want you to be upset. I do not want you to announce it to everybody. But I think he knows that like when I do an impression of people I  number one I never kick anyone when they are down. I either kick them when they are up and they do not mind or I do not hit them that hard. My jokes are not that meanspirited.  My guest is Jimmy Fallon. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is Jimmy Fallon the host of NBC's Late Night. He got his start on Saturday Night Live where he eventually anchored Weekend Update with Tina Fey. You were described in an article in Rolling Stone as the least tortured comedian imaginable. Would you agree with that description of yourself?  I think if I ever went to therapy you would find something. But yeah I have had a pretty you know I love my parents I love my childhood I love my sister. You know I mean I got picked on like any kid would get picked on in school but not that much. I mean I got in some fights but not that many fights. I think I had a pretty normal childhood. I mean I have no it is not my life is not Angela's Ashes.    Also starring Jimmy Fallon.  Yeah I have no lines but I ring bells. I ring bells and I swing the incense around. But it was my  and you know you are performing. You enter through a curtain you exit through the  I mean you are backstage. I mean have you ever seen backstage behind an alter? It is kind of fascinating.  Right.  So I think it was I think it was my first taste of show business and I think  or acting or something.  And there are comparisons I think between a theater and a church. There are just kind of places that are separated from outside reality.  Yeah. And I remember I had a hard time keeping a straight face at church as well.  Did you?  Which  yeah...  Did you do imitations of the priest?  Oh of course. Yeah. I used to do Father McFadden all the time. He is the fastest talking priest ever. He is be like...    And then you leave and you go that  what was that? That guy's the best. I mean that was church? Sign me up. I will do church I will do it 10 times a day if that is church. He was great.  Do you still go to church?  I do not go to  I tried to go back. When I was out in L.A. and I was like kind of struggling for a bit I went to church for a while but it is kind of it is gotten gigantic now for me. It is like too  there is a band. There is a band there now and you got to you have to hold hands with people through the whole mass now and I do not like doing that. You know I mean it used to be the shaking hands peace was the only time you touched each other.  Mmhmm.  Now I am holding  now I am lifting people. Like Simba.   I am holding them  ha nah hey nah ho.  I am doing too much. I do not want  there is Frisbees being thrown there is beach balls going around people waving lighters and I go this is too much for me. I want the old way. I want to hang out with the you know with the nuns you know that was my favorite type of mass and the Grotto and just like straight up just massmass.  Well Jimmy Fallon I think you are really incredible. Thank you so much for talking with us.  Oh you are the best. This was so much fun. I feel like I actually have inhaled fresh air.  Great. Jimmy Fallon recorded last May after the publication of his book collecting the thank you notes he reads Friday nights on NBC's Late Night. Our series featuring some of our most entertaining interviews of the year continues tomorrow. 