 I cant fix it. I am treating the symptom of it. You know my wheelhouse is dead or alive. I walk in you are almost dead  give you some medicine oh well now you are alive. That is pleasant. But you are still addicted. The problem still is there. This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more Im Anna Sale.  How how much is heroin a part of what you do?  Daily.  Daily.  I think our high watermark day was eighteen overdoses within 24 hours. This is Mark Strickland. Hes an EMS supervisor for the fire department in Charleston West Virginiawhere Im from. These days he spends a lot of his time reviving people whove overdosed on opiates and dealing with them when they wake up.  Havin' to wrestle with people fight because they have come out of an overdose combative. They are scared they do not - the last thing they knew they are committing a felony because they are shooting heroin up their arm. So I mean we all roll up dressed in navy blue hell we look like cops. So we have to be able to calm people down because if they get up and run out in the middle of the street scared and get hit by a car we have not done our jobs. I talked with Mark at a firehouse in Charleston. He is 41 and has been a first responder for nearly 20 years. He typically works 24 hours on then 48 hours off. With his wife he is raising three boys not far from this firehouse.  I decided that I want to be a fireman when I was five years old. My dad was a volunteer fireman in the small town where we grew up Clendenin. And I would always be with him when he would go to the firehouse or go on calls and I thought that was a pretty exciting life.  Uh huh.  Anyway I got into that and it was not to sound like a - a Hallmark card but it was it was a way to help people. You are giving everything you have got to help people in distress no matter what it may be. And our job is very simple. You listen to a voice to come out of a speaker in a radio and they tell you where to go and what they presume to be wrong. So you find out what is going on with whomever and you address their emergency and you stop loss right there whether it is a fire a heart attack an overdose um whatever is wrong in their life. Um you...  You said stop loss?  Stop loss. You put the fire out where it is. Drug overdose deaths in the U.S. have skyrocketed in the last five years. But theyre the highest in West Virginia. The overdose death rate here was nearly three times the national average in 2015 the last year complete CDC data is available. It wasnt like this when I lived here. And it also wasnt like this when Mark was first training to become a paramedic in the late '90s. He learned how to use Narcan a lifesaving drug that blocks opioid receptors but back then he rarely used it.  It would expire on the shelves. We did not go to heroin overdoses or opiate overdoses all that often. And now I am keeping preloads of Narcan in the in the driver's door of my cruiser at work.  When did you notice that the job of first responders in this community was starting to change because of drug use?  Hm. Um in the late 90's early 2000s clandestine meth labs became all the rage. Meth moved into the community. The uh shake and bake cooking one pot cooking the clandestine labs um we started encountering those.  I remember that. That is when I was living here  and there was the issue of not only like fires but they were hazardous waste zones too  for you as...  It - yeah if you did not go in and get exposed through the smoke um if we went in a lot of times people would call in an an odor a chemical odor. Uh it was just awful.  So when did that - when did you notice that shift into something different?  As - as that was being addressed the trend of prescription drug abuse was raring up was ramping up. Some doctors with ill-gotten gain in mind would open pill mills. And they would just rent a building and put a sign outside that said you know Dr Smith Pain Clinic and you could come in and say my back hurts here's a hundred dollars and he would write you a prescription. And the DEA local law enforcement state law enforcement and a bunch of people started talking back and forth said Hey we are having all these people overdosing on opiates - the hell? We gotta we gotta do something. Oh I know what we will do we will stamp out the pill mills. And they did. The bad thing was the addicts remain. Um but my ah if you will patient zero for this heroinpeople use the word epidemicmy patient zero was in a house on the west side of Charleston...  Not far from here then?  Not far from here at all. Picture if you will the white-sided wood frame house swear to God white picket fence. Morning glories growing in it right? Car in the driveway nice and washed nice home. Uh we get called for the for the possible deceased person and this is like four in the morning. And I go into this house lights are on and a woman's sitting at the kitchen table of course had been crying. My ambulance crew beat me. They were there and standing over top of this gentleman in the floor laying on his right side obviously deceased. And one of the the young guys we had on the ambulance said Hey Captain what is this? and he pointed to the desk and there is a cap of a needle two other needles that were unused a tourniquet and then an open and two unopened bindles of dope. They would crimped off two ends of a drinking straw and there is dope in the middle of it. Now I look back to the patient and I look back at the wife and I said Madam how long has this guy used heroin? And she started crying.  Mm.  I said Look I am - I am not judging I am just asking a question. I mean I got heroin here on the desk I got a needle cap. I am going to guess when I roll him over I am gonna find a needle in his arm. How long's he done drugs? And she started  bawling crying. Said since he came home from Vietnam he is usedtherapeuticallyheroin. He is always gone out of town to get it. He is never sold it he does not deal it he does not getjust keeps him stable. So I asked her I said Where did he get this? Where did he get this? This his usual stuff? And she told me No his dealer gave him those for free and asked him to use 'em and that it was something new and wanted him to put the price on it. And it registered in my head if this guy has done heroin since 1970 God-knows-what but this stuff killed him lickety splithalf of this stuff killed him he did not get the whole shot in his armwhat is new about this stuff compared to anything else? And from there I noticed it being an everyday event.  Specific to the calls where you are watching people who are nearly dead you are bringing them back to life. And you find them again nearly dead. Does it feel like you are - you have a really close-up view on something that is like kind of breaking down?  Very much so. Um on those calls um a lot of times I have walked out feeling as much of an enabler as the dealers on the street. Because if I just show up and shove some Narcan in your arm and You better now? You are good? You are going to be sick later. See ya. And walk out. What the hell have I done? Now given the only thing you need to be to go to rehab is alivegotta have a pulse to get in to rehab. That is handy. So if I do not go out and do my job assessing the human body in front of me and give Narcan to an opiate overdose and get them alive then they are never going to have the chance to go to rehab. And we have heard the commentary both locally and nationally Aw you should not do that. You are just wasting money on these people. Just all let 'em die. If they have overdosed twice you should just not have to Narcan 'em again. You get three strikes in life right? Well I do not know do you? How many diabetics do we go to that Well you know what you let your sugar drop again 'ecause you did not take your insulin right now I have got to give D50. I have done that to you twice. Time for you to die. Seriously? How many of those patients do you say Mm-mm two bites of the apple  you are done. So who are we to judge a personrich poor black white Jew Christian Muslim. I do not care. They are a human being.  Do think you are stopping loss?  I do not know. I do not know. The left side right side. The left side the - the - the bleeding heart save the world side says you are giving people the chance to go to rehab to change their ways to be a productive citizen. You are giving that kid his father backeven if for another day. Youre helping that family recover. EMS is doing their part to stop loss. We are preventing deaths from overdoses. That is the left side bleeding heart unicorns and rainbows. The darker side says yeah. All we are doing is perpetuating a problem. We are keeping more addicts on the street. If there were not as many customers there would not be the industry for dealers because all their patients would be dead. So why should we pay our taxes for our cities our counties our states to buy Narcan to put on ambulances because you want to go commit a felony and you want to go shoot heroin. We have had many people many patients that we have run two and three and four times. Uh my high watermark on repeat offenders or uh frequent flyer customers however you wanna look at it was eleven. I ran a guy eleven times.  Did he make it?  Uh yeah. Yep. Probably the thing that makes me the the most mad and the ones that - the ones that piss me off are the ones involving kids when kids are home. And   That is an overdose. I will be back.  You need to go?  Yup.  Okay.  That is a heroin overdose. I will bet you a paycheck.  I met Mark for the first time when I was back home in Charleston last month. When he got the interview request from us at first he thought the email from Death Sex  Money was some kind of prank from the guys at work. In a follow-up email I proved my local cred by telling him where I went to high school. Ive become used to updates from home about someone I knew or someone I knews little brother or sister dying of an overdose. Its not just in West Virginia of course. But the current opioid epidemic has its roots in this part of the country. And its been this way for years now so much so that you can almost become numb to it. I wanted to hear from someone who cant ignore it. And that led me to Mark. Next week we have another episode about opioids. Its a story we dont hear often enough about life after heroin. I talk to my dear friend Danielle whos been sober for more than eight years. She grew up on Long Island and I met her in Brooklyn after shed stopped using. But I asked her to come in to tell me about how her addiction started and how her habit endedbeginning with her first 12-step meeting in Manhattan.  I saw like a sort of celebrity there and I saw people get into a chair fight. I they were like throwing chairs at each other and I remember thinking This is the coolest place I have ever been in my life. I loved it.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale.  After the call came over the radio about the 27-year-old man in cardiac arrest Mark jumped into a firetruck with some of his colleagues and they were gone. We waited at the firehouse and Mark was back within an hour.  Sorry about that.  Do not apologize. Mark told me a woman had called 911 when she found her boyfriend unconscious.  Boyfriend was sleeping over at his girlfriend's house and she went to check on her three-year-old son in the other room and noticed that he was not breathing too well. Called 911 thought he was dead and he was breathing about four times a minute and ashen and grey looking and sweaty. And his percentage of blood percentage of oxygen in his blood stream was less than 50 so we controlled his airway and used the bag valve mask and breathed for him and started an IV. Pushed some Narcan and he woke up.  And um you said there was a three-year-old in the house?  There was. He was in the other room. He was in his room playing and his mom kept him away and did not let him see and what have you. But that is just - those are the tough ones for us is this well-intentioned mother trying to make it her boyfriend's in there shooting up heroin in her house and now we have gotta report that to CPS.  To Child Protective Services?  Right.  Had you seen this particular guy before?  No he just got out of prison. For drug distribution charges.  Mmm.  Yeah.  So I wanna talk a little bit more about like how you integrate what you see every day at work into your life. What happens when you go home? What happens when you are off the shift?  Since I live in Charleston it - it is hard to it is hard to take it off you know? You can take your boots off when you get in the door and you can change uniforms. But it is hard to go to the same grocery store where you have run overdoses in the bathroom and it - it is hard to go there and take it off you know? It is kind of hard to take it off. We are very frank with our kids.  Like do they know - if you are in a grocery store you flashback to to reviving someone in the bathroom is that something you will share with your kids?  Yeah. Yeah I will tell 'em about it. Because I want them to know without a doubt what drugs will do to you. And we tell 'em look if you are ever approached Hey buddy you wanna try this? Tell 'em no my Dad makes me pee in a cup you know he is a he is a bastard. He is just mean.  Do you?  No.  But you said that is a that is a thing  you can say.  It is tough to say - it is tough to say no. It is tough to face the peer pressure of Hey buddy why do not you? Come on. You know. And it is tough to say no and I am like blame it on me blame it on your mom. Be the person to say Hey look you know you know what my dad does at work?  So when your - your oldest is sixteen?  Sixteen. AS Your youngest is how old?  Almost almost twelve.  So you almost have three teenage boys.  Mhm.  And you are trying to be a good dad.  Mhm.  And you are trying to prepare them to make good choices.  Right.  And then in your job you are having to take care of people who are making choices that you think are bad choices.  Right. That is tough. That is...I have identified that. It took several years but um. I am not real big on the whole huggy touchy-feely side of things right? I was taught by old school people in fire and EMS both that said Hey look kid suck it up and you go on and do it. We do this job cause nobody else can mkay. So you suck it up and you do not cry about it you do not bitch about it. You do your job go get your paycheck go to your next job and go on. Um. Crawling in a bottle is usually a um okay reason to just deal with job stress and we all know that is not. That is a crutch. It is that is an addiction of another sort.  But that was like the culture that you came up with  old school was sort of like...  It is choir practice. We are gonna have choir practice down at Joey's at 8 oclock. Come on down. And you went choir practice and...  Throw back a bunch of beers?  Yeah. Yeah.  Talk about work or no?  Yeah. Yeah that is where you do it. 'ecause it is okay then 'ecause ah we were just drinkin' and carrying on that is why I got emotional man it is all right. And that is okay. That is how you deal with it. I do not want this generation of kids coming up behind me in the fire service doin' that um.  Do you still drink?  Yeah socially.  Do you drink - do you do the choir practice thing anymore?  Um no. Thanks to iPhones and technology and Facebook and stuff you cannot get people off their hind ends to come out and do stuff like that anymore  People just sit and Facebook about stuff. I am not a Facebook fan. I am not a social media fan. Um I think it is anti-social because we are noticing that the generation of people generation of Americans that have had phones in their hands since they were babies have a very hard time having interpersonal communications eye to eye with people. They cannot do it. They will text you. They will tweet you. They will email you and that is fine. But to sit down and hold conversation or to have to assess a patient and ask them questions is awful.  So you - so on the one hand maybe it was slightly unhealthy behavior to drink maybe a little too much  to get rid of work stress  but at least there was some sense of community in while you  were...  Right.  And and now is there that at all?  There is there is to an extent. We have learned that addressing the possible tie-in to PTSD is something we should do. But by and large most first responders will shun away from the PTSD phrase. That is what guys get from coming home from Afghanistan and Iraq because they have earned that. If you are in a foreign country taking hostile fire yeah I can totally get down with whatever you need to do to deal with your demons. That is - that is awful. You know I got a couple people shootin' up the West side and a whole bunch of dope in town. I am still here. I am still in America. I am good brother. I can go to the store to get a six pack. So . I - I am not big on sitting and talking job stress and stuff. You should know it is gonna be kind of tough. I mean if this job was easy everybody would do it. But it is not. It is tough and it is supposed to be tough. Tough is what makes it good. But you go out and deal - you know that you are going out here in the community to help people. People call 911 because they do not know what else to do.  Do you talk to your wife about a hard day at the end of the day or do you want to  not talk about it?  There is some.  Yeah.  Um. There - there is there is some things I will not discuss with anybody that had not been there. There is just some things unless you lived it smelled it tasted it touched it that you are not going to understand and to try to have to sit and explain it aggravates me even more. So instead of doing that What'd you do at work today? Eh. Ran a couple calls busy day. Couple overdoses whatever. And go on.  How would you feel if your boys wanted to follow in your footsteps and do EMS  and fire department?  Smack 'em right in the mouth.  Why?  The job's changing. I guess the parent in me wants to shield my kids from bad things. Um you know what see on TV's okay and we will talk about it but you know there is some details and grisly things that - that unless you have been with me going down that hallway or going down that dark alley or in that attic or in that upside down car or minivan or whatever you do not know it. You cannot smell it you cannot feel it. You cannot relate to it and you do not need to. But other people that have that shared experience we can talk about and I know what that guy's been through and he knows where I have been. So yeah. I would ah I would rather my boys not not have the potential for physical injury nor um mental psychological emotional...issues.  Have you had a moment where you thought I am not sure I want to do this job?  No. Um. I mighta just lied to you. I have had days of why in the hell would anybody do this job? But it is quickly countered with - with just a quick look around the room at the guys with me and oh yeah that is why. Because 'ecause we are here 'ecause if we do not who in the hell's gonna? Um and it gets back to the challenge. You know the tough makes it good. The toughness of the job. The you know hey you wanted to do this. Remember that little kid always wanted to do this. Well here you are. So do it. Thats Mark Strickland. He told me he used to plan on retiring at 65. But now he thinks he will retire as soon as he is eligible when he is 50. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to my former colleague Bob Wilkinson for helping out on this recording. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And for more on how one West Virginia community is grappling with heroin check out the great Netflix documentary called Heroin produced by the filmmaker Elaine McMillion Sheldon along with my officemates the Center for Investigative Reporting. Thats Heroin with e in parentheses at the end because its about three incredible West Virginia women. Mark says his kids like that hes home for 48 hours after those 24 hour shifts. But he says keeping track of where he is in the week can be challenging.  I know if I pass a church and the parking lot's full in the morning it is probably a Sunday. If I pass a church and it is full in the evening it is either Sunday or Wednesday. If I pass a bar and that parking lot's full It is either a Wednesday Friday or Saturday. And Mondays and Thursdays and Tuesdays I have no idea how to keep track of.  What happens at bars on Wednesday nights?  Working Women's Wednesday. It is just Wednesday night. It is hump day.   Working Women's Wednesday! I forgot about that...  Yeah. It is hump day. Time to go to the bar. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.