 This is FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli editor of the website TV Worth Watching sitting in for Terry Gross. Today we continue with our holiday week series collecting some of our favorite interviews of the year. In a while we will hear from Daily Show correspondent Hasan Minhaj. But first we will start with Seth Meyers host of NBC's Late Night show and former cohost of Weekend Update on Saturday Night Live. Terry interviewed him in front a live audience in June 2017. This year FRESH AIR celebrated its 30th anniversary as a daily show on NPR and this live event was part of that celebration.   Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank all of you for coming this evening. You know it is sometimes hard to sleep at night and the political chaos is not making it any easier. The old joke about latenight comedy shows is that they put you to sleep. The way I see it late night comedy like Seth Meyers' show makes it safe to sleep by helping us laugh at the issues that otherwise would be keeping us awake. Was I a little annoyed when you started to cross over into my territory and do interviews? Nope. I like his interviews. I became his fan when he started coanchoring Weekend Update on Saturday Night Live back in 2006...   ...After Tina Fey started her series 30 Rock. And by leaving she did him a big favor because he took over both her jobs. He became the head writer and coanchor with Amy Poehler of Weekend Update. And of course he returned the favor by later writing hilarious sketches for Tina Fey when she was playing Sarah Palin during the 2008 presidential campaign. So to get started let us watch Seth Meyers' opening monologue on Late Night from Monday of this week after returning from a week off. Here we go.   President Trump last week announced that he was pulling the country out of the Paris climate agreement. We are pulling out so now our climate policy is the same as Mike Pence's birth control policy...   ...Hundred percent effective. White House Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said today that President Trump will not block former FBI Director James Comey from testifying before Congress. That is a good call because if you block the testimony of the FBI director you praised for investigating Hillary Clinton and then fired for investigating your ties to Russia and then lied about why you fired them and later admitted why you fired him you might look guilty.   White House Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said today that President Trump does not care what you call his proposed travel ban  OK racist.   Please welcome Seth Meyers.   Thank you everybody.  It is so great to have you here. Thank you for doing this.  I am so honored to be here.  Oh it is so great to have you. So you thought probably when you were leaving Saturday Night Live and Weekend Update that you would be taking a step away from political comedy and you did for a bit.  Yeah.  And now you are deep back in...  Yeah.  ...With your opening monologue and then A Closer Look in which you focus on a political subject. And it is usually Trump...  It has been Trump...  ...Surprisingly.  ...For a while now yes.  So comedy is going places that it is  political comedy is going places it is never gone before. I do not know if you have made jokes about Ivanka and Donald Trump but people have been making...  Yeah.  ...Kind of incest jokes.  Sure.  And then you have done jokes about him being cold to Melania and not caring about his son Eric and you gave him the finger on TV the other night. And then there was the fake press conference where you were asking the questions and you cut in his answers. And all of your questions were about his penis because when he talked about his hands that seemed to open the door...  Yes.  ...To his penis yes. So it  to sum up...  I am so happy how quickly we have gotten to this Terry.   I did not want to waste any time.  .  I did not want to waste any time.  Everybody said you know Terry in person is a lot saucier.   So latenight comedy has changed. Has like an unprecedented president opened up the door to unprecedented comedy?  Sure. Well when the standard of what a president says drops so low...   ...It seems silly...  When he goes low you go low .   Right exactly. And I  you know I always want to stress this because I think a lot of us that do shows like we do  that I do  my many colleagues who are really good at this too. People say oh you are doing the job of journalists. I think it is very important to note that we cannot do our job without journalists. Journalists can do their job without latenight comedians. They would be just fine without us. But we of course use their work every day to build our pieces. But I do think that comedians have this advantage that journalists do not have right now because thankfully  and I think we are all lucky as a society that journalists are trying to hold this standard and hold this line of what it means to be a journalist and the integrity that it means to be a journalist whereas comedians are built for the Donald Trump era because we  comedians notoriously have very low levels of integrity.   OK so since we have been talking a little bit about humor about Donald Trump I think it is only fair that we watch the 2004 sketch that you did with Donald Trump.  Yeah .  In 2004 Donald Trump was the guest host and there was a sketch called Fathers and Sons. And as you will see Donald Trump was the father. Seth Meyers was the son.  This is so eerie and weird that this is a thing.   OK. Let us roll the tape.    Hi. Welcome to Fathers and Sons the show that teaches and discusses how positive communication between fathers and sons can make this special relationship between two men even better. I am Peter Fleck and this is my dad Gary. There is no reason why sensitivity and warmth cannot be key ingredients between fathers and sons. That is why we are here today on Fathers and Sons. Is not that right Dad?   You could really cut that intro in half. Boy it is way way too long.   OK here we go again. All right. It is a bit long you are right.   You do not have to tell me when I am right. I know when I am right. Now let us do it. Come on. This is just a miserable way to spend a Sunday.   Our first segment is called Father and Son Memories. We have each prepared a story. My story takes place at a little league game when I was 13. A ground ball went through my legs and dad screamed hey fellas anyone want to lend me their son for the day so I have something to cheer about?    Do you remember that Dad?   I do not remember you ever playing baseball.   I played for eight years.   Oh I remember you were on a team. I just do not remember you playing baseball.   Surprising I was not a better player. I mean we practiced once but then you left 'ecause you were worried my sissy was contagious.   Everything's my fault is not it? Maybe I should blame my dad for not being a better parent or blame his dad or go back to blame the caveman for not playing enough dinosaur ball with his kid  or plan B be responsible for yourself.   The scary thing is it is basically a campaign platform.   So who wrote that sketch and why was it a father and son sketch? And I am thinking of all the jokes you have made about his relationship or his lack of relationship seemingly with Eric. So why was this a fatherson sketch?  Well I clocked pretty fast that that was the kind of guy he was. And you know you spend a couple days at SNL or a day and a half basically before you have to start writing things. And I always found it was helpful to just sort of pay attention to the host and think what could they believably do? And especially when they are not actors you know they do not come with a lot of different takes on things. And I thought well I bet he could play a father who is pretty not into his kid. And...   And it was not bad. I will say the other thing about that week that I remember was  and this is true. I am not making this up. He carried around  he had cut out the ratings the Nielsen ratings for that week. And he had them in his pocket. And I remember he would basically ask everybody a couple questions and then just show it to them. Like for example I remember sitting there rehearsing that. He would say  do you like this job? And I said yeah I do. And he said  how long have you been here? I said three years. And he said  did you see the ratings?   That is a real thing.  We are listening to Terry's interview with NBC Late Night host Seth Meyers. It was recorded earlier this year at an event celebrating the 30th anniversary of FRESH AIR as a national radio program. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to Terry's interview with NBC Late Night host Seth Meyers conducted this past June in front of a live audience at Philadelphia's Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts. It was part of our 30th anniversary celebration of FRESH AIR on NPR.   OK we have one more Trump place to go.  OK.  And this was the White House Correspondents' Dinner from 2011.   Thank you.   And this was a very famous evening because Seth Meyers and President Obama both roasted Donald Trump at the White House Correspondents' Dinner that year. And nobody at the dinner knew except President Obama that the next day was the day of the bin Laden strike of the successful strike against Osama bin Laden. You certainly did not know that .  You do not have to...  He told you did not he?  You do not have to say it like that.   So let us watch a couple of minutes of you at the White House Correspondents' Dinner.  Happily.  OK.   And then of course there is Donald Trump. Donald Trump has been saying that he will run for president as a Republican which is surprising since I just assumed he was running as a joke.   Donald Trump often appears on Fox which is ironic because a fox often appears on Donald Trump's head.   If you are at The Washington Post table with Trump and you cannot finish your entree do not worry the fox will eat it.   And if I can for a moment talk about the birther issue. When did we get so suspicious about where people were born? A USA TODAY poll last week said 38 percent of Americans think the president was definitely born in the U.S. In the same poll in the very same poll only 5 percent more said Donald Trump was definitely born in the U.S. Has it reached the point where Americans only think someone was born here if they saw it? I know I was born here. And I know my younger brother was born here. But when it comes to my older brother I can only take him at his word.   Gary Busey said recently that Donald Trump would make a great president. Of course he said the same thing about an old rusty bird cage he found.   Donald Trump owns the Miss USA Pageant which is great for Republicans because it will streamline their search for a vice president.   Donald Trump said recently he has a great relationship with the blacks. Though unless the blacks are a family of white people I bet he is mistaken.   As we could see in the video there were cutaways to Donald Trump...  Yeah.  ...As you were saying that. He did not appear to be laughing.  No.   Some people say that the reason why he decided to make a serious run for president was 'ecause he was so offended by the jokes that you and President Obama told that night. Do you think there is any truth to that?  Well it was funny. In the leadup to the election there were some pieces that were written that said as much. And many of those pieces left me out of it and just talked about President Obama's jokes. And I was very confident at the time that Donald Trump was going to lose. And it hurt my feelings that I was left out of being one of the people that tricked this man into running for president. And then as soon as he won I realized it was Obama's fault.   But I do not know. I really do not know. It is very hard to get inside Donald Trump's brain and I do not want to try. So I do not know the answer to that. But I will say I do not have any regrets about it or anything I did in the leadup to the election. I think the regrets I would have would be if I had done less if I had pointed out less. And it was a really fun night.  So Lorne was like your boss on Saturday Night Live. He tapped you to host Late Night...  Yeah.  ...After Jimmy Fallon was tapped by him to host The Tonight Show. Were you surprised that he asked you?  I was. And actually it was originally  I think in the New York Post they printed Seth Meyers is rumored to be the replacement. And Lorne and I had never spoke of it and I just took it to be a rumor. And then Lorne called me that day. And there is this thing with Lorne where often when you have a conversation with him it is a followup conversation to a conversation that you never had.   So he is acting like you have already talked about it. And so I just remember he called up and said look; you will be fine. I think it will take some time but you will be good at it. And you know we will miss you but...   I think it is good. And I just remember thinking wait a second.   Did he just offer me Late Night? I had no idea what was happening. And  but sure enough that was what had happened.  How has it changed your life?  I mean it is strange because I do walk into the same building. It is on the same floor as Saturday Night Live. So there are parts of my life that are very similar you know that I did not have to move to a new place or a new you know elevator bank.   But it is  there is this lovely consistency to a job that is the same hours every day and the same schedule every day. And also you know at SNL they call the guests hosts for a reason because they completely take over the DNA of that week whereas at your own show you are the host because the guests ultimately do not change the show that much. And so  and as someone who is obviously every day older it is nice to be in a place that is a little bit more consistent. That is the part I enjoy the most.  Your life has changed so much. You have gone from Saturday Night Live to hosting a daily show. And you had your baby about 14 months ago...  Yes.  ...you and your wife.  Yeah a little boy.  So like you are a father and a relatively new host. It is been  what?  three years.  Yeah. Thank you everybody.   And you are  what?  42 now.  Fortythree.  You are 43. So you were about 42 when your son was born.  Yeah.  Did you expect to be a father?  I did. I always thought I would be a father. And then I was just one way too interested and busy with what I was doing for a living and two you know I had not found the right person to have them with. And I did.  So OK this sounds like a strange question. Why did you want to be a father? 'ecause not everybody does.  Yeah. I do not know. I guess  I really do not. The weirdest thing about being a father is how  because I think you know mothers like their body for nine months tells them it is coming. And then you just you are not a dad and then you just are...  Right.  ...Like the very next day.   I was  this is a true story. I was filling out paperwork after our baby was born. And it said mother's name. And I wrote my wife's name. And then it said father's name. And I wrote my wife's father's name.   And then it said father's phone number. And I thought who knows their fatherinlaw's phone number? And then I realized oh I am the father.   OK so one more question. You have to have a lot of adrenaline every night...  Yeah.  ...To do the show. And it is  adrenaline's great when you need it. But it is bad as a chronic thing for your body. You know bodies do not like to have constant adrenaline.  Yeah.  Lots of side effects of that. So what do you do...  I had no idea. This is heartbreaking to me.   So I am sorry to end with this but you are slowly dying.   So what do you do to kind of calm yourself down after getting you know worked up like you know like just getting so into it for the show?  You know you  I basically...  Drugs I know right.  Just a little yeah.  Lots of drugs.  Handful of pills.  Handful of pills.  And  no I mean you know it is nice. I see  I get home about 30 0030. I get to have dinner with my wife which again you know we have been together  we were together through SNL as well. And there were  at SNL we never saw each other. And this is so much nicer. And just to spend time with her is the perfect  I love it I am like nothing kills adrenaline like a night with my wife.   I mean  tell you it just leaves the body.   OK well...   I love you darling.   I want to thank you Seth Meyers. I think you are so great. And I really enjoy your show. It is been wonderful to watch you over the years. You know all the changes you have gone through I feel like I have been there in front of my TV  seeing it. And you are so wonderful in person. Thank you so much. It is just been such an honor to have you...  Thank you.  ...Doing this event with us.  And may I say thank you all very much  so kind.   I  there are  there were three moments in my career where I thought I had made it  the first time I did David Letterman the first time I was an answer in a New York Times crossword puzzle...  .  ...And the first time I did FRESH AIR. And to do it with you live and in person is such a great honor. Every night when I interview people I am thinking I wish I could be as good at this as Terry Gross. So thank you so much.  Oh thank you. God thank you Seth.   Seth Meyers host of NBC's Late Night was interviewed by Terry Gross last June at Verizon Hall at Philadelphia's Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts. FRESH AIR celebrated its 30th anniversary as a daily program on NPR this year and this event was part of that celebration. After a break another of our favorite interviews of 2017 with Daily Show correspondent Hasan Minhaj. He hosted the most recent White House Correspondents' Dinner the one President Donald Trump did not attend. I am David Bianculli and this is FRESH AIR.  