When I moved into my place by myself I probably spent the first few weeks in a tank top and underwear. Until it got a little bit colder and then Id put socks on. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. I asked for your stories about living alone. For 36 year-old Jen Shelbo in Brooklyn living by herselfmeans not always wearing pants. It is really awesome to sit around your own apartment in as little clothes as you like to wear. Thats just one of the perks that you told me about. Cooking the things I want to eat playing the music that only I enjoy listening to. Dancing around my living room to R-E-S-P-E-C-T. Countless minutes of no interruptions. Books stacked in a certain way on my shelf. It is definitely a freedom that I have not had ever. More and more Americans are living alone. The number has tripled since 1970. And today more than quarter of American households are home to just one person. So there are a lot of people having this experience. But we dont often talk about it. And from your stories its clear that the way we feel about living alone can be a little complicated. The first couple months it was actually kind of hard for me to live alone because I was so used to always living with people. You know everyone always said how important it was and how itll be a great time in my life. But I just have not figured out why that is just yet. Living alone near Boulder is really expensive. But it is worth every penny. Living by yourself does mean having no one to split your bills with. But it isnt something that only rich people are doing. Last year people who lived alone had a median income of about 28 thousand dollars. When Ashley Ward moved back to LA last year she decided that living alone was worth the investment. Shes 30 and this is the first time shes lived by herself. She moved in just a few months ago. You know when youre little and youre wearing your moms shoes? It felt like that. You dont fill out the shoe or the apartment at all but here you are pretending like you do. Clomping around in shoes that are too big for you. Yea exactly. And it feels a little bit better now. I think Ill feel a lot better once I get a couch. You wrote in and a line that really stuck out to me was you said no one thinks its normal for a 30-year-old professional woman to be able to live alone. Yeah thats been the most bizarre thing. What do you mean? Theres just a weird sort of whoa really? Instead of like a yeah cool. Is that because it means you have a certain amount of money? I think so. It is very expensive to live in LA it says how much you make without saying how much you make. And I think that thats definitely something that makes people feel inadequate I guess? How has it changedyoure single? Yes. Has it changed your dating life living alone? One of the drawbacks of having roommates is your dating life is on display to other people in your apartment. Thats not the case when you live alone. No no. I can sort of come and go and bring whomever I like. Which isI mean Ive only been there for a month so it hasnt happened. But. Do you like that idea? Yeah I like that I can have guests and I dont have to worry that someone else will come in and like sort of take charge of the conversation and take charge of my guest. The guy that I lived with in Chicago would do that all the time when I had someone over he would come in and make the conversation all about him and his life. Like including dates? Yeah. It was super awkward. It was really really awkward. That helped Ashley make the decision to live alone. But for a lot of you living alone wasnt a choice. It was a consequence of a bigger change often a loss. Like a death or the end of a relationship. My name is Walid Shantur and I live alone. Walid is 59 and has lived alone for the last seven years. He sent in this message from Ithaca New York. I left home when I was 17 and joined the Navy and lived with 350 men on a ship for four years. And then I got married. And I was married for a little over 20 years. And after my wife came out to me I was quite devastated because my daughter left for college the same day that my wife moved out of the house. So all of a sudden after all those years I was alone. I would have to say I was in a funk for a good part of six months to a year. Then I started realizing how satisfying it was living alone. I told one friend that was considering becoming single that I personally found it intoxicating being by myself. But I never thought that the case after all the years of being with someone and being happy being with people I just found out that I was quite happy to be by myself. Glen Uhlig and his wife separated two years ago. Now he lives by himself part of the time. He sent me an email from Elko Nevada. So this house is quiet. Cricket quiet. For seven days and then bama six- and eight-year-old boy back in my life. School homework cooking laundry cleaning eating brushing teeth... Glen splits custody of his boys with their mom --- one week with her one week with him. Monday at school when I drop them off and Im driving away from school I knowI guarantee theres this great big sigh of phew its like -- I survived. I really feel like I survived theyre no emergency visits they went to school theyre safe. You also describe in your email the sound of the quiet when the boys arent there. Are there parts of that that you have been surprised that you enjoy? For sure. In the past two years its like the only time that I have felt like I had time to you know it sounds horrible but to maybe read a book again you know? Or sit down and I get about one weeks worth of newspaper and that is when the boys are gone. Because theres so much hustle and bustle when theyre there. Having that quietness that solitude to totally re-boot yourself. Its something that I know that I needed to be complete. The real reason I can give 100 percent to my kids for that seven days is because I have seven days off where I can make sure and set up and prepare and have a list of everything I need to do for the next seven days. Lisa Wagner is also a single parent. Shes fantasized about living alone since she was a teenager. I remember imagining a small cottage by the ocean. And when did you first live alone? I havent. Why not? First I was too young then I was too poor. And then I was a mother. How old were you when you had your first child? Barely 22. Now Lisa is 42. She lives in Portland and a few years ago she got divorced. Tensions around their shared space were a major factor. I felt like I worked really hard and earned a lot of money and came home to a house that wasnt really pleasant and I was frustrated with that. The night after we had that final fight and we decided to separate I couldnt sleep and I lay in bed. I started imagining how I was going to fix up the bedroom once it was just mine. And it got me through. I got rid of almost everything in it. I sanded every inch of woodwork. I caulked I painted I scrubbed the floor on my hands and knees and polished it. I put in a special rack just to hang scarves on -- I wear a lot of scarves. And its just a sweet sweet room now. And I can keep it so tidy. And I love going in there in the evening and laying down. So when will you live by yourself? Well right now I live with my daughter. She is not going to stay with me much longer. Shes almost seventeen. Once shes out on her own it will just be me for the first time. How does that feel? Quiet. Almost too quiet. Like that feeling when you get up earlier than you usually do in the morning and the world feels like it hasnt woken up yet. It feels like thats what my house will be like. Lisa told me if I ever fall in love again Ill just have to build a guest house. A luxurious bedroom of her own was also a dream for Arlene Pickett. I had always wanted a feather bed duvet. And I thought it was very interesting that when I did get something for myself that it involved something that provided physical pleasure. Coming up what it was like for Arlene to live alone for the first time after her husband died. Thank you for sharing all of your stories to make this episode possible. It is such a privilege to hear the details of your lives sometimes along with your voices in our email inbox. Now we want to collect your stories about cheating and infidelity. We get questions about this all the time. Our episode with Dan Savage unsettled a few of you. So we want to hear your stories. What have you decided is acceptable and what is absolutely not? Where is your line and how did you find it? Im particularly interested in hearing from couples who have had an infidelity crisis and got through it. How did you do that? Send your stories to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. You can write an email or if you have a smart phone record yourself with the voice memo app and send that in. The email again is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And if you want to go back and listen to that episode with Dan Savage...it is on our website at deathsexmoney.org. On the next episode filmmaker Desiree Akhavan. She made a movie about a break-up after she made a web series with her girlfriend and they broke up. The film was a Sundance darling and landed her on the cast of Girls. But she had her first taste of success in a middle school play. I remember leaving just being like oh god Ive got to chase that feeling. Like replaying it over and over in my head. Like oh that is what it is to be special. Like if Id been looked at as a beautiful person. That is what my mother must feel like when people look at her because shes a very beautiful woman. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Arlene Pickett is 72 years old and living on her own for the first time. Her husband died four years ago after a long decline. Arlene took care of him so it was an abrupt change to be all on her own. I wasnt particularly lonely but I did feel a strong sense of just being by myself. Anything I needed to do or anything that needed to be done it was up to me to decide when and how much to spend. And even to do it or not to do it. And of course my husband didnt choose to be ill and I did not choose to have him ill but the demands of that really took a lot of the element of choice of what I wanted to do away from me. So it was as the months have gone by its been a good feeling to have that sense of control back. Not control exactly but that sense of being in charge. Have that back. And it also sounds a little more complicated at this point in your life because you also need people. Yes exactly yes. Arlene was diagnosed with cancer in January. With that came chemo. During those days everything was an effort. So I was pretty good at anticipating you know I need three days of stuff I can just walk into the kitchen and within 90 seconds be sitting down and eating. Because cooking was really wouldve been very very difficult. And then little thingsI have a couple of cats so somebody had to scoop out the litter boxes during those three days and that was really more than I felt like doing. So it made you feel vulnerable in a way that you had not felt before in your home. Right yes. And I debated I never did but I debated when I went to bed at night leaving the front door off the latch. So that if I did need to call 911 I wouldnt need to get to the door to unlock it. Part of me kind of wonders you know is this what its gonna be like? Am I going to be one of these elderly people you read about that is all by himself or all by herself and nobody checks in nobody calls and then something happens? That kind of weighs on my mind. Arlenes latest cancer screening was all clear. As for the future she says she doesnt see herself sharing her household again but she would like what she called a reciprocal caring relationship which is a term I love. Shes been doing some online dating I didnt meet anybody that I absolutely did not like at all. But no one special just yet. A lot of you echoed Arlenes quiet fears about safety when youre alone at home. I still lock all three locks on the door every night. Sometimes you do miss having somebody else in the house with you. When like a scary noise happens in the middle of the night. In fact I lock them at every point in time Im in the apartment. Sometimes its hard for me to go to bed because I think about how easy it would be for someone to crawl up the fire escape and then kidnap me. I think about the scene in Frankie and Johnny when Michelle Pfeiffer is eating alone in her apartment and she starts choking and she gives herself the Heimlich over a chair. I realized that had I fainted and hit my head on the tub I couldve been dead and found naked in the tub alone. I usually leave the door open. Why do you leave the door open? Well what if I call for help and they cant get in? Ernie Major is 70 and has lived alone since he and his wife split and his kids left the house. I live in a single-wide trailer in Vallejo California and I do have a few guns so I have a gun safe right next to where I sleep. I just leave the door to that open. How long have you lived alone? Absolutely alone Id say seven or eight years. Something like that. Has its upsides I was up 'til 3 last night baking and watching TV and stuff. But it gets very lonely and thats where the dogs come in. Do you talk to your dogs? Oh yeah. Not long conversations and they in that on my days off and stuff they need and want to go places and it gets me out of the house. They kind of lift you up. What were you baking last night 'til 3 in the morning? Bread and a pie. I just got frozen stuff and baked up a loaf of bread and a blackberry pie. Which Im looking forward to. Fact that is gonna beI havent eaten breakfast yet so bacon and eggs and pie sounds like a balanced meal to me.  A lot of it is just the lack of judgement... When you live by yourself you get to eat whatever and however you want. Richie Moriarty is 34. About three years ago he was living in Massachusetts and married. And then his wife told him she was leaving. This was two weeks after the bomb was dropped and all this in my life was changing. Two weeks after you found out your marriage was gonna be over? I went back to work I was feeling intense financial pressure being faced with divorce. Like ah I gotta get back to work. So I hadI wasnt eating wasnt sleeping well and there was this one day at work where before work I went to Dunkin' Donuts and got a couple of donuts. I got home at like 5 pm and realized not only have I not eaten anything all day but I didnt even eat the donuts. So I think at this point I got a call from my ex that triggered something so Im having this terrible moment and I was like I just need to get in the shower and like start this day clean. And at the same time Im starving. Im so hungry. So I grabbed a glazed donut and I ate it in the shower. I ate a glazed donut in the shower. And I dont know if thats rock bottom or rock top. It was bliss. Now Richie lives in New York. He moved after the divorce to try to do some more acting and he has a girlfriend. Theyre planning to move in together in February. Thats another story I heard again and again. About what happens when you no longer live alone. Its something Ive felt as Arthur and I have gone from long-distance to living in the same space. When you live alone time to yourself is automatic. Its not something you have to carve out. Its a pretty huge deal that its coming to an end. Melissa Sorrells has lived alone for the last year. Before that she lived with her now ex-husband whom shed lived with since college. Now shes engaged to be married again. When we spoke it was three weeks before her fiance Dan was scheduled to move in. Ive always been afraid to be alone like I would have some anxiety about what I would do to fill my time. But it turns out thats not such a problem. I manage to fill the time pretty well. On a night when youre by yourself in your place what do you do? I do a lot of yoga. Ill push all the furniture to the side and Ill stretch which is very helpful very calming. Actually Im wondering how thats going to work once Im living with someone else. Because Im not going to be able to shove everything against the walls. Have you startedsince this is three weeks away that hes moving inhave you started noticing the small details that might change and feeling a little wistful? Um wistful isnt the right word. I do not think I am going to miss it too much. Because hes a good sleeper. Hell sleep in on a Saturday morning and thatll give me like enough of my own space. Yeah a little nervous like hows this going to work? If I just drop my purse on the middle of the floor Im not going to be able to do that anymore. I need to find a place to actually keep it. But its neat how when you describe his sleeping in like how youre aware that youre going to have this time that you get to do the things that you have realized make you feel good. By yourself. Yeah definitely. And even just spending a couple hours with a book uninterrupted where hes not going to be like hey lets make popcorn! Hey pay attention to me Im here Im a human. Itll be good like I know that Ill have a couple of hours. That makes me sound horrible doesnt it? No! Its definitely something I value. A lot. And I dont know if I realized how much I valued it because my ex-husband he worked nights a lot of the time and he worked long weekends so it was always something that made me so anxious I never realized how important it was to have my own quiet time my own space. Yeah instead of an absence now it feels like a gift. Yes exactly! Melissa and Dan moved in together last week. But Melissa if you ever start feeling nostalgic I have the perfect song for you.  Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop  Emily Botein James Ramsay Chris Bannon and Bill Moss. Thanks to Greg Young at Sony and Sean Patrick Flahaven at WarnerChappell Music for the use of this song. And to Trystan Angel Reese for recommending it! Its a Sondheim song from Liza Minnellis Live From Radio City Music Hall album -- and its made for blasting when youre home alone. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale. So is the show deathsexmoney! Find us and follow us there. And go to our website -- deathsexmoney.org -- for the list of your picks for the best books about death sex AND money. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.