 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry GROSS. The third season of The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel just started streaming on Amazon and this morning the show was nominated for a Golden Globe for best comedy series. Our guest Alex Borstein won backtoback Emmys for her performance as Mrs. Maisel's manager. She also won an Emmy for her performance in the Fox animated series Family Guy as the mother Lois. On the HBO series Getting On she played a nurse. She got her start on the sketch comedy series Mad TV. Alex Borstein spoke with FRESH AIR's Dave Davies and they began with a clip from The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. It is set in the 1950s. Midge Maisel is an affluent young Jewish housewife in New York's Upper West Side. After helping her husband a businessman who is an aspiring comic she takes the mic one night likes it and soon discovers she is a better comic than he is. Alex Borstein's character is the tough streetwise Susie Myerson who recognizes Midge Maisel's talent and becomes her manager. In this scene from the second season Midge Maisel's career has gotten some traction and she is meeting Susie at a diner. Midge Maisel is played by Rachel Brosnahan. The scene begins with Borstein as Susie remarking that Midge's success means her phone calls are now being returned.    These club owners call me back in a flash. Sometimes I hear them yell take a message. When they hear it is me on the phone they take the call. That is respect  for me. I mean look at me. They are respecting me.   I am looking at you.   Alone I am a spittoon; with you I am a someone.   That is not true Susie. They respect you because they fear you. You are great at what you do.   Half of them respect me maybe; the other half want to get in your pants.   Stop.   It is going to happen. I mean look at you  it is like a dollop of whipped cream grew a head.   Just do not undercut yourself. That is all I am saying.   So you called this lunch. What do you want to talk about?   I just wanted to touch base before I go to the Catskills. We leave tomorrow.   Oh gosh. It is going to be so nice to have a break. This past year has been tough. Look at this  gigs. My typewriter lost its S. That is why it says aturday unday . You went to college. You can figure it out.   These are all in the next two weeks.   So?   I am going to the Catskills.   Yeah you said.   So I cannot do these. I am going to the Catskills.   First one's not until the week after next.   But I am going to the Catskills.   Yeah your record's skipping Missy . Get to the point.   I am going to the Catskills for two months.   Jeez. I almost did a spit take.   Almost? That was a spit take.   You are going to the Catskills for two months?   I told you a million times I was going to the Catskills.   Yeah but I figured it was five days tops not two expletive months.   I think you got the guy in back of me too.   What the hell do you do up there for two months?   Lots of things.   What things? You look at a tree. You go to bed. You get up. You look at a tree. You are going to do that for two straight months? What the expletive is going on up there?   There is activities. We go boating. We sunbathe. What do you do for the summer?   I stay here. And I sweat and I smell like a bum and I am miserable and I want to kill people. And I do that till it gets cold.  And that is our guest Alex Borstein with Rachel Brosnahan in The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. The third season is now available for streaming on Amazon Prime. Alex Borstein welcome to FRESH AIR. It is great to have you. Tell us about Susie this manager. You know I am sure you spent a lot of time in comedy clubs. Was there somebody that you kind of drew on for this character?  You know not directly. This character just feels very familiar regardless of what profession and what world she is working in. It is  you know she is my grandmother. She is my mother. She is people like Amy ShermanPalladino in my life. There have been you know various club owners that you know you know throughout the years. But there is no one person. I know Amy in bringing this to life she did pull from a you know Sue Mengers kind of a character too. And the women that have risen to the top and especially during that time were pretty few and far between and very recognizable.  This series has really high production values and the costumes especially for the women are like wow  down to the hat and the gloves. You look pretty different.   Yeah most of the women have extravagant costumes. I am the lucky one I think. I get flat shoes no girdle. You know I am not forced to wear period underpinnings.  .  I think I am supposed to wear  I do have one vintage bras but many times I actually sneak my own bra under because it is hidden with a jacket and they cannot see. And Susie's is not extravagant. Her bra is a very sad little white old  1950s period piece. But yeah a lot of times out of laziness I will keep on my Maidenform and move forward.  You know as I understand it you  this was created by Amy ShermanPalladino who you would worked with before. And you were living in Barcelona right? You would kind of made a move and then you got this script.  She sucked me back in.   Yeah I decided to  I wanted my kids to do you know a school year abroad and wanted to have that experience and had just  I had worked on a show called Getting On which was the love of my life.  Yeah.  And that ended and it broke my heart. And I was just  I had tried with another project to get it off the ground and that looked like it was going to happen and it fell apart. Something with Alan Arkin. And I just kind of gave up. I thought this  I am just done. I want to enjoy my time and not feel terrible about myself. Let me just go and have this experience. And right then Amy's like are you still serious about doing this Spain thing? Because I have written that project I talked to you about and I would really like for you to read for this. So I was like well go ahead and send it. And then I read it and I was like why did I have her send it?   Because I loved it and I could not not audition for it. So I auditioned for it.  So what was the audition like?  I flew into New York. I brought some clothing that felt like what I kind of envisioned for this character like a buttondown shirt and some brown wool  I do not know if you would call him dungarees trousers some flat kind of men's suit shoes. And they had me read with Rachel. So I met Rachel that day. And it was very warm and I threw the outfit on and realized right while I was in the waiting room I forgot deodorant.  .  Just sweat pit circles like really awful awful sweat pits. And I think they actually thought it was kind of charming and very Susieish .  There is a lot of standup in the series I mean in comedy clubs and in other settings. And you know it struck me that that is maybe not the easiest thing to recreate I mean kind of the feeling of a comedy club and the spontaneity of a performer and an audience in a scripted drama. Did you feel that way?  It is the hardest thing in the world to do. I think we were almost nervous about that. And almost every show or movie I have ever seen about standup just there is something so stiff and so unreal. And I think what Amy nailed was making Midge a type of standup that you have not seen before in that era. You know she is not a Lenny Bruce but she is stream of consciousness and she is talking about things she is not supposed to and not doing a character not  so I think that made it a little bit easier that she is presenting herself and performing pieces from her life that that maybe lends itself to reproducing in an easier way. And Rachel's very very committed to I mean nailing it. She works very very hard on that material and asks a lot of questions and Amy guides her a lot and she tries different things. And we are very lucky that the background players who play our audiences  I mean this  they are really dedicated and they laugh many many many times. We do so many takes and they are able to give us the feeling that it is very real and give her the feeling that it is very real that when she is succeeding it feels real. She is able to have the right tone to follow up a joke with something that is just gone over well. And if you do not have that from the people responding to you it is hard to pretend.  Yeah you do not  you take for granted those people that are out there in these chairs . It is a long day for them. And they...  Very long day  in wool in corsets in heel  very uncomfortable shoes from the '50s and hats. And it is a tremendous amount of work for them.  Did you do a lot of standup when you were younger?  I have done some standup you know. Really I was just so desperate to perform and wanting desperately to just get up on stage and try to do stuff and please that standup was a great shortcut to do that. You did not have to wait for a notice for an audition or try to get a group of people together; you could just go and do. And the first time I did it I was 16 years old and it was at a bar that  my parents had to come with me because they would not let me in the bar otherwise.   It was in the valley in California and they paid me 20 at a place called Gallaghers . It was in the bottom of the Ramada Inn .  Wow.  And you know my material was about parents and school and teachers. And I am sure  maybe it was a little bit cute. I do not know how great it was. But the six people in the audience were very kind. And it is funny I made 20 and I think that was maybe the only money I ever made. After that every like open mic was  you know no one ever paid me again really.  Wow. Do you remember any of your jokes?  I remember talking about the toilet paper  in the bathrooms. The junior high bathrooms were  in an effort to save paper and be economical they looked like teenytiny squares that came out as a single piece instead of a roll of toilet paper. And I was comparing the size of the paper to the size of my ass...  .  ...And making jokes about how this  from the little math that I understood this does not seem to work. I did not say it was funny folks. I said I did it at 16.   Most of it was family. Most of it was me impersonating my grandmother or talking about my parents or  that was the bulk of my material. I am actually  come full circle though. I am doing standup again now.  Oh are  really?  Which is  yeah.  And what made you want to do that?  You know I met two really special people in Barcelona or Barcelona .  Right.  And they are musicians and they are dear dear friends  Salva and Eric. And the three of us started working together performing together and then I started writing material.  You know I remember Susie Essman I think saying on our show once before about that  you know standup is like a really aggressive thing. You have just got to be tough. Do you feel that way?  I do and I do not even think it is necessarily while you are on the stage doing it; it is everything around it. It is getting ready to do it. It is waiting till 00 in the morning to get a slot to go on. It is being heckled. It is drunk people. It is fighting noise of people talking. It is  in that way it is  even before you are up there performing it is very hard. It is an uphill push.  We are speaking with Alex Borstein. She is costars in the series The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. The third season is now available for streaming on Amazon Prime. We will continue our conversation after a quick break. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR and we are speaking with actress and comedian Alex Borstein. She costars in the series The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. The third season is now available for streaming on Amazon Prime. You grew up in the suburbs in Illinois and then moved to the L.A. area for high school. Were you always a cutup? Were you always making jokes as a kid?  You know I was always the comic relief in the family. I think you know you get a role at a very early age and that is kind of what you are stuck with. And that was my role. We were always kind of a funny family. But specifically I would kind of try to ease tensions a lot of the time.  Now you were the youngest of three right?  Yeah.  And your brother is a hemophiliac?  Yes one of them.  You were not. You carry the gene but not  but you do not have the disorder. Is that right?  Yeah. You know it is interesting. When I grew up women  even if you had a low level of clotting factor which I do they just called us lowlevel symptomatic carriers. We were a carrier. But now I have a daughter who has the same you know factor level as me and now she is actually in the category  they call her a mild hemophiliac. So yeah. But growing up I was always just called a symptomatic carrier and really never had any issues. I never had to be treated for it. But my brother you know lived the life of a hemophiliac. My uncle as well. And so that was something that I think I provided a lot of comic relief  you know making him laugh you know when he had to be you know hospitalized for long periods of time. Or if he was in a wheelchair we would have a wheelchair races in the hospital corridors. We  at one point he had a  was in a wheelchair and we tied a rope to the back of his wheelchair and to the garage door handle and thought that would be hilarious to open the garage and close the garage and have it pull him up and down the driveway which of course ended up  it was not a good idea folks. I am going to go ahead and say do not do that.   Do not do this. Do not try this at home. So what happened? Did it spill him out of the chair?  Of course it...  Right.  He spilled out of the chair. It  you know when the thing went up you know it was disastrous. He rolled down and then it yanked back when it went higher and he poured out onto the cement driveway . And we were in a lot of trouble. But I think he laughed his ass off so it was worth it. It was worth the injury.  Do you think seeing the difficulties your brothers faced and spending as much time as you did in medical settings and hospitals  I am wondering how that affected you. Did it  your sense of I do not know security.  I do not know. I mean definitely seeing the fragility of life definitely seeing that one mutation of one gene can completely change the course of your health or a person's destiny or  I think that was always something that stayed with me. And I have  as a result I have been very very active in the hemophilia community. When I was pregnant with my first child I knew that it was a boy and I was terrified that he was going to be a hemophiliac. I was terrified. And what that would mean and would I be able to handle it? And I have since stayed very active. I reached out to the community at that point and talked to a lot of moms of hemophiliacs to try to figure out what kind of life  what is this going to mean for me now? Because I knew what it was like for my brother growing up but it is changed. Treatment is very different now. My brother you know lost so many friends to HIV because the product was tainted. It was a blood derivative and a lot of it was contaminated and still distributed within the community.  You mean hemophiliacs who were treated with blood treatments that were contaminated?  That is right. The Factor VIII treatment required for hemophilia  well if you have Hemophilia A  was tainted. There was a lot of hepatitis C and HIV. And so many people died. So many people were lost. And we lived with that fear. We were very lucky. For some reason my brother was spared and did not contract HIV. But it was very tenuous and very scary. That was always kind of a wait.  We are speaking with Alex Borstein. She costars in the series The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel as Susie Myerson. The third season is now available for streaming on Amazon Prime. Your grandmother was Hungarian  right?  and a Holocaust survivor as a kid. And you went to Hebrew school too right? So you had a lot of sounds in your head. Did you develop characters out of all that?  Yeah I think  you know I worked on a show called Mad TV. And one of the other actors Will Sasso he grew up with a second language in his house and I think having that lends itself to impersonations voices character development. I think it is something that has a hand in pointing you in that direction. So yeah I  having different languages and ways to shape your mouth I think it absolutely helped push me in that direction.  Do you have a character from your childhood that you remember or can share with us?  I mean my grandmother was you know someone that I impersonated all my life. She then became you know a character I ended up doing on Mad  I was doing in live theater before that was first called the Other Gabor and then she became Ms. Swan. And so that was  you know why you eat so much candy?  .  Have a candy. Here  eat the candy. I make for you cake. Why you eat cake? You fat too fat. There was a lot of that.   Right.  There was a lot of  I mean I watched a lot of  you know Latka on Taxi was major for me to watch something like that and Jonathan Winters. There are a lot of things that became little voices in my head.  So I know you went to college in San Francisco and got involved in a lot of comedy and sketch comedy groups and in 1997 joined Mad TV which you would have been like 26 years old right? I mean...  Yeah I was a young'n  I think.  Yeah.  I mean now I feel like that is not young. Like you see these fetuses starting in television now. But I...  .  At the time I felt like I was young.  There was just some great performers there. I mean my kids and I just loved that show. Will Sasso you mentioned Debra Wilson Nicole Sullivan Phil LaMarr and other people went on to great careers.  Yeah. Was it  it was a pretty intense experience. It was a really amazing boot camp kind of experience.  Well I guess it was out of that that you got the role on Family Guy the animated series which has been a huge hit and is on  what?  like 18 seasons now. You met Seth MacFarlane on Mad TV. Is that right? And then he came up with this...  Yeah. You know Mad TV was a latenight Fox program. And at the time a woman named Leslie CollinsSmall  was in charge of development for late night. And she was working with Seth trying to develop this brilliant animated piece that he had done as a thesis project. And at first they were going to do it as interstitials on Mad TV kind of like The Simpsons was born out of The Tracey Ullman Show. And thankfully Seth was so wise to not give up the rights and do that. I think they wanted him to sign everything over. And he did not and they ended up you know making a pilot. And she  one of our press events she said hey you know  Leslie said to me do you  you do voices right? And I was like I will do anything you want. What do you got? I am doing this animated thing with this guy Seth and maybe you can help us do this pilot presentation. So one Saturday afternoon I went to a studio in Santa Monica Calif. And we met and I took a look at the drawing. And at the same time I was doing a character onstage at the ACME Comedy Theatre where most of my characters were born. I was doing a sketch called Magic Man written by Jeff Lewis and I played this mother with red hair coincidentally. And her son had come home to say he does not want to be a stockbroker anymore; he wants to be a magician. And she said oh OK. Well that is fine and wonderful. But what about the stockbroker job? Like no Mom. I am not  I am leaving that. I want to be a magician. OK good. But yeah  but you are still going to be a stockbroker right?  .  And you know I did that voice for Seth and he was like I like that. He is like maybe it is a little too slow; maybe you could speed it up. And that voice is actually also based on a Hungarian relative on my cousin who lives in Long Island.   So yeah that was kind of born out of  everything was just ripped off of my family basically. I just am a thief.  We are listening to the interview Alex Borstein recorded with FRESH AIR's Dave Davies. Borstein costars in the series The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. The third season just started streaming on Amazon. After a break she will talk about finding the voices for her characters on the animated series Family Guy about why she thinks her looks prevented her from getting an agent earlier in her career and why the cancellation of her HBO series Getting On led her to leave the country. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Let us get back to the interview FRESH AIR's Dave Davies recorded with actor and comedian Alex Borstein. She is earned two Emmy awards for her performance in the hit series The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. Its third season just started streaming on Amazon. And this morning the show was nominated for a Golden Globe for best comedy series. When they left off she was talking about doing voice work for the animated series Family Guy.  Let us just hear a clip here. This is from Season 2 when Lois your character and Peter her husband run against each other for the schoolboard because of something stupid Peter got angry about. And this is at their debate. And we will hear you as Lois. But first we will hear Peter played by Seth MacFarlane speaking about why people should not vote for his wife Lois.    They deserve a school board president who does not leave their feminine ointments in the fridge next to the mustard. That was the worst hot dog I ever ate.    Peter.   Yeah she flosses in bed. She snores like a wildebeest.   Thank you Mr. Griffin. We now move on to...   Wait a second blow dryer. I am not done yet. She freed Willie Horton. She nailed Donna Rice.   Peter that is enough.   Eats babies.    Peter. Peter. Peter. Peter.   Just a minute. Listen to me please.   Peter.   This election is about our children's future. So ask yourself what kind of future will it be if you elect a man who has never taught a student or even been to a PTA meeting? This is a man who believes the plural of goose is sheep. I am the right person for the job. Vote for me.    Lois. Lois. Lois.  And that is our guest Alex Borstein. Thanks to her cousin in Long Island doing the voice...  That is  it is  you know what is amazing is in animation  and this is true of almost every show that is ever been made. The voices get higher and faster as the years go on. And it is so true. I listened to that. And it is  it sounds so much slower and such  at such a lower pitch. It is really interesting.  Why does that happen?  I do not know. Seth is the one who said that that is a truth. And I started noticing it even with The Flintstones and The Jetsons. You can really hear the change from the first year to the last.  Now you did Lois and a lot of other voices. Do you have a favorite more obscure voice that you can share with us?  There is this librarian that is always been really fun to do that...  She is just very  she thinks she is very clever. And she tells some jokes  that  they are not even jokes. But  she is so taken by them. And I  just cannot get enough. Just that kind of woman.   You know it is such a different process. I mean you have done standup and you have done sketch. And then this  I gather you spend a lot of time in the studio by yourself right?  I mean without the other actors there right?  Oh yeah a lot of it. In the beginning we tried to do stuff together. Seth and I would do a lot together. But then as everyone's schedules changed it became almost impossible. So you know everyone started working more and more and moving and our lives changing so we do a lot of stuff solo. But we will sometimes be on the line where we can you know do some  riff off of each other with someone long distance but a lot of it is solitary.  And you were involved in writing the series too over the years right? So I guess there is some collaboration there.  Yeah actually you know that is how I came into the Palladino fold was through Family Guy. One of our writers was Dan Palladino and then he rose in the ranks and started running the show. He was running the writers room and he was my boss as a writer. And he was the person that came to me and said you know you should read the script my wife wrote. It is called the Gilmore Girls. And that is kind of how he met the Palladinos.  Right. And Amy ShermanPalladino is the creator of The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. And yeah I mean you were  you landed a role on the Gilmore Girls right? You were Sookie right?  Yeah. Yeah. I auditioned for Sookie and we shot the pilot in Canada. And then I could not do it because of my contract with Mad TV.  Oh. It is odd that they would have let you shoot the pilot without  you know without getting the goahead to appear on the series.  Well you know every year the way it works you do not know if a show is going to come back for quite a while. It is  things are always on the bubble. Mad TV  every year we were waiting to hear. And while you are waiting you want to cover your own butt. So you go out and you audition for things in second position they call it. So a lot of things will take you in second position because they are banking on the other thing folding. They are just willing to take that chance. And they thought they were going to try to work it out. They thought you know I think we are going to be able to do this. We will have you work on Sundays and Mondays on Gilmore  and then you will do Mad TV the rest of the week. And then it just became  I think it was kind of a tiny war between Warner Brothers and Fox and they did not want to share anybody.  Yeah; well nice to be appreciated anyway.  .  So did you have to figure all this out? Do you have an agent who really knows the business your own Susie Myerson who could guide you through this stuff?  No I did not have an agent at the time.  Really? Wow.  Yeah. It took me  I was on Mad TV for five years and I was not able to get an agent until I left.  Not able  no one wanted to represent you or...  That is correct.  That is shocking. Is it the different...  Yeah.  The business was different back then.  No I think I just did not  everyone just was like what is she going to be able to do? She is this short pudgy thing. And how are we going to cast her? No one wants to look at that. So I think it was just not  I was not seen as a horse that was going to place so I could not get representation to save my life .  Wow. So you had to work the phones and negotiate your own contracts.  Yeah. I mean Mad TV happened because I got myself into a comedy festival in Austin Texas where casting people were. And they saw me and that is how I got that audition. And then Family Guy happened because the woman who worked on Mad TV was developing with Seth knew me personally and brought me in. And then Gilmore Girls happened because of Dan working on Family Guy. And really everything has been just one piece after that. After  on Gilmore Girls I met a producer named Gavin Polone who then was  you know signed me on to develop a pilot with him as a producer. And at that point an agency was  a lawyer was like hey will you take her on?  because she is doing this pilot. And they took me on and that ended up kind of being a disaster because they did not really want to represent me. They were kind of doing it as a favor to this lawyer and you know...  Yeah.  ...Got the paperwork done for me. And then that was kind of the last I ever heard from them.  We are speaking with Alex Borstein. We will continue our conversation in just a moment. This is FRESH AIR.   This is 're speaking with Alex Borstein. She costars in the series The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. Season 3 is now available for streaming on Amazon Prime. Well I want to talk about Getting On the HBO series that you did I guess for three seasons. I mean this is just a terrific series. And I am  I recommend it to listeners. You can  it is available on demand. Let us listen to a scene here. This is set in a geriatric extended care unit of a hospital. It is kind of a struggling hospital. And you are a nurse who cares for these elderly women. And the series it is about the work and the relationships among you and a doctor  who is played brilliantly by Laurie Metcalf  and the patients and the other staff. And here is a scene from the first episode where you are sitting with a new nurse who is played by Niecy Nash. You are eating a salad and talking about the job and the hospital which you know is kind of struggling. Let us listen.    Dr. Ribaldi  he was a great director of medicine. He was really handsome too. He got canned over the bad infections report. And then they have been interviewing for that position for like three months. Everyone says that we are dragging the rest of the medical center down which we are not. Plus people say that extended care is boring which it is not. It is totally where the action is. We could use some testosterone in this unit though. I will tell you that. So why did you get into nursing? And what did you do before?   It is a long story.   I talk too much. .   Uhuh. No no. Me and my husband...   All it takes is a little getting used to. I mean I cried like every day on the way home from work my first two months.   For what?   I do not know  because I take my job really seriously. You know? I mean maybe I care too much 'ecause there is nothing more important to me than taking care of these women here  you know these elderly women who are alone and have no one else and are entrusted to my care. And we work just as hard as anyone in that hospital over there maybe even 1