  Hey you all. It is Tamara Keith.  Hey you all. It is Sam Sanders. And together we are Samara .  Samara.  Yeah yeah. Fun fact - when Tam and I worked together on the politics team during the campaign last year we tried very very hard to get a nickname for our co-hosting duo. And I do think Samara was the most successful although there were others.  Yeah I liked Samara. It is easier than Sam and Tam or Tam and Sam.  Yeah.  Anyway the whole point of that name was to show that we were - are...  ...Still are .  ...Still are a team.  Yeah.  And right now every NPR podcast you listen to we are all working together as a team to try to get you to give to your local public radio station.  And I know that I was teasing a bit earlier this month that we were locked in mortal battle with other podcasts like NPR Politics to get the most donations. But actually it is all about giving however you want. And you can give lots of different ways. If you still love NPR Politics as I still do you can give through their link which is donate.npr.orgpolitics.  Or if you love Sam's show and you want to give that way do donate.npr.orgsam. Or you could do both.  You could do both. You could give...  You could totally do both.  You could support Wait Wait... Do not Tell Me by doing wait. Pop Culture Happy Hour is happy.  ...Happy. They get happy. We get politics.   There is codeswitch. There is so many ways.  So no matter how you listen you can support your local station and the work that all of us are doing.  Yeah.  Happy holidays everybody.  Happy holidays. It is like old times. Oh my God.  I hope that is going to work. I think it will work.  Oh it will work.   Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR reporter Camila Domonoske and the host of The Big Listen from member station WAMU Lauren Ober. Happy Holidays. Let us start the show.   I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Each week we start with a different song. We will talk about this one in just a bit. But first as Aunt Betty said two bright and shining lights of journalism here in the booth with me today...  Aww.  Camila Domonoske a reporter for NPR's news desk - and you cover literally all the news that is fit to online print.  All the things including some things that maybe were not fit.   We cover anyway.  And our good friends from just up the road - from NPR member station WAMU Lauren Ober who took a break from her own show The Big Listen to talk with us today. We are grateful for it.  I am grateful for you.  So much gratitude in this studio.  Look at this.  So much.  I am loving the vibes in here right now.  Yeah.  I am loving the vibes.  Yeah. I am feeling holiday-ish you know?  Speaking of holiday-ish this song...    Let us have a very merry Christmas and a happy new year.  It is one of the best...  Do I hear Left Eye?  You hear Left Eye.  Ooh tell me girl.  So this is a TLC song Sleigh Ride which is one of the best and most underrated holiday songs of all time. And part of why I love it so much is because Left Eye's rap is just the pinnacle. She starts the rap by saying giddyup.    Giddyup giddyup giddyup and away we go.   And away we go. It is just beautiful.    With the Left everything is grand. Sleigh ride if you like me baby. Do not be scared. Take my hand. T to the Left Eye. See if you can take a glide...  And I hope all of our listeners are in the holiday spirit as well. I am. Lauren is moving. I love it.  I just need to get my body going. I need to get in the spirit. My parents are coming today.  You can do it.  I have to get myself in a mood.    It is lovely weather for a sleigh ride together with you.  We are here to discuss what happened this week. A big tax overhaul cleared Congress. We are also going to look back on some big or small stories that you may have missed this year. So I am looking forward to that as well. All right. With that let us begin the show as we always do. We are going to each describe how this week of news felt in only three words. Lauren I know you got this. It is kind of tied to the tax bill's passage. You are up first.   What if I told you that I Googled three-word phrases to figure this out?  Really?  That means you did your homework.  I am not saying I did. I am saying what if I told you that?  What shows up when you Google three-word phrases?  Not anything good. Mine this week though was haste makes waste because I do not understand how you could pass legislation - or you could write legislation rather in like three minutes right?  You know what is so interesting though? It is funny. I was talking to a member of the House this week. And he said everyone was looking at the Senate moving quickly. But the House under Paul Ryan's leadership has been trying to work on taxes for years. And I think a lot of that was overshadowed in the chicanery you saw in the Senate...  Right.  ...And in Donald Trump's tweets.  Right.  You know? And so there was this weird dichotomy this week you know?  Right. But for the average citizen - right? - it feels like whoa whoa what?  All of a sudden there is a tax bill.  Where did this come from?  Right. You know we say that Senate is the greatest deliberative body right?  LOL.  LOLZ . And I just - I would have loved to see a little more deliberation maybe.  Well and it is funny. Like I keep hearing stuff about the tax bill since it is passed. And people keep finding out new things.  And there is so much wrapped into then this one bill. These two words tax bill - like it contains actually so many different...  It is a lot.  ...Policy changes.  It opens up drilling in Alaska. It does a lot of stuff.  Exactly. And that is true of so many...  It deals with health care. Right.  What I think is going to be really interesting to watch is how the public feels this does or does not hit their pocketbook. A lot of the savings that you will get once you file your taxes - that is not going to come when you file in April 2018. It is going to come when you file in April 2019.  Right.  This is a bill that still has a lot of questions. And a lot of the impact might not be felt until after the midterm elections.  Right. So yeah I do not know. I mean I got an email from my accountant that was indecipherable - that was...  Really? About the tax bill?  Yeah that was like here are the things that you need to keep in mind when you are filing your taxes in 2018 - blah blah blah. You might want to shift these things around. And I was like I do not even have any assets to shift. Like how can I help myself? But I mean this was - these were tax professionals that were sending out a note.  We-do not-know emails.  Right that was like...  We do not know.  We do not know.  We do not know. I am going to go next. My three words are they are not done because even in spite of that big moment for Republicans this week when they pass this bill there is a lot of unfinished business. As we all know the government is - seems to be always a few weeks from a shutdown. They have approved a temporary stopgap measure to fund the government through some time in January. But there were two big items of unfinished business after the tax bill - CHIP The Children's Health Insurance Program and also DACA which is The Deferred Action For Childhood Arrivals program. Donald Trump announced a few months ago that he would be rolling that program down. And he put the onus on Congress to pass a bill to basically continue these protections for children that are now adults in some cases who have come into the country legally but want to stay. And so those things were not done. We did see a temporary funding of CHIP for a few months in this stopgap measure. But DACA is still in limbo. And there are some 1.2 million people living here right now who do not know what their status will be next year. And just to underscore how tenuous things have gotten with CHIP a few states have sent out letters to their residents saying we are going to close this program down by the end of December or the end of January unless Congress acts. That is how down to the wire they were.  Yeah I was reading that in Virginia. One of the reasons they sent out the letter was because if they had not sent out earlier in the month - if they waited to see if Congress would actually act then if it was expiring those letters would go out basically at Christmas.  Oh my goodness.  And the state administrators were just like we cannot bring ourselves to do that to people.  No.  We would rather have people get alarmed unnecessarily and then relieved that it got extended earlier then tell people that their their children are losing their health insurance on Christmas Day. Like we we cannot do that.  And we cannot stress enough how bipartisan something like spending money on health insurance for poor children used to be - so a lot of questions about what is going to happen there. Camila you are last - three words?  All right. So I cheated.  That is OK.  Those are not my three words.  So I cheated - OK.  So I cheated could mean so many things.  How I acquired my three words - first I stole them. I stole them from Alex Neason who writes for The Columbia Journalism Review. So she writes about media. And secondly they are actually about last week. So I cheated on two fronts.  It is OK.  But my three words are what in tarnation?  You cannot just say that straight. You got to...  What in tarnation?  That sounds about right.  What is tarnation? So Alex tweeted at me. She said I was on the what-in-tarnation beat which I am not officially on. But I will say last week I had a string...  You cover wacky news.  I had a string of stories that just really had me questioning a lot of things...  Run through them.  ...About like my life and the world. So first there were the human feet. So I do not know if you know this is a thing in the Pacific Northwest. Like human feet wash ashore...  What?  ...Just because people die in accidents. Some you know - and then they get in the water and the water's cold. So if you were wearing athletic shoes like tennis shoes when you died and became a corpse in these frosty waters your feet float...  Oh my God.  So the feet come up to the surface. And then eventually they wash ashore.  Oh my God.  And if you find one on Vancouver Island - pro tip - do not pick it up which is what this guy did with the most recently discovered foot. You do not have to take it home. The police will take care of it for you.  You do not have to take it home.  So that was the first wacky headline.  That was the first wacky headline. Do not panic about the human feet. So then there was monkeys and deer in Japan...  Oh no. I saw this. Uh-uh nope.  ...Engaging in sexual interactions in a way that was pretty remarkable.  Who was doing - actually I do not want to know.  Adolescent female macaques were mounting these sika deer in Japan. And it was kind of funny. It was mostly male sika deer. The female deer would run away. And the male deer would kind of just keep eating and let this happen on their backs. Anyway the researchers did extensive analysis of like the noises that the female monkeys were making. What is the age range of your audience Sam? I do not know how graphic I can get...  Today it should be older.   ...In my descriptions of this.  This is 9 to 90.  But yeah they determined that this was an example of an hetero-specific - if you want to know the word for a relationship between two different species that is a hetero-specific sexual interaction. So yeah that is a thing. And they are still trying to figure out why these monkeys are doing it. But they definitely are repeatedly.   And last year everyone was saying 2016 was the craziest year ever. Now they are saying 2017 is the craziest year ever. Do those kind of things happen every year? Or was this year particularly crazy?  I do not know. I have no answers.  Nor do I.  But there are photos.   Time for a quick break - coming up Long Distance and my favorite game Who Said That? You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders talking this week with Camila Domonoske of NPR's The Two-Way blog and Newsdesk and Lauren Ober who came down from WAMU our lovely Washington D.C. member station where she hosts the show The Big Listen. Quick yes-or-no question - NBC says it might bring back The Office next year. Just rumors now but we do know that Steve Carell probably will not be in the reboot. So yes or no? Would you watch it?  No.  No.  I agree. Like do not screw up a good thing. That show was very good already.  Why do we need a million remakes and a million sequels?  Let it be what it was.  Also the best three minutes of TV comedy ever is that scene where they are trying to train the office in CPR. Remember that?  .  Listeners go Google it right now. It is amazing seriously. All right. Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance.   We call up a listener somewhere in the world and talk to them about what is going on in their neck of the woods. Today we have two callers on the line from Connecticut Marty and Jessica Halprin. You guys there?  Yes.  Hey there. How are you? J.  Hi - good. How are you?  Good. I only hear one voice right now.  Yeah. If I have to be here I am here. I am good.  Ooh. Are not you excited about being on Sam's show?  Twist my arm. M.  I do not know if I am as excited.  Well we will make it fun. I promise. You are on the phone right now with me and two of my friends Camila and Lauren. Say hi guys.  Hey.  Hey. M.  Hi.  So what do you guys do there in Connecticut? J.  So I am a lawyer.  Cool cool. M.  I am a firefighter.  Awesome very cool. So we wanted to call you both because in this season of togetherness it has also still been a year full of pretty stark divisions over things like politics. You guys are married. But one of you voted for Hillary Clinton last year. The other voted for Donald Trump last year. Who voted for who? J.  I voted... M.  Who do you think?   I am asking.  We do not make assumptions Mark. J.  I voted for Clinton. M.  And I voted for the one who is in office now.  OK all right. How has this year since the election been for you both? M.  Jessica go ahead. J.  .  I feel like we can hear you guys looking at each other. Is that... J.  No I swear we are not in the same room.   That is probably good at this point.  So how is your year been? J.  Well it was - so I think the first - since the inauguration it was obviously more intense - not necessarily between the two of us but certainly among our friends and our colleagues and neighbors that - there was a lot of conversation. And it sort of died down. And eventually I just had to readjust my paradigm.  So you were saying the neighbors were talking. What were they saying to you guys? M.  They - believe it or not - well you should believe it actually because it is true. A lot of them actually support Trump.  All right. M.  Not all of them may admit it. J.  Do not throw our neighbors under the bus.  M.  Neighbors - well let us not just say neighbors - friends colleagues. There is a large percentage. And there is a large percentage that will not openly admit it either.  Marty how has your year been as a Trump supporter since... M.  As good as it gets.  Really? J.  Seriously?  Describe. Elaborate. M.  No I do not really feel much different from when he won.  OK. M.  You know I am not a big fan of the tweets.  OK. M.  I am not a big fan of some of the things he says.  OK. M.  You know I am a fan of him recognizing Jerusalem...  OK. M.  ...Where other presidents have failed to do that. You know the new tax code coming out - I have not really seen it all so it is hard for me to comment. But I am not a fan of giving corporations such a big tax cut.  Yeah yeah. Do the two of you as a couple talk about politics differently or more or less since the election has happened? J.  So I was raised in a family that very often talked politics. So the mere fact that my husband may continue to be misguided in a lot of ways does not mean that I am going to stop talking about it. However people have approached us and said you know that in their own personal relationships there have been disagreement and dissension. And how do we move on from that? Because if we cannot - if like a married couple cannot deal with their political differences then there is no way that as a nation we are going to be able to deal with them.  Yeah. So on that note then what advice or pro tips can you give to folks out in the real world trying to overcome those divisions in their everyday lives as well? J.  Marty? M.  I would put it simply. I would say suck it up buttercup.   Marty - you are on fire today Marty. I feel like Marty would be fun to have at drinks. Marty sounds like a cool guy. J.   He would be. So I do have to say that when it came down for the Women's March last January my husband was like I will look after the kids. You go down. You go to D.C. New York wherever you want to go. I will handle it. So he is very supportive. So that is number one. And number two is he and I have found other ways to work on what we feel is important. Like for example we have spent the morning organizing toys to give away to you know local homeless shelters. And that sort of is in alignment. It transcends political differences. And I think that is really important to focus on because at the end of the day we still want to live in a very caring world. He just has a different view of how that is achieved sometimes. M.  Listen. You got three more years. If it does not work then you need to get out and change it. But it might work very well. We will see. J.  Oh honey - so misguided.  Hey now you have used the word misguided several times over the course of this conversation.   Marty Jessica you guys are just cracking me up. I really enjoyed our chat. I think our listeners can learn a lot from you both. Thank you and have a great weekend. M.  Thank you. J.  Thank you.  All right you guys... J.  Enjoy the holiday.  Take care. Bye. J.  OK. Bye. M.  Bye.    Jingle bells. Batman smells.  Listeners we want to talk to you for this segment. If you want us to give you a call and hear about anything going on where you live drop us a note tell me what is going on - samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org.    But when it gets to deciding he is a slipping and a sliding in his own sleigh ride.  So usually at this point in the show we take some time to talk about one story in depth. But I wanted us to do things a bit differently today and go around the horn and share one story that we think was kind of overlooked this year. So let us do that. Camila you are up first.  All right. So the story that I picked - I mean it is overlooked not because it necessarily should have been a bigger deal than it was. It was a little moment.  OK.  But there is a couple things about it that have kind of stuck with me. So this was in February and President Trump was meeting with a group of sheriffs from around the country. And this one sheriff from Texas said that there was a state senator in Texas who was trying to introduce legislation to require a conviction for civil asset forfeiture.  Which is what?  So civil asset forfeiture is where the police can take property including cash jewelry cars from people who they suspect of having committed a crime and keep that property.  So like if you had a 20 bill in your wallet when you got arrested they could just keep it.  Exactly. Although this normally happens with much larger quantities...  OK.  ...Of money - hundreds thousands of dollars.  Yeah.  And they will keep it. And that money will then go in many cases into the budget of the local police department. And it is perfectly legal for police to do this without convicting you of a crime and even without charging you of a crime.  So if they pick me up because they think I am some other guy and I got 500 on me.  And they take it and...  They could just keep it. And not even just keep it but like put it in their budget.  Yes. And you can challenge that right? But the process for challenging it...  But you are not going to get it back.  ...To get your money back is expensive and time consuming. So it hits people who do not have access to resources the hardest.  How widespread is this?  This is a practice across the country. It varies - state laws vary on how it is implemented and jurisdictions vary on how it is implemented which is actually one of the big sort of themes of this story. This is the local sheriff talking about a Texas state legislator who is trying to introduce a law to require a conviction. Basically to say you have to be convicted of a crime before the police can seize your money as being quote unquote like ill-gotten gains.  Yeah.  Your money your car.  So what happened with that?  So this sheriff made this comment about the state legislator who was getting in his way and Trump responded with what is his name? We could end his career.   A state senator in Texas was talking about introducing legislation to require conviction before we can receive that forfeiture money.  Can you believe that?  And I told him that the cartel would build a monument to him in Mexico if he could get that legislation passed.  Who is the state senator? Do you want to give his name? We will destroy his career.   And so there are a couple of things about this. One is that in July the Trump administration moved to bring back a federal policy that President Obama had eliminated which was to partner with local jurisdictions in states that have restrictions on civil asset forfeiture to sort of use the power of the federal government say they were seizing it for federal purposes and then the federal government would give like 80 percent back to local law enforcement.  Whoa.  Basically this indication that all the way back in February Trump gave that he was with the local...  Yes.  ...Sheriffs against state laws was then carried out in federal policy. And there is currently a bill in the House to sort of stop the Trump administration from doing this that passed the House. It has not gotten through the Senate. And it is not a big story. The details of it are a little bit wonky but it does it affect people.  Totally.  And the other thing about that story that just sort of sticks in the back of my head is Trump's comment about ending the state senator's career. And the question that comes up again and again when we are covering the president of how do you characterize his statements.  Do you take it seriously or not?  Right. In this case do you say he was joking?  Because he did not know that guy.  He did not know that guy.  And he had heard of it before it seems.  Right. And...  He was just riffing.  He was just riffing and everyone in the room laughed. If everyone laughs is it a joke? If the president is saying it without having thought of it before is it not a policy? Well in some cases where he is saying things that are riffing off the cuff they actually become...  Yeah yeah.  ...Federal policy. When he was in Puerto Rico talking about how it was really hurting the federal budget and everyone was like do we describe that as the president joking about...  Yeah.  ...Puerto Rico hurting the federal budget or is he like grinning and saying something that he means because sometimes he does that too? It is just a persistent challenge of covering the president.  Yeah.  So both of those like intersections of stories that do not get very much attention where the administration is making changes that have broad-reaching implications and like rhetoric and action and how you interpret the relationship between the president's statements and his intentions. It is just...  What happened to the state senator?  I think he is fine.   To my knowledge his career has not been ended.  OK. All right. Lauren you are up.  OK. So this is not quite as obscure. But the thing that keeps sticking in my mind is the fact that 2017 was the deadliest year for mass shootings in the history of America.  Recent history.  In recent...  In recent U.S. history.  Right. Exactly. I am speaking in recent history and not in the course of war or aggression or...  Westward expansion.  Right.  It is crazy.  So the number is 112 deaths of mass shootings. And there are different criteria. I think the established criteria is that you know the shootings did not happen in the course of crime or gang violence or whatever and they happened in a public space. You remember in 2016 49 people were shot at the Pulse Nightclub...  Yeah.  ...In Orlando which was the deadliest mass shooting...  And then Vegas happened this year.  ...In history. And then Vegas happened. So we keep one-upping...  Yeah.  ...I guess. You know not to be crass about it. But the thing that I am interested in is that not that this is not covered. I think it is covered at the time we talk about you know we cover the people who have been shot we cover for maybe a week the ways in which people may or may not be responding in the political realm right? But then it goes away and we as citizens are left with you know what office now does not have active shooter drills right?  Yeah. So there had been discussion for a bit after the Las Vegas shooting about the possibility of some new gun control measures particularly the ban of what are called bump stocks which basically allow a semiautomatic weapon to become an automatic weapon. And that ended up going nowhere.  Right.  I wonder if any of our lawmakers - if other big parts of the country will look back on this like you have Lauren and say whoa this was the biggest year in a while. We have got to do something. But it seems like we get quicker and quicker and more easily ready to just move on from these things after about a week or so.  Yeah. The short half-life of these stories in...  Right.  ...The public sort of consciousness...  Right.  ...It is astounding. Sam what is yours?  I have been really obsessed this year with the changing fortunes of Silicon Valley. I think that the titans of tech and Internet have been taken down a peg this year.  How?  And we will run through a few for you.  Yeah.  Snapchat which was supposed to be the future of social media they had an IPO an initial public offering. Since that offering their stock has been down about 35 percent. Uber has been in big trouble all year. They were the darlings of Silicon Valley. Their CEO had to step down. And they are still being challenged by countries across the globe. This week they took a big hit in Europe. An international court there declared the company a transport company which basically means they have to be treated just like taxis all across the EU. What else? Facebook and Twitter are still grappling with Russia. They are facing really really big questions. Should they censor content? Are they media organizations? Should they be regulated by Congress and the president? Like that is a big shift from a few years ago when they were going to be like the future. And no one wanted to touch them. Just let them do what they wanted to do. I think that Silicon Valley will have to grapple with two questions next year. One do they need someone to regulating them? And two are they really making the world a better place?  Right. Right. But then they also are facing personnel existential crisis.  Yeah.  Right. I mean obviously women are finding it really hard to make inroads in these tech companies. Like that is also a big issue. But I am wondering - well so are they not providing value? Like you are a huge Twitter user. You find value in that. Connecting with people.  Oh I totally do. I could not have my job without it.  Right.  But here's the thing - my question and I think the question that they have to ask themselves when they are making these products - does the benefit outweigh the burden? As good as Twitter is for my career it will make you crazy if you let it.  Yes. That is true.  Right.  And it will give you emotional emotional stress.  There is also like a limitation I think that they might be bumping up against where a lot of these dudes have the mindset that technology can fix like almost anything if applied properly. Like if you frame the problem in the right terms and come up with the right sort of solution - machine-learning. And you know like there is a belief in the transformative abilities of technology...  Yes.  ...To save...  Yes.  ...Humans from problems...  Yes.  Right.  ...That we have created right? And they are able to make transformative changes to human behavior through technology. But at some point you do reach a point where you cannot fix something...  Yes.  ...With a tweak in the code.  Yeah.  And I think a lot of these various...  .  ...Silicon Valley - yeah - giants have reached that point.  OK. Three stories that you missed. I will follow up with you guys in 2018 to see what the status is of all of them. All right. Time for a quick break we will be right back with my favorite game Who Said That.  Oh my God. There is a game?  You know there is a game.  There is a game.   We are back. All right now it is time for game that we call...   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Who Said That? This game is so simple. I share a quote from the week. You guys have to guess who said that. We will do three today. No need to get like the exact name of who said it. If you get the story or something close - if you get close...  If I could describe...  You will round up.  ...What the face looks like or like what they were wearing...  There is that.  ...When they said it.  If you could just even share like how the story made you feel.   That might be a good idea.  Let us do it.  Also side note - the winner gets absolutely nothing.  That is what you think.  Glory.   Glory. Yes. Ready? So first quote...  Hit it.  ...Basically both names get put into a jar and one gets pulled out. And that is who wins.  Oh oh oh.  Yes yes.  Go. Somebody just - wait I love how you both said oh oh oh yes yes and not just the answer.  Well yeah. We do not have a buzzers.  Should we do it in unison?  Yeah. OK. Here we go.  On three - one two three.  The Virginia election...  The Virginia election in the House - in the House.  ...Where there was a tie.  That was the first tandem answer we have ever had. Is that correct Bret? So you both are right. That was a quote from Quentin Kidd. He is a public policy professor at Christopher Newport University in Virginia. And he is talking about an election in Virginia for state rep that has come down to a literal tie.  It is unbelievable.  And that means per Virginia state law the winner will be determined by the drawing of lots.  Right. But they put the names in film canisters.  I did not know that.  And then they put the film canisters in a jar.  And then you just pick one out.  Right. Like who has a film canister just lying around?  Virginians do.  Apparently. And then if your name does not get picked...  You can call in the recount.  ...You can call a recount.  Wait you can recount...  You can recount again.  You can recount again.  Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness.  It is a never-ending - it is like infinity recount.  Oh my goodness. So this is actually really high stakes because - so if the Democrat wins if Shelly Simonds wins this drawing of lots the House of Delegates in Virginia would be tied 5050 which means they would have to like come up with all kinds of power-sharing rules. This is a big deal for the state.  Huge.  Next quote - our goal is to deliver the best experience for customers which includes overall performance and prolonging the life of their devices. Who said that?  Apple. Because they are...  Look at you.  ...Slowing down our iPhones.  Yeah.  I hate that.  Did you guys hear the story this week?  Yes about the batteries and like we all have thought that our phones are dying on cue.  On purpose.  So here's the backstory...  It is not paranoia.  ...Here's the backstory. For years iPhone users tech analysts the entire universe thought that Apple was slowing down older iPhones once they got older. Apple basically cops to it this week and said yeah we do that. But they said it is not to make you get a new phone. They say it is because the batteries of those iPhones are lithium-ion batteries. They degrade over time. So they slow the phone down to prevent your phone from crashing.  Maybe they should have given them replaceable batteries.  Right.  Look it here. That is true.  Right. Like I should be able to go into my local CVS buy an iPhone battery rather than replace the whole thing.  Swap them out.  As I always - well I do not always