 Who should say hello first?  Yeah.  Oh my God. This is weird. It is two hosts.  I know.  So who is in - you are in charge. You are in charge.  I am in charge? Well let us see.  For today's episode I teamed up with a friend. This friend also happens to be a podcast host.  Hey Sam Sanders.  Hi Anna Sale. How are you?  I am good. I am really excited to get to work with It is BEEN A MINUTE.  I am really excited to get to work with Death Sex  Money. It is excitement on all sides.  It is true.   Listeners today we bring you a very special collaboration episode of NPR's It is BEEN A aboration with WNYC's Death Sex  Money. I am your host Sam Sanders. And I will be joined by Death Sex  Money host Anna Sale. Her show Death Sex  Money it is all about the big questions and hard choices that are often left out in a polite conversation. So Anna and I wanted to collaborate because a thing that we have both been wondering about and talking about a lot recently is quarantine pod life.   You know all the ways people have set up living or friendship or relationship arrangements to keep some sort of social or family circle even through this era of social distancing. Sometimes it is quarantining together sometimes it is a group of folks you trust enough to meet up with maybe once a week all different kinds of arrangements. When we talked the last time I asked you like is it better to spend quarantine and lock down podded up with people or alone? And I still cannot tell  because - I do not know - you have heard this too from all kinds of folks I am sure that like living with any kind of quarantine pod setup when everything is just the same day in and day out it can be tough either as tough or tougher than like doing this whole year alone.  Yeah. Yeah I think that is what we discovered when we were on the phone is that we were both kind of jealous of each other .  Yes because you have your wonderful pod of a family. And I have my Netflix account and my dog.  You have your alone time. Oh my God. Luxurious.  So Anna and I we realized that some people are happy in these pod situations and some people are not at all. So on this episode we will hear from folks who are suffering what I have begun to call pod fatigue. And then if you go over to the Death Sex  Money podcast feed you will hear Anna talking with some folks on her show who are actually suffering from pod longing. Here's a peek at those stories.  You talk to people who are stuck together. I talked to a woman who is stuck apart from someone she is fallen madly in love with over the last...  Oh my God.  ...Several months and they have not seen each other in person. They have just talked on the phone.  How many months have they not seen each other?  It is been months and months and months. They knew each other as young people when they were in high school. They reconnected because she did some detective work while she was home in isolation poking around. And they have fallen in love. And they are actually not that physically far apart from each other. They could meet up.  Wait how far apart are they?  They are just across the San Francisco Bay from each other. This is not an inability...  Oh my God.  ...To get on a plane. They are choosing to wait until they can be fully present with each other and not think about...  Wow.  ...Coronavirus.  Wow. That is either going to go really really well or it is not.  I do not know. I mean I do not want to ask you to predict how that ends up. But hearing you say that it sounds quite beautiful and romantic but iffy.  Iffy.   You know how I think about it it is like no matter what what a wonderful way to spend these months you know like even if it ends up...  Yes.  ...Being just a companion that you had over the phone and it does not work out in three dimensions.  I love it. I love it. Well your story that you are going to share in your episode about pod life it is quite romantic. The two that I have to bring to you to our listeners are not at all romantic . One is this a group of friends who have a friend pod and they are worried that they are just being too mean to each other. They have that really fun sarcastic sense of humor some friend groups do but they think they have taken it too far and they are worried. And then this other pod story - oh my God it is a doozy. I do not want to give away too much for you. Just hear the story. But it involves a dispute over real estate. That is all I will say.  Oh.  Yeah - drama drama. So I think what we should do is let our respective listeners hear these respective stories. And once they hear these pod stories we are going to come back and chitchat chat about some insights or big lessons we have learned from talking to these folks. How about that?  That sounds good.  You are listening to Death Sex  Money and It is BEEN A MINUTE. We will be right back. What is our acronym? What is our combo acronym Anna?  IBM DSM? Let us see. IBAM - do you say...  DSMIBAM. DSMIBAM. DSMIBAM.   So I asked listeners to share their pod fatigue stories stories of being kind of over their COVID bubbles. Here's what one listener told us.  Hi Sam. I saw your tweet immediately screenshot it and sent it to my pandemic pod group chat.  That is Austin Miller  in Albuquerque reading the hilarious email he sent to the show.  I am going to trash talk you hos I said. One friend Claire  encouraged me to email you. My other friend Ellie  was offended so naturally I am emailing you. Here's the deal. I love these two friends dearly. We have gotten really close - like talking about our bowel movements close. And we have experienced the pandemic protesting and the election together. We have been through a lot since March but something has happened. We have become bitingly mean to each other. We point out each other's flaws incessantly. Have you gone to therapy yet? Oh your daddy issues are showing. You look rough today. I guess because we have been together so much our personalities have been laid bare for all of us to see but also critique. In the past two weeks we have had repeated conversations about how we all need to be nicer to each other and yet we have not. We have only descended into meanness even more. Last week I called Claire a  in front of her mother. The week before I told both of them I dressed for style while they dressed for quote comfort. So yes I love them but I miss the pre-pandemic days when we were nice to each other and when we encouraged each other instead of calling each other  consistently. So maybe this story is not radio-friendly. Oops.  I called up Austin and made him tell me all the drama. So you wrote in about the dynamic of this pod the three of you all getting too sarcastic too mean too biting. When did the sarcasm and you know ribbing start in the friendships? Was it always there and was fun at first and just got mean or did it start - I do not know - in the pandemic?  For Claire it started in middle school...  .  ...'ecause you know Ellie and Claire have known each other for like ever and so they always joke that like Claire was the mean one which is like kind of true. And I am also a very sarcastic person and so I think we have always - you know the three of us when we have been together we have always been very sarcastic. But yeah during the pandemic it just has become - I do not know. I think we have lost social skills.  .  We have lost our filter and we are just not afraid to like dig in and just say what we think.  Yeah.  So I think the pandemic just made it worse.  Yeah. How does this make you feel personally the meanness of these relationships?  I - so part of me kind of loves it. I do not know. It is like it is fun at times. But then there is also times when it is like ooh that went too far.  Oh.  Did we push that a little too much which I think that you know sometimes happens. And I definitely remember some conversations. There was like one night where Claire was like we need to be nice to each other. And you know both Ellie and I were like yeah this is true we should be nicer. And yet we have not really done that.  Yeah. What was said? Like what is the meanest thing your podmates have said about you?  The worst insult? I do not know. I feel like I am dishing it out a lot.  Oh. What is the worst one that you have thrown out?  What is the worst one? I do not know. It is - we do sometimes harp on Ellie's career choices. Right now I would describe her as an unemployed dog lover.  .  And so like this week we were together and Claire and I were yelling at Ellie to file for unemployment. And she was like fine I guess I will do it.  Yeah. Have other friends or family noticed? And what do they say about this tenor of the relationships?  Oh. I mean obviously. So like my boyfriend has noticed. He will join in.  .  We were around Claire's parents and Claire's mother said something about a hypothetical wedding for Ellie in quote eight to 10 years which Ellie took like oh my goodness I am not going to get married for like 10 years. So family members I think partake in it - you know the meanness that we have so...  Yeah. You know part of me hearing your story says oh this is a problem. They got to fix it. But the other part of me hearing your story says well they acknowledge this reality. They have kind of talked about it. Maybe this is just the way their friend group is.  Yeah.  Like is there a version of reality in which you all just say this is the way we are? And maybe you set some guardrails some parameters - I do not know - a safe word to let everyone know to stop...  .  ...Making fun of you. But I am not convinced yet hearing you talk to me that snark and sarcasm and what you all are doing is entirely wrong if that makes sense.  Yeah yeah. So I like the idea of a safe word.  .  I have to mention that to them.  And it could just be stop like .  Yeah yeah. No I think there is like in some senses where it is like oh this is like 100 dysfunctional. But then I think there is other senses where it is like no this has some healthy elements maybe hopefully. At least I am telling myself it has healthy elements. I do not know. I think just kind of given the context of where the world is all three of us - I mean we all read the news a lot. I do not know. Maybe it is like a way of coping. Yeah we are honest and we are brutal but also the other night we were together and we were - I do not know. It was kind of like one of those like therapy friend sessions.  Oh tell me about it.  Oh we were just in - we were in the hot tub. And you know like you have had some wine and you are...  Yeah.  ...Talking about you know like when is the last time we were actually happy...   ...You know and yeah trying to like sort through some of those very like 2020 feelings.  Here's what I am hearing. I think you all are a pretty good pod. And I think you all love each other. And I think you all have a way of talking to each other that works for you all. And I think sometimes that might go too far but that is the nature of all friendships. And so I do not think you should be too alarmed about it. I think it is really important when we think about friendships especially in the context of this year is to know that there is no rule book. You know there is no rule book about the way that a friendship is supposed to be. My diagnosis is you all are cool.  Yeah.  You all are cool. Just talk it out when you need to but you all are cool.  . Yeah. No I agree. It is - yeah we have definitely gotten way closer than I think I would have imagined in January. And some of that closeness is - yeah it is - there is not a playbook about it. And so it is kind of figuring out like what works for us you know snark and all.  Yeah. I mean maybe one thing you do is the next time you all have you know hot tub real talk like as an earnest genuine exercise you all go around the hot tub and just say things you like about the other ones earnestly...  Yeah.  ...Candidly truthfully and just kind of love on each other. That is allowed. That is allowed.  Yeah. I think we may need that right now.   We all do. We all do.  Well yeah. We will get through it somehow.  We will get through it. The only way to get through it is to get through it which we all are doing. So Austin I thank you for that email. It was a good laugh.  .  And I thank you for this chat.  Yeah.  I am thinking fondly of your pod and wishing the three of you all the best.  Thank you so much. It was really great to talk to you. This was a highlight of my week.  Oh my goodness. Same here same here.  Awesome. Thanks Sam.   Thanks again to Austin Miller and thanks to your friends Claire and Ellie. I think I like you all. I seriously think you all have this pod thing figured out. All right coming up more pod friendship drama.   All right another story of pod fatigue. This one comes from Caitlin Morgan . She lives in Burlington Vt..  Hi Sam. I spent most of May through August podded with a good friend.   My pod partner was someone I could share a workday with and who was following similar quarantine rules.  At the time Vermont had pretty low COVID numbers so Caitlin's pod went beyond her household.  Everyone in the sort of chain could have one person outside their household that they were allowed to see. So my husband saw his brother. I saw my friend. She was in a - like in a household with her girlfriend and a couple roommates. And each of them were allowed to see one friend.  I know it sounds complicated but it worked for them. So in the midst of a pandemic Caitlin and her husband decided to buy a house. But the housing market in their neighborhood in Vermont it is been pretty tight. So they were looking and looking and then they find their dream home.  It was beautiful. It was like in really good shape. It had a fireplace. It had like a beautiful bathroom had wood floors. It had a little yard.  Caitlin and her husband quickly put in an offer on this house. But then...  What happens next is I texted my friend and my pod partner and she said that she had also just put an offer in on a house.  You all it got messy.  A whole host of other simmering differences between us rose their ugly heads. And I had to sort through the ways in which we felt incompatible despite a years-long friendship.  It could have ended right there. But Caitlin had to know one more thing.  Pretty soon afterwards my husband called her and found out that she had offered more than we had. And so...  Why did not you call her?  .  That is your friend.  Great question.  .  I was crying and having an anxiety attack .  Oh no. Caitlin I feel so bad for this experience for you. Oh my God. Oy.  Thanks. I am not sort of proud of how dramatic it was for me but it was - it just came over me like a wave.  It is OK. Listen it is OK. In 2020 all emotions are allowed.  Thanks Sam.   So your husband calls. What is that phone call like?  He pretty much just said to her you know like listen Caitlin is a wreck. I do not know that it would be the best thing for her to wait until tomorrow to find out. Do you mind just telling me what you offered on the house so that we can just know...  Oh.  ...If there is even any shot for us at this point...  Oh.  ...Because now that we know that there really might not be and in such a personal way having half the information is worse than having all of it?  Yeah.  And she very transparently and generously told him what she would offered and it was more than we had. And at that point we felt like...  How much more?   Oh quite a bit.  OK OK.   I got you.  Yeah yeah.  Go ahead.  And like with I think sort of much more generous terms to the realtor and all these kinds of things I have had to learn about looking for houses recently and...  And so then what happens to the house ultimately? Who - like who got the house? Did she get the house? Did someone else get the house?  She got the house yeah.  Oy.  I know .  Has she moved in?  She has yep.  Oh my. How are you feeling about that?  I feel a lot better than I did when this happened which was in August.  OK.  But it is still a little hard for me to imagine you know because to say that you will give somebody so much money you have to kind of imagine how worth it it might be for you. And so like I had to imagine living in this house. And would I be happy there? Would my husband and I both be happy there? What would it be like? And so I had this whole fantasy world which admittedly only lasted for two days but it became a little bit real.  Oh no I - totally. Did this whole house situation break up your pod?  Yeah it did.  I am interested in how pod breakups work. Does there have to be a group text or a group email? Does it go through the grapevine? Like how does the art of the pod breakup happen? Or do you just like ghost the pod person who stole your house from you? I do not know. How does it work?   I did not ghost her. We had some conversations.  OK OK .  Yeah yeah. I think in this case because we were sort of like that center point it was really just communication between the two of us. So she and I have talked since then.  How has that been?  Well it is been good except for it is also hard to sort of repair the relationship because of what is happening so - in terms of COVID. The rupture in the friendship would not have been nearly as bad in a normal year because there just would have been so much more space around the friendship and the dynamic and so many other outlets.  Yeah. In the email you wrote to the show you said that the issue of the house and being outbid for the house it brought up some other issues in your friendship with this podmate. What issues if you feel comfortable sharing?  It kind of brought up some memories I had of times I had felt hurt or sort of out of sync which I know sounds a little vague but I also - I am trying to be honest about my experience and also respectful to sort of her privacy.  Yeah yeah.  But just like a few times in our friendship when we have not agreed or we have not connected really well. It was definitely a surprise to me to sort of all of a sudden be sitting with all of the things about the friendship that I needed to sort through for myself as opposed to just this one seemingly outside force kind of thing.  Yeah. Did it catch her off guard when you were like this has to end because of the house thing?  I think so. I think she felt like it was a really extreme reaction to one circumstance.  Do you think it was an extreme reaction?  I do yeah.  OK OK.  I think it was sort of like the most extreme action I could have probably taken. But at the time I mean I was also going through an intense time at work finishing up my degree. And I had all of these emotions and kind of no way to sort of sort them out on my own because she was my whole social world in a way.  Yeah.  I thought about it a lot. And I just could not think of something that would be less extreme but also true to where I was.  Do you miss her?  Yeah. Well...   Yeah. In moments I definitely do.  Yeah. Can I - I know you are not asking me for advice but can I offer you some feedback?  Yeah. Thanks for asking.  Yeah . I think you should consider removing the situation of the house from the question of your friend's friendship. I think that they are two different things. And I think that there might be issues that you had in the friendship and the way that you all were treating each other that are valid and worth talking out. But I think that is separate and apart from her outbidding you on this house. It seems like there were no rules that were formalized enough to keep her from bidding on the house that she wanted to bid on. And from all you have said to me it seems as if she did not bid on this house with nefarious malicious intent to hurt you.  That is definitely true.  And just me on the outside looking in - and I am not the expert on friendship...  .  ...I would say do not hold that house thing over her. A friendship is hard to build and to maintain especially as we get older. And we are going to be in this moment of lockdown for a long time where it is going to be hard to make new friends. And if there is a way where you can let that pain about the house live separate and apart from your friendship with this woman I would recommend to you to just maybe try to let her back in. I am not  a licensed mental health professional. I am not even that good at friendship but I feel like maybe this friend deserves a second chance.  I think that is excellent advice. At this point it is sort of just how to...  How to do it.  How to do it you know? I think...  Well you could just let her hear this show.   Oh she is going to because I call - well because I called her and I was like hey so I know we are in a slightly weird place but I also have to tell you something else really weird...  .  ...Which is that I am going to be...  I am going on the radio with this story.  ...Interviewed about it on national radio.   So this is the part where we like have her come out on stage. I am kidding. I am kidding. It is not that kind of daytime TV show.   All of a sudden her voice just pops up.  She was listening the whole time. That would be hilarious.   That would.  Has this whole ordeal taught you anything a lesson about yourself or about friendship or about some kind of wisdom you have gleaned from this that you could share with our listeners?  Yeah. I think for me personally the thing I have been thinking about just in general with the pandemic and relationships is I think like the conventional wisdom right now that I hear bounced around about marriages is you cannot expect your spouse to be all things for you you know?  Yeah yeah.  But that is kind of what I was asking of a friendship in a way is that for my friend to kind of stand in for all the different kinds of friendships that I might normally rely on. You know it is not totally fair to our relationships to put so much on them. And I think if you are in my situation things become kind of more brittle than they should be or really are in an alternate reality where this is not all happening.  Yeah. Well I do think that you should be proud of yourself for this self-reflection. There are a lot of folks who get into arguments or disputes and never really think back on what really was going on. So you doing this in front of a national radio audience you know that is...   That speaks good of you right?  Well it is not my best look so I guess everyone gets the gist  hearing about that.  No I think - listen if this is the worst thing you did in pandemic year you are fine. You are fine.  .   Thanks again to Caitlin Morgan for sharing her story with us. Before we end this episode I want to bring back Death Sex  Money host Anna Sale to share some insights. So based on these stories of pods and pod fatigue and pod longing has this inspired you to do anything different with your pod - expand it make it smaller make some new rules for it?  You know I have been thinking a lot about like what the rhythm of just the really - like really wanting to make sure I think through some targeted strategically chosen hangout time with people who are not my immediate family even if it is a walk outside. I live in California in the Bay Area. I can go outside with a mask on have a walk with a friend who is not a part of my immediate pod all the time and just have a little bit of a - somewhere to let off steam - just a little release valve a release valve.  Totally yeah.  How about you?  Oh gosh. My big lesson from these pod fatigue stories that I had was probably that I should be much more grateful for my dog because she never talks back. She is just the best friend anybody could have. And yeah I think that after this is all over when we are in the after times I will think about being more intentional about connecting and staying connected with the friend groups I already have. Like how can I communicate better with them? How can I be a better friend to them? Because like pod life is not a thing that is just happening in this year. The pods are different in this year but we always have circles and groups of friends and family. And we can be thinking about how to best work with them and be with them even after the vaccine. So yeah cheers to pods.   Cheers. They are getting us through.  Cheers. They are getting us through. Anna Sale it has been such a joy to work with you on these stories. I have been a fan of Death Sex  Money for years. And this is like - this is a high point for me for this year. You know in spite of this crappy year I got to collaborate with someone in the biz who I really admire. So thank you.  High point of a crappy year - I will take it .  This is a straight-up high point. It probably came out the wrong way but you get - I mean but you get what I am saying right?  I like it. I like it.   Thanks again to Anna Sale my co-host for this mashup episode of It is BEEN A MINUTE and WNYC's Death Sex  Money. Listeners go right now to the podcast feed for Death Sex  Money. And you can hear Anna's episode all about pod life where she talks to couples that are stuck apart like the opposite of what is going on with this episode. While you are there check out a bunch of episodes of her show. Death Sex  Money - it is real good. This episode was produced by Anjuli Sastry and Star McCown with help from Katie Bishop over at Death Sex  Money. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Listeners we are back in your feeds on Friday. Until then be good to yourselves and be good to your pods. I am Sam Sanders. Thank you for listening. We will talk soon. 