 My name is Mark Shields . I live in Washington D.C. right now but I am actually a native of Chicago. So I listen to WAMU but WBEZ is my home NPR affiliate.  Mark Shields listens to a ton of NPR shows including this one. But Mark's developed a routine with one show in particular.  I have been known to spend an evening sipping a bottle of red wine and doing a Terry Gross interview in my bathtub. Terbear  and I like to work some things out .  Clearly Mark loves NPR. But there is one thing about public media that he hates.  Oh my God. We are not listening seven straight - let us be honest 10 straight days. It is called pledge week. I am owed a week and I get 10 days of like guilt. I am Irish Catholic from Chicago. Like I understand guilt in a deep way.  Mark admits you can only complain about pledge drives on NPR stations if you are actually a donor.  If you are not giving then you are just a crank. But if you are an actual donor you are complaining means more. And that is democracy.  Trust Mark. Give to your local station and then complain all you want. You know NPR's work and our work on this show right here it relies on listener support - listener support of member stations and communities all over the country. Support those stations and this show. Go to donate.npr.orgsam. Go donate right now. And if you use that link they will know that I sent you there. OK go ahead and listen to this episode now without any guilt.   Listeners this episode contains very frank discussions about race and that conversation includes some racial slurs so perhaps not the best for kids. All right enjoy.   So a little earlier this year I interviewed comedian and Saturday Night Live star Bowen Yang. And Bowen and I talked a lot about race and representation. And in that chat Bowen mentioned this book on race that he loved. So my editor and I read that book and then I interviewed the author. Her name is Cathy Park Hong and she is a poet. But that book Bowen mentioned Cathy's latest book it is not a book of poetry. And it was inspired not by a poet but by a comedian.  I think when I had really started working on this book it was the first time I saw Richard Pryor's Live In Concert.  Yeah Richard Pryor. Live In Concert is his legendary 1979 comedy special.   You ever notice how nice white people get when there is a bunch of niggers around?   When I saw Live In Concert I was just completely stirred. You know it was a revelation. And...  Yeah yeah. Yeah he is really good .  It was really good. But...  Cathy says she loved how Richard Pryor could talk about race without any guardrails. And it made her wonder...  How come there are not Asian Americans who write about their racialized experience the way Richard Pryor talks about it with that kind of rawness and honesty and brutality?  So Cathy an Asian American she went on this quest to capture that rawness and honesty. And ultimately Richard Pryor's comedy - it did not just inspire Cathy's latest book. It also - for a little bit it turned Cathy into a stand-up comic herself.  I thought it would be a kind of conceptual stunt. I would be invited to do a poetry reading but instead of doing a poetry reading I would just do a little comedy routine instead.  Cathy told me one of those jokes. And listeners it was so raunchy we cannot actually repeat it on this public radio show. But I did ask Cathy if she thought that joke - her jokes - were any good.  They were all horrible. They were really really bad.  So bad that they stopped her audiences cold.  They looked at me as if I like pissed my pants. They were horrified.  .  I mean they were just so embarrassed for me . I mean I do not know...   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am your host Sam Sanders. And today Cathy Park Hong will show us why she is better at writing books than telling jokes. We will discuss her latest work Minor Feelings. That book came out in February of this year. And as 2020 comes to a close it could not be more timely. This book Minor Feelings it is all about race and the quiet often painful feelings tied to it. In this year of racial reckoning a lot of those quiet feelings they have gotten loud. And Cathy says that is probably a good thing. Stay with us. More from Cathy on Minor Feelings and race in 2020 with no bad jokes I promise.   All right. Before we start this conversation we should define Minor Feelings. Cathy go ahead.  It is these range of kind of negative emotions like shame or paranoia or melancholia that a lot of Asian Americans feel growing up in the U.S. And it is not just Asian Americans you know. It could also be other people of color not just because they feel different in this country but also because their reality that they are living is not recognized by the dominant society.  Basically all the weird and often bad ways people of color experience race the stuff that is always there and the stuff that we are often reluctant to actually talk about. Cathy says for years she was reluctant to write about her own personal minor feelings because she knew a lot of white people were reading. And in the book she describes having to get over that. So that is where we start - on her audience who it is and how it affects what Cathy writes.   Do you think you have - I do not know - either made peace or had some growth with this idea of the white audience the white gaze - G-A-Z-E? You know I think about this a lot as well. Like my audience is mostly white. I work in public radio.  Yeah.  Whether I am not talking about race or I am only talking about race my audience is mostly white. And I do not think I let that hold me back but it is always there and I am always thinking about it. I am guessing that even with this book that you wrote Minor Feelings that a large chunk of folks that bought it are white. How have you - or how has I guess your perspective on who the audience is and how you speak to them perhaps changed since the stand-up comedy routines?  Well I think this goes back to Richard Pryor. You know like when I was reading about Richard Pryor fans scholars anyone who is - I mean a lot of white people found him hilarious but then there were also Black people who said they were just shocked. There was that quote-unquote shock of recognition. They were like oh my God I cannot believe he is like telling our private jokes to this white public you know?  The family business yeah.  The family business right? I think like from him and also a lot of other writers and artists who I am inspired by I thought I am really going to try as hard as I can to disregard the white gaze and try to write - I cannot even say try to write for Asians because there are so many different kinds of Asian Americans you know?  Yeah yeah yeah.  It was almost - it was like I wanted to - I had to think of specific people. I was like I am going to write to that Korean American student who came up to me and cried after I gave a reading because she said she felt so alone and there was no one she could talk to. You know I wanted to write to my daughter who is now six when she is an adult. It was almost like I was trying to have a conversation to other people that I knew. And in that way I was writing to myself as well. And yes there were a lot of white people who have bought the book. But actually what has been incredibly gratifying is that there have been so many Asian Americans who have told me that they feel seen and that they have never had their experiences written down the way that I wrote it down.  Yeah.  So it is - I realize that I do not need a white audience to make commercially successful book.  Yeah.  I just need to write to my community and that community will respond...  Yeah yeah.  ...That is more important than anything else. That being said it is not like I do not want white people to read my book. I want everyone...   White people buy the book.  Yeah white people please buy the book. I want everyone to read my book .  It is funny. Whenever I mention the white gaze in an interview - G-A-Z-E - someone writes me and says I could not tell if you were talking about white gaze or like white gay men.  .  Listeners we are talking about the white gaze - G-A-Z-E. But any white gays - G-A-Y-S - listening thinking this refers to you it does.  I am definitely writing it for white gays.   Shout out to our white gays supporters. We appreciate you.  Yeah.  You know you just mentioned having this fear that your book would not speak to all Asian Americans. And you write that you know the Asian American experience is incredibly diverse. You know this is a demographic group that has the largest variation in average income than any other demographic group in the country. And yet you write about how the identity of Asians in America is constantly - and this is the word you use - flattened. What do you mean by that when you say it is flattened?  Well I would say that Asian Americans at this point - like it is not even exact - it is less of an identity then more like a coalition of different nationalities...  Yeah.  ...Classes genders sexualities. You know a lot of people when they think Asian they think Chinese or they think model minority. They think like Chinese engineer who works in Silicon Valley or something or they think of like an Asian news anchor woman or something. And when you know you have everyone from the Chinese American engineer who works in Silicon Valley to someone who is Hmong who lives in Minnesota and who lives in the projects alongside other Black Americans you know? So there is such a wide display of what Asian American is. And I have to be very clear about this. It is also - the book is also about this country from the perspective of an Asian American woman. This book is not just about my identity but it is also about the kind of changing demographic of this nation and the future of this nation and someone who is part of that and what someone from this growing demographic thinks about this country.  Yeah.  You know I say this in the book that in 2050 the majority will be people of color. Now what does that mean? And I - and this is why I do not want just Asians to read this book. I want everyone to read this book.  White gays you can read it to.  Yeah white...  Please go ahead. Sorry.   One of the parts of the book that reallyreally opened in my eyes was the work you did to point out the racialized history of Asians in America. I think part of the flattening of Asian identity happens because most Americans do not know the history of Asians in this country. You know before I read this book I did not know that Chinese people were brought into America to replace slaves in the plantation field after the Civil War. I did not know until I read...  Yeah.  ...You in the book writing that. I did not know the way in which U.S. immigration policy kind of helped create the myth of Asians as a model minority until I read it in your book. You know what does it say about all of us or about the American experiment that so much of this history of Asians in America is erased?  I - there is a big reckoning that this country has to face. And so far the history that I learned in - when I was in high school was a history that was - I do not want to say jingoistic but you know that did...  You can say that. You can say that.  . All right. It was jingoistic...  . Yeah.  ...That completely whitewashed even slavery. I did not even know even the beginning of how this country was founded on Black death slavery dispossession. There was no - I did not learn about Asian Americans in high school. I did not read Asian Americans in high school. It was - I did - I had to seek it out in college you know? A lot of Americans also do not know about Asian American activism you know and how the term Asian American was actually coined in the late 1960s by these UC Berkeley activists who were also inspired by the Black Power movement and the Vietnam War protest movement. And that part of history can also just motivate Asians you know? We do not come from a model minority history.  Yeah.  But a lot of that is erased you know? And I think it is - what people do not know about model minority is that it is very much an engineered stereotype.  This is the thing. You blew my mind when you wrote that. Explain that for our listeners.  OK. So from the Chinese Exclusion Act around the 1880s was the first race-based immigration ban that outlawed Chinese people from coming into the U.S. That had a lot to do with economic anxiety because white people thought Chinese people were taking their jobs. So they banned Chinese from coming into that country. That ban expanded to all of Asia you know and then expanded to Africa and Latin America. And only a sliver of northern Europeans were really allowed into the U.S. So basically what it was was segregation on a global scale so that the U.S. would remain 80 white and the 20 were like Black and other minorities. In 1965 there was an act called the Hart-Celler Law. This was a law passed by Lyndon Johnson which actually lifted that immigration ban. Right? And the reason why he had that - lifted that ban in the first place was - part of it was because of the civil rights movement. It was because the Jim Crow laws and all of that was embarrassing for American public image. But even after they lifted that ban there was still just a quota of Asians who could get in. And the quota was Asians who were - it was like the smartest of the Asians...  Yeah.  ...Asians who were engineers doctors. So it was not like - so there was this...  And so that leads to this minority group that is incredibly successful .  That is already successful - so they were already - these immigrants were already successful by the time they came into the U.S. But the American myth is that oh wait look at these immigrants they are successful. And then they go to like - and then to - and then to Black and brown people and are like why cannot you be successful like these Asian immigrants? And like well that doctor was already a doctor by the time he came into the U.S.  Exactly .  Yeah.  Well and this is just the like - this is the insidiousness of white supremacy. It is not just in-your-face racism. It is this cunning ...  Yeah.  ...In which one group is put up against another...  Yeah.  ...While the dominant white power structure gets to laugh at all of us. Like it is crafty and sneaky.  Yeah. Yeah it is very sneaky. And it is still - and it is hard to - I do not know. It is hard to break down but we are trying I guess.  We have got to.  Yeah.  We have to yeah. You know there was a time in your career that you wrote about when you did not want to write about race and now you really do. What changed?  I always - actually I could say my poetry books all have to do with race.  Yeah.  But the way I dealt with it was not autobiographical. It was more surreal more fantastical. I always used - even though I was a poet I always used sort of these fictional personas. But I think it was when I became a mother. You know I had my daughter when - in 2014. I think that was a real pivotal moment you know where I thought I am in a position of authority. I am a - I will have to be a role model to my daughter. And you know when I found out that I was going to have a girl I was scared I have to say...  Really?  ...Because I had a  childhood a bad childhood.  And you write about it. Oh yeah. It is all up in the book .  Yeah I write about - I write some of it. Yeah - but some of it not all of it.  OK .  But - and I was like I do not - you know and I was very very insecure you know? And it took me a long time to get over my insecurities. And I was like I do not want my daughter to feel that way. I want her to be confident. I want her to feel comfortable in her skin. And so I was nervous for her. And I think that was what sort of motivated me to write this book in a way that was actually very personal autobiographical and vulnerable. I have never written a book like that before. And it was quite scary for that reason. But...  Yeah. Yeah. Well it worked.  I hope so. Thank you.  Yeah .   When we come back Cathy Park Hong tells me how her own family history inspired Minor Feelings plus how her parents see race very differently than she does.   Hey listeners before we get back to the show I want to remind you real quick if you love what you are hearing if you love the journalism and interviews that you get from NPR you can support public radio by giving to your local station. Just visit npr.orgsam. That is npr.orgsam. Give whatever you can. We appreciate you. Thanks. All right back to the show. You know you mentioned your family history. So much of this book is you unpacking that family history and what it was like for you as a kid and how your family got here what it was like for you to grow up with immigrant parents. And you really do a good job of talking about the ways in which our racial history bumps up against and is connected to our very personal nuclear family histories. And you unpack the ways in which generational trauma that families experience - it can come from like just the nuclear family itself or from these larger bigger issues like colonialism. How - reading it I wondered how your relatives reading it took it. Do you think they were thinking about the childhood stories written down in that way the same way you were? Because I mean it is a lot for I suppose some relatives to read in this book about your family history.  I do not think they read it.  OK.   Yeah. Well I do not know. I mean most of my relatives live in Korea. Thank God it is not translated into Korean.  .  And in fact there was an offer - the Korean publisher offered to translate it. And I was talking to my mother and I was like should I sign the contract? She is like I do not know if it is necessary for it to be translated.  She does not want to read it.  Well she does not - her English is not very good so I do not think she can read it. And this is one of the benefits of being an immigrant's kid you know?  .  The daughter of an immigrant who is a writer is that your parents cannot understand what you are writing.  How do you feel about that?  I feel safe - I mean not safe. I feel like a relief that they cannot read it.  OK.  But I am also curious you know what they would think. I am curious what my father would think. You know he asked me. He is like are you going to say bad things about me? I bet you are are not you?  Oh what did you say?  I said no Dad it is just - you are going to be a sympathetic person in the book. And he did not quite believe me but he said OK. But I told him how I was going to write about how he immigrated to the U.S. Now when I said that there was a quota my father did not meet the standards of getting a visa to the U.S. because he was not a doctor or an engineer. But mechanics were also allowed into this country as well. So he lied in his application and said he was a mechanic. So he managed to get a visa and come to the U.S. and he worked at a Ryder truck company in Erie Pa. And I told him that and he just had this look of alarm in his face. And he is like oh no I am going to get deported.  Thinking about the book and the way you talk about race and the way you connect it to trauma and family trauma what do you think is the biggest difference between the way you see race and the way your parents see race particularly you all's race?  Oh that is a very good question. My mother for instance does not understand race in America you know? She still sees herself - she does not even see herself as Asian American you know or even Asian. She considers herself Korean.  Wow. Yeah.  She is Korean you know. Her nationality's Korean. And everyone else is an American. And for her when she means by American - also - but actually interestingly when she says oh Americans are so selfish she means - she is thinking of white people. I think there is a sense of indebtedness and gratitude for being here you know because she still sees herself as a foreigner.  And like that is what gave me a little pause in the book. Because you write about all of the indignities your parents experienced.  Yeah.  How they were mistreated by racist pricks.  Yeah.  And yet they still have this hopefulness and this belief in America capital A.  I do not know.  Really?  I think they choose - you know they are like - they do believe in this - well not anymore. They do not believe in it. I think my mother...  Really?  ...Is totally disillusioned about America. I think my dad has a more complicated idea of what America is. He is more aware of race than my mother is. You know he - you know when I was young he would be like - if we were seated in the back of a plane he would say oh it is because we are Asian. Or if we were not seated at a restaurant first he would say oh it is because we are Asian. And I can tell that he probably faced a lot of discrimination. As someone who is actually out there in the work force...  Yeah.  ...Doing business he probably faced a lot of discrimination that he will never tell me. And in fact I did not write this in the book but I am going to tell you. There is this one scene...  Tell me.  ... Where I was - you know I was like 13. And my sister was around 9. And we were - as we were coming out of the mall there was this adult man and his wife - they were white - who came in. They let us out before they went in. I thought they were - he was holding the door open for us. But as he - before he closed the door he yelled out I do not open doors for chinks. But then afterwards I told my father what happened. And he got so angry. And I thought he was going to start cussing out those white people. And instead he said why did not you let them go first?  Wow.  And I said what? They were like...  Wow.  ...Why did not you let them go first? And I said Dad they called us - he called us a chink. And he said you always have to let them go first. You always have to let them go first.  Wow.  And then he paused. And he said you cannot trust them. You do not know what they will say.  Wow.  Yeah.  Put that in the next edition.  I will.   That needs to be in there.  So...  What do you think that says about him and how he thinks about race or thought about race in that moment?  I think he just felt a lot of rage that it happened to us. But you know I think another big difference between my parents' generation and our generation is that they are survivors. They are more about surviving. Like they have been through war you know? I mean my dad saw dead bodies you know...  Yeah.  ...You know when he was like a kid from the Korean War. I mean they have been through a lot. And so for them it is just racism in this - that they face is just an inconvenience you know? It is what - it is just another obstacle. Yes they are hateful awful people. But you got to just keep it in because the only way to survive in this country and succeed in this country is to just get through it and forget whatever grievance you might have...  Yeah yeah.  ...Against these white people. And...  Whereas your book is saying I will not. I will name the grievances...  Oh yeah.  ...And I will say let us talk about the grievances.  Because I am petty. And I will...   ...I know every single person who is...   Yeah.  You know it is interesting to hear you talk about the way that your parents think about race. How do you think your daughter - what she is 6 now you said? How do you think she thinks about race if at all?  Well she is 6. So she is - she does not really - and she is also mixed. She is half Asian half white. So I do not really know. I mean I think at this point she is proud to be half Korean. Or she does not even say...  Yeah.  ...She is half Korean. She says I am Korean. And that really warms my heart you know that she does not even think twice about it you know? And - but I do not think she knows - really knows what that means you know? I think she thinks oh Korean like grandma and grandpa Korean like the food that I eat. But I do not think she really understands that she is never visited Korea. She does not have a deep understanding of what race is. And I am...  Yeah.  ...I think it will change. I do not know. I am not saying it is going to change for the better. I am just saying it will change in some way...  Yeah  ...You know?  Yeah.  I do not even know if Asian American will be a category. It might be called something different you know when she is an adult.  Yeah. Oh my God. They are going to keep making up new terms because...  I know.  ...I cannot keep up anymore let me tell you .  I cannot keep up. But they are always making up new terms. And they are going to continue making up new terms. And so she might identify as something else when she is older.  Yeah yeah.  We do not know.  We do not know.  I do not - we do not know.  Yeah. You know there were so many lines in this book that stopped me in my tracks. Either I stopped and said yes. Or I just like paused - getting kind of emotional. And you - there was one line that you wrote that just is like etched on me now. You are talking about your daughter and how you are raising her in response to the trauma that you have experienced as a kid in response to the trauma your family experienced. And you wrote about your daughter quote I am not passing down happy memories of my own so much as I can stage happy memories for her. It was beautiful and also sad. And I just want to ask you to close how that is going.  Yeah. You know you make your own rituals. You make your own traditions. And what happens - you know I started writing that book when she was born and now she is 6 years old - is that I have read to her so many times or I have - or given her baths or go and take her to the playground is that like we are making these memories. They do not feel staged anymore.  Yeah.  It is just the experiences of my daughter and me. And now I think I want her to have these memories for when she is an adult you know? We are making our own rituals. We are making our own traditions in the way that my parents had to improvise and make traditions when they first moved here. And hopefully my daughter will have happy memories when she is living in a bunker and there is - during the apocalypse. I do not know.   Hey well thank you so much for this.  OK. Thank you. It was a real pleasure.   Thanks again to Cathy Park Hong. Her book is called Minor Feelings An Asian American Reckoning. It came out earlier this year. I think you should read it. OK. This episode was produced by Anjuli Sastry and edited by Jordana Hochman. Listeners we are back on your feeds on Friday with a special episode. It is going to be a little bit different from our usual weekly wrap-ups of the news and such. For this Friday episode we are going to hear from people young and old ages zero to 99 telling us how this pandemic has changed their lives. It is pretty powerful stuff. Trust me you do not want to miss it. All right listeners until then be good to yourselves. Stay safe. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  