 Before we start the show I want to thank thank thank everyone over the last few weeks who has given to their local NPR station through this show. If you have not done so yet there is still time to do just that. Let me tell you how. Right now for this entire month every podcast host here at NPR is asking listeners to donate to their local public radio stations through a specialized link specific to each show. That way every station you give to knows that we sent you there. This is good for the station. It is good for us. It is good for public radio. It is so easy. The link is so easy as well. It is donate.npr.orgsam. Once you do that I want you to tweet at me. Ya'ill know I tweet. Tell me why you gave and use the hashtag WhyPublicRadio. I will try my best and endeavor purposefully to tweet you back an animal GIF or a Beyonce GIF or a Beyonce-animal GIF with a haiku and a cherry on top. But here's the thing. You cannot spell GIF  - you cannot spell give without GIF. You cannot spell gift without GIF. It is kind of the same word. You get what I am saying. Support support support - donate.npr.orgsam. Thank you.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Wherever and however you are listening I hope your week is going OK so far. Today on the show we have got a good chat for you. We are going to talk about the Internet with a guy who became famous by being funny on the Internet. His name is Matt Bellassai. You might know Matt. He made a name for himself doing these brilliant comedy videos for BuzzFeed. He would basically complain about stuff while under the influence of wine and he would record it all. The video series was called Whine About It. Get it?    Whine about it.  And the premise was very simple. Matt would open a bottle of wine at his desk in BuzzFeed headquarters and just start complaining about stuff. He complained about mornings.   My bed is like a warm toasty oven and I am the delicate flaky pastry inside. You would not take a delicate flaky pastry out of its warm toasty oven while he is in there being all warm and delicious and flaky. No.  That is actually a lie because you take it out and you eat it. But  I digress. He complained about his co-workers.   And then there is that one co-worker who is just always chatting it up on the phone right at their desk right in front of everybody. Carol  you are never going to believe who I saw ordering the unlimited appetizers down at the Thank God It is Fridays. This is a place of business not the ball pit at Chuck E. Cheese. There are rules here.   He complained about text messages.   Also people who turn every message into like 16 different messages - they are always was like hey - send. Matt - send. I think I found - send - some nachos - send. Oh wait - send. A bird pooped on them - send. I think I got most of it off - send. Do you still want to split them? Send.   You all this is gold. He complained about roommates and Halloween and people on airplanes. And watching these videos which are so so good - watching Matt lose all of his inhibitions and say this stuff that you and I really cannot say on video it is cathartic. So Matt has made his own career as a writer and a comedic performer. And he is moved on from BuzzFeed doing even bigger things now. But I want to stress to you all even if you do not know Matt or his videos even if you do not like wine there is a ton of good stuff in this conversation about the tone and the nature of the Internet itself at this moment in time how it makes us all sarcastic and ironic and kind of crazy. And Matt shares this really funny coming-out story that I found refreshingly normal. As I said Matt has now left BuzzFeed. He is on his own making it big. He has a new book out. It is called Everything Is Awful. And we talked when Matt was actually in the middle of a tour. He is doing comedy shows across the country in connection with the book. It is a collection of very funny essays and observations and personal stories and just Matt growing up as a gay nerd. It is hilarious. All right. It is time. Let us get into it. Here's me talking to Matt Bellassai. I think you will enjoy it. He was in New York. I was here in D.C. I began our chat with a special gift I had delivered just for him. Enjoy.   Hey. Can you hear me?  I can hear you yeah.  Hi I am Sam.  Nice to meet you over a microphone.  Yeah nice to meet you too. So...  Thanks for having me.  Of course. A friend of mine in New York - I have arranged with him a special gift for you for our interview.  To help you get started Sam asked me to...  I am - yes. It is perfectly timed.   And we have a selection for you. There is a pinot noir from Oregon called Underwood.  OK. We got pinot noir. I have had that before.  ...And a merlot from California called Bogle.  I will go with the twist-off since that is probably easier.   Fantastic. You picked the right choice.  Tell folks that cannot see what you are doing right now.  We are cracking open a wine right here in the studio.  Yes.  Thank you.  I asked for there to be a red Solo Cup with it. I do not know if it is that kind of cup or not.  We can imagine a red Solo Cup.  Let us do that.  ...But it is a - I like a nice paper cup.  Oh paper cup - old school.  You know because then you have to drink it fast or else it will go right through.  Are you pouring up?  So I will pour up.   Can you hear it?  Oh that is pristine tape. Thank you sir. You are a radio professional.  Oh I know it yeah.  I also wanted to make sure that I could play a song for you when this started.    Oh baby baby.  Oh yeah. We are going way back.  Because in the book - you talk about this in the book right?  I do. Britney was my first.  Your first what?   She was my first album that I remember going to the store and having to wait for it - and yeah a sure sign that I would become a homosexual at one point. But it was deep within me and I just had to let him loose.  Deep within you. Who drove you to the Best Buy or whatever when you bought it?  It was my dad and my brother. It was a family trip. And nobody had any suspicions back then that I was - I was like we have to make this trip for Britney Spears and her alone.    My loneliness is killing me. And I...  I love it. And look at you now.  Yeah.  Look at you now.  Look at me now yeah - a full-grown gay.  And look at Britney. She made it too.  She is doing all right. She is doing her thing.  Yes yes. Matt Bellassai thanks for talking with me. I am such a big fan. How would you best describe yourself to people that probably have seen you online but might not be able to put a name on you?  Yeah. Well thank you. Thanks for having me.  Of course.  Yeah. It is - I am a drunk grumpy guy on the Internet. That is...  .  I do not really know how else to say it.  That is the best way to say it.  Yeah. I get drunk and complain about stuff.  Yeah. And you kind of rose to fame when you were working for BuzzFeed. You had this series of videos where you would just get drunk on camera and talk about stuff.  Yeah. It was that simple. But I do not know. It touched a nerve I guess. Everybody - it had that factor where everybody sort of wishes you could get drunk at work. And you know everybody loves complaining so it was just the right combo. And people really liked it.  Oh yeah yeah. And this like made you an internet celebrity. And then eventually you left BuzzFeed to write a book and to do other stuff right? Like what are you doing now besides the book?  I am - I feel like I am doing a bunch of stuff and also nothing. I do not know. I wake up in the morning. I am like what am I doing? I have no idea. I wrote a book.  Yeah.  Technically right now I am on to tour for the book and doing live shows which is you know - it is a stand-up comedy show so I wrote material for that. I still make videos that are in the spirit of Whine About It but in my apartment. So it is a little more depressing now. I am just getting drunk by myself in the middle of the day.  You are Everyman. You are Everyman.  And I host a podcast called Unhappy Hour. So I just do everything.  You are busy. You are very busy.  Yeah.  You know you are gosh perhaps the Internet's pessimist in chief. Could we say that?  Yes. I will accept that sure.  Yeah. That is your new title. Like there is an entire art and science I feel like of pessimism and sarcasm and irony on the Internet that you have mastered. How do you think Internet culture has changed complaining in our society? Because it has right?  Yeah. It is definitely - I do not know if the - well let me think. I - The one thing that I think it has changed - perhaps for the worse - is that complaining - there is this culture of sort of self-deprecation and especially surrounding like mental illness where sometimes especially on like Tumblr - and that is where I kind of started dabbling in the Internet - Tumblr like five years ago - where sometimes it is like I do not know if you should be joking about this.  Yeah yeah.  It is a lot of teens who are like yeah your depression is - you should totally indulge it. And like you know stay in bed for like a month.  That is weird. Yeah no that is not good.  Sometimes it is like yeah it is comforting to go into a community and you know be able to kind of commiserate with everybody else who feels similarly. But it is not so great when you are sort of - when everybody is encouraging maybe harmful behaviors in other people. So I think you always have to check your complaining and pessimism with you know a good healthy dose of optimism.  Cat videos - cat videos and dog GIFs.   Right. It needs to be a mix.  Yes.  You cannot just go full pessimist all the time.  How do you find happiness on the Internet?  I have to check myself a lot. I think I now have the attention span of like a very small squirrel. And I cannot watch any one thing without having at least two other screens open at the same time.  Yeah. Yeah.  And I mean I have actually caught myself like have something on the TV - I am looking through my iPad and then I like stop looking at my iPad to look at my phone.  Oh Lord.  And it like just - it is the trifecta.  That is crazy.  And so I think I try to you know when I am watching a TV show or something try as best as I can to just watch it just enjoy it and not be like scrolling through Twitter or Instagram at the same time.  Yeah.  Instagram is the one place I find the most refuge. It is - you know you go to Twitter to be depressed. And you go to Instagram I mean to feel bad about yourself because your life is not like everybody else's but in that moment...   And everyone has like so many abs - all the freaking abs on Instagram.  And I inflict it on myself. I only follow like gorgeous men on Instagram and I fully embrace that it is a terrible thing to do and that they are mostly idiots.  Trash garbage people.   Yeah. But there is almost a part of me that is like you are not even a real person. You are just like - you are something else. And I can accept that there is a line between me and you. And you are something else and I am a human being.  .  And I am fine with looking at you. I just - you know you do not exist in the same world as I do.  The worst is that like search tab on Instagram where it like suggests stuff for you. It is like stop suggesting...  Right. And it is just insulting.  Yeah it is an insult.  It is just Instagram - it is Instagram being like here's your trash life. Here's what trashy things you are into.  Yeah. Oh yeah.  Mine now is just like shirtless men calligraphy videos and like cupcakes.   It is like here you go.  I get a bunch of drag queens.  Me too now.  ...Because I am a sucker for a good drag queen video.  Yeah.  I cannot turn away. I cannot turn away.  And that I would gladly accept.  Yes.  Instagram - that is a great place for drag queens.  Totally. Let us talk about the book. It is called Everything Is Awful. And you craft this persona in the book of this awkward nerdy gay who is kind of a pessimist on everything. Is that really who you are?   Yeah. You call it a persona but...   That is me.  That is you.  Yeah. I think - you know I always describe the kind of character that I play in my videos - that is a - like a persona. I am not that grumpy drunk guy all the time.  OK.  I think the person in the book and why I had so much fun writing the book and why I wanted to is that is the version of me that is more true. You know there is still an elevated aspect of it. But that is - you know I am just an awkward gay chubby you know guy who is - I have described my life as like if Larry David were living Sex And The City. Like...   It is not - like none of the sex is happening. It is just the like complaining while all of the parties and cosmos are flowing.  Love it.  That is my life yeah.  And you spend so much time in the book describing how awkward you were kind of your whole life. You once were Jar Jar Binks for Halloween.   Yes.  You had a dental expander in your mouth as a child.  Yes. Yes.  You were bad at all the jobs you had as a teenager. You were always injuring yourself. Were you really that awkward?  Yeah.  OK.  I take a lot of relish now in the fact that I can talk about it with enough distance. I am still creating new awkward memories. But I can talk about the old ones. But it is funny. I just performed in Chicago where I am from. And my whole family came. I had like 40 people in the audience. They had their own section.  Oh wow.  And I just remember when I was a kid you know they did not pick on me but I was always the sort of butt of the joke you know? - just as the awkward one who - when I ran my arms would not leave my side. I would sort of flail. And it was fun to be able to take that and be the one onstage and be - you know be able to talk about that stuff and make fun of them back. So yeah I definitely - I embrace the awkwardness.  Yeah.  That is the spirit of the book - is you know your awkward moments are your stories and your moments. And you got to embrace them.  Own it. Own it. At one point you talk about kind of using humor as a weapon you know? Like when you were funny you became the hero rather than the victim or the butt of a joke.  Right. Yeah. That was a - there was a Nora Ephron quote that her mother told her that you know when you slip on a banana you are the victim but then when you tell the story of when you slipped on the banana it becomes your story and you are the hero. And I just - I love that. I love her. I love pretending that I am her. So yeah I could frame the stories the way that I wanted to frame them and embrace the awkwardness of it and show that you know yeah I did not - it is not like I was surviving like war as a child.   Although it feel like that when you are a child right?  Right. I had an OK - I had a pretty good childhood all said and done. But you know I think you - in those moments of awkwardness it just feels like oh my God this is the end of the world. And I like that you know you could come out on the other side of it and look back on it and not just laugh at it but you know kind of fully accept it as a part of your life and a part of your story.  Of all of the tales of your awkwardness in the book for me the one that I was stuck on was the year that you wanted to be - was it Steve Irwin for Halloween?  Yeah.  This is the Crocodile Hunter. And your mother thought it was going to be too cold. So she made you wear the Crocodile Hunter outfit which is like the cargo shorts and the button-up like khaki shirt. But she made you wear tights too.   Oh yeah. I had to run around in Chicago in the Halloween cold with skin-colored tights underneath my Steve Irwin costume. And I fell that night and I snagged my pantyhose. It was the worst.   Were they actually pantyhose?  They were basically pantyhose yeah. I do not remember where she bought them from. But it was so embarrassing.  This season on RuPaul's Drag Race Steve Irwin.   I was fully tucked that night.  .  And I fell and just snagged my hose.  Damn. Damn.  Yeah.  What for you was the hardest awkward story to write in the book?  The one that most people have referenced to me is the story of - it is a long chapter about how I came out and then...  Oh Kellan.  Yeah.  Lord Kellan.  In college I sort of fell in love with my straight best friend and...  Who we call Kellan.  Who I call Kellan - and he - I at one point literally hid in his closet as like a prank and...  While his college hookup came into the room.  Yeah and then he brought a hookup into the room. And I announced myself before anything got too far.  No they just saw you if I recall correctly.  Well that is true. I did not...  Kellan saw your shadow in the silhouette of that closet...  He saw me.  ...And was like bruh .   Get out of my closet.   You were literally trapped in the closet waiting for the straight man you could never have.  Yeah. It was a symbolic moment. But that I - it was in college which for me - I graduated in 2012. It was not that long ago. And I could go back and read all of the text messages all of the emails all of the Facebook messages. Like it is all preserved. That is the horror of living in the modern age. Some of them were good. I tell about - I talk about how I came out to all of my friends in college and I have that Facebook message that I pasted into the book.  So just a backstory - you and Kellan were friends all through college and over the course of your - you all's time in college it became increasingly evident that you were obsessed with this man. He must have known it too and you had to navigate that.  I am sure.  And by the end of it you basically said hey - in your letter that you talked about earlier you say I am gay but also by the way I am not in love with Kellan. I promise.  .  I just think he has a nice butt.  Which is always a great sign you know when you have to deny it so obviously - clearly.  Well you say in the letter he has a nice but I do not like him like that.   It was hilarious.  Yeah. You know I could not separate those feelings from you know reality I guess the reality of hey he is straight not into you. It is not going to happen. And so we had a dramatic friend breakup senior year of college and yeah...  Have you talked to Kellan recently?  I have not. I - many people after - BuzzFeed published the excerpt of that chapter and a lot of people reached out some of whom thought that the chapter was about them and it was not.  Oh.   I do not want to expose any person.  I do not want you to expose all the people.  Basically the story goes that he ends up hooking up with a girl who lived in our dorm and I became exceedingly jealous and tried to find out as much as I could. And I - multiple girls reached out to say that...  They were the girl.  ...They thought they were the girl.   So Kellan was a player.  Yeah so I do not feel that bad. You know he was not the greatest person ever.  There you go. Yeah. So by the time you came out in college you had known yourself for years that you were gay right?  Yeah. It was never a secret to me.  OK. OK.  I had always known but I talk about how I sort of - because I was not super comfortable with being outward about just any form of intimacy that I sort of hid beneath a cloak of nerdiness. Like that was the identity that I clung to.  And kind of sarcasm too a little bit I am guessing.  Yeah for sure. Yeah that - I still hide under that. That is not going to go away anytime soon.  Yeah yeah the sarcasm security blanket.  Yeah but you know I identified as a nerd first. And so it was like of course he does not have a girlfriend. He is a nerd you know? And it was not like - yeah I just leaned into that as much as I could.  Got you. Now you went to Northwestern right?  I did yeah.  Was that an easy space to come out in?  Totally. I mean there were plenty of gay people that I knew and were friends with and I never felt like I was coming out to like a hostile environment. I was more afraid of just the change that I perceived would happen in me I guess that people would - that I would be this just like flamboyant gay person all of a sudden and that people would see me this way and that that is all that they would talk about and that that would become the kind of defining part of my personality. And I say in the book like to an extent that is true. That is kind of what happened. I definitely felt like I became gayer.   But now I am like I love it. I do not care that that is a defining part of my personality. I embrace that.  Yeah.  And like that was the important lesson to me is that you know the thing that I was afraid of came true but for the better.  Yeah.  I love that part of me.  And you know - but I found it refreshing to hear a coming out story that was not particularly noble or tragic or...   Yeah.  It was just an awkward coming out story and not every coming out story is like mom clutching her pearls or someone being evicted from the house or everything being roses. Sometimes it is just awkward like the people we are.  Yeah. As gay people become more and more accepted - that is a weird thing to say. But you know coming out's become less dramatic. We are losing - we are losing the theater of coming out.   How could you have made it more dramatic though is what I am wondering now.  I made it pretty dramatic in the long term.  All right. Time for a quick break here. When we come back we will talk about Matt's experience at the People's Choice Awards and Matt will tell us how he got accidentally snubbed on national TV at that awards show. All right. BRB.   You know there are so many stories in the book that I would like love to just talk with you about for hours. We cannot do that. But I do want you to tell our listeners if you can the amazing epic tale of your experience at the People's Choice Awards?   Yes. Another defining awkward moment.  It was so beautiful.  It was. 2016 I was nominated for a People's Choice Award for what I did...  Yay.  ...At BuzzFeed. Thank you thank you.  Best social media star? Was that what it was?  Yeah. It was favorite social media star. It was the first time that they would had like internet categories like that and yeah I was like no way I am going to make it to like the final round of nominees. Did not think I would win at all 'ecause I was up against like these Vine teenagers who had millions and millions of followers. And one of the teens was trending on Twitter like vote for him...  Which teen was that?  Nash Grier if you are familiar?  Yeah yeah yeah.  Not the greatest person in the world so .  They are all just Jake Pauls to me. They are all just a bunch of Jake Pauls.  So I just had a bunch of fun with it and eventually I found out I was one of the final five nominees and I got to go. And I think actually BuzzFeed ended up flying me out.  Good on them.  Yeah. Yeah. Well yeah. We ...  Wait wait wait. What was that well about?  . My thought was yeah good on them. I would made all those frikkin  videos.  .  And I was nominated for a People's Choice Award.  Yes. So they fly you to LA. You get a suit from what? Men's Wearhouse?  I got a suit from Men's Wearhouse.  Look at you.  It was like the night before and I had nothing to wear so we went to Men's Wearhouse and got a suit.  I love it.  It was the drabbest like...  Aw I am sure you looked great.  I fully admit that I looked like you know a regional bank manager. I just was so ...  But who does not like their regional bank manager?  Sure. Yeah. You know I could get you a small business loan. I can do whatever you want.  .  So I got to go. I brought my producer who helped create Whine About It and made all of the videos with me. And it was just the weirdest. Like I have never experienced that type of event before. And it happens like every week in Hollywood I realize now. But we pulled up I got out. It was like the red carpet it was - I would never walked like that line where the photographers take a photo of you and they are just screaming at you. Nobody knows who you are. I was sandwiched between Jack Black and Kate Hudson. So everybody knows them. And these photographers were like who are you?  .  Like they have no decorum. It is just like why should we care about you?  Were they like your suit oh my God?   Yeah. Turn away. We do not want this. And anyway to make a long story short I got into the awards show during the awards. They told me OK your award is not going to be given out on stage. You know? There is like 60 awards that they give out but only 15 of them are actually on stage. So they said we are going to give out this category when we come back from a commercial break and we will just hand whoever wins the award in the aisle and cut away. It will last like 15 seconds.  Yeah.  So during the one commercial break the producers came up to me and they were like OK you are in your seat. Get ready. We are going to come in on you. I was like oh my God. It is happening.  So that means you probably won the award.  Right. None of the other nominees were like around me.  OK.  And you know the person came up and they were like carrying the statue. So I was like it is happening. And the producer went to the camera guy pointed at me. He made eye contact nodded his head. And then five seconds to go they come back from commercial break and a seat filler someone in the audience walked right in front of the camera and the camera guy just immediately forgot what I looked like...  No.  ...Stopped on the man sitting in front of me and the big screens at the top of the theater just showed this man's face with my name under him.  Stop it.  Matt Bellassai favorite social media star. .  What did this guy do when he was on camera?  And I ended up talking to that guy the next day. He called me and he was like I had no idea what was happening. You know they stopped on me and were like you won. Act surprised. And so he was like giving a thumbs up you know smiling as wide as he could.  Oh my God.  And you see me in the background and I am like what is happening? Why is this happening to me? This was my one moment...  That was your moment.  ...And it is gone.  Oh my God.  And fortunately the person with the statue still remembered what I looked like and she gave me the award and was like sorry .  Gotcha .  And then it was all over in like 10 seconds. It lasted 10 seconds and then Jason Derulo came on stage and there was fire and I had no idea what to do or where I was or what was happening.  What is the catchphrase?  Jason Derulo.   Yeah it is just his name. He is like a Pokemon.  . So does this weird brush with non-TV fame in that moment mean that you are going to continue to be a guy who just kind of sticks to internet?  . I have sworn off television forever. No it is just that CBS cameraman that I cannot do business with anymore. But besides him...  OK. Hope he is listening.  . I hope he is. Sir. No I would still love to do stuff with TV. My problem I think is that I can be excited about so many different projects. I think it is a product of being you know someone who has sort of rose up on the internet. And this was definitely the culture at BuzzFeed where you know you did not have like one pet project that you were doing just solely. It was just like every day you would come up with something new and that is what you were excited about that day. It was more about you were excited about the idea of creating stuff not necessarily like just you know one thing that you were making.  I like that.  And so that is not how TV people think. They are like we want to know the project that you have been like dreaming about since before you were born.  Give me a full screenplay a full season give me the whole - yeah.  I am like tell me what you want and I will do that.  Yeah. It is interesting to hear you talk about the ethos and culture of BuzzFeed and this idea of being excited every day about something new. It seems - and like you just said it is entirely different and unique from the TV aesthetic or the old Hollywood aesthetic. Like some of that I guess is just the nature of internet fame these days. You are in this crop of internet celebrities that are kind of internet-first and it must seem in many ways inherently different than the celebrities that we grew up with watching on TV right?  Yeah I think so. I mean I do not quite fit in I think with a lot of the other internet creators.  Whoa whoa whoa. You are People's Choice Award-winning internet celebrity.  You know I accept that. I accept that.  OK.  I know. I am not you know shaking off my roots here. I just you know I think a lot of internet personalities are very personality-driven and it is a lot about their personal lives. And you know like vlogging is really just hey here's what I was up to this week. Here's what I bought from Sephora. Like I mean there is an audience for that and no discredit to them but I was always - I feel like I treated Whine About It as sort of a TV show. We put it out at the same time every week. It was not like you know in between I was saying hey here's what you know I am doing this week or here's where I shopped or here's what I am eating. It is more like I treated it like it was its own kind of mini TV show.  But you know this media it is like when I think of what you were doing with that video series and other internet celebrities of today it is inherently so much more personal and intimate of a connection than like watching Angelina Jolie in Mr. And Mrs. Smith. It is just different.  Yeah. For sure.  Do you have fans who just feel like they know you based on watching you on the internet 'ecause it is a different kind of connection right?  Yeah totally. And I love that. I mean on this tour that I am on it is 27 cities. Right now while we are talking I have already been to like 19 of them I think. And because everybody gets a book with their ticket I stay after and take pictures with everybody.  Do you sign the books too?  I sign the books beforehand so they are not - there is too many people to be able to...  You are just too popular.  Crowds and crowds of ravenous people. I cannot possibly. Actually at my last show in Seattle someone got a little out of control and bit a security guard so...  Stop it.  ...When I say ravenous...  Literally.  ...I am only half joking.  .  But yeah. No it is really - and people always ask like do you just hate meeting all of these people? And A I am not going to be like yes I hate all of you. But B that is not true. I actually really enjoy meeting everybody when they are not you know biting security guards. And yeah because every interaction does feel very real. It does not feel like there is this like deep chasm between me and the people who are watching me. That will change. That will change. I will become a monster.  .  But for now.  All right. Drink the rest of that wine. That bottle is yours buddy.  Thank you. Thank you.  I enjoyed our chat a lot.  Thank you so much. Yeah. I had so much fun.  All right. Take care.  Bye.   Matt Bellassai. Was not it fun? I told you it was going to be fun. Go get his new book. Go enjoy it with a glass of wine. The book is called Everything Is Awful. Matt thank you for the good chat. And listeners a quick reminder. Share the best thing that happened to you all week. No matter how small no matter how big share it with me. Record your own voice and send the file to samsandersnpr.org. We play those files. We play the audio at the end of our Friday wraps. And seriously no victory is too small or too weird. Email me. Seriously. Samsandersnpr.org. Samsandersnpr.org. All right. Back in your feed with that Friday episode. Until then thank you for listening. Talk soon.  