 This is FRESH AIR. Let us continue our end of the year series featuring some of our most entertaining interviews from 2010 with James Murphy the leader of the band LCD Soundsystem a band which sometimes is really just Murphy using instruments electronics and overdubbing. LCD Soundsystem plays dance music and Murphy used to be a club DJ. But the lyrics of his songs are often ironic and funny and the music that inspires him goes way beyond dance music. In the New Yorker profile of Murphy music critic Sasha FrereJones wrote quote LCD Soundsystem helped reintroduce dance music into indie rock blurring the lines effectively enough to bridge the divide between fans who probably do not otherwise like dance music and those who put on LCD records only to dance to unquote. The group's 2007 album Sound Of Silver was on NPR's list of the top albums of the decade. LCD Soundsystem's last album This is Happening was on the 10 best list of Rolling Stone and Pitchfork. Murphy says it will be his final album under the name LCD Soundsystem. Here's a track from that album called Drunk Girls cowritten by Murphy and featuring him on vocals drums synthesizers guitar bass Wurlitzer tambourine and claps.    Drunk girls drunk girls drunk girls drunk girls. Drunk girls cause a couple of heart attacks. Drunk girls are unusually mild. Drunk boys keep in pace with the pedophiles. Drunk girls are boringly wild. Drunk girls get invitations from nations. They got the patience of a million of saints. Drunk boys they steal they steal from the cupboards. Drunk girls like to file complaints. Drunk girls are like a night of simplicity. They need a lover who is smarter than me. Drunk boys we walk like pedestrians. Drunk girls wait an hour to pee. Drunk girls know that love is an astronaut. It comes back but it is never the same. Drunk boys drunk boys drunk boys drunk boys. Drunk girls can be just as insane. Oh oh oh I believe in waking up together. So oh oh that means making eyes across the room.  That is Drunk Girls from LCD Soundsystem's new album This is Happening. My guest is James Murphy who is not only the founder of the band he is most of the band. James Murphy welcome to FRESH AIR. So the band is called LCD Soundsystem and you used to create sound systems. Mr.  Mmhmm. Yes.  And your record label was called or is still called was called is called DFA. Mr.  Yeah. DFA Records.  Which stands for Death From Above which is also what you called your sound system because it was all about loud. Mr.  Yes. Really loud.  Really loud. And why does really loud appeal to you and how loud are we talking? Mr.  OK. I do not like hurting ears. I do not like hurting people's ears. I do not like hurting my own ears. And there are frequencies that I find that I am hypersensitized to and I think that people normally are. The human voice like likes to hover around 1000 hertz. And you know you can go up to 20000 and go down to 20 hertz and you know that is the kind of the range of human that is kind of the area where we listen. So I like to make sure we are not punishing anybody on these frequencies that hurt your ears but I do like the visceral physical experience of bass when it is attached to the rest of the sounds. The first shows I saw were really bodily loud and it was a really incredible experience for me. Like your adrenaline goes up. You kind of have a fight or flight experience that can be maintained in a nice way by volume. And I think like a certain type of airy treble a certain type of airy space that does not hurt your ears again is kind of wonderful and magical and for lack of a less hackneyed and overused term psychedelic. Volume is a big part of that. I think people have a lot of people have lost the art of using volume in a way that is not just harsh and painful but it is something that I am really into.  And you do not think you are hurting your ears? Mr.  I still test better than average. I still test really high frequency. I mean it can be fatiguing. You know we should not do more than five shows in a row. But if it does not feel right physically I would just be thinking constantly on stage.  You would be thinking oh it is not loud enough it is not loud enough or? Mr.  I would just be thinking. I would just turn my brain back on. I need the...  Oh I see. So you... Mr.  For me I need a certain amount of volume to turn the brain off.  Right right. Mr.  Turn the rattling monkey in my head off.  You worked as a DJ for how long? Mr.  I guess I started DJing worked as you know I started DJing for you know no money when I was 29 and around the same time as starting DFA Records in New York. So DFA was a party and I started DJing just at my own party. And I did not do it at other places. Nobody hired me. I hired myself.  So how did DJing at your own parties contribute to your approach as a composer because certainly when you are DJing you are looking for a groove also. Mr.  Well yeah I mean I think there is a  after being in selfinvolved punk bands my whole life you were thinking about what it is you want to make who it is you want to be. But DJing and finding dance music was much more about it was much more of a communication device. It was like very blatant. It is like if people are not dancing you are not doing a good job. You cannot make any other argument about it. And it changed making music for me because suddenly I wanted to make music. I wanted to make songs after having given up. I stopped being in bands when I was 26 so I took three years off and I wanted to do it again because suddenly there was an actual quantifiable way of measuring if you were doing your job. People danced or they did not. And if they did you know you are doing your job. And if you like it and they did then you are doing your job in an uncompromised way which was a really nice thing to finally be able to learn.  Well I thought we would hear another LCD Soundsystem recording and this is from earlier. This is called Losing my Edge and it is one of the most famous things that you have done. Mr.  It is the first one.  Yeah yeah and let us hear it. I think it is like a really funny song and I will just say it is about somebody who thinks he is losing his edge to the kids who are coming up behind him. And so let us hear it and then we will talk about it. So this is LCD Soundsystem.    I am losing my edge. I heard you have a compilation of every good song ever done by anybody every great song by the Beach Boys all the underground hits all the Modern Lovers tracks. I heard you have a vinyl of every Niagra record on German import. I heard that you have a white label of every seminal Detroit techno hit 1985 '86 '87. I heard that you have a CD compilation of every good '60s cut and another box set from the '70s. I hear you are buying a synthesizer and an arpeggiator and are throwing your computer out the window because you want to make something real. You want to make a Yaz record. I hear that you and your band have sold your guitars and bought turntables. I hear that you and your band have sold your turntables and bought guitars. I hear everybody that you know is more relevant than everybody that I know. But have you seen my records?  So that is the first single by LCD... Mr.  That is the first single.  ...Soundsystem and my guest James Murphy is the creator of LCD Soundsystem. And I think that is just so funny. And when I listen to it I cannot help but wonder how much of this is about you and how much of it is older people who you met coming up through the ranks who were afraid that they were losing their edge to people like you. Mr.  It is a little bit both. It is really from a specific position and time in my life more than it is about it where I had started DJing and I had not released any music yet. We had DFA Records and I started having  there was parties that I was throwing and I was DJing and for the first time in my life I was almost cool.   But not quite? Mr.  At almost like 29 years old I had my first taste of like wait people want me to come to this party and DJ. This is very exciting for me. And then I went to  I remember I went to a punk show and between the bands somebody was DJing. Now that was not done. And I was like wait that is my thing. Like I play records you know. And they were playing some of the records I played and I got really upset. I looked and they were like 24 23 and I was really mad. And then I started getting very embarrassed that I was getting mad because I remembered being in a young band when I was 23 or 24 and talking to this guy who was like ancient  I think he may have been 28 or 29 and he was talking about how kids now they do not know you know the guitar sounds are not good and things like that. And I remember just being like oh man you never say that. That is just that is such a lame thing to say. And then I caught myself doing it and I am like oh I am saying it but at the same time it is true but it is so pathetic. And it made for the easiest song I have ever written. It was the easiest song to write. The whole lyric with a couple of  I punched it in a couple of times but I played drums and sang that song in just one take just without writing anything beforehand. The only thing that I wrote was the list of songs that I yell at the end I mean the list of artists I yell at the end. The whole thing was just made up because it was such a fertile and embarrassing and circular set of feelings. Like it was so easy to know what I was mad about and so easy to be embarrassed by it and so you know it was just like endlessly ohbut ohbut ohbut you know type of emotion that I had. So it was a really  and after that I was overconfident. I was like I can write songs all the time. This is easy. Just have an experience that typifies your life at that moment and then go yell about it.  It is funny because I kind of halfimagined you taking like having this secret notebook in which you wrote down all the things that people said to you about why they were worried about younger people coming up and replacing them.  Mr.  No. It is...  And why they were losing their edge because it is all so perfect. Mr.  It was so simple to me. It like seemed like such a good  and at the end the reason I yell all the band names was I suddenly realized like I am one of these  I suddenly realized I was like this is what you do when you know things. Knowing things knowledge or like your attachment to them or your selfassociation with other bands or with books or whatever is usually like this often this weird amulet that protects you. Like you are like no I am serious. Look at my library. Listen to this. Like I am going to list all the books I have read and now you know I am a serious person. And so it was just supposed to be like this amulet swinging around me to protect me from being seen as anything that I did not want to be seen as.   So you have mentioned several times that you like really physical music. You like to feel it in your body. So I guess it is no surprise that your first instrument was drums. Mr.  My first instrument was guitar.  Oh. So it is a surprise.  Mr.  Yeah. No. But I learn  yeah I was a singerguitar player as a kid. AKA I was a selfimportant pretentious jerk as a kid and...  Mr.  ...a controlling you know teenager. I started playing guitar when I was  I started my first band when I was 12 13 all through high school I played guitar. And I moved to New York when I was 19 and started feeling like maybe the guitar was not for me. I met a guy who was a really great guitar player. He was a natural guitar player. This guy name Yotaka Yokoyama who was a violinist who picked up guitar and we liked a lot of the same music. And we played together. And watching him play guitar made me realize that maybe I am not playing the right instrument for me because he was just so natural and physical. And I was always trying to struggle to get the guitar to give me more of something. And then I started playing drums. I was like oh these are great. You hit them harder and they get louder.  Mr.  This is all  this all really makes sense. And so I started being drummer in bands. I think now I have settled on that the instrument that is most appropriate for me is the bass guitar because it is somewhere between the two. It is like the workhorse and you can play it very physically and it delivers a lot more like punch in the stomach. But it also can drive the song around. It is a rhythmic instrument but it is also a melodic instrument or at least a tonal instrument.  My guest is James Murphy founder of the band LCD Soundsystem. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   Let us get back to our interview with James Murphy founder of the band LCD Soundsystem. I want to play another song. And this is also an earlier LCD Soundsystem track and it is the title track of your album Sound Of Silver. And I just think the lyric's really interesting about being nostalgic for being a teenager until you remember what it was really like to be a teenager. So why do not we hear it and then we will talk about it.    Sound of silver talk to me. Makes you want to feel like a teenager. Until you remember the feelings of a real live emotional teenager. Then you think again. Sound of silver talk to me. Makes you want to feel like a teenager. Until you remember the feelings of a real live emotional teenager. Then you think again. Sound of silver talk to me. Makes you want to feel like a teenager. Until you remember the feelings of a real live emotional teenager. Then you think again. Sound of silver talk to me. Makes you want to feel like a teenager. Until you remember the feelings of a real live emotional teenager. Then you think again. Sound of silver talk to me. Makes you want to feel like a teenager. Until you remember the feelings of a real live emotional teenager. Then you think again.  That is LCD Soundsystem. My guest is James Murphy who is the creator of the band and plays most of the instruments on the records and does the vocals and writes the songs. So is this a kind of personal song for you? Mr.  Yeah. But in more ways than one possibly. The type of singing is the most personal and embarrassing part of that song. I was really into Heaven 17 as a kid too like new wave stuff and the singing is kind of like arch. People do not sing like that anymore kind of this kind of like '80s new romantic baritone.  Mr.  And I really love it. And I would been on a quest for almost the length of this band to just trust my taste even when it is pretty embarrassing because embarrassments kind of are an untapped rock emotion usually. People do not get too into embarrassment. They get into heartbreak and cool but they do not get in too much into just being embarrassing. So yeah I just wanted to belt it out in this kind of weird way.  And what was your real live emotional life as a teenager? Mr.  I led a pretty OK school time. I was just a  I kind of made things difficult for myself. Like when I was younger I fit in a lot better. I was an athletic kid and I was a pretty big kid. But then when we got about 13 certain types of  I had much older brothers and sisters and certain types of like hyper selfaware stuff happened to me pretty young. My voice changed when I was in fourth grade. I was 10. I looked bigger. You know and something happened where I was not kind of on the same page as a lot of my peers. And watching the cruelty develop around 12 13 was super psychically like traumatic for me. Of course now it is like oh yeah people are kind of crappy to each other sometimes. You can live with that. It is OK. But at that time I had no experience of this. So watching suddenly two friends that were best friends the year before turn into cliques and you know the more popular of those two would be taunting the less popular of his exbest friend and just  all that stuff was just like you know I felt like I was in some sort of horrifying you know psychedelic nightmare that I could not wake up from.  Mr.  And it really really traumatized me in a way that I find kind of embarrassing. But of course it is all just predictable stuff that everybody goes through. But I think you are supposed to be  I think the blessing is at that age you are pretty oblivious to a lot of it and so wrapped up in it that you do not you know like you are kind of missing the horror. And I did not have that luxury and it was not nice to watch.   James Murphy is the founder of the band LCD Soundsystem. His latest album is called This is Happening. Our interview was recorded in June. We will close today with music by pianist composer and educator Billy Taylor. He died Tuesday at the age of 89. He not only played good music he introduced many people to jazz through his Jazzmobile his teaching and his radio shows. He hosted a jazz show at WLIB in New York in the '60s. On NPR he hosted the concert series Jazz Alive and Jazz the Kennedy Center. This is a 1996 recording of his best known composition I Wish I Knew How It Would Feel To Be Free.  I am Terry Gross. 