 Kanye West's new album My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy is one of the year's most anticipated recordings. West's publicrelations gaffes last year's interruption of Taylor Swift's acceptance speech at an Academy Awards ceremony  at an awards ceremony and more recently losing his temper during a Today Show interview have only increased interest in how West was going to either use or hide his outspoken nature in his new music. Rock critic Ken Tucker has an answer and a review.  Mr.   As not no question if I want it I need it. I can feel it slowly drifting away from me. I am on the edge so why you playing? I am saying. I will never ever let you live this down down down.  I am fascinated by Kanye West on every level. I thought his first two albums 2004's College Dropout and 2005's Late Registration were and remain some of the strongest most diverse hiphop collections of the decade. As a producer and rapper his imagination seems limitless. He covers more ground in his cultural references than any other contemporary pop musician under the age of 40. He is also depending on your point of view a sensitive soul or an egomaniac of the highest order. At this point West is like Blueperiod Joni Mitchell with a Twitter account.  Mr.   And I always find yeah I always find something wrong. You been putting up with my  just way too long. I am so gifted at finding what I do not like the most. So I think it is time for us to have a toast. Let us have a toast for the douche bags. Let us have a toast for the  let us have a toast for the scumbags every one of them that I know. Let us have a toast for the jerkoffs. That'll never take work off. Baby I got a plan. Run away fast as you can.  That is Runaway a nineminutesplus opus in which West takes himself to task as an arrogant perfectionist who can quote always find something wrong. I am so gifted at finding what I do not like the most he says shortly before offering up a toast  in blunt language  to all selfcentered perfectionists. Because West knows that in any given artform one person's selfcentered perfectionist is another's acclaimed genius. At other points on this album West diffuses his selfregard so that it becomes universal.  Mr.   I am up in the woods I am down on my mind; I am building a still to slow down time. I am up in the woods I am down on my mind; I am building a still to slow down the time. I am up in the woods I am down on my mind; I am building a still  down the time. I am lost in the world...  On a composition such as that one titled Lost in the World West creates a surging soundscape that transports the listener carrying you along with Kanye as he seems to travel across the world searching for his place in it. Being lost in the world as the song title has it means combining American and African pop rhythms with a sampling of the poetmusician Gil ScottHeron declaiming Who will survive in America? In the early '70s ScottHeron placed his question in the context of the oppressed and of conspiracy theories that were being floated at the time about radical groups such as SDS the Black Panthers and the Young Lords. West appropriating it applies it to the drama of his own life. You can say this is yet another example of egregious selfaggrandizement. It is also superb musicmaking.  Mr.  I am living in the 21st century. Doing something mean to it. Do it better than anybody you ever seen do it. Screams from the haters got a nice ring to it. I guess every superhero need his theme music. No one man should have all that power. The clock's ticking I just count the hours. Stop tripping I am tripping off the power. Mr.   21st century schizoid man. Mr.  The system broken the schools closed the prisons open. We as not got nothing to lose everybody we rolling. Huh? Everybody we rolling with some lightskinned girls and some Kelly Rowlands. In this white man world we the ones chosen. So goodnight cruel world I see you in the morning. Huh? I see you in the morning. This is way too much I need a moment. No one man should have...  While Kanye West is very much a man of the current pop moment I think he connects with a strong strain in American popular music the musician who cultivates an image that is inseparable from his music an artist whose work can be enjoyed on its own yet which is fully completed only when we also form opinions about his public persona his statements his actions. From Elvis Presley to Bob Dylan to Michael Jackson to Madonna to Bruce Springsteen to Kurt Cobain pop music has a history of both sincerity and assuming a pose that takes on its own authenticity. This 60yearold tradition finds its current embodiment most glowingly in Kanye West.  Ken Tucker is editoratlarge at Entertainment Weekly. He reviewed My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy by Kanye West. 