 From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. My guest today is Emily King and Emily and I - we go way back. I saw you at Hotel Cafe years ago.  Come on.  Yes I did. I had just moved to LA. It was maybe like 2012 2013.  Oh my God.  And that is a great venue. It is so intimate.  That is a great venue.  It is so intimate.  I do recall that being one of my worst shows ever.  No it was not.   It was.  Why was it your worst show? I liked it.  I think...    Come back Georgia. Come back.  It was actually a great show. Emily was touring her Seven EP which is just full of these lush intricate delicate songs like this one. It is called Georgia.    Come back Georgia. Come back.  Flash forward to now Emily has released two studio albums. Since then she has toured around the world opened for John Legend and Maroon 5. And just a few weeks ago Emily King put out a new album. It is called Scenery and this album is still full of all that lush intricate songwriting that I came to enjoy all those years ago at Hotel Cafe. But the sound is a bit different this time. There is a little more '80s in it a little more synthesizer. We talk about all of that and Emily's special relationship with her longtime producer Jeremy Most aka J. Most. And you might hear some of these songs live if you check out Emily King playing a venue much bigger than Hotel Cafe later on this year. She is playing the Coachella music festival. Wow.  OK.  This April. Did you - I mean...  I do not think they have the right person. I mean I am...  .  ...A little bit...  Are you nervous?  It does - it feels like the cool kids in the cafeteria just invited me to sit with them.  Do it.  Come on. Have a seat.   Sit there.  You know so it - I am excited about it. What can I say?    Georgia. Come back Georgia. Come back.  There was a lot in this chat to be excited about so let us just get to it. Emily King was with me at NPR West in Culver City. Enjoy.    I just need another chance. I just need another chance to make it better. Come back Georgia.  What I really love about this new album is that you went somewhere new to record it.  Oh yeah.  Yeah.  Thanks.  You went like out in the mountains out in the woods.  I did. I did.  Where did you go?  I went upstate two hours north...  Of New York City.  ...Of New York City. And - which was really scary for me 'ecause you know I - well I was scared to move away because I did not know how to drive for one thing.  Like a true New Yorker.   Yes.  Yeah yeah.  And I am like I am going to go here I am going to move first.  So you moved like to the Catskill area.  Yes.  OK OK.  And...  It is beautiful out there.  It is so beautiful. And I was prior to that like visiting Airbnbs and getting to know the neighborhood a little bit. And I spent a month at an Airbnb last summer or two summers ago. And I just fell in love with the little neighborhood. I thought there is a lot of musicians that I know there is a great community of artists. I think you know the Woodstock area - even before the festival and it became this kind of...  Yeah.  ...Thing there was artists there in the '30s. And so...  Oh yeah.  ...It is always been a community. And I needed some - I needed nature.  I hear you.  So I had to just go. And I have - I ended up finding a little place and then my mom and grandma came up with me and helped me buy a car .  I heard your grandma like really helped 'ecause she is a used car salesman or was.  Yeah well that was one of her many...  OK.  ...You know hustles.  Yeah so what did you get?  I got a Nissan Sentra.  OK.  .  Solid solid solid. I love talking about you driving because there are a few songs on the album that totally feel like driving songs.  Oh cool.  I am talking about like Remind Me.  Yeah.  I am going to play a little bit of it now.    Been without it for so long - forgot what it feels like.  It is like a song to hit the highway on.  Oh I am so glad you think so.  It is just the right BPM...  Yes yes.  ...You know where you are like 65...   Yeah.  ...No traffic.  Totally.    Oh like what I have been missing. Oh something like what I have been missing. Oh...  Break down how your process of making songs for this album was different based on the different environments. So you are out in the woods.  Yeah.  You are driving for the first time ever. I assume it like changes the way you are feeling the music.  It absolutely did. I mean I could not believe that there was all of this space and nobody else was in it but me.   It is so wonderful.  You know being from the city I am like how is this even possible right now this is...  Because you were born and raised in the city right?  I was raised in the city.  Yeah.  And when I got upstate I just like laid in my driveway. Like I can just...  .  I am here.  Yeah yeah.  And you know I mean...  And no one else is here.  And nobody's up in here.  .    Oh now I cannot shake the memory. I cannot fake it fake it fake it fake it. You remind me of something. And I wanted to write a song when I felt that way 'ecause of course the honeymoon wears off eventually.  Oh yeah.  But so I just sat there. I just like stared out the window. And I just like sang these words into a voice memo and...  Really?  Yeah.    You remind me of something. You remind me of something something that I used to feel myself - something that I used to feel. Like a heartbeat racing... And then eventually I kind of pieced together the hook. And I think I cried a little bit...   ...When I sang.    Something that I used to feel - something like what I have been missing oh.  That is when you know.  That is when you know. I was like oh my God this is actually expressing how I feel...    What I have been missing oh. ...Which does not always happen with songwriting...  Oh yeah.  ...Because sometimes you get too heady and you are like this is the verse and this is the chorus. But this felt like a direct connection. So I thought OK I am going to stay here for a while.  Yeah.   And you guys - it seems like you all - like when I listen to the music - and this is for Seven this is for The Switch - I can tell that you and J. Most - as folks call him - are just like in the pocket because there would be these moments where you just let the groove play.  Yeah.  OK. The last half of Teach You I like that groove you are in.  Yeah yeah.  I kind of want to hit it.   It is like you as an artist and as a singer allow as much stage time and presence to like the groove itself. Does that makes sense? Do you get what I am saying?  Thank you for saying that. I love the groove.  Right.  I love the groove - the pocket.  You get in a pocket and you stay there.  Yeah yeah.  And it is almost like - you know how in church the song will be so good.  Yes.  And the vocalist has done the two verses and the vamp and the bridge and everything. But the song is over and the band's like no we are still gonna play.  That is exactly it yeah.  And it is like you do not leave the song until the spirit is gone. You know what I am saying?  Yeah. And I think honestly if I had a different producer it might not be that way.  Really?  But J. Most has like the best pocket I have ever seen anybody have.  It is so good.  So it is kind of one of the best things about working with him.  Is he playing the bass?  He plays everything.  Because I hear that bass...  Yes.  ...And it is just driving.  He is on that bass.  Yes.   Because you hear the top 40 stuff - everyone's just belting and singing at you for three and a half minutes. And you are like - even if they are good you are like OK I get it.  Look. If I could belt I would OK. I would be on that radio doing that.   You probably could.  But I am just like let me just play to my strengths. And I know what my weaknesses are.    Do I have to explain how to care for somebody you love? Call them up on the phone when they are feeling blue.  What are your weaknesses?  Yeah. I cannot like belt like Whitney Houston. I am more of a softer singer. I think the best place for me is to kind of be - have power but to be controlled and rhythmic.    Do I have to teach you how to show me when times are bad how to ask about the day I had and make it alright? And Jeremy too I mean he - J. Most - he told me that he started singing softly because in his apartment the neighbors would complain...  Stop it.  ...About like any type of noise at all.  Really?  And so when I met him he had this music out. And I am like you sing like I do.  Whispersing .  This is so crazy.  .  Awesome yeah.  Match made in heaven.  There it is.    Do I have to explain how to care for somebody you love?  All right time for a break. When we come back I ask Emily about the special working relationship she has with her longtime producer Jeremy Most. BRB.   As someone who works closely with a producer it is a certain - there is a certain parenting of the thing that you are making.  Yeah.  And you are both these parents...  Yes absolutely.  ...Making a song or a podcast or a show or whatever. And like if one over-parents the other cannot parent.   Yeah.  And you have to make sure that like...  Oh that is a good point.  You know like how do you navigate that - what seems like - what can be a parental relationship I think?  I think it is challenging at times. And we both have very strong ideas about what we think is good. And so there are moments where he puts his foot down and then I am like yeah you were right.  What do those - like what do those fights look like and sound like? Are they fights?  Yes.   Yeah. It is really - it hurts. It is like - not physically obviously.  Yeah yeah.  But it is just like - it is frustrating because you think you have hit a wall. And your fear is that you are not gonna overcome this wall to get your ideas out which is all we ever want to do.  That is all we want to do yeah.  And so you know there is been moments where like - I am not gonna put this out unless this is this you know.  Oh damn.  But the general consensus is we both want this to be good.  Which song on this album had the biggest wall to climb over as far as like the production battle with you and J. Most?  Look At Me Now was challenging in a different way.  OK.  That song was really a collaboration.    Are you hearing about me? How you dealing without me? Hello. Did you keep all the records? Do they sound good without me? Mellow. Heard you got a new lady.  This is such a specific breakup song .  Yes.  'ecause I am like you were talking to somebody.  Right? Totally.    Did you keep the apartment? Does she like where we started? So I had that intro for a couple of years and I did not know what to put on the back end of it. And then I remember I woke up at the house and I had a dream. And the dream was the rest of the song.    Did you hear about me? I got off the ground. I stood up when you left me baby. Look at me now. It was this chanting melody.    Look at me now. And then that night I believe I played it for Jeremy and he was just like  look at me now.  Yeah.  .    Look at me now. Oh look at me. And I was like OK let me find out. Like that is perfect.  Yes yes.  How fun. And so we got that part together. Then there was an instrumental part. And then after the instrumental the original track modulated which was awesome except I could not sing it.  Really? Well how big was the modulation?  It was only like one step up.   That is all right. That is all right.  And I was like so challenged by this and I - you know he was confused. I said look this is what I have to work with.  Yeah.  Like you need to just trust me that I - this is really hard for me to sing this. And we had a meeting with a label shortly after that. We had to play them our new songs. And of course we did not have anything.  .  And so just the night before we had finally figured out maybe we do not modulate.  Just stay in there.  Just stay there. It is - it felt like it is OK you know?  Yeah.  It all just came together in the nick of time.    Did you hear about me? You pushed me around. But now I am pushing paper baby. Look at me now. Look at me now.  And I love how you know all the things that I mentioned before like feeling you guys totally be in a groove but at the same time over the last - what? - this is you all's third record together.  Yeah.  Yeah. Over those I have seen you all move into different spaces. And I like that like I am still getting the core of who you all are but it is a little different. Like with this album and what I want to ask you about specifically is there is more synths on this one than I felt like in the last one or two which is interesting because you are in the woods. And when you think of the woods and nature...  Oh wow how cool.  ...You do not think as much like synthesizer but like there is synths in here and I love it. Like there is one - the last portion of Marigold.  Yeah. Oh that is my favorite.  The synths are driving.   That is nice.  I like it . Thank you.  Was there a - I guess an intention of having more synthesizer sounds on this one?  I think I really got heavy into Tina Turner like Simply The Best...  Oh my goodness.  That era.  Yeah yeah yeah.  And I just thought she managed to make these pop records but they are RB records too. And they are timeless. So I wanted to emulate that and I also wanted to sound more electronic.  Really?  Yeah - and just have more kind of instruments that I think are cool.  Yeah.    Memories I will always hold like a dream marigolds.  And like I hate to put music into a decade because there is always all music all the time. But like I felt a wonderful penumbra of '80s in there.  Oh yeah.  You know what I am saying?  Yeah.  And I was into it.  Thank you.  Yeah.  I think it just came out that way. And I do not know - maybe - you know I am born in 1985 but I always considered myself a '90s music person because that is - that was really when I started soaking in music. But now as an adult I appreciate the '80s more.  Yeah.   All right one more break here. When we come back - how Emily's jazz musician parents influenced her when she was growing up in New York City.   I want to ask a little bit about growing up as the child of two musicians. That sounds just like a dream.   It does.  It sounds like a dream. So both of your parents tell us who they are. They both were making jazz.  Yeah. Yes they were a duo at the time called Kim and Marion.  Love it.  And my dad is from the Bronx and he grew up you know with bebop and he became a fan of Lambert Hendricks  Ross when he was like 12 years old.  OK.  And he started following them around.  Oh my goodness.  And he actually replaced Dave Lambert on some gigs when he was a teenager.  Yeah yeah yeah.  So when he met my mom who was like a singer doing her own thing. They decided to kind of take on that style of Lambert Hendricks  Ross.  OK.  And their voices were incredible together.   .  But then of course they broke up.  OK.  And they stopped singing together which was like can you all at least still do gigs?   Something yeah.  OK? I am trying to get a free cheeseburger.  .  Like let us go.   .  But they stopped singing together. It was really hard for my brother and I.  How old were you all when that happened?  Like 10 and 11.  OK.  And so - but then my mom like completely discovered herself as a songwriter and now makes like the most beautiful choral music.  Yeah.  And she is just writing strings - string arrangements now. And my dad is like straight ahead jazz. And he teaches at Smalls every Sunday.  Yeah. Oh nice.  He teaches - he calls it the saloon - what does he call it? It is for saloon singers he says.  .  Like he teaches how to conduct a band on a gig...  Oh I love that.  ...And you know get over your stage fright stuff. So they are strong on their own and I cannot imagine them together of course at this point.  Yeah. Yeah.  When you - growing up in that were you just around music and musicians and the art like all the time?  Yeah. We were around - they had some heavy hitters with them like you know some really great musicians Kenny Barron and Al Foster and - so I did not know the caliber of musicianship that I was being exposed to...  Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah.  ...Just by default. So I definitely had a lucky childhood in that sense to just be around that and emulate their tone and hold out these long notes and hear the great songwriting of the American Songbook and all of this stuff.  Yeah yeah yeah. Were they taking you all to gigs and stuff as kids?  Yes we...  Oh my God. I love that.   Yeah we would go to their gigs. And you know I was always like when is this over? This is boring.   I could easily imagine someone growing up like that saying I want a career that is not at all music because I have had enough of it.  Yeah. Yeah. For sure.  Did you ever say I am going somewhere totally different than this?  There were times...  Or were you always - yeah?  ...As a young child I just fantasized about being a veterinarian.  Oh .  Or you know - or I wanted to be a basketball player.  OK.  But I think my - instinctually I knew I did not have those skills. And I just always felt like yeah I can do music.  Yeah .  You know just having - just being around Mom and Dad and my brother.  Yeah.  But I do not think I was a very good child singer.  It is - really?  I - no I feel like I forced it.  .   I was like I am going to do this. Like...  It is happening.  This is happening.  Yeah. When did you feel like you got it?  Tomorrow.  .   Ask me next year.  Yeah yeah.    Maybe I will win. Maybe I will never play. Maybe I will lose. Maybe I will leave the game.  What song do you think from the new album will most affect your listeners?  Oh. I really hope they like Go Back this song. It is the last song on the record.  Yeah.    Had some tough breaks in this town heaven knows.  Jesse Singer and I were in the studio one day.    Seen some heartaches weighed me down like a stone.  He was playing those chords and then I came up with the lyric.    Well I licked my wounds. I got nothing to lose. I am headed out on my own. I will never go back. I will never go back.  Why do you think this one's going to hit the listeners?  I would hope that people would relate to that sentiment of it can be triumphant where you are saying I am never going to go back to that.    Will I make it? Will I taste victory?  It could be a place or a person or like an insecurity that you had. For me it is like I am never going to go back to feeling less than you know? But also at the same time it is kind of about moving away from home. And you are kind of lamenting on damn I cannot really ever go back.  Yeah.  I - or I cannot go back to being a child...  Yeah.  ...Or I cannot go back to the innocence or the not knowing or - so I guess there is different ways to take that song. But it just feels - it feels like it could be an emotional song.  Yeah.  It is for me.    Oh I cannot expect to find a feeling like that again. No I will not pretend.  I could see Tina singing this song.   Thank you.    Oh I know there is something waiting down this road ahead. I will find it in the end - find it in the end.  I am calling it now.  Yes.  Coachella here I come.  Let us go baby.  I am going to have a big Emily King poster out there.  Thank you Sam.  Thank you.  Mwah .  Mwah.    Go back...  All right. Many thanks to Emily King. Catch her on tour throughout the spring. Her new album is out now. It is called Scenery. And this track that we are playing right now is called Go Back. All right listeners. As always this week and every week do not forget to share with me the best thing that is happened to you all week. Just record yourself and send that file to me at samsandersnpr.org. You might hear the best part of your week in our weekly wrap. That is on Friday. All right. Till then thanks for listening. Talk soon.    Go back. 