 British singersongwriter Richard Thompson has a new album called Electric. Thompson is as well known for his acoustic folk music as for his electric rock. Music critic Ken Tucker says the new album is a strong collection of songs that shows off Thompson's many moods.    Salford Sunday skies are weeping. Dawn is creeping through the blind. Salford Sunday and I am aching for the night I left behind. Salford Sunday...  Delicate phrasing with both voice and guitar have always made Richard Thompson a musician well worth listening to and sometimes even liking him. For a man who can make such pretty music it is to his credit that he prefers to show his thorny stubborn cranky even mean side in many of the songs in his solo career. Indeed ever since going through a divorce now three decades old from Linda Thompson  after they made their masterpiece of their career 1982's Shoot Out the Lights  Thompson's songwriting has returned again and again to his shall we say complex relationships with women.    Got her ducks all in a row. Got her bags all packed to go. She will find some other poor pilgrim who is braver. At least she looked me in the eye with her less than fond goodbye. Well that is one small thing in her favor.  That is Another Small Thing in Her Favour a lovely song about breaking up with not a little rancor. As the title makes clear the narrator will give the woman some credit but only grudgingly. When Thompson is not working in peak form this recurring theme can become tiresome. But this time around working with producer Buddy Miller who mostly favors spare settings for Thompson's guitar and voice the new songs have a crisp clarity that wrings out most of the selfrighteousness. Two songs stand out in particular. The first is Stony Ground in which the 63yearold Thompson imagines a codger older than himself still feeling goatish and erotically greedy and still getting poked in the nose for his urges. The result is what might happen if Philip Roth wrote the lyrics for a song with roots in British folk music.    He lost his heart to buxom Betty throwing out the compliments like confetti. Left and right he threw them all around but everything was landing on stony ground. Oh silly old man with his teeth all gone. Poking his nose where it do not belong. She is a rose all right but she is got thorns. You are walking on stony stony ground.  The other immediately striking song on this album Electric is one of its few flatout rock songs one that puts the electricity in the album's title. Good Things Happen to Bad People is another shedonehimwrong song but it courses with the energy of the enraged; the revulsion of a realist. Listen to the way Thompson belts out the chorus that good things happen to bad people even as he prays just as fervently that karma exists for revenge. Then he lets his guitar do the rest of the loud dirty catchy work.    Sweet thing believe me you will never deceive me. You stared me down without blinking. That is when I really started thinking. You must have been running around. You must have been running around because you were smiling. Your friends say you are antsy for something fancy. Like a caged bird that is broken free you want to fly high and miss out on me.  Well I know you have got a secret or two. Your hair's in a brandnew 'do and you are so happy. Good things happen to bad people. Good things happen to bad people but only  but only  but only  but only for a while.  Good Things Happen to Bad People is a good song happening to a singersongwriter who is perpetually circling great work. And this album Electric is in general the testament of a frequently angry coot still coming to terms with the sources of his frustrations. Which I hope ought to give him material for many more years to come.  Ken Tucker is FRESH AIR's rock critic. He reviewed Richard Thompson's new album Electric.  