HeyI want to let you know that in this episode with comedian Maria Bamford we talk about when shes contemplated suicide and how she got help when she needed it. If you or someone you love is at risk of suicide please go to suicidepreventionlifeline.org to find resources and someone to talk to. Theres a link in our show notes too.  My mom said when II I played the violin starting when I was three years oldand she said as soon as I got up on stage I lit up. And um and I think that is always been the case for me that I feel good um in front of people. Uh and I think it is the perceived sense of control. Of course there is no control at all. Uh but the idea that I might with a microphone and a and a light bulb on - in my face um seemed very attractive to me. And still does. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Maria Bamford is turning 50 this year. She started doing standup back in her early 20sin public. But she was working on bits much earlier when she was growing up in Minnesota.  I was a shy kid. Um my mom and my sister are kind of the bigger personalities in our family. My dad would give me a a timed set at dinner time to talk. He would set a timer and I would get three minutes.   Oh that starting like when how how old were you?   I do not - I think maybe 7 or 8. I remember the feeling of like you got you gotta say something really good right now. Like you got to say something like killer like Okay um there are these... Okay Ms. Labadee fifth grade she told me about these bodies in Amsterdam that were found beneath the bogs fully formed human beings with skin on and they are still there but they are from the 1400s. That is my time. Thank you very much. Like it had to be good. Okay. A volcano um covered an entire village full of people and theyre you can see them running in the ash. Anyways okay. That is my time. Good night everybody. It was also like yeah a lot of death. I think I was always sharing some horrible story. Maria has since made a career out of excavating dark material a lot of it from her own history with mental illness Shes dealt with intrusive thoughts mania depression and suicidal ideation  I have done very well with mental health shtick and I was uh . But I have been feeling so good the past several years I dont have any new material about it. And I thought 'Uh oh maybe I should worry about that.' But then I remembered that Im on anti-psychotics and its no longer possible for me to worry. This is from her new special called Weakness is the Brand. And it turns out there is a bit of mental health schtick. And a lot about money.  I may be mental but Im also a millionaire.  You have a line in your new special where you say I may be mental but I am a millionaire.  A million yeah a millionaire. Yeah uh -  Uh and and what have you found that are your priorities when it comes to how you give your money and how you spend it?  Um well boy uh yeah I am - I am not I am not the greatest person. Like um I spend a lot on clothes and food. Yeah I definitely I think we spend around 1500 to 2000 a month on on food and dining dining out which I think is uh above av average.  Are you a person who like spreadsheets month to month what is happening with your money?  Yeah well here's the deal. I I you cannot say that you are in 12 step programs publicly because um apparently there is it is a cult . But I have been in those groups for about 30 years and then one of them I have been in is money-oriented. Um there are two that are called um there is one called Underearners Anonymous and one called Debtors Anonymous. And that it part of the sobriety in those programs are to yeah just be conscious of what uh you are spending not not in a judgmental way. It is sort of like either you know just so that you have uh some choices.  At what point in your life did you realize that that going to a group a support group around money management was something you needed to do?  Uh well it was part when I did not have a place to live. I could not afford the rent I was in and I had hocked everything that I had at the time. So yeah. I did not want to ask anybody for money anymore. And I did not have an answer. And I was in another 12 step program and uh they said 'Hey there is this other thing uh that you can get help emotionally about how to how to figure out how to live.' Maria was 24 at the time living in LA and trying to make it as a comedian. But she struggled to cover rent and food.  Although I had a college degree I just did not know how to um get and keep a full time job much less a part time job. I worked mostly in restaurants. Which when I moved to Los Angeles became problematic because people are restaurant professionals there. You cannot be bad at it and uh keep the job. And the great thing about 12 step groups that I love so much they cannot kick anybody out 12 step groups. Um that is one of their rules. Uh so you can go sit there with a bottle of Jack Daniels and a Big Mac and uh yell out expletives. Um they will probably tell you to go to the back of the room. But uh yeah I did you do not have to believe in any of the stuff. And the one thing I do believe in is though is that groups cognitively - with science you know scientifically - help each other. Um when we get together and there and there is a lack of shame you know uh peop I got support of how to have keep a job what I might be good at. I ended up getting a temping and then be getting a full time secretarial job. Um and then yeah how to show up and um pay bills and the one thingwhich is so totally common sense but it is the kind of thing that you need somebody to tell you when you are in  a crisisthey said call everybody you know to try to find uh a couch to sleep on. And I just I mean just did not even come to mind. And so I did that and I found a place uh temporarily and she um she said I could pay her uh rent in payments over cause I just had no money. And um yeah. And obviously I just want to say I acknowledge that I am uh uh was raised a upper middle class white lady uh with yeah every single benefit. Uh yeah. So silver spoon in my mouth and somehow still had difficulties figuring it out.  It is interesting to me that part of what you learned in group was just guidance on how to ask for help. Um -  Yeah no that was the main thing. 'ecause  I didnt even with secretarial jobs I would go So if I do not know how to do it you just ask? And they are like Yeah. Like I just I thought you should intuitively if you are smart you should intuitively know how to answer all the calls on a switchboard. Yeah it - bizarre. But that is it that is what I thought. That is what I thought. Having unsteady work meant Maria was uninsured which led to about 6000 in medical debt after an allergic reaction to antibiotics sent her to the hospital. She said that took her about ten years to pay off. She finally got health insurance through the Screen Actors Guild when she started picking up voiceover work.  I began getting voiceover work because I was working as a secretary at an animation studio. I had got my first voiceover job and um that -  Thats how it happened?  Yes yes.  It was not through like your agent lining you up?  No. No. I - I think it is most things mostly happen through proximity of like Oh this person's over here. Why dont we why dont we give them a shot? Like I that is what I always tell people. Just get near it get near whatever you want to be.  What has that meant in terms of your mental health care to just to have reliable health insurance? What is changed in terms of like the kinds of care that you get and what it is like?  It is unbelievable. I mean it is the only reason I think I would be alive today is that I had no qualms about uh you know going to the hospital when I was felt uh at danger of hurting myself uh right away. You know like I knew that there was I had mental health coverage. Which through my union you have to earn to get which is so  that is so bizarre. You have got to earn over a certain amount to deserve the mental health coverage. What? Um so but yeah I am extremely grateful. Yeah the whole thing. I believe I was hospitalized twice under my insurance and that was um around 30 to 30 30-grand uh a pop. Um and uh Glendale Venice medical center. Shout out to the Adventists.  Uh huh.  And then once I went to the wrong hospital uh went to Las Encinas hospital and they did not take my insurance. Which is was so funny because I I was kinda I was desperate so I just said Okay well I guess I will just stay. And they said Well in order to stay you have to write us a check for three grand to cover your 72 hours here. Which is so funny just because a sign of mania is spending an enormous amount of money -  Huh.  For impractical reasons. And uh it just seemed uh very much on point for the whole situation.  Did you do that? Did you write the check?  Uh yes. I certainly did. Oh my God. Yeah. Just cause I was scared and I thought I do not I do not want to chance um me not being willing to go someplace else. Um so yeah it is kind of amazing to get there to the hospital and then yeah. So it just felt like uh yeah it was kinda - also I was a bit out of it you know? Uh not in my best mental health. So uh perhaps I would have made a better decision had I felt felt better. Um but in retrospect I do have some good some great memories of of um people who came to visit. And my parents came to visit me when I was uh in the hospital or my mom did. My dad did not. My dad uh I think I have I have never talked to him about it but I have a feeling it was uh too upsetting. I am not sure what was going on. My mom has uh has been hospitalized as well for uh mania. So she was she was a great visitor. She was very mellow. She is like Well let us just go sit by the cigarette bucket and page through this Oprah. Is the food any good? Oh God.  That must have been so comforting to have somebody with you who understood.  Yeah it was it was comfort. I mean I was super mental not I was feeling terrible so nothing uh nothing was good uh anything good is only in retrospect. If you have ever had a - a breakdown or a psychosis or mental - it is uh it is not good. It is not good uh the whole time. And that is why you want to kill yourself is cause uh it is unbearable. Um but I am so grateful that people came to visit me 'ecause uh you remember that for the rest of your life. I mean I re I remember those friends who were able to do that.  How old were you when your mother was hospitalized?  Um it was around the same time. My mom had a hospitalization probably a year before I did.  Do did you visit her?  Uh well that is the sad thing. I did not. Um yeah I did not uh there is nothing more to be said than that except that I did not. And that is I feel uh ashamed for that now. Um I hope I hope that I have changed as a person 'ecause and at at the time I you know I - I was not totally doing that great either but yeah. Uh yeah I guess I try to have compassion to people who who cannot make it to the hospital either. That it is it can be not only inconvenient but also super uh uncomfortable. And I think I was afraid. My mom in her mania was pretty uh angry and uh it was frightening. So uh uh as as it can be uh sometimes. I am sure I was frightening too. So I am grateful that people came to visit me when I was frightening. Marias hospitalizations were back in 2011. Coming up Maria talks about ways she takes care of herself these days...including being disciplined about taking two days off a week.  It is funny how hard it you know even as the head of one's own business to say Oh I yeah I am going to take the day uh days off. And it is especially ridiculous when it is show business and there are somehow show business emergencies. Like... that is so... .  Last week we told you about a new money-related project were working on. And we asked you to help us out with it by sharing the big financial uncertainties youre dealing with right now. One listener named Maya sent in a voice memo from the UK about how her budget feels tight even though shes in a high paying industry.  It is a lot of pressure because everyone thinks I have a law degree and that means I am earning a lot of money. But at the moment I am drained financially. I am drained of energy and I just have to keep going. Between paying her bills finishing up her legal training and sending money to family members back home Maya said the stress is getting unbearable.  I am in two mindsets. The first being there is nothing you can do. You are working two jobs you are studying you are doing everything you can. But the other part I just cannot sleep because this lack of control. There is constant pressure phone calls from the bank. It is just getting overwhelming so I do not know what to do. We want to hear from you too. Maybe youre a young adult struggling with financial independence or youre going through a big transition like a job loss a medical diagnosis or starting a family. Or maybe you and your partner just cant figure out how to make money work together. Keep sending us your questions about feeling financially stuck. Record a voice memo or send an email to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode I talk with a listener whos getting divorced now about all the ways he rationalized cheating on his wife with sex workers he hired on the internet.  It was a transaction to a certain extent. You know one of my justifications was you know I had I had a therapist you know that I went and talked to I had a massage therapist you know and I and I paid these people you know to interact with me in a certain way. Um. The fact that it was transactional made it easier to compartmentalize and say like This is this is cheating but in a different kind of way.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale.  You have a joke in your in your latest special about online therapy.  Oh yeah.  Um -  Are you an advertiser for betterhelp.com? Oh no I am so sorry.  Ive been paying this one woman online therapy 200 bucks a month. She just texted me Christine of course youre stressed. You just had a baby.  AND IT WAS HELPFUL!  Well I signed up for it 'ecause I thought I am on the road so much and it is I - I have to drive to go see my therapist in LA who I love but she is also uh 175 bucks a pop which is well deserved. Everyone deserves to get paid get that money. Um and I thought but I thought oh I will do a cost savings. So I signed up and then she texted me Christine of course you are stressed you just had a baby. And -  So that really happened.  Of course. Of course it really happened.  I think when you shout on stage And it was helpful! I just because that is so it is so true. Like it would have been help like like therapy we think is so much about getting in our own heads and have somebody like alongside our own heads. But having somebody say Christine is also stressed out 'ecause shes having a baby.  Yeah Guess what? Guess what? Guess what? You selfish hobo. Um You know what about Christine and her baby? Um you know that is totally totally true. I mean and I do believe that that going for help even if you get super shitty help can be buoying. I - you just got to keep asking for for help though that that that um finding help is like uh is not unlike dating where you just yeah just gotta wait for the good match um or find somebody whos just sort of good. Sort of who is geographically close to you. Uh and takes insurance.  Speaking of dating I want to ask you about marriage. Um and I am curious you you have noted that that before you married your husband Scott both of you had had a lot of relationships none of which had lasted tremendously long.  Oh yeah.  Um when you first met him did he seem like somebody that was - that you might spend a long time with?  Well I met so many people. Um I think the thing that was different was me uh you know that um I had met lots of uh people. But I definitely had not had that willingness of like If somebody is willing to work it out let us do this. Like that um I that was the thing that really cemented us together was both saying Come on well you can we can succeed at this.  Keep trying.  Yeah yeah! 'ecause I really connected with him on on that experience. I mean of course he is a hot handsome hunk of uh wonderful love. And -  Hes right there in the control room. You can you can see him.  And he is right there in the control room. I can see him. So sweet. And he had experiences where he was okay with not only me being a comedian which sometimes people  have a hard time with uh for whatever reason. He did not have any problem with me having any mental health issues. And alsothis was after having a breakdownI felt like oh I need to be perfect in some way or be at my best to be in a relationship. And then seeing people who were in the psych ward with me who were married and had loving spouses and I was like Oh yeah no I do not have to do not wait for it. Do not wait for it to be perfect.  So seeing fellow patients helped you shift about what you could what you could expect and deserve  Yeah. I think also I do not know if that is a thing in New York or in the rest of the country but LA definitely has like When you really when you really get yourself I mean you get to your core and you get your core issues done and then you go to a remote uh camping yurt in Big Sur. That is kind of when you are gonna be ready. I mean it is all these added things that you have to have in place before you are going to be loved to be lovable. Um and to find out um that is not true. Maria met her husband Scott through online dating in 2013. They married in 2015 when they were both over 40. And Marias open in her act about how learning how to be in a relationship and dealing with conflict takes some adjusting when youre both bringing a lot of history into it.  So uh my husband wont speak to his experience just that he grew up in a big family in Philadelphia. There is no food because someone was drinking it all. And though he had a place to live he would oftentimes for safety sleep in the woods. Forty years later were trying to decide where to put the new TV... Maria says theyve learned the importance of taking a break when a fight really gets really going.  There is a point where youve got to you have got to stop. Take 20 minutes distract yourself in any way you can because otherwise  you will say or do something that you regret. That it is kind of like an animal instinct once you get flooded with too much uh whatever it is anger fear uh stuff. And that was really helpful to be compassionate to each other to say Okay let us let us stop uh right now. And you know uh I will go in this room. I mean not it did not happen cleanly at all. Im not sayingit was um very messy. But I am proud you know we have done a lot of uh uh work to and to to become better at at having conflict that it is okay to have conflict.  What was messy about like calling the timeout?  Um because there is so many feelings involved with it. Like my go-to in how I grew up uh or my way of managing emotions would be to I get overwhelmed and I would go and contemplate my own death. Uh I have done that since I was eight eight years old. So that is my go to. I like to isolate myself and then go weep uncontrollably into a cracked mirror and think about how uh I uh I am a terrible person and nobody loves me and um I want to die. So uh that could be disturbing for someone to watch who is in a fight with you. Uh Scott has his own way of uh dealing with things. Um he likes he goes on a long walk uh sometimes. And uh which at first he would not tell me where he was going. Which of course that is the purpose of the walk. Is to get away from get away from the person. Um so -  But then you are worrying or feeling abandoned or something?  Then youre worrying I mean yeah.  Yeah.  It is just an and also it is the same thing. What am I doing? I am like Maria you cannot go contemplating your own suicide like what are you doing? These are not ways to handle conflict. So um but uh I think we have we have both uh learned to uh try things a little differently. Like having that heartbeat of a second to go Okay this is the thought that I am having do I really need to go into this uh weeping uncontrollably? Like uh could I do something slightly different than what I usually do? Um yeah that has given uh I think us both some space to do things uh differently. But yeah not it is I think that is the thing or I found really shameful that it was harder for me to talk about was like that we were not having um attractive fights. You know like or -  Yeah.  Something where it is like you could see that on a sitcom. Well you do this well you do that? Boo. You know and that is like that was part of the reason I think I probably did not have uh uh any long-term intimate relationships because once feelings get out of control I did not know how to manage them. So and I think my my husband had a a very different but similar experience of like not knowing what to do once things get to a certain point. Um the both of us our main solution was Oh you just leave you just leave.  Yeah. That is interesting to me because in my arguments in my marriage it is the like stopping the arguing because we are both like trying to convince the other one...  Oh.  ...That would be really hard with the timeout.  Yeah.  But it sounds like for you all the like coming back together after you take a break was -  Yeah and some things are not ever going to be solved. Like uh at least that is I know that is true in friendships. I know thats true in my family relationships. Also the the the romance of like if if it is meant to be if it is meant to be you should never you know like or it is always supposed to feel good. And I have never had that not only in any romantic relationship but definitely with friendships and family. Like I have never felt like you know me and my sister were meant to be. My sister drives me bananas. Um though I love her dearly. Like you know like like that is that is always happened. It is going to keep happening. There are issues that will never be solved. Thats comedian Maria Bamford. Her new special is called Weakness Is the Brand. Its streaming a lot places including Amazon iTunes and Google Play. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Ayo Osobamiro. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. And thanks to Will Quintal in Alaska who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Will and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Maria told me one of her favorite go-to marriage advice sources are the Gottmans two husband and wife psychologists. Weve linked to a classic This American Life episode about them in our show notes. Part of what the Gottmans warn about as Maria knows are the four horsemen of relationship communication  It is uh criticism 'You that is a stupid sailboat.' Contempt 'You and your fucking sailboats.' Defensiveness 'What what sailboat?' And uh stonewalling 'Im never gonna talk about sailboats with you again.' Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.