 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. Earlier this month a train carrying crude oil derailed in West Virginia sending 27 cars off the track spilling oil across the landscape and into a nearby creek and causing explosions and fires that burned for days. And it is not the only such accident in recent years.   Nineoneone what is your emergency?  Oh it just blew up. A train blew up. You need fire and ambulance  everything  right away.  That is a 911 call from a derailment and explosion near Casselton N.D. in December of 2013. Five months before that a tank car derailment in Canada sparked fires that killed 47 people. Our guest investigative reporter Marcus Stern has spent the past year looking into the risks of transporting oil on rail tanker cars a practice which has expanded dramatically in the past eight years. His stories focus in particular on how regulators have responded or failed to following the tragedy in Canada. Marcus Stern won the 2006 Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting for his investigation of San Diego Congressman Randy Duke Cunningham. His reporting on the risks of rail transportation of crude oil was a joint effort of the environmental website InsideClimate News and The Weather Channel. Well Marcus Stern welcome to FRESH AIR. Let us begin with this horrific accident that happened in the Canadian town of LacMegantic  or at least that is how it is pronounced in this country. I am sure the French pronunciation's different. This was July of 2013. Tell us what happened.  There was a train that was hauling crude oil  about 2.6 million gallons  and it had a little bit of a mechanical problem. And so the railroad instructed the lone conductor  the lone crewmember to leave it overnight with the engines running unattended. And he called a cab and went into town into LacMegantic to get sleep and spend the night at a hotel. And in the middle of the night the brakes failed on the locomotives. And there were several locomotives. And it started down a long incline. And by the time it reached LacMegantic seven miles down the hill it was doing 60 miles an hour. It hit a curve there. It derailed and several of the railcars exploded. Fireballs went shooting severalhundred feet into the air. And a tide of flaming oil flowed in every direction including the direction of a nearby bar/restaurant that was full of patrons. It was one of the clock in the morning on a Saturday night  a beautiful July night. And it immediately engulfed the bar/restaurant in flames. And 47 people were killed. The remains of five people  no remains were found of five of the people.  Because the heat was so intense?  Yes it just vaporized these people.  Now this accident was in Canada. But we are seeing a lot more rail traffic of tanker cars in the United States. And I guess this oil actually had come from the United States. Why are we seeing so much more tanker traffic and crude oil being carried on railroads?  What happened is in 2005 roughly there were advance  new developments in fracking technology that allowed the producers to pull light crude oil from about two miles beneath the ground in North Dakota. And suddenly that was available to them. And they could start pulling it out. They were pulling out hundreds of thousands of gallons of barrels a day. The problem is that you know while they suddenly became  you know had this huge resource and they now were Texas. They were Texas without pipelines. They had all the oil production of Texas  not quite as much but they are now number two to Texas  but they did not have any of the infrastructure in place. And so the  very cleverly they turned to the rails because the rails were sitting sort of idle and not used very much except for by grain farmers. And also you had refineries on the East Coast that were actually getting ready to shut down because they could not compete with the Gulf Coast refineries that were using domestic crude oil because the East Coast refineries were using oil purchased on the world market at a higher price. So by pulling it out of the ground putting it on the rails and sending it to the East Coast refineries it created a renaissance  an industrial renaissance if you will  worth tens of billions of dollars perhaps hundreds of billions of dollars. So it was a huge big good business story until the trains started to blow up.  So the fast solution to a lack of pipelines to get the crude to refineries was to put it on tanker cars. Give us a sense of how dramatically the rise is in you know crude oil being shipped by tanker car.  Yeah the ramp up on crude by rail was just incredible. It is why it caught so many people by surprise. In 2008 there were 9500 rail cars that moved carrying crude oil. Last year there were well over 400000. So a lot of people mistakingly say that is a 400 percent increase. It is actually a 4000 percent increase. They are pulling more than a million barrels of oil out of the ground every day. And much of that is going  in North Dakota. And much of that is going onto the rails.  OK. Now we will talk about some of the issues in rail transport. But I gather there is also issues about the kind of oil that is coming from these shale deposits in North Dakota that could make them more dangerous right?  The oils from North Dakota come out of the ground. They come out  it is called light oil. It is not the viscous black gooey oil that we all think of from The Beverly Hillbillies. It is more like gasoline. When it comes out of the ground it is a mixture of oil and also what are called natural gas liquids. These are methane butane propane. They are gases that we all know but they are actually suspended in the oil. They are suspended in the liquid when they come out of the ground. And if they are not processed properly  and they are not being processed properly  than a lot of those natural gas liquids go into the railcars. And during the journey to the refinery which can be thousands of miles the gases begin to separate from the liquid and you have a blanket of propane essentially sitting on top of the oil.  Which is more explosive?  Yes and what happens when you end up with this gaseous blanket sitting on top of the liquid oil if there is a breach of the railcar and any of the gas  the propane or butane gases inside  come in contact with the outside air and there is a spark then you have one of those huge explosions or you see the fireballs going into the air hundreds of feet and a flaming oil going in all directions. And the emergency responders have to just cordon off the area to wait for them to burn out. And they will  one will blow and it will act like a blow torch on another railcar that did not rupture and then it will blow. And so you have a series of explosions that can go over two or three days.  And the LacMegantic tragedy in Canada was of course widely reported. Are we seeing more accidents in the United States as well?  Yeah and I think what we saw is it was a big wakeup call for the regulators in Canada. But I think for the regulators down here in the U.S. there was a sort of sense that that was a perfect storm of calamities; that was a fluke; that there was just so many things that happened that would never happen down here. And one of the things they would site in private conversations was leaving trains on the tracks unattended. Actually it turns out we do that down here. And it was not very long before there was an explosion in Aliceville Ala. a few months later and was not as widely reported by any means because there was nobody killed. But there were  but nine acres of wetland and timberland burned for three days. And everything was destroyed. The wildlife the fish the habitat was destroyed. And they were still cleaning that area  that wetland  up almost a year later.  And there was an accident in December 2013 in  what?  Casselton N.D. evacuated a town of 2300. And there have been several others right?  There was a very dramatic explosion in Casselton N.D. where the images were captured and they were pretty impressive although they  you know it was a oneday story. And then more recently on April 30 there was an explosion. A train exploded in Lynchburg Va. and set the James River on fire. And of course we have the very recent one with West Virginia.  Let us talk a bit about the transport of crude oil in railcars. How long are the trains that haul this stuff  how many cars?  Well they are running about 100 cars now. They can extend for more than a mile. They are carrying 3 million gallons of this crude oil that is very volatile. And it is a new  it is a very new phenomenon. It used to be if they had  hauling crude oil by rail they would have a couple of crude oil rails and  railcars or tankers. Then they would have some other things. And they would split them up so there was only a few railcars in any one stretch of a train. Now they are just setting up these trains where there  got more than a hundred tankers being hauled by two three or four locomotives. And they stretch for more than a mile.  And do they go through population centers?  They go through population centers because many of the refineries are in population centers  Philadelphia Mobile you know. But they also go down rivers  the Hudson River. They go down the Mississippi. They go through very environmentally sensitive areas like the George Washington National Forest. And through the  through the Columbia River Gorge in the Pacific Northwest.  Our guest is investigative journalist Marcus Stern. We will continue our conversation in a moment. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us our guest is investigative journalist Marcus Stern. He is written recently about the risks of hauling crude oil in railroad tanker cars for Inside Climate News and The Weather Channel. There is been an issue of the particular model of railcar that is used to carry the crude oil. This is the DOT111. What  how old are they? What were they designed for?  The DOT111  and that is its designation and that is what it is known by  simply it is  some people call them the dot 111. But the DOT111 was designed in the '60s and it was really designed for something not flammable. It was designed for corn syrup for instance and far less flammable products. And since 1991  so for 23 or 24 years now  the National Transportation Safety Board has been saying that this is a very dangerous railcar to put anything volatile into because it has a tendency to rupture whenever there is a derailment. So but in  around 2005 we started producing a great deal of ethanol and we put that onto the rails and then beginning in 2008 we have started rampingup with crude oil. And we  the producers and the refiners used the DOT111 because it was really the only car that was available to them in the numbers they needed. They are using about 100000  almost 100000 DOT111s right now. And it was the only  they were only really the carriage that was available even though it was flawed. But they did that knowing the flaws with the DOT111 and they are still using the DOT111.  And what are the flaws? Why is it problematic?  Well it is got a number of problems. One of the reasons it tends to rupture is that the shell is not thick enough. The opening of the top that they put the oil into breaks off in derailments. The valves do not shut properly. At the bottom there is a fitting where they remove the oil. That too tends to break. And also they need to be reinforced at both ends of the car. Now over the years there have been a number of petitions to the regulatory agency that oversees the movement of hazardous materials and that is called the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration otherwise known as PHMSA  or pronounced phimsa . And it never took up any of these petitions until after LacMegantic  In the recent accident in West Virginia I read in one account that the cars that derailed and exploded there actually had some of the more advanced features. Is that true? Do you know?  That is true and several of the incidents that have happened in the last year have involved these  the new car that was mandated beginning in October 2011. And again let me be clear this was mandated by the railroad industry not by the government. The government had not acted at all  still has not acted on this question of what kind of cars would be good enough but  so they began in October 2011 building tougher cars. They need to have thicker shells. They need to have halfinch shells and other improvements that go beyond what the railroad industry itself had laid down as the marker in 2011.  And just to clarify you said that in 2011 the railroad industry mandated tougher cars. But a lot of the old ones  the old DOT111s  are still on the rails are not they?  Yes.  Is it really a requirement?  Well the new cars have to be built to this higher standard but there are still hundreds of thousands of the old cars. They are called the legacy vehicles and they are still out there on the rail. And a lot of the discussion is about how quickly those old railcars will be  those legacy railcars will be phased out. And you know many of the mayors in the communities along the roads  the rail routes  have argued for immediately they want those off the track now.  This is a fascinating part of the story as you tell it which is that the railroads themselves are concerned that these cars are dangerous. Who objects to replacing them then?  Well the railroads do not actually own the railcars. The railroads own the track and they have the rightofways. They have the locomotives. But the people who own the railcars are the producers in North Dakota and the refineries that are taking them. They are called the shippers. And so basically the refineries and the producers own these railcars and so the burden of upgrading the railcars falls on them. And they are the ones that are resisting the upgrades.  Right I mean we think of the railroads as managing this but in fact they are  they in effect have to open their tracks to any cargo right? They legally cannot refuse to carry this stuff right?  That is absolutely right. And also when something happens on the tracks in a community the community looks at the railroads. They do not look at the producers. They do not look at the refineries but they look at the railroad. So the railroad really feels the burden of the liability. In LacMegantic the railroad there caused what could be up to 2 billion worth of liabilities. It promptly went bankrupt because it only had 25 million worth of insurance. And very few of these railroads in the United States have significant amounts of insurance to cover the kinds of liabilities that they will face in these kinds explosions.  All right but to come back to the issue of the tanker car. So the railroads want heavier safer tanker cars. The shippers save money by using the older inferior ones. How much would it cost to actually upgrade the fleet of tanker cars and is anybody doing it?  Well they say it is about a 3 billion upgrade and they are  and the you know the oil producers and the refineries the shippers are balking. But it is a real  it is a delicate kind of a dance. They do not often come out and say that. What they say is that these upgrades are not necessary that the oil is not so  as volatile as people say it is. So what happened is the DOT  the Department of Transportation  initiated comprehensive review or a rewrite of the regulations right after LacMegantic. But we are here  we are a year and a half later and those regulations have not emerged. It is sort of is a very very good example of how the regulatory process in many cases has fallen apart through the negotiated rulemaking process that gives the industry a very loud voice at the table. And they can delay and they can dilute and they can delete a lot of these provisions just simply by objecting. It is funny. We Americans are very familiar with the gridlock in Congress but I do not think they are as familiar as a  with the similar gridlock that takes place in a lot of regulatory agencies and certainly at the Department of Transportation when it comes to crudebyrail. They have not been able to get these regulations out and it is been more than a year and a half.  You know it is interesting because as you describe that I think a lot of commercial interests say you know government regulatory agents are tyrants imposing rules on us that they do not really understand the impact of and it is really unfair. You say there is a negotiated rulemaking process. I mean where is that ordained? Why is it  you want to explain that a bit?  In the past couple of decades it is just really evolved that the rulemaking process is much more of a negotiated process. A lot of it happens in secret behind closed doors. But essentially the industry has a  is able to give a lot of input. So is the public. But the industry always has a little better access. Groups like the American Petroleum Institute have a budget of more than 200 million a year. The American Association  the Association of American Railroads has 50 to 60 million a year. And they do a lot of lobbying in Washington so they get their voice heard a little better than the average person in the public.  We mentioned earlier that a lot of these trains do go through population centers. Are they going through the middle of big cities?  Philadelphia is probably a prime example where you have got oil refinery and infrastructure all around the downtown Philadelphia area but you see it elsewhere as well. You know they talked about rerouting oil trains around populated areas which sounds good but it does not account for the fact that the destination for most of those railcars is refineries in very populated areas. So you are getting a buildup of the rail infrastructure around populous areas such as Philadelphia.  And there have been some derailments in Philly have not there?  Yes there was an incident that occurred in downtown Philadelphia. There was a train crossing the Schuylkill River and it came off the track. And it was suspended hanging from the bridge for almost three days before they were able to right it. Now in this case the train did not fall off the elevated track. Had it fallen off the elevated track almost certainly you would have seen fireballs hundreds of feet into the air and flaming tides of crude oil on the whatever was below whether it was the river or a roadway. It would have been quite dramatic and perhaps even cataclysmic.  Marcus Stern is an investigative reporter whose pieces on the rail transportation of crude oil are a joint effort of the environmental website Inside Climate News and The Weather Channel. After a break he will talk about deteriorating railroad bridges and the practice of leaving trains running and unattended. Also rock critic Ken Tucker reviews the new album from the band The Mavericks. And tech correspondent Alexis Madrigal considers home appliances that are connected to the Internet. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. We are speaking with investigative reporter Marcus Stern who is looked into the dramatic increase in the transportation of crude oil on North American railroads and the growing number of derailments and fires that have followed. Stern won a Pulitzer Prize in 2006. His investigation into rail transportation of crude oil is a joint effort of the environmental website InsideClimate News and The Weather Channel. We have talked about the problems with the design of tanker cars but there are other factors which affect safety that you write about. One of them is bridges. These trains  big heavy long trains  go over a lot of bridges. And you describe one near Tuscaloosa Ala. Just talk about this bridge  its age its condition what you saw.  Well I went down to Tuscaloosa. And there is a local environmentalist who was concerned about the bridge  walked me along the base of the bridge. And it goes for about a halfmile or more. It crosses from the downtown Northport Ala. to downtown Tuscaloosa. It is a beautiful old bridge. It is 116 years old. It is timber. It is a big elevated timbertrestle bridge. So the trestles cross over a park on one side. They are elevated about 30 or 40 feet above the park. People bike underneath the trestles. They push baby strollers. They walk. They jog. Then you cross the river and you pass the Tuscaloosa Amphitheater which has big concerts. And just down river from that is a major refinery. And they are building condos right there. So if a train derailed on that bridge it would be catastrophic because there is just so much there. Unlike Aliceville Ala. or Lynchburg Va. where  West Virginia  where it was not a congested area this could be a very highconsequence incident if it happened. So I walked along the base of this bridge and a lot of the pilings that support the bridge were rotted. You could see all the way through them. You could put a stick through them. There were cross bars that were hanging off. And there was a portion of the bridge that was burned. It did not upon close examination look safe to me.  Right. And neither you nor I are qualified I suppose to judge the engineering structure of bridges. But tell us what the regulations say about how often these things are inspected by whom whether the reports are public.  Well I started asking the local officials if they have had any assurance the bridge was safe. And they said that the railroad is responsible for that. I checked with the  at the State Department of Transportation in Montgomery Ala. And they also told me that that is the railroad's responsibility that they  it is not on their radar at all. And I talked to the Federal Railroad Administration. And they told me well oh you know we get concerns about bridges; we get calls every day; we go out and we check them out and invariably the bridges are just fine. And they assured me that was most likely the case here. And I did a Freedom of Information Act and got some documents that showed that there was a very cursory inspection of the bridge in 2008  I believe it was  and later in 2010. And the one in 2010 actually resulted in the bridge being closed immediately for repairs. But nobody could really tell me if the bridge in its current condition was safe. I talked to the railroad. And as it turns out the railroad is the only party that can really tell you whether the bridge is safe or not because under our current regulations the federal government does not inspect the bridges. It does not enforce any of the regulations. In fact there are no engineering standards for railroad bridges  period. The federal government does not even have an inventory of railroad bridges although there is estimated to be 70 to 100000 of them across the country.  The inspections that the railroads themselves conduct are not publicly available right? So whatever they do and whatever they decide is held secret  essentially is private information.  Yes that is one of the real problems here I think for local communities is that the only person who has this material this information this data are the railroads themselves. And I even tried to hire an engineer  a bridge safety engineer  to go look at this bridge. And I could not because everybody I approached said no I will not do it because to do it I would have to have access and permission from the railroad to not only their tracks which you know if I do not get permission from them I am trespassing. But also they would have to give me all of their bridge design papers that they may have and maintenance records and other safety records and that is not going to happen. So really there is no way for a community to know whether the bridge is safe. They just have to take the railroad's word for it.  I wanted to ask you about this practice of trains being left running and unattended. I mean to those of us who do not know anything about the industry this sounds crazy. That is what happened in this horrific accident in Canada. Now tell us why that happens. I mean why would anybody do that?  Well I cannot for the life of me understand why they would do it. It seems bizarre. You know as a layperson and even after talking with people around it it seems insane. But you know right after LacMegantic one of the first things that the Department of Transportation did in the United States was to issue an emergency order. It was probably the strongest single thing it is done. It issued an emergency order that said that trains may not be left unattended with the engines running on tracks without specific permission. I think the coverage of that and certainly my take away when I saw the press release was OK so that means they are going to make sure there is no trains left on tracks with the engines running unattended in the United States. Well it turns out not to be the case. And I have discovered that because there was  I got in touch with somebody in a town called Plainville Ill. who told me that there had been a train sitting idling on their track for seven hours in the middle of their downtown. And they called the railroad and the railroad said they are allowed to do that. So months later I called the railroad talked to the same spokesperson for the railroad and he said we are allowed to do it. And he would not explain to me why they were allowed to do it or how it squared with the emergency order. It took additional reporting and finally I was able to determine by talking with people at the Federal Railroad Administration that if you look at the actual regulation as it appears in the Federal Register  it appeared several days after the press release  it actually had some small print. It said they actually  the railroads  only had to have a plan for leaving the railroad cars unattended with the engines running. As long as they had a plan in a drawer somewhere then they could continue to do it. And apparently they are continuing to do it.  You know it is a Democratic administration in Washington. I mean one might think that they might be a little bit more willing to be tough on industry in these circumstances. Do they fear that if they enact a regulation that they will be taken to court?  Well  I am just going to say an aside here that  from being in Washington I have learned there is not so much a Democratic Party and a Republican Party as an incumbent party and a challenger party. But President Obama selected a person to head the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration in 2009. This is the person who would oversee the safety of the pipelines across America and also these  the crudebyrail phenomenon that has just really exploded since 2009. And it was very interesting that his choice for this position was a woman named Cynthia Quarterman. And she came from a law firm where her job was to represent all of these industries that she is now regulating. So she went from representing them against regulators to being the top regulator.  You know one way to resolve the issue of transporting all this crudebytank car would be to build pipelines. Is that happening?  Well one of the reasons I think that producers and refiners have turned to rail is because pipelines are just so difficult to get approved. You can look at the Keystone XL Pipeline  the big debate over it  and it is become a lightning rod for this whole discussion. But building pipelines is very contentious. And in addition to that it takes a lot of time to do it. There is a big upfront expense. And by the time they were putting pipelines into North Dakota the North Dakota play might be played out.  In a lot of cases local officials are bewildered by the fact that these trains are running through their communities and when a disaster occurs they are often unprepared for the scale of it. Is there any requirement that local officials be informed that a crude oil train is coming through or that some disaster plan be ready to deal with an accident?  Well the Railroad Safety Advisory Committee took up the question of emergency response plans and completely punted  they just  the industry would not go along with it. The National Transportation Safety Board and its counterpart in Canada these safety agencies have said there must be  they need to have response plans. The pipelines companies have response plans. They are required to have response plans. At this point the U.S. railroads are not required to have emergency response plans. The one thing that has happened in the past yearandahalf since LacMegantic and these other disasters is that the federal government has told the railroads that they must notify state emergency officials whenever they are going to be sending a train through a state that has more than a million gallons. So the state emergency planners get a heads up that there will be trains moving through of more than a million gallons  individual trains more than a million gallons. Anything less they do not get notified of and it is not guaranteed that that gets down to the community level. And when I talked with a lot of the local officials in Tuscaloosa I was really struck by the fact that they seem to feel very comfortable that they can handle whatever happens. Yet also the people in LacMegantic when you talk to them they shake their heads. And they say to the people of America you know you really do not want this to happen in your backyard. This happened here. We lost 47 people. It destroyed our downtown. There is no way anybody is going to be prepared for this if it happens in your downtown area.  Marcus Stern thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you.  Marcus Stern is an investigative reporter whose pieces on rail transportation of crude oil are a joint effort of the environmental website InsideClimate News and The Weather Channel. Coming up Ken Tucker reviews the new album from the band The Mavericks. This is FRESH AIR. 