 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show Buzzfeed media and politics reporter Rosie Gray and New York Times national political reporter Matt Flegenheimer. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners to my guests. Two New Yorkers this week - so glad to have you all here. Matt Flegenheimer reporter at The New York Times covering politics and Rosie Gray BuzzFeed reporter covering politics thank you all. First-timers both of you - welcome.  Thanks so much.  Thanks for having us.  I am so glad you all are here. We are going to talk about the news and this week it is politics and Democrats and some guy named Michael Bloomberg. But before we get there I do want to ask you or talk with you both about the wackiest story I saw this week total wackiest story. Did you see the thing about Bone Thugs-N-Harmony?  Oh that they are changing their name or something right?  Yes yes. Bone Thugs-N-Harmony...  What is the new name?  Tell him .  Well I cannot even remember. This like went by on Twitter but it is like they like - they are just like repeating words in the name right?  Yeah. They are changing their name - well first just to make sure everyone knows who Bone Thugs-N-Harmony is let us hit a bit of their biggest song Crossroads.    See you at the crossroads crossroads crossroads. See you at the crossroads crossroads crossroads.  This is - what? - early '90s mid-'90s?  It is a classic.  Feels like a '93 '94 right?  Yeah - the video where they are all going to heaven and stuff. Anyways Bone Thugs-N-Harmony classic rap group is changing its name to Boneless Thugs-N-Harmony because of a partnership with Buffalo Wild Wings to promote Buffalo Wild Wings boneless wings. Does not that make you sad?  That does make me sad.  Feels like a sad day for democracy in music.  That does make me sad. But I guess like the buried lede here is that Bone Thugs-N-Harmony is still...  Yeah.  ...A thing.  It is like who knew? Well also...  Yeah.  It is like if you see a group as old as Bone Thugs-N-Harmony trending your first thought is like did they die?  Right.  Did somebody die? Turns out they just got a nice check.  I guess it is not the worse-case scenario.  But like they are totally honest about what is going on. They said a marketing company approached us and we took the check. And they went all in on it. They actually filmed this short mockumentary about boneless wings and the group. It is so weird. We have tape of that as well.   A new love for boneless wings led to a new name.  We need to be Boneless Thugs now - bottom line.  I am not going to lie but I like boneless wings man. Whatever. It is what it is. Boneless wings - what?  It is so sad .  That is depressing.  That is pretty bleak.  Right?  Yeah everything's just advertising basically now - marketing.  Who is still sacred? Who is still free of all this - Meryl Streep?  Yeah.  I feel like Meryl Streep would not give it all up for like a Doritos campaign.  No I hope not. And if that ever happened I just do not know what I would do.  Speaking of all the things money can buy let us pivot to Michael Bloomberg.  What a transition.  I was very proud of that one. Thank you for noticing. Michael Bloomberg - billionaire former mayor of New York City - is spending hundreds of millions of dollars to run for president as a Democrat even though he skipped the first several Democratic contests in Iowa and New Hampshire and also Saturday's caucus in Nevada. Both of my panelists have covered Bloomberg extensively so we are going to talk about his rise his money what it means for our politics. They both have three words to sum up their week of Bloomberg news. Rosie you are up first.  So my three words are going to be money is not everything.  OK.  And I am going with that because like you said Mike Bloomberg has spent an enormous amount of money so far on his president...  What is it now 400 million?  Oh he is spent over 400 million.  I think it is north of 400.  Yeah.  Wow.  And it is really - it is unprecedented for...  Yeah.  ...A campaign in this stage.  And accelerating.  Right. So - you know so he is spent this enormous amount of money and it worked up to a point. It improved his polling numbers. He was able to like really raise his visibility in these states that he is going to be competing in on Super Tuesday through this enormous advertising campaign but we saw the downside of this on the debate stage this week.  Yeah. Let us just stop a second and talk about how not good his performance in that debate was. It seems like from the start everyone came out knives out for Bloomberg especially Warren senator from Massachusetts. She probably hit him the hardest. There is some tape of this moment from the debate on MSNBC where the audience literally gasped at what she said.   I would like to talk about who we are running against a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians. And no I am not talking about Donald Trump. I am talking about Mayor Bloomberg. Democrats are not going to win...  Like shots fired.  Shots landed.  Yeah yeah. Rosie I mean like so you have seen this man spend all this money and for a while it seemed to be working. But my question is do debates really change things? We saw for months Joe Biden not do well in debates and still top the polls right?  Well I think we do not know yet how much this changed things for Mike Bloomberg but a lot of people watched that debate. And you know he - his performance was - you know even his own campaign team was unable to like really spin it.  I feel like the spin is that hour two was not that bad you did not have a great debate.  .  Yeah exactly. Right. And so they - you know they are acknowledging that it was a pretty bad performance. That said Bloomberg has a big advantage over other candidates who might at some point have a bad debate which is that he has unlimited money to try to keep defining himself in voters' minds you know not dependent on things like debates.  Well - and it seems like the only thing that he can really do quite well right now are the ads. You were on the trail with him Rosie. He is not the kind of politician who loves to shake the hands and do the long emotional stump speech right?  That is right. He does not do a lot of retail politics. You know he does not do a lot of like stopping in coffee shops shaking people's hands - like just sort of like connecting with people you know on a personal level. His events are very - they are very lavish. You know he has catered food. They tend to be pretty large and they are pretty efficient. You know he comes in. He does his stump speech which is a pretty short stump speech for a politician. It is about 15 minutes or less long. And then he shakes a few hands on the way out and leaves.  Yeah. Well - and Matt it seems as if this is the way he is arranged his life. You know when he was mayor of New York City he did not really have too much competition. He gave a lot of money to a lot of folks that might have been mad at him and it made them not mad at him. Has he ever faced something before that would give him this much to respond to and this much challenge and this much questioning about who he is?  No. I mean look - when you are a 78-year-old billionaire who has run in three local elections against run-of-the-mill Democratic candidates you are not used to being told what to do. You are not used to being thrown into situations you are not comfortable in. And I think to Rosie's point he has not exposed himself very often - in this campaign or in the years prior - to unscripted interactions for an extended period with voters with critics the sort of circuit work that all the other candidates have been doing for almost a year in a lot of cases - over a year in a couple of cases - is not the sort of thing that he is been getting better at. And he was not that good to begin with.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - Rosie Gray reporter at BuzzFeed covering media and politics and Matt Flegenheimer reporter for The New York Times covering national politics. Matt I want to give you a chance to share your three words on Bloomberg as someone who covered him back in the day when he was mayor.  Sure. I think it pivots off Rosie's to some degree but it is the sort of Bloomberg industrial complex - are the three words. And the question how... - to Rosie's point as well is that he has to see if the sort of campaign of Bloomberg can overpower the person of Bloomberg that we saw on the debate stage. It is this question of whether the Death Star as Rosie called it in a story recently of the Bloomberg campaign - the staff the ad spending the sort of flood-the-zone quality that they have tried to project - can outweigh the very clear deficits of charisma and the sort of liabilities that we saw exposed onstage on Wednesday night.  Yeah. You know we played a clip of Warren from this week's debate going after Mike Bloomberg. But we have seen Warren's candidacy especially after Iowa get a lot less coverage even as she is performing better than most others in things like debates. Do we have any idea about what is going on with her team right now and her status?  I do think the Bloomberg inclusion in this last debate has sort of injected the Warren campaign with more energy and vitality in these last several days. Having this sort of perfect billionaire foil to play off of has really played to the strengths of her campaign and the message that she had to begin with. But she is really changed up her approach. Obviously she was much more willing to confront not just Bloomberg but Amy Klobuchar Mayor Pete. So I do think that has been a shift from them and they certainly feel good about how it is gone so far.  Yeah. Yeah. Well it is also really weird to me to look at 2020 compared to '16 and see the gradual demise of the strength of the two-party system. You know Trump in '16 was the least-favored candidate of the you know GOP elite. He still swept it. And now Sanders and Bloomberg come not at all from the Democratic Party elite. Like are we seeing here just the slow demise of the party system as we know it? And does Bloomberg and Sanders and Trump indicate that this process will be changing for good?  I mean I - just - you know the ascendancy of Sanders and of Bloomberg definitely shows sort of how weak these party establishments have become.  Yeah.  But the dynamics surrounding Bernie Sanders' status as the front-runner really reminds me a lot of the dynamics of the 2016 Republican primary where you know it was pretty clear pretty early on that Donald Trump was like the prohibitive front-runner.  Yeah. But no one...  Yet...  ...Wanted to accept that.  ...Nobody wanted to accept that. And there were all these like desperate scrabbling attempts to like figure out who the non-Trump alternative would be. There was talk of a brokered convention all that stuff. And we are sort of - we are seeing that now where Bernie Sanders you know pretty clearly the front-runner at this point. But the Bloomberg campaign is in some ways a sort of like - despite Mike Bloomberg himself being not technically part of like the Democratic establishment it is this attempt to sort of like not face up to the reality that it is probably going to be Sanders and try to find some sort of like centrist moderate alternative.  Yeah. It very much feels like Ted Cruz's last gasp. You know Ted Cruz stayed in that race so long in '16 saying like I am your only alternative to Trump. We have got to try to get me in. And then that did not work you know? Like...  Well it is funny you should...  We were - yeah. No no.  It is funny you should mention Cruz because...  This fills us with...  ...That is how Matt and I became friends...  ...Great happiness. Yeah.  ...Because we covered the Ted Cruz...  Yeah.  ...Campaign together last time.  Wait. Really?  As all great friendships begin - in Iowa covering Ted Cruz.  Yeah exactly.  Were you all in Indianapolis when he dropped out?  Oh yeah.  We were.  I was there too. Was not it the saddest...  Wait. really?  ...Night?  Yes.  A sad night.   Remember when they announced it and everyone began to weep?  There was weeping.  Yes.  Yeah.  In the old train station...  Yeah.  And like there was just weeping for like 45 minutes and then people began to drink again. And then if you recall before the night was done randomly they all began to sing in unison the national anthem. Remember that?  Oh yeah.  I do remember that.  It was a...  I forgot about that but yes.  ...Weird strange night.  You remember six days before that when he named Carly Fiorina his running mate?  Yeah when everyone was like...  Cruz-Fiorina 2016.  Cruzorina .  A bold move.  Bold move.  Speaking of weird stuff before we leave the topic of Bloomberg I want to talk about how strange and sometimes cringy  his advertisements and memes and social media outreach is. You know he - there is been a lot of reports on how he is trying to buy youth influence. You know he is buying ads on Instagram. He is giving influencers money to promote content about him. What has been the weirdest cringiest  Bloomberg content you all have seen so far? I have a lot of examples.  This was not necessarily one of the memes that they tried to make happen but sort of organically - when he shook the dog's face.  Oh yeah.   He was trying to pet a dog and sort of landed on the side of the dog's mouth and just kind of shook...  Well he was shaking hands before. And then he...  He was shaking hands before...  ...Got to the dog.  ...Got to the dog shook the face.  I will say weirdest Bloomberg campaign content - the one where his campaign posted his face superimposed into Italian meatballs. That is a thing that happened.  Yes I remember that.  I have not seen that.  That is where we are now.  That was very weird. It was because it was during a debate and he was not on the stage.  That is...  Yes.  Wow.  That is it.  There it is.  There it - there is his face.  Bloomberg marinara. OK.  Yeah.   Bloombinara  - oh my goodness. All right. On that note we are going to go to a break. When we come back we will talk about a potential 2020 campaign issue - guns and gun violence. We speak with a teenager from East Oakland who says she sees gun violence around her all the time - a shooting here a shooting there a constant reality. And she told me that none of the candidates for president right now are speaking to that issue for her.  What about safety? You know what about the people that have to be scared to walk outside every day?  After the break she will tell us what she would say to them if she had their ear. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined by two guests Rosie Gray - she covers media and politics at BuzzFeed - and Matt Flegenheimer who covers politics for The New York Times. So we have talked about the debate in Vegas this week. What surprised the both of you in terms of what was not talked about?  Well given the setting of Las Vegas where one of the worst mass shootings in history happened I was a little bit surprised that none of them were asked about gun violence.  Yeah. It was really strange because you know in the aftermath of Parkland it seemed to be like a mass movement organizing itself among young people in this country to make this an issue that everyone had to pay attention to. And then if I recall correctly gun control got one mention towards the end of the debate in Joe Biden's closing remarks. That felt weird. So...  That was striking.  Right? Yeah.  And the fact that it was the first debate for Bloomberg and that is been a major plank of his philanthropy and a major part of his ad campaign since he is gotten...  Yeah.  ...Into the race...  Yeah.  ...Is gun control spending. And it seemed like an area where they would certainly spend some time.  Yeah. Well he founded what is now the leading nonprofit on this issue - Everytown for Gun Safety. Right? That is him. That is his money.  That is Bloomberg.  Yeah. Anyway so on this show we marked the one-year anniversary of Parkland with a show all about teens who experienced gun violence that might not get the same level of coverage - teens from places where there is low-level gun violence sometimes everyday. We spoke with teens in East Oakland Calif. who experience gun violence like that - a slow burn a shooting here a shooting there. And it is been a year since those conversations and I wanted to check in with one of them.  This is Ajahnay.  Hey. How are you?  I am good. How are you?  Pretty good pretty good. When we talked last year Ajahnay Cooper was a senior at Castlemont High School. She has since graduated. She is now working and also taking classes at Sacramento State University. What are you studying?  Nursing.  You will always have a job. People will always need a nurse.   Yes.  So Ajahnay joined us from Youth Radio in Oakland. And she told me that the danger of living in East Oakland and the constant fear of being shot - it is still there for her.  Living in Oakland is pretty scary. You know you got to watch your back everywhere you go because you might not be the target but you might end up just getting hit in the crossfire.  So actually in that episode we did a year ago Ajahnay I went back with you to the scene of a gun crime that was literally less than a block away from your high school campus. I want to play it now. This was the exact spot where one of your anti-gun violence counselors you worked with was shot.   This is my favorite person in the world and he got shot. Like I said nobody knows what we go through until they are walking in our shoes so...  When you are here now where this shooting went down what do you feel now on this street on this block?  I mean I do not really feel anything. Like we were saying earlier we get numb.  How does it feel hearing that back?  It feels the same basically.  You still feel numb you think?  Yeah. I mean it is East Oakland. It is not ever going to be peaceful. It is always problems with anybody. Like it could be so simple you know? And it could turn into something big and escalate to something that it did not need to escalate to.  Yeah. If you had to think back on your four years at Castlemont how many people that you knew were caught up in something gun violence-related?  Actually a few people - I know probably at least five people who had some involvement with gun violence. I know one person that got shot at a party. I know someone who were going to fight someone but they ended up not fighting them because you know they had a gun. And you know it was a lot of situations where I had to just remove myself because I did not want to be a part of that.  Yeah. When we talked we ran that episode with you just about a year after the Parkland shooting in Florida. And one of the things we talked about was how shootings like that - you know a big mass shooting at a relatively affluent high school gets a ton of coverage. But violence like you have experienced at Castlemont - you know a shooting here a shooting there more of a slow burn of this violence in a poor place in a place that is more black and brown - that gets less coverage. In the year since we first talked do you think that is changed at all?  Definitely not. I do not think that changed at all. It is definitely still the same. Just beginning of 2020 I have lost a couple of friends already you know that are really young.  What do you mean lost a couple of friends? They passed away?  Yeah.  Was it through gun violence?  Yes. Not too long ago a friend of mines  I have known since like middle school - he was shot. It was pretty sad because you know you might not expect that person to you know just get shot all of a sudden. And that is why I said like you really do not know what could happen at any time so you really have to just keep your guard up because it could be you next you know?  What do you think would need to change for America to start paying more attention to the kind of regular violence that you see in places like East Oakland?  Well I think for one everyone as a community needs to start coming together and speaking up about how they feeling you know? And I feel like people need to stop being afraid to use their voice because you know a lot of people are like oh well you know it is no point. You know they are not going to help us. They are not going to do anything. Well how do you know that you know? You have not tried. I feel like if the community worked together then I feel like other people would start paying attention more because if they see that you know people in our own town are not even worried about what is really going on of course they are not going to be worried because we are not as worried.  You know this is an election year - 2020. Do you think the candidates for president are talking about gun violence enough or at all?  Definitely not. I feel like they are more worried about winning the race instead of actually trying to fix things that is actually going on in the country. Like they stay talking about like health care and et cetera - money money money money this. But what about safety? You know what about the people that have to be scared to walk outside every day or you know take their kids to the park or even go to school?  What are you going to be doing this year this election year in terms of raising this issue?  Well I am going to be voting first off...  OK.  ...Because I have been waiting. I have been waiting.  Oh yeah. How old are you now?  I am 18 now.  It is going to be you first election. Are you excited?  Yes I am because you know people be like your vote does not matter. And I am like yes it does. My vote does matter.   Yes it does.  Like I want to believe it does so...  And you should.  I am going to vote.  Yeah.  I basically want to teach other people about gun violence and what they can do to prevent something like that from happening because when I was at Teens On Target you know I got all the information.  This is a group that worked on that issue.  Right.  OK.  Exactly. So I already know you know the definitions of things and you know how to explain stuff. So I feel like I just need to educate more people and if I educate more people I feel like they are going to want to learn more and try to you know tell other people and...  Yeah. If you could talk to the candidates for president in terms of making gun violence be a thing that they care about and think about and talk about what would be the first thing you would say to them?  There are people like us in Oakland who have to worry about our everyday lives and worry about if you know the government is ever going to care or step up to do anything.  What do you think they would do if they heard you say that to them right now?  I feel like they would have a lot of excuses. You know they would be like oh we will try to do this. We are going to - you know they are going to try to petition for things. But it is like that is nothing. You know like what are you going to do to prove to me that I am going to be able to trust you to make things better for us?  Ajahnay I am so honored to get to talk with you again and I am so excited for your journey forward - going to school voting for the first time this year. I am rooting for you and I thank you so much for your time.  Thank you. Thank you.   Thanks again to Ajahnay Cooper. We should note listeners as we began taping this conversation this past Tuesday there was another shooting near Castlemont High School while Ajahnay was in the studio with me. A 17-year-old boy was shot from a stray bullet most likely. It is really really interesting to hear that conversation and how much this issue was top of mind for someone like Ajahnay and then not hear these candidates talk about it. It just seems strange huh?  I mean this is something that is like really affecting people on a day-to-day basis. And it seems like politicians only really pay attention to it you know for five minutes after every mass shooting.  Yeah totally.  I mean the most interesting sort of political moment in this debate in 2020 was after the El Paso massacre...  Yeah.  ...When Beto O'Rourke was still a candidate. He did sort of make a pretty hard pivot which was a not small thing politically in Texas...  Yeah.  ...Towards very aggressive gun proposals that immediately sort of drew condemnation from Republicans and certainly some Democrats in the field who were trying to distance themselves from any suggestion that they were favoring sort of door-to-door gun confiscation. but...  Yeah because he said at one point hell yeah I want to take your AK-47.  Hell yeah. He said some other words too I think of the four-letter variety but...  Matt is a New York Times man so he...  .  ...Cannot say those.  I am not even sure what they are.   All right it is time for a break. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That. BRB. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders joined by Rosie Gray reporter at BuzzFeed covering media and politics and Matt Flegenheimer reporter at The New York Times covering national politics. It is time for a game my favorite game - Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  You all do not sound too excited.  No. I am looking forward to this.  It is going to be great.  It is going to be great. It is going to be great. This game is delightful because it is so low-stakes. The winner gets nothing. The loser gets nothing. We will all hug it out at the end. I will share a quote from the week - three quotes. You got to guess who said that or get a keyword. Guess what I am talking about. I am no stickler. You ready?  I am ready.  Let us do it.  So who studied the most?  Studied the most what?  I know. You cannot study for this. It was a trick question.  OK.   I get it.  First quote - just tell me what we are talking about. The quote is They need to make one that smells like their fries. This was a line of merch rolled out this week around a certain...  Oh oh.  ...Fast-food company.  McDonald's candles.   Yes .  McDonald's candles. .  There are McDonald's candles?  Yeah.  Dude yes.  People are paying money for McDonald's candles in their homes?  Not me but somebody maybe. So that tweet actually comes from Twitter user AllieCMichel and she was riffing on these new McDonald's limited edition candles that smelled like components of a quarter pounder. McDonald's says in their press release there is no better smell than 100 fresh beef and a perfect combination of toppings. But the candles are like - one smells like mustard. One smells like ketchup. One smells like the beef patty.  I mean like I just do not want my home to smell like a beef patty.  Yeah.  Is that so wrong?  .  I feel like the breakfast...  Like...  ...Smells are more defensible.  I would take a McMuffin candle.  Like a McMuffin and a hash brown smell.  Yeah like a sort of maple syrupy-type  smell...  Yeah.  ...Would be OK I guess.  Yeah. Is this better or worse than Popeye's line of clothing?  I guess worse because the candles - I just feel like that is kind of like an aggressive intrusion into your space whereas like...  Right.  ...If somebody is wearing a Popeye's T-shirt it is like OK whatever you know?  The shirt only affects the person wearing it.  Right.  Yeah.  True true. All right. Rosie you got that one.  Yay.  Yay. Next quote - I was happy when I saw my dance all over but I wanted credit for it.  Oh.  Who said that?  This was a - there was a New York Times story. I am going to screw up all the details of it. There was this teenage girl who...  I know the details.  ...Went viral. Rosie's going to be up two-nothing. I am in trouble.  .  You got it.  This is the viral Renegade dance.   I got no details.  Oh oh.  Do I get credit for saying I got no details?   Can I give you both half a point?  I am good with that.  Yes.  Maybe?  Let us share it.  OK. All right. So that quote comes from 14-year-old Jalaiah Harmon. She is been in the news recently because she created months ago the biggest viral dance craze of the moment. It is called the Renegade. Hit the song.   Do you all know it?   Renegade.  Go.  Renegade.  Go.  Renegade.  I do yes.  Stop it. Do it please.  No no. I do not know the dance.  Oh.  I know the song.  OK.  Yeah.  I was waiting for the moves.  I have seen the dance. I could probably do like an approximation of the dance...  OK.  ...If I had to but it would be very...  It is a lot of arm. It is a lot of...  It is like this thing where they are like this. Then there is just like this flippy arm thing.  OK. Oh so you do know it.  No I do not.  Rosie knows it.  No I do not.  That felt like it was it.  Anyways this dance is all over the young internet namely TikTok and these big TikTok influencers are believed to have popularized it. But they got the dance first from Jalaiah Harmon who is 14 years old and black and she got no credit. Your colleague Matt Taylor Lorenz wrote a piece about this - what? - a week ago and now she is getting the credit. These influencers have had her on their TikToks to do the dance. She is going on Ellen this week to do the dance. And like she is having a moment. I am happy for her.  I feel like she is earned the moment.  It was a really interesting case of you know like a young black creator having their work basically stolen...  Yeah.  ...And not given credit for it but in this like very new media viral way...  Yeah yeah.  ...Because she had created it on this app that I had not actually heard of...  Yeah.  ...Called Dubsmash. And then it...  Exactly.  ...Sort of like migrated onto TikTok.  Jalaiah I hope you get a check. I really hope you get a check.  That is right.  Final quote - you all will definitely know this one. It is You will love Chapter 14. Who said that? Who is putting a book out soon?  John Bolton?   Yes.  Let us go.  Oh OK.   John Bolton the former national security advisor has been plugging this book now for - how many months has he been teasing this book?  It feels like...  Feels like forever.  We are on like month three of the...  Yeah.  ...John Bolton pre-book tour.  Yeah. So he was a big topic of discussion during the impeachment proceedings because a lot of folks wanted him to testify before Congress about what was in the book. He did not testify but he did leak a few details of what might be in there and that was like before the new year. He is still teasing this thing. He is still plugging this thing. I honestly find it annoying. There is this new trend of like former D.C. higher-ups teasing their merch. You know we saw it with James Comey. We saw - Sean Spicer had a book. All these guys once they leave their jobs want to make me care about the book they are writing and it just seems a little at this point - dare I say - tacky.  Do you think John Bolton gets a Dancing With The Stars invite now...  Oh my goodness.  ...Following in the Sean Spicer footsteps?  I am not going to unsee that image.  The glorious Sean Spicer tradition - yeah. Good for him I guess.  Yeah. Sean Spicer get that check. John Bolton get that check. The theme of this episode is the money talks. Eventually the money wins. That is it. Speaking of winning is it a tie?  I think it is a tie.  I think we tied. I think we got...  Wow.  ...One and a half points each.  I think I got more credit than I deserved on the TikTok thing.  You know we are nice. That concludes Who Said That. Congrats to both of you. All right now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week we ask our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. They always do. Let us hear it.  Hi Sam. This is Rachel  from Houston Texas. The best part of my week was watching my 4-year-old son play in the snow for the first time. We went to visit grandparents in Idaho and he loved it.  The best part of my week was that after 40 years of foreign service I turned in my ID badge to begin the next chapter as a full-time visual artist.  Best part of my week was that I got to be a backstage wardrobe assistant at Tyler Perry's final Madea's Farewell tour.  My amazing 17-year-old daughter got into her top choice college.  My first novel was just released after having cerebral palsy and not knowing if I would ever finish a novel.  The best pa