 A fascination with the unknown whether it is the missing details in a famous author's life or the truths lurking in ageold myths guarantee that stories about the supernatural will always commend a rapt audience. Book critic Maureen Corrigan has succumbed to two fictional attacks by ghosts and ghouls.  All writers are grave robbers but genre fiction writers have to be the most brazen of all. Of necessity to write a romance or mystery or horror story means sticking to the narrow confines of a formulaic plot and generally digging up literary turf that is been worked and reworked to the point of exhaustion. That is why it is a special pleasure to stumble upon two authors  one a literary phenom  who have breathed new life into what must be the creakiest of genres the tale of terror. Dan Simmons' fictional filching begins with the title of his thick novel called Drood. Dickens' last unfinished novel The Mystery of Edwin Drood has bedeviled generations of writers who have taken a crack at completing what would have been Dickens' first mystery story. Simmons however is more interested in the supernatural possibilities lurking in Dickens' skeleton of a plot. The novel opens on June 9th 1865 when Dickens along with his mistress Ellen Ternan and her mother actually were passengers on a Londonbound train that was derailed. Here's a description of Dickens comforting a trapped female passenger whose arm is sticking through a window.  Dickens squeezed the woman's hand. Her pale fingers squeezed back the first finger closing opening and then curling and closing again around his first fingers much as a newborn baby would instinctively but tentatively grasp its father's hand. Oh Christ cried someone. Dickens crawled forward to offer his help and finally saw into the space. There was no woman only a bare arm severed just below the shoulder lay in the tiny open circle amidst the debris. Drood is a giddy scare fest replete with zombies and braineating bugs. But to tell you the truth around page 600 or so it became a bit wearying like listening to someone shriek for hours and hours. Maybe that is why I was receptive to turning to tales about calm controlled vampires in the rainy Northwest. In other words I finally decided to investigate what all the fuss is about Stephenie Meyer's Twilight series. The Twilight series  which is composed of four novels about a 17yearold human high school student named Bella Swan and her boyfriend Edward Cullen who is a vampire  has even been credited along with the Harry Potter books by the National Endowment for the Arts for boosting American reading statistics this past year. I have read two of the novels in the series so far and I confess I have joined the legions of the bitten and smitten. If you are familiar with Bram Stoker's Dracula you know that vampires are about sex. The whole I vant to suck your blood routine is a cover story to cloak comingling. And therein lies the brilliance of Meyer's revision of the Dracula tale. Because in the Twilight series vampires are still a cover story for talking about sex but this time round the emphasis is on abstinence. Edward whose character is indebted to 19thcentury brooding bad boys like Mr. Darcy and Mr. Rochester is a vampire vegan. In other words he keeps his fangs uh zipped up. Here's Bella explaining their boundaries in the second novel New Moon.  Edward had drawn many careful lines for our physical relationship with the intent being to keep me alive. Though I respected the need for maintaining a safe distance between my skin and his razorsharp venomcoated teeth I tended to forget about trivial things like that when he was kissing me. Much has been made of the fact that Stephenie Meyer is a Mormon and that her series invests Dracula with conservative Christian values but that take does not account for the series' power. Because what the Twilight books gain from this chaste storyline  at least in the first two novels  is a heady passionate emphasis on yearning. Desire in these novels is not just tethered to sex; it is freefloating and intense and it particularly emanates not from the male vampire but from our heroine Bella who is gutsy and hungry for release from ordinary girlygirl concerns. Meyer's vampire tales are not so much about I vant to suck your blood as they are simply about I want I want. Both Meyer and Simmons are inventive inheritors of the tale of terror but Meyer is the writer who really proves that the undead is a term that refers not just to vampires but to the supernatural genre itself.  Maureen Corrigan teaches literature at Georgetown University. She reviewed Drood by Dan Simmons and books from the Twilight series by Stephenie Meyer. You can download podcasts of our show on our Web site freshair.npr.org. I am Terry Gross. We will close today's show with a final goodbye and thank you to Harrison Ridley Jr. who for over 30 years hosted a Sunday night jazz program on one of our neighbor public radio stations in Philadelphia WRTI.  Harrison played early jazz recordings on his show a show he called The Historical Approach to the Positive Music. It became increasingly difficult to find early jazz on the radio and his devotion to the music made him an institution among jazz fans in Philadelphia. Harrison died last Thursday of complications of a stroke. He was 70. He will be missed by many listeners. We will go out with his theme Sidney Bechet's 1944 recording Blue Horizon.  