 Hey you all.   This is Sam's Aunt Betty.   You guys are so nice. Thank you.   This week on the show White House correspondent for PBS Yamiche Alcindor...   ...And VICE News correspondent Evan McMorris-Santoro.   All right here's your host and my favorite nephew Sam Sanders.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE live in NPR's Studio One.    And put the mask down. Mask. We living fast now. Fast.  We are here with a live audience tonight taping the show on Thursday evening. Each week we start the show with a different song. We will talk about that song in a bit. But first our guests - two all-stars and friends of the show Yamiche Alcindor White House correspondent for PBS and Evan McMorris-Santoro correspondent for VICE News. Fun fact all three of us have one big thing in common. We rode the Bernie bus. We covered Bernie Sanders for a long time in 2015 and 2016.    I get money - tunnel vision through my third eye.  Remember that?  Many a frozen...   ...Frozen days and nights.  And we basically wore the same outfits that they have on right now.  I wore this every day.   That is - I wore this every day too yeah.  I have not changed my outfit.   So this song I like it. I think it is very catchy. And that is why I am playing it. It is by a group you may have heard of called Migos featuring Pharrell. It is called Stir Fry. I am playing it because at the All-Star Game this weekend Pharrell and Migos played this song but right before Pharrell did this song with Migos he went through like all of his hits you know? And I realized like Pharrell's been around forever right?   Yeah.  Long time.  I looked it up. Pharrell's first hit as a songwriter or producer was in 1992 on a song called Rump Shaker.   He wrote that.  Really?  He is been around since 1992.  Well he achieved sort of like mom-minivan car music so you had to be around a long time right?  Yeah.  I mean he was like the official...  Like from Rump Shaker to Happy.  Yeah.  Yeah exactly.   You know at this point it is like oh that is nice.  That is Pharrell.  You know what I mean? Yeah.  And he just pops up. He is like the Forrest Gump of pop music. He just manifests.    Like a stir fry. Whip it. In the kitchen wrist twisting like a stir fry. Whip it. I will take a whip it intermission let the birds fly.  All right. Let us get into it. You know I am sorry. I have to - I take my - I do not record in shoes.   So we cannot start the show with my...   Now we can get started. All right.  Are those your radio socks?  Right?  I do not know. I just - I wore pretty socks today for you guys.  They are good. Yeah.  Thank you. Yeah. We are going to each describe how the week of news felt in three words. The best dressed onstage will go first. Yamiche you are up.   Kids will lead was the three words I chose.   ...Mainly because I feel like there is already this conversation that millennials are this generation that sometimes gets the bad rep of being lazy or too much into selfies. But when you look at these kids that came out of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School you look at the poise talking to the cameras you look at their composure when they are speaking to the president and even though they are crying they are still being able to talk about policies that directly affect their lives. This one young man was saying that he was born after Columbine and as a result he never got the opportunity to ever feel safe in his school. That is a different generation than I had because I remember watching Columbine. These kids know even less about - know less about being safe. They know less about having peace than I thought I did. And I - even - it does not matter what political side you are on in this argument. I think that when you look at those kids you think you know what? The future's going to be OK. This country has some people that are ready to step up and talk and be thoughtful about the way that this country's going to be going forward.  Yeah. But the things that these kids are going through as they pursue this activism - it is stuff that we never would have dealt with when we were kids. You know they have to deal with conspiracy theorists on social media who were slamming them. A day or two after the shooting they were being critiqued for even daring to comment on the shooting. They just have a harder road ahead of them because they are so much more public-facing than we were ever forced to be should we choose to do a thing like that. You know...  They are also so savvy at dealing with that though.  Yeah.  I mean woe be the person that tries to cross one of these kids. They just pwn  them constantly...   Yeah.  ...On the internet right and left because this is their medium. So you know I saw - right - the Bill O'Reilly tweet. He is like should we really let these kids who are suffering under tough peer pressure come out and talk? And one of the kids is like probably yeah.   Like I mean you are not going to get them with this stuff.  Yeah.  Yeah.  So yeah.  They are so good at social media. I thought I was good at social media because I was like oh yeah...  You are.  ...I could tweet. No. These kids...   These kids - if you put these kids on the Russian bots...   ...They might be able to figure out what Russia did before we do.  I think the big question is what their activism will achieve. You know there are already comparisons to the tragedy at Sandy Hook when you saw the mothers and fathers of those children that died there lobby hard with President Obama for change. Nothing really happened. We have already seen in Florida this week a proposal to ban assault weapons. That failed. And you saw those Parkland kids in the rafters crying. They are planning to march all throughout the country and come to Washington. But you have been following this policy front all week Evan right? Like what are the chances for policy change? And what might that look like?  Well it sort of depends on how you want to define it. I mean if you are expecting something to happen very soon I would not expect that to happen. I mean I was just watching the head of the NRA today at CPAC and like they are not having it. They are not involved. They are not into this. But on the other hand you have politicians like Marco Rubio who was at the CNN town hall who under sort of a barrage of booing changed some of his positions towards a more gun-control-friendly way.  Yeah. Well and then also we have President Trump who is just a wild card thrown into all of this. He has tweeted pretty erratically since the shooting and kind of been all over the map. Do we know exactly yet what he wants?  We have an idea of what he wants. He says that he wants to back this bipartisan bill that the NRA also supports that would tell states look you really have to do your job when it comes to background checks. So it does not add anything but it strengthens or at least tells them that you need to be more compliant on background checks. He said that he wants to end the sale of bump stocks which is this device that allows rifles to fire faster. And then he came out and said that we should increase the age of people - for people to buy AR-15s which means that people can no longer get it at 18. They might be able to get it at 21. But he also - the biggest thing that came out of this week was the fact that he wants to put hundreds of thousands of guns in the hands of teachers and he wants to give them bonuses if they say that they will carry a gun in their classrooms. So he is kind of all over the place. But I actually got my first question in at the White House briefing this week. Yay.   Hey.  And the question I asked was well is he going to be able to give political cover to Republicans who back his ideas instead of the NRA? Because the NRA does not want people - does not want the age that people have - can buy AR-15s to go up. And they said that he would give them political cover. But this president has had a very checkered relationship with Congress.  Yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two great guests Yamiche Alcindor PBS White House correspondent and Evan McMorris-Santoro correspondent for VICE News. Evan you are up. Describe your week of news and everything else in three words.  So I am going with whose party now? I will go back to that seat...  It is our party tonight.  That is right.  ...As you can see.  Well tonight it is our party.   It is a shoeless - it is a shoes-off kind of party tonight.  Well for one of us.   But - yeah you do not want that. You do not want - yeah.   No. Going back to what I was talking about before - so today I spent the day at CPAC which is of course...  Say what it is.  ...The annual Conservative Political Action Conference. It is been around for decades. It was sort of where the Reagan generation sort of built its power in Washington. It is this big conservative conference. And it is usually a place where - the purpose of it is to bring young people from all over the country into Washington to hear conservative speakers talk about conservatism sort of build that movement up. And obviously in recent years there is been a lot of back-and-forth about sort of what the Republican Party is. Is it the Republican Party of Jeff Flake? Is it the Republican Party of Donald Trump? Is it the Republican Party of pick and choose who you like because there is so many different ways it could go? And now this question that we have had about the Republican Party has sort of been answered. Like CPAC is a Trump event. And it is actually - it caused a lot of people to actually feel kind of bad. I was walking around CPAC and this kid comes up to me. He is like 20 years old - this kid named Steven Kent .  OK.  And he is like all right. He is like I was a young conservative in college I have always been into conservative politics it is always been my dream to go to CPAC but I am sort of like a traditional kind of Republican. And he was despondent. He is like there is nothing for me here.  But on the other hand one is not it expected for a president when they control the party to pull the party towards them? And two where else is that young Republican going to go?   You know?  Well here's the thing. The reason why there is still a question about whether or not it was President Trump's party is because the party fought him so hard on becoming their nominee...  Yeah the nominee.  And...  There are previous CPACs where he was like booed.  Yeah not to mention that there have been Republicans who work for him calling him a moron. There have been people that refused to run for re-election because they do not want to work with this White House. So there is this idea that even though the party - obviously you would think your president - you - it is your party. In reality yeah the question's been answered but when you walk the halls of Congress and you ask Republican senators or lawmakers about some tweet that happened that morning you can see the cringe go across their entire body. And then you get these off-the-record kind of smirks and looks at you saying oh my God like I do not want to talk about that today because you realize that the people that have to work with him every day are still kind of embarrassed at times that they have to defend this president's...  Yeah. Yeah.  I think it is very very simple. The purpose of CPAC is to help elect more conservatives. And there is a guy who has not done that since he was president and that is Donald Trump.  I have three words for the week and they are it takes time. And it is because of two events that I have been following pretty closely that confirmed this belief I have about all current events which is the things that we want or expect to happen quickly or in a certain time frame they usually take much longer than that. One Brexit - we all know that a while back now the U.K. voted to leave the EU. But this week the government of the U.K. released a government paper that said the transition period after Brexit where they ease out of the EU it could take longer than two years. It is supposed to just be two years. But now there is a line in this new paper that says literally that the period will take quote simply how long it will take.   You have got to love the Brits.  What do you mean?  You know at this point Brexit should be like the name of a rom-com right?   It starts out - like you read - you know like some guy's reading the book. And the book says you have got to leave this woman she does not - and he leaves her and then instantly regrets it.  Oh yeah. And I kind of feel like it is going to be like a thing that just does not happen.  It ends in the rain. They are both going to be standing in the rain.   Europe I made a huge mistake.   Europe says we knew you were stupid but we like you anyway.  Yeah yeah.  And they come back to Europe.  It is crazy. I mean it is definitely making things more difficult for Theresa May who is trying to keep her Conservative Party unified but deal with it. The second thing that made me say this week it takes time was Twitter. This week about a week after federal officials indicted 13 Russian nationals for trying to tamper with our election Twitter launched a new crackdown on bots and spam accounts. And around Wednesday of this week they started to just block a bunch of accounts. This made conservatives very mad. Some conservatives said that they were taking off real people. Other conservatives just said I am losing thousands of followers this sucks.   They launched the TwitterLockout. And so now Twitter has this mess on its hands where a big portion of their user base thinks that they are being biased and they might be kicking off real live users. So this company and Facebook and others are going to try to get things right in the light of what we know about Russian interference. But as I said before it takes time.  To jump in on that you know where was the perpetrating of all these hoaxes about these kids from that high school in Florida? Facebook and Twitter and YouTube.  Yes.  Like...  Yes.  It takes time but like they know what they are bad at.  Well they knew - yeah.  And they cannot stop being bad at it.  But if you - yeah.  Like they just cannot stop being bad at it.  But if you...  There is a great story today actually in ThinkProgress. Not to go back to CPAC - I was there today. It is like a lot of stuff on my mind. But Facebook had a big help desk section - a big you know booth - like a very like sort of startup-y-looking  booth - in the middle of the CPAC...  Facebook did?  ...Vendor area. So it is like NRA booth picture of Oliver North Facebook you know jangling Edison light bulbs. And it is like they are right next to each other.   Facebook is just right there in the middle of this thing right in the middle of a time when a lot of the people who are at - who go to a place like CPAC are the ones who are mad about the stuff with like the Twitter cancellations the Twitter - stuff like that. But they are also the ones who perpetrate a lot of these hoaxes. And Facebook is right in there because they still want - they want that - they want the business from those people. So it is very difficult for me to understand. I get this idea that they are trying do the right thing.  And you think about how much information these companies have on you. And if they just do not want to do this if they just feel like they do not want to fix it or they want to take their time because they need to make sure that they are going to be as profitable as they were last year while also trying to deal with these Russian bots they can just do that.  Yeah. Well and also we have seen our Congress show no will to actually regulate them at all so far.  Well they have a lot of lobbying power to make sure that does not happen.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah. On that positive uplifting note...   Coming up we are going to look back on election 2016 and what we know now and also a very special edition of Who Said That with a very special guest host. Stay tuned. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here in front of a live audience at NPR's Studio One.   Two great guests on the show today - Yamiche Alcindor PBS White House correspondent Evan McMorris-Santoro correspondent for VICE News. Before we get back into things guys a quick question - all right? - this week in the news I saw that KFC restaurants in the U.K...   ...Had been closed because of a chicken shortage. I am serious. Let me tell you why. They had some logistical issues with the new delivery company that they are working with and the chicken could not get to where it needed to be. In light of this Brits took it upon themselves to call lawmakers and the police to complain.   So my question for you is what fast food disruption would make you call the police?   Oh.   Well I will say this. I have felt like I needed an ambulance several times after a long night of Taco Bell.   OK. All right.  So I am getting married. That is why I cannot eat at all.  Oh no.   But if I was eating I would say Wendy's because I am just obsessed with spicy chicken sandwiches.  OK.  ...And would absolutely call 911.  Would you call the police - you would call the police if they ran...  I would call 911. I am probably going to call 911 in April if they like - if I come back from my honeymoon and there is no spicy chicken sandwiches I am going to like have a major freakout.  OK.  ...Because I can finally eat again.  OK. All right. Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance.   Listeners you cannot see it but we just had a little Drake GIF on the screen right there.   You guys know this segment. I call up a listener somewhere in the world and talk to them about the news in their neck of the woods. This week we have a very special guest as you all know.   Wait is she there?  Hello?  As you all know I love the Olympics. So on the line right now we have an Olympian join us via Skype. Devin can you hear me?  Yeah I can hear you perfect.  Hey.  Can you hear me.  You guys this is Devin Logan. She was on the show about two weeks ago. She has been competing for Team USA at the Olympics right now in South Korea. You cannot see them - there is a live crowd here to say hi to you.   Hey guys. Thank you. Thank you .  Yeah - also have two friends of mine here onstage - Yamiche and Evan. Say hi guys.  Hi.  Hey.  How are you?  Nice. I am great. I am currently walking to go check out some figure skating free skate today.  OK. That sounds pretty awesome. That sounds pretty awesome.  Yeah yeah.  So...  Trying to take in all the experiences while I am here.  Yeah yeah. So Devin competed in Sochi last Olympics and I met her there and got to do a story about her. She went this go-round to compete in - what? - slopestyle and halfpipe? Was that it?  Yes. Yep that is correct.  So how did your events go?  They went all right.   I mean you know I wish I could have done better but what can you do? I actually gave myself a hematoma on my knee right before slopestyle finals and then I had halfpipe two days later - so little bumps in the road but had a good time nonetheless.  And you are still a medal holder. You won a silver in Sochi. Since you have finished competing how have you been filling your time out there in South Korea?  You know like always - Korean barbecue some karaoke seeing events you know just kind of taking it all in. In Sochi I did not get to stay around just because when you win a medal they kind of ship you out and you do the media tour. But now that that did not happen this time...   ...I get to really experience everything. And yeah - excited to go to closing ceremonies and just hang out.  Yeah.  ...Cheer on Team USA.  Yeah. I know last time you did not get to march in the closing ceremonies. You are going to do it this time in spite of the hematoma. But...   Yeah.  Will you be marching with the hands? First tell folks what the hands are.  They are my tiny hands . So they are these like plastic little tiny hands I put on my pointer fingers and kind of hide the rest my hand and really creep some people out it with it.   It creeped out Leslie Jones at the Today show. I went in to shake her hand and introduce myself and she was like - she practically jumped.   That was Leslie Jones you said?  Yeah .  Was she cool?  Yeah she was super rad. She is been going to a bunch of events so it was awesome to finally meet her in person because I have been seeing her tweets and following her along so...  Yeah.  Oh hey Devin. This is Evan.   Hey.  It is like the D is silent in my version.   I want to know - because I have never been to the Olympics and I have always kind of wanted to go - what is it like to be there versus someone like me who watches everything on TV that happens in the Olympics - what do we not see when we are watching it on TV?  You do not see all the security lines that we walk through you know the taking all the buses the transportation all the - kind of the behind the scenes and - yeah.  I do not know. It is definitely a little different. You guys just get to see the events but just kind of checking out the villages the different venues - I mean there is the Coastal Cluster and then the Mountain Cluster and...  Are the curlers as big of stars in Korea as they are in the United States?   I think so. The Korean curlers are awesome. I do not know if you guys have been catching those games but they are on 247.   I have a quick question. And this is Yamiche. Could you talk to me at all if at all - if people even talk about politics there or is it something that is like completely off the table because you just want to eat barbecue?   Well it is kind of off the table. There is a huge language barrier so even just trying to get around is a bit hard and you know that and politics...  Even among American athletes?  Oh the American athletes? I thought you just meant in general. Sorry. No I mean we are just definitely focused on our sports you know? We have worked so hard for these moments that - you know they call it the ripple effect where you do not want any outside distractions kind of you know conflicting your thoughts and how you perform so...  What is next for you once you get back?  I do not really know. I have not planned anything yet. Hopefully - well I live in Utah and it is snowing there finally so hopefully once the leg heals up I get to ski some powder and eventually a beach vacation I am due for .  Yeah yeah. Well I will tell you what. It has been so fun and awesome to follow your career the last few years and I hope you see all the sights you want to see. I hope you get all the Korean barbecue you can possibly stomach. I hope the hematoma goes just fine. And we will see you on the flip side OK?  All right. Thank you so much guys.  Say bye guys.  Bye.   Bye.  She is really the best. She is just...  So cool.  You are the coolest.  She is so - the minihands - I want to see them.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with a special edition of the show in front of a live audience at NPR Studio One.   I have got two great guests friends of the show - Yamiche Alcindor PBS White House correspondent Evan McMorris-Santoro correspondent for VICE News. So we have you here because you both have some specific expertise on the topic that is our main story for this week. I want us to talk about a thing we actually can never stop talking about. That is election 2016. But I want to talk about that and our perception of it might have changed given the new information the new things that we now know about the election. I am talking about what we found out when federal officials indicted these 13 Russian nationals about a week ago. The things we learned were crazy. As early as 2014 a Russian government-backed organization engaged in what they called information warfare. There was a Russian group called the Internet Research Agency that meddled directly in our election in 2016. By September of 2016 they were spending 1.25 million a month. They bought ads. They made groups on social media. They staged their own political rallies posing as Americans inside America. What?   At one point there were up to 80 people working for this thing. They were able to reach 150 million people via Facebook and Instagram. So my first question to you all about this is how surprised were you to read all that stuff?  I mean the extent of it is amazing. I mean the amount of money that they spent on it - that 1.25 million a month to put it in some kind of context - like that is a lot of money for a campaign - a presidential campaign to be spending on social media. Like that is...   Like...  That is legit. Like that is a - I mean this was a legit operation if maybe not as super influential as you know in the long run - I do not know if it is going prove to have actually tilted the election or not. But it is - they were very serious about this.  Yamiche?  I was struck by two things other than of course all 37 pages that I think me and most of America gobbled up...  Yeah.  ...Like it was a novel. I was struck by the fact that when they set up their organization - that it almost looked like a newsroom. They had a graphics department. They had all this stuff that I was like wait. I know people who work in departments like that.  They had SEO.  Yeah. So the idea that they actually put real thought into this and really - it was not just like some guy or even a couple of people that were thinking this through. It was - they had departments. They had people with specific jobs. The second thing that I thought was interesting - President Trump said - I want to say in August in West Virginia - has anyone seen any Russians in West Virginia? Has anyone seen any Russians around the United States? We come to find out that Russians were traveling around the United States and studying us.  Not trying to look Russian.  Yeah right.  Like...  Trying to somehow - somehow passing for not Russian in the South. But...   I think that - but when I think about that I think two things. Like one you could not like turn on the TV and realize what the purple states were. Like you had to go and make sure they were as purple as you thought? Like what were those conversations like? Were you are at a bar thinking like oh are you still undecided? Like I just...   It just seems very like - trying to visualize them trying to study us is weird. But it is also - it was also kind of scary because it makes you feel - it is one thing to think OK there is quote unquote fake news out there. And you have to be really careful about who you - what stories you are reading and what online sources. But you now have to be really careful about who you are talking to at a bar...  Oh yeah.  ...Or who is coming to your - or who is coming to events - political events.  Yeah.  Or you know as a reporter you are always interviewing people...  Oh yeah.  ...And assuming that people are giving you their real names and giving you their real ideas.  Exactly. Now you do not even know.  But we all have been duped by all sorts of people on the Bernie campaign.  Oh yeah. Not even just that - what they were doing - it was not like they were just rooting for one candidate and going against another.  Yeah.  They were just trying to sow division. They were posing as liberals and as conservatives and as Muslims and as Black Lives Matter activists. Like it makes all of the water so much more muddy.  And they held rallies for Donald Trump and against Donald Trump. So they...  It is so weird.  Yeah.  There would be - some at the same time. They filled in like - they filled in both sides...  Yeah like on the same day in New York.  ...Of the same rally. A large part of this though - because I - you know look. There is a lot of debate about whether - how influential it was whether it really tilted the election or not. The big thing is we were vulnerable to this.  We got played.  We were vulnerable to this because if you - and I said this to people on the campaign trail so many times. If you literally are flipping open Facebook and you see some crazy thing with some crazy news item and you are like that sounds legit like you - there is a garbage in garbage out aspect to this.  .  Like you have got to get smarter about where you get your information. You just have to do it...  But...  ...Because people can come in and they could use these systems that we believe. We believe that they are authentic because we can see people. We kind of have these interactions with them. You know you click a little star and someone clicks a star on your thing. And it feels like something real has happened. And what we have learned from this Russian operation is that - like that could be completely phony.  Yeah.  But you know what though? I have been thinking a lot since these indictments came out. Like at what point do we as journalists in newsrooms across the country have to say we got some stuff wrong too? When you think about the topics we chose to focus on or the topics that we chose to not focus on were those directly influenced by Russian infiltration? And like at what point do we start writing stories about ourselves and how we as newsrooms might have got some of this stuff wrong because of Russian influence?  Well that trending - I mean this is what they would do. I mean you know there is been some discussion now about how to change social media. Mark Cuban actually came out and said that one thing you could do is take...  Mark Cuban? Why do we...   ...Take the - he is a tech guy.  OK.  I brought my tech guy. He is a tech guy. All right. But he says one thing you could do is take off the bottom of social media posts the numbers of like likes or numbers of retweets and things that are used to give those things power.  Yeah.  Like I mean the media - one way that is very easy to dupe us is just get some stuff trending.  Yeah.  And be like...  Oh we have got to cover that now.  ...I mean how much coverage do we do now of like - well this is trending. America is talking about this.  Yeah.  And it could easily just have been a botnet that just really pumped it.  Yeah.  And we saw this - I mean we talked about those kids. I mean that is what happened.  Yes.  The No. 1 video on YouTube was that one of the kids from that high school who was speaking his mind was actually an actor. It was total nonsense. But the system can be flipped around to make it look like it is the most popular thing everybody's talking about in America right?  Yeah.  I also think when we think about journalists looking at themselves I think it must be hard for candidates to also think of themselves.  Yeah.  Like Bernie Sanders was asked about this I want to say this week. The weeks are so meshed. I want to say Sunday. But he was talking about this idea that - one he said yeah we thought something was weird was happening. Our campaign told Clinton's campaign about this. But then he also said well maybe Hillary Clinton should have done better.  Wow.  There is this idea that you cannot really blame Bernie because - in some ways I mean there is - obviously you can. There are people that are going to say well that is just something dumb to say. On the other hand it is really hard to reflectively say how much of my success was my success and how much of it could I have done?  I do not want to believe that I was not this successful myself.  Yeah. And the same way with the media you could say as reporters - I want to say like yeah. I think I did a good job covering the 2016 campaign. But I also think well did I like - did I do background checks on everyone that I interviewed? Is every single person that I talked to definitely not a Russian bot or a Russian spy? Like I have no idea.  Yeah. .   So there has been some media reporting about what is going to happen in the midterms this fall given what we now know about how Russia is trying to influence our elections and how they will probably do it again in November. There actually was a meeting this past weekend of the National Association of Secretaries of State. These are the election officials across the country. And...  That is the party-est  conference in America by the way.  Yeah.  It all goes down to secretary of state.  It was crunk. Yeah.   And so basically these state election officials complained after this conference that the federal government has not been sharing enough information about threats to the electio