 This is FRESH AIR. Marcus King is a 23yearold from Greenville S.C. who until now was best known for the Southern rock and blues he made with the Marcus King Band. Now he is released his first solo album called El Dorado. It represents a different direction in King's career. Rock critic Ken Tucker has this review of how soulful Marcus King's new music can be.    Wildflowers and wine  an old scratchy record plays in the background of our lives. We are still here dancing after all this time. Wildflowers and wine. I walk through fields...  Marcus King sings in that new song about the quote unquote old scratchy records he listens to and you get the feeling that in preparing to make his new album El Dorado King might have dusted off his Otis Redding and Solomon Burke records to study. As a guitarist who is arrived at his early 20s with a solid reputation as a blues prodigy he is already restless for new areas of exploration. Perhaps seeking to make sure he does not alienate his old fans however he took care to make the second song on this new album a blues barnburner.    When I was just a young'un bouncing on my mama knee said son there is only one thing that sets your soul free. Was not no easy street where I come from. There was not no sleeping till the work was done. Papa was apreaching about the fires of hell. If you want a drink of water got to go to the well. The Cornerstone Church tried to curse my soul but the good Lord gave me that rock and roll.  That song called The Well is typical of what Marcus King has done on the previous albums but it is more the exception than the rule on El Dorado. What changed? Well King moved to Nashville and struck up a friendship with Dan Auerbach of The Black Keys. The two started writing songs together  songs that sent King in a different direction toward a more rhythm and bluesbased area  and Auerbach offered to produce a King solo album. It is yield such lovely surprises as this soul ballad called Break.    I do not know darling whose name you are calling but do not you mistake him for me. You are falling apart but do not let your heart break for nobody but me. Got us all guessing who you will be blessing. Everyone's waiting to see. You think you are so smart but do not let your heart break for nobody but me. Funny how this town will forget you.  With its falsetto vocal and the way the keyboards become more important than the guitar Break is the clearest representation of Marcus King's new sound. King's road band has been at least momentarily sidelined here. The musicians Dan Auerbach assembled for the album are a collection of veteran session players like keyboard player Bobby Wood and drummer Gene Chrisman who have played on hits for artists ranging from Elvis Presley to Wilson Pickett to Willie Nelson. Their subtlety shines through on this gospelinflected ballad Beautiful Stranger.    Beautiful stranger you come here quite often. I do not know your name but I know what you drink. You got a secret but it is one you cannot keep. Oh beautiful stranger you are an angel to me. So if you are feeling lonely come sit next to me.  So now the question is which is the real Marcus King  Southern blues rocker or blueeyed soul balladeer some combination of both? This feels like a turning point for him. But with Dan Auerbach cowriting every song on El Dorado it is impossible to tell what King will do the next time he strikes out on his own. Whatever happens down the road though this album is a real beauty.  Rock critic Ken Tucker reviewed El Dorado the new solo album from Marcus King. On tomorrow's show did President Trump really call his top military commanders a bunch of dopes and babies? We will hear from two Pulitzer Prizewinning reporters from The Washington Post Philip Rucker and Carol Leonnig who did more than 200 interviews for their inside account of the Trump administration called A Very Stable Genius. I hope you can join us. And this final note  the genealogical family history of Terry Gross as well as those of Marc Maron and Jeff Goldblum will be explored on tonight's edition of the PBS series Finding Your Roots hosted by Henry Louis Gates. If impeachment hearings preempt tonight's episode on your local PBS station you will still be able to watch it online at pbs.org. FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel Heidi Saman Therese Madden Thea Chaloner Mooj Zadie and Seth Kelley. For Terry Gross I am Dave Davies.    Sweet Mariona long as I have known you you were the apple of my eye all the stars in my sky. I adore you. Sweet Mariona from California to the heavens above I can still feel your love growing stronger. Over the rainbow I know that you know whenever you cross my mind the sun's going to shine. Sweet Mariona sometimes without warning I can hear you in the wind coming back to me again and again. 