 As I get older - you know the New Year used to be a really really big deal for me when I was younger in my 20s. Like okay this is my chance to start all over. And everything that I didnt do last year Im gonna do this year. And without fail by like February or March I feel like a failure. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Over the holidays I was at home looking at my phone and I noticed this tweet from Tracy Clayton a.k.a. brokeymcpoverty.  There are so many things I want for 2017 and I believe in speaking things into existence so Im gonna use this thread to do that. Tracys a writer and the co-host of the Buzzfeed podcast Another Round. And she went on to list the ways she wanted to change her life in the coming year. It was a long list.  Im really trying to get in shape...  I want to travel!  ...like hide your dads boyfriends and all your adult sons.  I want to get serious about volunteering my time and giving back.  I want some real fucking grown up furniture! She tweeted about money  I want to get my finances in order. About family  I wanna finally begin giving back to my mother everything shes given to me over the course of my life. And about love  This is so scary I dont even like reading this one out loud!  I want to do the hard work of reconciling my past relationships so that I can prep myself for the partner and kids that Im too scared to admit that I want. I feel like I know a lot about Tracy from her show. She moved to New York from Louisville two years ago. She has struggled with anxiety. She loves a stiff drink and bad jokes. But I learned a lot more reading this cascade of tweets30 in all. Of course most of us around New Years build a list of all the ways we want to transform ourselves. But saying it all out loud in detail on Twitter? In front of almost 100 thousand followers? I thought that was really brave.  Like typing them out loud was one thing and now saying them out loud is likeit feels like typing them all over again for the first time.  Yeah. Where were you when you just started this thread of 30 tweets that you were just bursting out into the universe about what you wanted for yourself?  Um I had flown home for the holidays. I was at home for about nine days. I was in my moms living room and I was just sort of thinking what would a better me look like? I had a very successful year last year as far as my career goes but I still felt sort of umI didnt feel like the rest of my life reflected that same sort of success or happiness. And I realized that one of the reasons is probably because I dont set goals for myself like actual real goals. And thats because Im afraid of trying to reach them because what happens if I dont reach them and I feel like a failure? Theres always the threat or the fear for me of failing and failing publicly.  So you responded to that by tweeting all this out to everyone on the internet?  To the whole world. Because I really thinkso the initial tweet that I sent out was you know I believe in speaking things into existence which is actually me trying to speak that belief into existence right? Because I always love when people are like you know I just speak it and I claim it and I receive it and I have it. And Im just like how the fuck do you do that? Teach me how to do that! So Im trying to become that type of person. So theres the act of naming it and also theres the act of some form of accountability. Because Im very used to letting myself down but Im much more afraid of letting other people down.  You said I want stability in all areas of my life financial emotional home work. I want significantly less chaos everywhere. What was that about? Whats the chaos?  Um I feel like Ive been in transition for a really long time. I guess that could just be the act of growing up you know its basically a transition from one stage of life into another. But as I get olderIm gonna be 35 in AprilI feel like there are things and stuff that are not in place right now. And just like so many places feel like a gray area. My love life has always been a shit show of a gray area.  Work is good but its still not - Im still not like doing - I dont I donta lot of this stuff I dont know how to put into words really its just like I dont feel like both of my feet are planted firmly on the ground. I feel like my toes are getting there and maybe the balls of my feet are getting there. And I dont know if that is because Im getting older and Im looking around and Im seeing people getting married and theyve already got three and four kids and like savings accounts. Who has a savings account? I dont know!  Your tweet about money is - there is a lot in there of your goal about money. You say I want to get my finances in order I want a decent credit score for once in my life I want to never worry about money again. Like - is that possible? To never worry about money again?  Honestly I have no idea because when youve never had money you kind of have to learn how to have it. And I dont even like have it now. I have more access to it and other things right? And its like so amazing the things I dont know about money. I know how to hold down a job and I know how to make sure that like the taxes that need to be taken out are taken out. But beyond that I dont know anything about investing I dont know anything about making my money work for me is a thing that white dudes in business shirts always say. And Im like well what does that mean? And I really think that these are things that arent taught to impoverished people and people of color especially. And I - like being surrounded by so many people who dont have these worries Im like okay now I see for the first time in my life that its possible to get to a point and a place where thats not a worry. You can go out and buy a 200 dinner and not have to take money out of one account to put in the other account to pay for it. These are things that I just I never knew before.  So whats it mean when you think about getting your finances in order whats that gonna mean? Concretely what are you doing?  Um I am going to get a tax accountant. Because my mother is a very smart woman but if I can have somebody else do my taxes every year I probably should.  Your mom's been doing your taxes?  Yes!  How sweet!   Shes so sweet. Shes the best. And Im sure shes done a great job but you know I need to get a grown up accountant. And an accountant is one of those things where I am just like oh thats a thing rich people have or thats a thing that white people have. It doesnt have to be that way. Anyone can get an accountant or a tax accountant. So Im gonna do that. My credit score is like 3 I need to fix that definitely.   Wait is that from like unpaid credit card bills? Or what happened?  Yeah just being young and in college. My mother bless her heart she had this great plan that she was gonna get me a credit card and put it my name but then she was gonna keep it and buy stuff that she needed to buy around the house and pay it off to build my credit so that when I was an actual adult I would have good credit. And she did that but Im not good at being an adult and paying bills on time. And I just ruined it. I ruined it. And again like credit is something that I was never taught about. Like I barely knew what credit was for and how it worked you know? So I want to get that together. And Im saving up to take a trip to Puerto Rico by myself my first solo vacationwhich I should have tweeted that thats a goal of mine. So saving money and watching money grow is another thing that I want to be able to do.  Do you have a savings account now?  I do now. It was the first thing that I did for myself this year. Its step one of trying to achieve or accomplish some of these goals. I now have a savings account.  You didnt have one in 2016.  I did not. Im embarrassed to say.  I want to ask you about furniture.  Okay!  Because you tweeted that all youryou said you want to get some real fucking grown up furniture because all your shit is still in storage in Louisville. Do you want to move your furniture from Louisville to New York? Or do you picture getting new furniture?  So the original plan was to move it from Louisville to New York because I just didnt want to buy a bunch of new furniture but honestly my furniture is shit anyway. It is like all Ikea furniture and Ive just doled it out to folks at home. The goal is to get actual furniture that is at least the fancier part of Ikea furniture.  Uh huh! Exactly! I remember thatI was like no more particle board but Ill still get the things that are made of wood from Ikea.   Yes yes. No more Lack coffee tables for me. Im not going back.  Do you feel like New York is your permanent home? Or at least your permanent home for now?  No. Its permanent for now. Um I recognize that the career gains that Ive made and all of the opportunities that I have and will hopefully come pouring to me in 2017 knock on wood Ive realized and recognized that I could not have gotten this in Louisville where I was. Im learningI cant make my mouth say the words I like living in New York. Its probably just ego and pride honestly. But I - Im comfortable. Im enjoying my time here. But this is not my forever home. New York is like being tickled too much I like to say. At first its like Ha ha stop it stop it! And then its like Touch me again and I swear to godI will murder you. Its so much stimulation and I need regular breaks. And eventually I would love for the regular breaks that I take to be to go to someplace thats more exciting instead of living in the excitement and having to go someplace else to destress. I want to live in a destressed place and then just come back to New York to visit sometime. But I think Ill eventually settle back in my old Kentucky home. Coming up I talk with Tracy about some of her other goals including the one about wanting to start a family.  I definitely want kids and everybody says that like after 35 its like have a funeral for your womb because you cant have kids after that. And so Ive got 6 months! So gotta do something pretty soon.  Tracys not the only one with feelings about money. After my conversation with former Wall Street executive Sallie Krawcheck a lot of you chimed in. A 31-year-old listener in Panama named Marcela says she was happy to hear Sallie acknowledge that women and men face different issues with money. Marcela says she deals with it all the time in her job as a civil engineer.  I mean I have to fight against the gender pay gap against common social norms such as get married and stop working. So its good to know that Sallie is taking those issues into account. Marcela says shes already putting some of Sallies advice into practice and is tracking her net worth on her own Excel spreadsheet. But for some listeners like one named Kelly Sallies advice rubbed them the wrong way.  She shames women who are struggling and is reluctant to acknowledge the role of luck and privilege in her own wealth. I could not believe my ears at her defensive comment that nobody worked harder than me. Give me a break! Another response came in from DrCookeJackson who tweeted out Wow women feel defensive if they have made money! But why? Gotta drop dysfunctional paradigms of money. She followed it with the hashtag pitout. On the next episode a married mother of two who decided to carry twins for another coupleto pay off the expenses from her own childs birth.  Having all that debt that I justwhen I would think about how much it was and what it would take to pay it off I would just get so overwhelmed and I would be like we are never gonna be able to get out from under this. And it felt like it was all my fault. And that was why you know I started looking at ways that I could pay this off myself.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Tracy Claytons podcast Another Round has been a breakout success since it launched in 2015. It was named Best of iTunes she and her co-host Heben Nigatu scored an exclusive interview with Hillary Clinton during a pivotal moment in the campaign. By the end of 2016 they were partying with the Obamas at the White House. But outside of work Tracy says something still felt like it was missing.  I wanna ask you about what you tweeted about relationships?  Oh boy. I dont have any liquor. All I have is water.   You said two thingsyou said I want to basically find peace with past relationships to get ready for the partner and kids that Im afraid to admit that I want. I want to ask about the second part of that firsthave you admitted out loud that you want a partner and kids?  Uh. As of that tweet that is the only time that it is happened. And I guess when I read it here for you thats the first and only time that Ive ever said those words out loud. Actually when I was at home my mother and I were watching some eHarmony commercial. And its the one where they have got all these cut scenes of people telling people that they love that they have met somebody. Ive met someone. Ive met someone! Theyre like Oh my god shes met someone! And my mother was like are you ever gonna come to met and tell me that you met someone?  Oh mom!  I know. First of all how dare she! Second of all this is just manipulative. Not nice. But my response was well wouldnt you rather I come to you and say I just made my first million? And she said no! And I was like fuck. Dammit! But I mean the older I get Ive gotta admit you know what? It would be nice to have somebody to sit around and do nothing with. Um. I am not used to - I dont have like a model of a long-lasting healthy relationship. Because by the time I was bornmy mother never married. I have two aunts one never married and the other was divorced by the time I was born. My grandmother was divorced. So I just never saw an image it was not a normal ordinary thing to be like oh yeah theyve been together for x amount of years. I have an uncle that was married for a long time. But you know I like boys. I would like a boy. A boy would be cool. But I dont do very well with actually tying up loose ends once those ends become loose. And rather than filter through and do the hard work of getting over x y and z and healing from this experience I just put it all in a box and I shove it in a corner of my cold dark shadowy heart.  Is that heartbreak? Or is that the hard moments when youve had to leave somebody that you felt guilty about?  Its both. Um my last relationship is a very long story but I thought we were gonna get married and then I got this job offer to come to New York and I chose New York and that was really hard. I never dealt with it really. And Im pretty good at diagnosing myself. So whenever I meet somebody Im like oh this is a very nice person but Im not ready for a relationship because Ive got all these other issues. Like I can see what is wrong with me I just wont fix it. Im just like oh well! And now Im like okay Trace if you never ever ever fix it and wade through this uncomfortable-ass box then you know sure youll probably be fine but what if you could be more than fine? What if you could be happy? Wouldnt that be cool?  Was it scarier to admit that you wanted a partner or admit that you wanted kids?  A partner. Definitely. Because Ive known for a long time that single parenthood is hard but I mean its not impossible. I was raised by a single mom. She was raised by a single mom. Our president was raised by a single mom. Im much more comfortable with the idea of raising a kid by myself than I am with having to do the work of being in a relationship. That is a lot.  I was really struck by the way you talked about your physical health. You said I want to finally take my physical health as seriously as I take my mental health. So whats that mean?  Im very vigilant about my mental health. I am pretty good kind of good with sticking to my meds and I journal and I try to make sure that my brain is okay because I know when it is not then nothing else is okay. But my body I just dont put the same effort into it. And I need to. I actually I had this great revelation awhile ago when I was really really down on myself because Ive been gaining weightIve been gaining weight for like the last 10 years. And I always do the thing where Im like no this time I am gonna join the gym and cook every day and I never ever ever do. And I was laying in bed one day and I just got tired of feeling bad about the way that I looked and about my body. And I said to myself I have a good body. Its not perfect it doesnt look like all of my favorite superstars but its a good body its healthy and that is important and thats enough and you should celebrate that. And it really changed something in me. And it made me feel more okay with the way that it looks. By appreciating the way that it functions and the things that it does for me it made me appreciate the way that it looks. But it also made me feel better about just ordering Seamless every night and sitting down and not even trying to work out. Because I am like you know what I got a good body! Its still a good body if I eat this pizza! Um but I do recognize especially as I get older and Im starting to see family members starting to see their health decline my body is only good if Im good to it. It can peter out any moment and theres still so much that I want to do and get done and to do that I have to be like yeah you have a good body but it can last a lot longer if youre better to it.  And so its about taking care of your body but you also mentioned that you want to get in shape and have a body where you gotta hide your dads hide your boyfriends and adult sons.  Yes. Yes. I really wantbecause okay if I can speak candidly just you and I I think Ive got a really really good shape. And if I just worked out and did a damn sit up sometime I could just really - I want for a month of my life to be like in body con dresses and ridiculous heels that I cant walk in and just like the super glamorous like sexyfor nobody but myself. And once that happens then I want to settle back into my Ive got a good body and its fine. But I feel like I spent so much of my youth hating my young body. And when I look back at pictures of myself from like 10 years ago I get so mad at that girl in those pictures cause Im just like you spent all this time thinking you were fat. And ugh I just want to throttle her. Just be like listen you are fine as fuck. Stop it. Stop it stop it stop it. So I think it really does come from just wanting to have a second chance to appreciate myself in ways that I hadnt before. I think. When I thought I was really really fat I was 150 lbs maybe. And I feel like if I were to hit 150 again I would feel perfect. I would feel flawless as opposed to back when I was 150 just feeling like a slob. Not enjoying it and not being present. I want a do-over.  When you say you want to get back to 150 what does that mean how much does that mean you have to lose? Youre asking yourself to lose?  I am now 186 cant do math. Maybe you can edit that in. But its - it is been very interesting watching my weight loss goal go from 10 lbs to 15 lbs to 20 lbs. Its been very interesting.  Yeah. You tweeted about your family in a couple of interesting ways. One way is you said when I go home to Louisville I want to be my whole self and I want to stop compartmentalizing. What are the parts of yourself that you leave out when you go home now?  Well I got drunk with my family on Christmas day for the first time ever in my life. So thats a partnot that I am always drunk. Im not always drunk. But I enjoy an occasional adult beverage. And I know that there was one Thanksgiving where I was at home and I was challenging my brother to some kind of game and I was like alright we are gonna do shot for shot. Lets go. And everyone was like oh my gosh! Tracy cant take a shot! And in my head I was like if you knew how I drink at homeand its very stressful to have to limit any part of myself when Im around my family.  That surprises me that like I wanna go home and drink more in front of my family. Thats a surprising answer!  But I hear what youre saying. Especially like as like an accomplished young woman I get you wanted to show them that you got things on lockdown and you are responsible and you are gonna get things done. And so being someone who knows how to let loose or just relax I dont think that is something that talented young women are taught or know how to do.  Yeah I definitely agree. And I think also Im the youngest of my moms kids so in my head a lot of people still think that I am like a 15 year old child. And when I was younger I was super shy I did not do anything risque. I did not start drinking even until I was like 25 26.  Really?  Yeah! Yeah. I was very oh my gosh bookish and terrified to open my mouth to anybody. So I think its just giving myself permission to be a grown-ass woman around my family has been really really big.  You also said you want to give back to your mother for all that shes given to you.  Yes. I just bought her a bed for Christmas and it made me feelI cannot think of a better feeling to just be able to give her something that she needs or wants. You know and just be like do not worry about it it is on me. I got it. Because oh my gosh she just makes me so emotional. She just gives and she gives and she gives and she gives and when I think about my earliest examples of feminism it was her and it is not because she was reading Audrey Lord and Toni Morrison. It was because she was out working to take care of me and my brother and her mother. Those are things that I know that I cannot ever repay with money but I am so excited to try.  Have you been sending money home?  Yeah. Ive been trying to learn how to do it. Because I am always like okay just tell me how much you need and I will send it. And when I do that I do not take into account how it can make my family feel. And pride is a big thing. It is a big deal. I cannot imagine what it feels like to have this person that you have been taking care of forever who now wants you to chill out and let them take care of you. I am sure it is not easy. But we are figuring it out. We are working on it.  Now that were into January 2017 has startedis there anything you wish you hadnt tweeted? That you hadnt said out loud about what you wanted for this year?  Oh man that is a great question. Tweeting the one about the relationship stuff makes me uncomfortable to think about. Because I am just not good with that sort of thing. But dont regret tweeting it because I really think that its step one in getting all that stuff together. So I do not regret anything that I tweeted.  That is the one that feels the most tender.  Yes it is.  Im really excited for your 2017.  Thank you! Me too!  Yeah.  Im also excited for your 2017. That sounded really selfish of me.  Thats Tracy Clayton. Shes a writer and host of the Buzzfeed podcast Another Round. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And heres one more thing you can accomplish in  Write a review for Death Sex  Money in iTunes. While youre there check out the Another Round podcast if you havent. Tracy and her co-host Heben Nigatu get incredible guests on the show. And they are hilarious. Theres drinking there is lots of jokes and Tracys animal corner. Shes got a thing for animals. So much so that she included them in her list of 2017 goals.  I want to meet a chicken and a parrot and a baby elephant and finally meet a penguin. That might be the thing that I want most on this whole list honestly.  Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.