 This is FRESH AIR. This week we are looking back on the decade that just ended and listening back to some of our favorite interviews of the past 10 years. Today we are featuring some of our favorite performances. Our final one today is with pianist Jon Batiste the music director at The Late Show With Stephen Colbert where he leads his band Stay Human. Batiste grew up in Kenner La. just outside of New Orleans and is part of one of the foremost music families in that region. He started playing with the family band when he was 8. He played drums back then. When he was 17 he moved to New York to attend Juilliard. We recorded this interview in 2018 when Batiste released his album Hollywood Africans. We started with a track from it an original called Kenner Boogie.   Jon Batiste welcome to FRESH AIR. I really love your playing. And I am so grateful to you for being at the piano. So I have to  this is a really corny dumb question to ask a pianist I know. But how do you do it? How do  like on Kenner Boogie that we just heard how do you coordinate the left and right hands? They are doing such different things. And what they are doing is so complex.   Can you break down what each hand is doing?  Absolutely.  And can you include some of those really like rumbly lefthand chords you have got going on there?  You got to.   Thank you.  I think the great thing about piano is that you can create this rhythmic momentum. And it propels you. It is like a drum but you also have tones. So what I am doing in my left hand is really creating the rhythm section effect of having a bass and a drum and maybe even a bari sax down there tooting and rooting . And so I will get this going . Or I am doing something like   you know like something you might hear Fats Domino or Little Richard doing and then just really keeping that going down there. So while I got that happening in my right hand I am screaming; I am wailing. I am trying to figure out a way to make you feel what it is that I feel. And I can do that in many different ways. I can slide . I can cry . And I can even do a little bit of dancing . Let me do the dance one more time .  And some of the lefthand playing that you have going on in that track is really kind of rumbly. Can you do some of the chords that you have included in that composition?  Well sometimes the emotion overwhelms you and you have to growl. And this is something that I have kind of developed in my left hand that I really love. When I get that feeling it is like a growl of a lion this . So I will be playing you know. .  That is what I was talking about .  So you know you put them all together and you know it is like a gumbo. You put everything in the pot and in the moment you just fly. You know after you make your 100th vat of gumbo you get a feel for where to place these things. And it is not really contrived. It just is a spirit in a moment that you follow.  So you grew up in Louisiana near New Orleans in Kenner. What were some of the most common rhythms? And you started as a drummer in your family's band. So what were some of the rhythms that you were taught to play as a drummer that helped guide you in your formative years as a pianist things that you transferred to piano?  Well there is an African rhythm that is at the base of much of New Orleans music and that is the bamboula rhythm. And before I even understood that I was being taught this rhythm or that I was internalizing this rhythm rather I was. And it goes like this. It is . You hear  oh little Liza little Liza Jane  oh little Liza little Liza Jane. Or   oh when the saints go marching in oh when the saints go marching in. It is in so much of our repertoire. And me being the youngest drummer in my family at the time there were four other drummers   my cousins. And not only was I learning the bamboula but I was learning it from them so I had four variations of it. So by the time I started really playing and getting to the piano I had such a rhythmic approach to it that it is still with me today.  So do you want to translate that rhythm to something that you do at the piano?  Well there is a piece on the album Nocturne No. 1 that has that rhythm.  Yeah I love that piece.  Yes. It is really something that kind of takes that rhythm but also my classical music training and love for the form and development of those sort of theme and variation and kind of matches them up and creates what I like to call a gold mine . So that is the rhythm in this .  I hear so much Monk in your playing  again not imitating him but having kind of absorbed him and made it your own. Things I hear you doing that remind me of Monk is your use of dissonance your use of kind of punctuation your use of space  of letting things ring out and not filling it  and the kind of angularity of Monk. So can you play something of your own that incorporates the kinds of things we have been talking about?  Oh absolutely. There is a piece that I recorded twice and it is titled Red Beans and it is a blues. And when you hear the melody it has that rhyme and also that space and dissonance that is characteristic of monk. But I never copy. I try to absorb which is what I hope I have done with this piece. .  Oh that is great. Do you still listen to a lot of Monk?  I have a few people who I listen to regularly. I always come back to them I will say. I do not listen to Monk regularly but I always come back to his music. Bach is another one  James Brown Nina Simone. Oh my goodness...  OK. Let us do a little contrast here  some Bach and how that is influenced you.  Oh my goodness. Well   there is so much there. I think that Bach is really a  the mysticism of music spirituality of music the depth of how he is able to be so systematic and logical symmetrical at times  super symmetrical to the point of it almost being a musical game of sorts yet it harboring such a depth of human feeling the range of human emotions and asking questions about the afterlife. I mean The St. Matthew's Passion   I was listening to that maybe yesterday a couple days ago. It is about three hours long. And just listening to that makes you realize what is possible. He is arguably the best at a thing that anyone's ever been in the history of doing a thing.   Can you play an example of Bach that you think exemplifies both like the spiritual but also the kind of gamelike aspect of it in its structure?  Oh my. You know there is something in the inventions which I mean he is just chilling at home. And he is like it is tough out there in the streets you all. So kids I am going to write you these inventions. And he writes these pieces that are among the most standard of the repertoire. If you are a classical pianist you have to know these inventions. It was some of the first things I learned. And you research and find out he wrote these for his kids. But there are two voices which I really enjoy. You know there is . That is the left hand. And the right hand's . And it is moving all of a sudden. But it is just two voices. You see  the simplicity of how he makes something that is just two melodies playing in conversation asking questions responding sometimes they are talking at the same time. Other times it is call and response. Sometimes it is in harmony. Sometimes there is dissonance. Just  that is life. That is our journey exemplified in a simple piece that he wrote for his kids. That is amazing.  What I sometimes do on the show when I am talking to a musician who is doing a kind of musical autobiography is to ask them to redeem a song to take a song that we would not expect them to like that they do or a song that we think of as square too corny too sentimental a song beyond redemption but that you love. So is there a song like that that comes to mind that you would like to redeem for us?  Well I love Happy And You Know It. I really like that song.  Just the children's song...  I like what it represents.  ...That you are talking about?  Yes.  You are happy and you know it clap your hands.  If you are happy and know it clap those hands .   And why do you love this?  Yes. It is something that I like about these kind of melodies these kind of nursery rhymes these children's melodies that are just so coherent. And they have a  like . It is that questionandanswer thing that I just love in music that we were talking about earlier with Thelonious Monk. Of course Monk is much more complex but  it is  at the root of it it is the same thing which is why I think children can respond to it in such an intuitive way. This kind of . And then . And that is it. Oh I get it. Now if you put a bassline on it and some different harmonies on it you can get a vibe like a . Get some church on it.  .  Just bring out some of the emotions of it. And then when you play .  .  You know it is just a  I do not know. I like it. It is cool.  Oh I like it now.  I like what you did with it .   Like  if you are happy and you know it clap your hands. If you are happy and you know it clap your hands. Oh if you are happy and you know it and you really want to show it go on and show it. If you are happy and you know it clap your hands. Yes .  Jon Batiste you have been so wonderful. I am so grateful to you. Thank you so much. You have been so generous with your music with us and  in general. Thank you.  Thank you so much. It is a pleasure to be here. And till next time.  Jon Batiste recorded in 2018. Today we featured a few of our favorite concerts we have done over the past decade. If you want to hear more FRESH AIR concerts from the last decade or previous decades it is easy at our new FRESH AIR archive site. You can find it at freshairarchive.org. 