 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show CNN's senior political reporter Nia-Malika Henderson and NBC White House Correspondent Geoff Bennett. All right let us start the show.   Aunt Betty's going to freak out because I know she is seen both of you all on the TV.  Oh my God. That is so cool. I am freaking out.  Thank you Aunt Betty.  This is like James Earl Jones saying my name. This is fantastic. I love it.  Oh my God that is going to get to her head. Oh my goodness. From NPR I am Sam Sanders - It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am taping the show this week from Washington D.C. That means I have a guest with me here in person from D.C. Nia-Malika Henderson from CNN. And also joining us from down the road at the White House Geoff Bennett NBC White House correspondent. He is working out of the White House today. You both are hearing a mariachi remix of Baby Shark this week.  Oh yes.  This song has exploded.  Oh my God.  Let us pull it up so we can hear even more of it.    Baby shark doo doo doo doo doo doo. Baby shark doo doo doo doo doo doo. Baby shark doo doo doo doo doo doo. Baby shark.  It is so good.  I know this song.  Thank you for the ear worm.  As does my niece yeah.  Well Geoff you have a kid right? Are you baby sharking with your child?  Yeah but he is too old for the Baby Shark thing. I missed Baby Shark by a couple of years thank goodness.  Oh my goodness.  My niece who is 2 knows this song very well. And she specifically shakes her little booty when she hears this song.  I love it. I love it. So this version is by La Banda del Mango. It is a mariachi remix to Baby Shark. But I am playing Baby Shark because this kids' song that is been sweeping the nation - it is now officially one of the top 40 songs in the country.  Deservedly so.  It is better than Barney. Remember those Barney songs like in the '90s and early 2000s? It is better than that.  I used to like clean up clean up everybody everywhere. That one was good. So anyways this week it was announced that the Baby Shark song is No. 32 on the Billboard Hot 100 - the 32nd most popular song in America.  And climbing I am sure.  Yes. It is definitely climbing which is crazy. It was streamed more than 20 million times last week. I want to play you guys the original so you can hear that one - the original earworm.    Baby shark doo doo doo doo doo doo. Baby shark doo doo doo doo doo doo. Baby shark doo doo doo doo doo doo. Baby shark.  It is catchy.  It really is.  It is catchy. So this version was made by a South Korean educational video company called Pinkfong. And it really started to go viral over here when there was the Baby Shark challenge where people would do the dance themselves on video including people like Ellen. But I am kind of annoyed that a song like this hits the Billboard charts because it shows how much the charts have changed over the years. Now they count things like social media likes. They count YouTube streams. So a song can make it big on the Billboard charts from YouTube now.  So some 4-year-old asking his dad to hit repeat on YouTube...  Literally.  ...Is sending Baby Shark up the charts.  Yes that sends a song up the charts. I went down the Baby Shark rabbit hole this week and I actually found a German version from like 2007. And that version - it is a lot darker. And at the end of the song the shark like eats a person. I want to play a little bit of that for you all.    Baby hai doo doo doo doo doo doo. Baby hai doo doo doo doo doo doo.  It is really weird.  This sounds like the Migos version of Baby Shark.  Baby shark.  Totally.    Kleiner hai doo doo doo doo doo doo.  I now have to pivot to a much more serious topic the news of the week. We are all going to describe our week of news in only three words but because I know what you all cover and because I know what the news was like this week all of our three words are going to focus on one topic. You know what it is.  The shutdown  The shutdown the border wall debate. It is been - what? - almost three weeks of shutdown?  It has been three weeks.  And a really weird - not weird - sad thing I saw Friday morning was that paychecks went out to federal employees with an amount of zero dollars. So you still got a check but it was just blank.  Maybe for a second you thought...  You were hopeful maybe.  And then the zero.  And you know what is so crazy about that? So there are of course those 800000 federal workers who are directly affected but then there are contractors people who work on contracts for some of these affected departments and agencies janitors food service workers security guards. They will never get paid. There is no mechanism for them to get paid back.  That is crazy. Well we each have three words about this crazy ever-evolving story. Geoff because you are in the White House right now...   ...Waiting to hear whatever the Trump White House says today. You get to go first.  So my three words - and they are alliterative because I figured why not?  Yeah.  Symbolism strategy and suffering.  OK. Unpack that.  So the - I will start with symbolism because this deadlock has moved far beyond being about policy. This is really about politics. And it has been from the beginning. So you know funding the border wall is as much a personal victory for Donald Trump as blocking funding for it is for Democrats. And the president all along has been concerned that if he makes a deal if he compromises or if he is seen as caving he would pay for that. He would pay the price for that. Strategy comes in because the White House and the president all along have miscalculated. From the very beginning when Donald Trump said he would be proud to own the mantle of shutting down the government over border security there were Republicans who were in shock over that because they saw that as an emotional reaction not a tactical one. And ever since then he is been trying to find a way out of this corner that he is painted himself into. Up until the point where he thought that once Nancy Pelosi became speaker that she might be more inclined to do a deal.  Wait. He thought...  .  ...That she would be more inclined.  Yeah.  Does he know who Nancy Pelosi is and what party she is in?  And the caucus right?  Yes.  I mean the most diverse...  Right.  ...Caucus...  Yeah.  ...That you have seen on the Democratic side.  The Democrats sent people like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to Congress.  She is not voting for a wall.  Right.  Right.  Yeah. And at one point they were trying to play Schumer and Pelosi against each other.  That as not happening.  Well exactly.  Mom and dad are a united front.  .  Yeah. Yeah.  But one of my favorite visuals of the dueling speeches about the wall this week was seeing disappointed mom and dad Nancy and Chuck...   Yes.  ...Giving their response.  Not the best staging.  Yeah. Geoff we - so your third word Geoff was suffering. What do you mean by that?  Third word was suffering for all the things we just talked about earlier - about the federal workers who are in effect held hostage by all of this.  What I wonder in all of this is why Donald Trump feels so obligated to please his base on this issue? - because what I keep saying to myself is Donald Trump where is your base going?  Right.  They are not going to go to someone else.  Yeah.  They like you.  Exactly they like you. And you are the one who said of your base that...  Yeah.  ...You could shoot someone on Fifth Avenue...  Yes.  ...And they would not go anywhere.  Yes.  And I actually believe that is true - I mean not literally the part about shooting somebody on Fifth Avenue. But they are so emotionally attached...  Yes.  ...To this president...  Yes.  ...That it is very unlikely that they would - certainly they would not vote for a Democrat. They are not going to...  They are going to go support Mitt Romney in 2020?  Exactly exactly.  Yeah. I think a couple of things account for this. One is that there really is no legislative agenda for the rest of the year beyond this wall in part because Democrats now control the House. So in many ways this border wall border security...  Is the last hurrah.  ...Is the only game in town for the Trump administration.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And every offramp that his aides or allies have tried to give him you know by expanding the deal to include DACA - maybe that is something that Democrats can get behind. We can do that. He has shut it down. And what I cannot figure out is short of declaring a national emergency what is the endgame? Like what is the acceptable way out?  Nia you have three words?  Oh my three words - one hot mess. And...   Me every week .  Yeah yeah. Right. And it really I think explains not only the situation that is going on here in Washington it also explains the immigration system right?  Yeah.  The - what is going on at the border...  Yeah.  ...Is basically these folks are coming up from Central America. And they are fleeing crime and drug-ridden gang-ridden areas in countries that are basically corrupt and in the pockets of a lot of these drug cartels. And so they are fleeing - coming here women and children some men obviously too and seeking asylum right?  Yeah.  And there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum. And the courts are completely backed up in hearing cases. And so that is one of the fundamental issues that is going on. Of course the president wants to paint it very differently.  Right.  You know there have been moments in recent history where it felt as if Republicans and Democrats were close to something on immigration. When was the last time that happened? And what did that look like?  Yeah that was 2013 right?  Oh wow.  That was right after the shellacking that came at the hands of the Republican Party or was delivered to the Republican Party at the hands of Democrats in that 2012 election where Obama did so well with black and brown voters. And the idea then was listen. As a Republican Party we need to do better with Latinos. So you had Marco Rubio who was...  I remember that.  Yeah. You remember Marco Rubio on the cover of Time magazine...  Yeah.  ...As the savior...  Yeah.  ...Of the Republican Party? He did not like that. He thought that sort of language - Christian language - was not great for him. But anyway so yeah they came up with a pretty comprehensive plan that would have a pathway to citizenship for the 11 or 12 million or so that would also include some border security ended up passing the Senate with about 14 votes from Republicans people like Lindsey Graham people like Marco Rubio people who were not around in the Senate anymore...  Yeah.  ...like Corker and Flake and Heller and the late John McCain. So that was something that they felt like OK. This is a great thing.  Yeah.  But of course it never made it...  Never made it to the House.  ...To the floor of the House. And that is - you know it was much more conservative.  That is the thing about immigration is that it has always been the third rail of our current politics.  Right.  It gets even thornier when you have an administration when you have a president who fudges with the facts. So that poisons the well of negotiation. And then if you add to the fact that the president started his campaign pitch by attacking undocumented immigrants that is why Democrats are against the wall. It is not just...  Right.  ...The fact that they say it is bad policy.  It is symbolic.  They say it is the physical representation of Donald Trump's anti-immigrant xenophobic campaign pitch. So that is why Democrats have been dug in all along...  Yeah.  ...Both on the substance of the thing and on the politics of it.  Are they smart to be as dug in as they are? - because if you look back in these Democrats' votes there have been Democrats before that have voted for border fencing and wall...  Yeah.  ...Under President...  Right.  ...Obama under President Clinton under President Bush. Like this has happened before.  Yeah.  And Democrats like Hillary Clinton and Obama have supported it.  One of the reasons they - I think Geoff hits on a great point here. And you do too. The idea that Democrats do have a past of voting for some of these - securing the Fence Act or whatever. And partly it is because they were dealing with a broker like George W. Bush - right? - who never demonized immigrants illegal immigrants and never was disparaging in the way that Donald Trump is. And that is the big problem here.  The rhetoric has changed.  Yeah. I mean they cannot be seen as a party that is essentially co-signing what they see as Donald Trump's racism.  Right.  I have three words as well. They are - about race. And both of you have already said that like in many ways this debate over immigration and the law is about race. But what I found really interesting this week is how in both their addresses Trump and - like Democrats they kind of stripped race from the debate. We did hear Trump mention race briefly in his address from the Oval Office when he alleged that illegal immigration hurts blacks. But after that he did not address it at all. And then Pelosi and Schumer talked about how the shutdown's hurting Americans but they did not address race at all.  Right.  And I think it is impossible to have a truly candid conversation about Americans and immigration and a border wall without talking about how our views on race and diversity and the browning of America affect your views on immigration.  Yeah. And if you look at polling the people who are most supportive of the wall are white evangelicals right?  Yes.  And I think the white part of that white evangelicals is probably more important than the evangelicals part of that.  Than the evangelical yeah.  The folks who are least supportive of it are African-Americans and Latinos. So there is this racial divide.  There is a cleavage.  There is also a sort of anxiety around the browning of America that quite frankly - and all the data show that from 2016 right? It was not economic anxiety. It was cultural...  Racial anxiety yeah.  ...Racial and cultural anxiety. And this idea that if you are white you were going to be displaced both economically and culturally by people who did not look like you.  Yeah. You know there is countless data points that speak to this but the one that I was you know looking at this week was this working paper from Steven Miller of Clemson University. And he found...  The other Steven Miller.  The other Steven Miller. Yes. Oh my goodness.   He found that racial resentment is a much better predictor of your thoughts on immigration than any thoughts on economic anxieties. And I think that we are not doing our part as a country if we do not have a conversation that also speaks to that.  This is one of those things where I think Donald Trump benefits from the fact that he so often floods the zone with statements and even scandal that you often forget what he is already said about a given topic. Remember when Donald Trump called African nations s-hole countries? The thing that he also said that oftentimes gets forgotten is that the next thought was why cannot we have more people from places like Norway? - which I think is instructive. He was also on the record saying that one of the reasons why he does not like immigration legal or otherwise is because he thinks that immigrants vote for Democrats which I think is also instructive. So those two things taken together I think explains his entire worldview when it comes to immigration.  Well on that note we are going to take a quick break right now. When we come back we are talking millennials and the unique factors that make us all - me included - feel so burned out. All right. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We will be right back. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests - friend of the show and veteran of the show Geoff Bennett White House correspondent for NBC News. He is such a trooper. He is joining me right now from the White House.  .  You are in the - what is the room called? I do not even know.  Oh the NBC White House booth.  .  So you are like how...  So right behind the briefing room.  OK.  Tiny tiny booths those are.  That is right. It is like an airline seat.  Glad you are here. Yes. Yes. And here in studio with me is Nia-Malika Henderson senior political reporter for CNN - your first time here.  I know.  I am so happy you are here.  I hope to become a friend of the show.  You already are.  Yes. Great.  You already are. So I want to talk to you both about a story you might have missed this week 'ecause you were covering other things.   Right.  But my Internet all week was consumed with conversation about one particular story from one reporter at one news outlet. I am talking about this article from Anne Helen Petersen at BuzzFeed all about millennial burnout. Did you guys see this?  Yeah.  So the article is called How Millennials Became The Burnout Generation. And in this piece Anne Helen basically argues that millennials are suffering right now from this unique and kind of constant state of burnout that is really shaped by the economy and the Internet and all these other kinds of things that are specific to how this group came of age. This article was big. It sparked dozens of response think pieces thousands of tweets. BuzzFeed even made a quiz based on the article so we can all find out just how burnt out we are. I took the quiz. I got a 33 out of 54 - mildly burnt out .  I want to take it.  Take it. Take it.  Yeah I am going to take this quiz.  I am too burnt out to take the quiz.   So all this to say there was a lot to unpack with this piece. So I called up Anne Helen Petersen to talk about all the buzz and the arguments that she sparked with this story on burnout. Hey. How are you?  I am great. How are you?  I am good. So let us talk about that burnout and talk about your piece which I have been seeing literally all over the Internet for a good week now. What do you mean exactly by that phrase?  So I think that what I was conceiving of as burnout and what most people conceive of as burnout is something that you reach and then you recover from. And so I really rejected that I was dealing with burnout in any capacity. I was like no I am not burnt out. Like I am just working. You know I keep working so I cannot be burnt out. And what happened was that I started doing a lot of reading on burnout and on like why I could not get simple errands done and came to realize that the way I was thinking of burnout was wrong that it for millennials - and obviously for more than just millennials - but specifically for millennials burnout has become our base temperature.  And it is like what I think you got at really well in the piece is that we simultaneously are overburdened by all these pressures and collapsing but also still working.  Yes.  And that is the maddening  state that we are in.  Yeah. It is that you reach the point of collapse and then you keep going you know? It is like you finish the marathon and then you start running another marathon.  Yeah. And like you open so beautifully writing about how this can be manifested in what you call errand paralysis.  .  Like the small things that we just cannot do - you know cannot file the insurance claim cannot go to the post office. And I was like oh my God. It is me.   Well and the thing is like that term sounds ridiculous right?  Oh it totally does. Those spoiled millennials.  Like it sounds like such like - such a bourgeois problem. Or even this like oh I cannot like mail my thank-you card. But I think that everyone has a to-do list - right? - in their head written out - whatever. And there is a bottom half of that to-do list and everyone's is different. But what happens is that that bottom half keeps not getting done. And it weighs on you in a way that you internalize - shame or just like failure right? It is like OK I am like killing it in my job so why cannot I do these other things that would either like make me feel good about myself or also you know like bring me closer to my family or make me a better citizen?  Yeah.  Like you know that sort of thing.  Or even like how can I find 30 minutes away from my smartphone to do a chore?  Yeah because you feel like - I think oftentimes our being tethered to our phones is characterized as an addiction and it is more that I feel like I have to be able to be accessible at all times to my boss. Like I always need to be checking Slack...  Yes. Yeah.  ...So that I can - even if it is just to like put a little comment in there so they know that I am working.  Oh yeah.  Someone I know calls this like LARPing your job.   You are like - you are live-action role-playing your job and that is exhausting.  It is exhausting.  And that is why we are addicted to our phones.  You outline some specific factors that affect millennials that lead to this type of burnout you know for our generation. And you write about how we were expected to kind of grow up with better lives than our parents to do better than them. And we grew up in this time of relative prosperity but then we are working in this economy you know post-recession where a lot of us are doing worse than our parents. And that reality kind of also leads to this burnout. Explain that.  Yeah. I think that a lot of us entered the job force at a time when those entry-level jobs were no longer available. So trying to deal with that - right? - trying to figure out OK what is my path? Is there a path? Just blindly looking for some way to keep afloat. And let - you know to find a job let alone a career that will lead you toward something like a 401 or even the hope of ever retiring that mental load is something that we have been dealing with for a long time. So I think that like we say that we are recovered from the economic downturn. And that works differently depending on where you live in America what profession you are in you know how much student loan debt you have - all sorts of things - if you are helping support your parents. But at the same time that means that oh some of us are finally getting job stability after 10 years. So we are 10 years late right?  Yeah.  Like we are starting adulthood...  Late.  ...At 33 or 35.  Yeah. Well and then also it is like - for me I think a lot of it is the Internet and our smartphones having us always plugged in while at the same time always comparing our lives to someone else's through like Instagram. But I do not know. Like what is the biggest reason for you?  I mean the Marxist in me says capitalism. But I do not think we are going to overthrow capitalism. I think a lot of it has to do with just the veneration of labor and also like an old-fashioned Protestant work ethic which says that like suffering is good. So that is really really root and also speaks to the fact that like a lot of the criticism of the piece is that you know this is something that all generations experience. And I absolutely agree with that that burnout is not something that is unique to millennials by any means. But I think as you point out there are all of these specific factors including you know growing up into the digital like into lives that are incredibly mediated in a way that no generation has before us but also understanding like most of us have that before and after with digital technologies.  Oh yeah.  Like I had a college experience where I had you know email. But we checked it twice a day. And then I have my experience now so I can see how my life has changed.  Exactly. What are the like specific cures or remedies that you see? Like talking specifically about how to fix this problem what is it for you?  Well I think you know there was just a piece published in The New Republic by a friend of mine who actually has been thinking about burnout for a long time. His name is Jon Malesic. And he burnt out of academia. He had a tenure-track job and just left it. And what he writes about is that it is not just about curing burnout in yourself or trying to think about how can I alleviate these behaviors in myself? The real solution is thinking about how can I not create burnout in others as well? So what things are you doing as a manager as a member of a family as a friend that are making others burnt out? And I think that...  Like what?  Like from the managerial perspective - not even just oh I do not expect you to email me back but just there is no email after this time. Like we will deal with it when we get into the office...  Yeah.  ...Or trying to rely more on one-on-one communication which actually like - as much as millennials hate the phone or hate like you know Skyping in person and that sort of thing like it takes less time and also I think creates less stress because it is easier to be explicit and to not read other things into what someone's saying. So there are things like that but also just in the home you know? Like I think a lot of women I know have shown their partners that mental load cartoon that I reference in the piece...  Yeah.  ...That is about - it is not just about dividing chores. It is about who is carrying the mental load of trying to like make all the trains come in on time in our family home. So once you make the other partner in the relationship aware of that they can be much more mindful about trying to help you with that as well. So yeah I know that is all abstract. But I really do think that like just talking about it and having language to talk about it explicitly is incredibly helpful.  Well I have to say I am so glad that we had this talk. It has been...  Yes.  ...The buzz of my social circles all week. When we told NPR that we were going to talk to you for this piece a fellow producer for a different show said quote oh good. Please talk to her. I have never read anything that spoke so clearly to my deepest soul.  Oh .  So your work is working.  Ah thank you so much. This has been wonderful.  Thank you.  All right bye.  Bye bye.   Many thanks again to Anne Helen Petersen for talking with me about her BuzzFeed article all about millennials and burnout. So what did you guys think about that?  The article was interesting. I did not really relate to it. And I could not figure out if it is because I am a Gen Xer if I am black or because like I kind of grew up very working-class because a lot of - I felt like there were a lot of markers of class. And like at one point...  Yeah.  Yeah.  She said you know her to-do list included getting knives sharpened. And I was like I did not know - I mean is that - are you taking your knives out to get sharpened?  .  Is that like a thing? I...  That is a thing.  That is a thing.   Yeah I did not know. So in that way I could not necessarily relate.  Yeah.  But the whole idea of burnout - my goodness. Last night as I was - you know as I was prepping for work my girlfriend came down. And she basically said babe I am about to go to bed. And I said really? It is 30. Are you sure you want...  Yeah.  You know - and I think you know this is burnout. She is a doctor. She works very hard.  Also you are still working at 30 p.m. .  Yeah I am still working at 30. But - and she wants to go to bed at 30. And I think at our age you know going to bed at 30  is probably the norm...  Yeah.  ...And maybe recommended for some of these millennials...  .  ...Who might be burning the midnight oil...  Yeah.  ...A little bit much.  You got to sleep kid.  Yes get to sleep.  So Geoff you saw the article.  Yeah. And I am a millennial. And I will have to say that millennials do not own a monopoly on burnout. But I think the thing here is sort of the cult of expectation right? I mean a lot of us grew up assuming that by the time you hit 22 23 you would be the CEO of some Fortune 500 company right?  .  And so if that does not happen what is wrong with you? It only means you have to work harder. The thing I have learned in my sort of edge of millennialness  is that you just got to focus on the work. Focus on the work. Trust the process. When you get up on the...   That is like the 76ers.  Yes.  ...Social climbing the ladder climbing stuff starts to open up to you. And if you are not an entry-level CEO when you graduate from college you will be OK.  You know I read the article. And I am 34.  Yeah.  I am an old millennial. And I was like oh shit. It is me.  Yeah yeah.  And I...  You have to go get your knives sharpened.  .  I know. He is going to do it. It is what he is doing after the show.  Exactly. But you know she talked candidly with me about knowing that the way that she wrote that piece was just from her...  Yeah.  ...Perspective as an upper-class white woman. And you know there is this burden nowadays to make sure that the one thing that you make speaks to everyone. And she is grappling with that. And she knows that she is writing as a privileged white woman. But I also know and she also knows that we would all hate it even more if she tried to write the perspective of a black person.  I think that is right yeah.  You know?  Yeah. And I think the issue is - and it is great to have her voice out there. I think the issue is are these the only voices...  Yes.  ...That are out there? But listen. She clearly is from a different background. And my goodness the article was so well-researched and so...  And she is a brilliant writer. I have been a fan of hers for a while.  Yeah brilliant writer clearly a super achiever yeah. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah you know it is funny. We talked about solutions for this problem. And one of the things she told me that she finds helpful is that before she goes to bed she puts the phone on airplane mode. And then she reads a book...  Yeah yeah.  ...Because something about reading a book - it does not hurt your brain as much as that constant scroll of social media.  Oh I think that is right yeah. Yeah.  You know? And for me I really think the root of all of this evil and all this young people burnout is social media...  I completely agree.  ...And our phones. Our brains are not wired for that...  Yeah.  ...Constant bombardment of stuff.  Yeah.  And whenever I feel like it is becoming too much I turn the phone off and leave it in the other side of the room for a few hours.  Yeah.  That is true because for so many people the phone is the first thing you turn to in the morning. And it is the last thing you see at night.  Exactly. So the article is called How Millennials Became The Burnout Generation. All right time for a break. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That?   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two great guests Geoff Bennett White House correspondent for NBC News and Nia-Malika Henderson senior political reporter for CNN. It is time for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Basically I share three quotes from the week. You got to tell me who said it or get a key word from the story then you get a point. The winner gets as you know absolutely nothing.  .  Yes.  Speed round because Geoff has to run. He is at the White House right now. First quote is it is false and defamatory to suggest that blank does not use cutlery or does not wash his hands. Also it is false and defamatory to suggest that blank lives or has ever lived in a basement cupboard or under the stairs.  God I have no idea.  .  Someone who is always fighting with media.  Donald Trump.   .  Someone who is linked to Trump and linked to Russia and linked to leaks about Russia. He lives in an embassy somewhere.  Oh yeah.  Oh.  What is - yeah yeah. I...  Julian Assange.  Yeah yes. Yes.  Julian Assange.  Wow we are horrible already.  It is OK. I will give that point to neither of you.   His legal team this week gave a long list of things they want the media to stop saying about him because they say that those false and defamatory statements hurt him. As we know Assange has been locked up in an Ecuadorian embassy in London since June 2012. And there is been reports that it is kind of nasty in that embassy where he stays.  Yeah.  Lives in a basement cupboard or under the stairs.  Jeez.  .  Poor Julian.  I know.  All right 0-0. Next quote - the sponsors of events need to get permission from people when they get them to take their picture next to products.  Oh I know this one.  Tell me.  Jamie Lee Curtis...  Yes.   ...Next to...  Wow.  ...Fiji girl...  Nice.  ...Fiji lady.  Jamie Lee Curtis...  Oh Fiji. That is right.  ...The actress was one of the many actresses...  Yeah.  ...At the Golden Globes red carpet who was pictured with that Fiji bottled water woman.