 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. What are the odds? While reporting on the rollout of Obamacare Steven Brill got an education in being a patient. He was diagnosed with a lifethreatening condition that required heart surgery. This was not long after he would written a special report for Time magazine investigating the inflated charges in hospital bills. After winning a National Magazine Award for that report he ended up with pages and pages of his own inflated and confusing hospital charges. Now he is written a book about the political fights and the medical and pharmaceutical industry lobbying that made it difficult to pass any health care reform and led to the compromises of the Affordable Care Act which enables millions more people to afford health insurance but also adds new layers of bureaucracy and many confusing new regulations. Brill is a journalist who also founded Court TV American Lawyer magazine 10 regional legal newspapers and Brill's Content magazine. He teaches journalism at Yale. Steven Brill welcome to FRESH AIR. After writing your Time magazine story about the cost of health care and why individual items cost so much you got very sick. You were diagnosed with an aortic aneurysm that required heart surgery. So this was as you were in the middle of researching your current book America's Bitter Pill. What are some of the things that you learned about the difference between being a patient and being a journalist when it comes to health care?  Well the first thing I learned was something that you and I probably can appreciate on an intellectual basis but not on an emotional basis which is that a patient in the American health care system has very little leverage has very little knowledge has very little power. Now I knew that I would written it and as I was completing the reporting of the book literally on the last day for enrollment into the Affordable Care Act on the exchanges on March 31 I was told that I had this heart problem. And actually I did not get very sick at all I was feeling completely fine. But I was just told that I had this bubble on my heart which would show no symptoms at all but it just had a 15 to 17 percent chance each year of bursting and if it did I would be dead before I got to the operating room. So there I was you know a reporter who had made hospital presidents and hospital executives and health care executives and insurance company executives you know sweat because I asked them all kinds of questions about their salaries and their profit margins and now I was you know lying on a gurney in a hospital in real fear of my life. And at that moment I was not worried about cost I was not worried about you know a costbenefit analysis of this drug or this medical device. I was not worried about health care policy. And it drove home to me the reality that in addition to being a tough political issue because of all the money involved health care is a toxic political issue because of all the fear and the emotion involved.  Are there things you previously as a journalist might have thought of as being unnecessary in terms of health care and too expensive that now seemed really worth it to you?  Well it is not a question of whether if you are stepping back and saying well is it worth it that you sort of make a different kind of an analysis. It is just that when you are a patient when you are in pain when you are in fear you do not make that analysis at all and you do not want anyone to make that analysis. This is a matter of pain versus no pain life versus death and if a doctor says you need you know two blood tests today just to be sure you say fine. You know if I need five I will do five. If I need 10 I will do 10. If I need two xrays of my chest after I have open heart surgery you know that is OK with me. Whatever you say I will do because I am terrified.  So for your Time magazine story you would studied seven people's bills and did a linebyline analysis of how the charges were computed and why they were so high. What was your bill? What was your total bill?  The total bill for the surgeon the hospitalization the test and everything was approximately 190000.  How much of that did you have to pay?  Of which I paid  I think I paid probably 12000 of it. I exhausted the deductible on the policy that my wife and I had. And once I paid the 12000 I was indifferent to all the costs because I was paying zero. Once I achieved you know my maximum outofpocket as they say you know nothing mattered to me.  OK so you write that you got 36 different firstclass envelopes from UnitedHealthcare which was your insurer and each had an explanation of benefits  one of those papers that says this is not a bill but it tells you everything that you were expensed for.  Right.  So each had an explanation of benefits for a separate treatment related to your surgery or one for a prescription drug or for each lab test done outside the hospital one for each doctor one covering your main hospital bill. So when you got these explanations of benefits did you immediately know how to read them? 'ecause you would done a whole story about this. Like you were a pro in how to analyze these bills.  Well I am supposed to you know I think of myself as a fairly welleducated person. I have a law degree from Yale and as you point out I would been writing about this stuff and reading this stuff for a long time. And I could not understand most of those you know  for starters it is hard to understand why you get 36 different firstclass envelopes with 36 different pieces of paper from the same insurance company on the same day. That tells you something about the efficiency of the health care industry right there. But then as you open each envelope they are as completely unintelligible to me as they are to you and as they are to everyone listening but better yet they are also unintelligible apparently to the people who write them. I got to do what is you know probably a reporter's dream and probably something a lot of our listeners would love to do which is I took one of those explanation of benefits which said amount billed  zero amount insurance company paid  zero and in the third column said amount you owe  154.   Makes no sense.  OK so it makes no sense. But here's what I got to do. I had scheduled as part of the reporting for my book an interview with the CEO of UnitedHealthcare the largest health insurance company in the United States and my health insurance company as it turns out. So I went out to Minnesota to interview him and asked him all kinds of questions about what he thought the impact of the Obama health reforms was likely to be. And at the end I took that explanation of benefits out of my suit pocket and said you know I am wondering if you could do me a favor could you explain this to me? Amount billed  zero amount insurance company paid  zero amount you owe  154. How can I owe 154 if nothing was billed? And he looks at it and he looks at it and looks up at me and says I could sit here all day and I could not explain that to you. I have no idea why they sent this to you. And I said well are not you they?  .  And he said well yeah. He said I just cannot decode it I am at a loss. And then he sort of  he took a breath and then he thought of another way to explain it. So he said well you know New York state regulations  which is where I live in New York state  New York state regulations I think require us to word it exactly that way. That is what it must be. And I said to one of his aides who was you know nervously sitting there taking notes while this interview was going on I said would you mind just you know sending me those regs when you have a chance. And he got even more nervous because he knew there were no such regs. And sure enough he sent me a regulation from the State of New York Insurance Department  the only statement of which was that explanations of benefits are supposed to be sent in a clear manner so that the average layperson can understand them which was not quite what had happened. So here's the CEO of the largest health insurance company in the United States unable to explain the most basic communication that his company provides to its customers.  Did you pay that 150?  No. I mean I would not even know how to pay it. Who would I write the check to? Amount billed was zero.  And what  did you get subsequent EOPs and bills saying hey you owe that 150...  No. It just sort of  it obviously was some kind of mistake.  OK.  But these mistakes happen all the time to people.  And you spend so much time on the phone. And a theory many of us have is that the health insurance companies intentionally make some mistakes thinking you do not have the time to make those phone calls. And probably you do not even have the time to examine the bills that carefully and you will just assume you do not understand it. So you will pay what you are told.  Right. Well now I am going to say something that is going to get you and your listeners angry maybe.  OK. Try me.  And that is that the insurance companies are not really the bad actors in this movie. The insurance companies are in many ways like us. They pay health care bills. And the culprit here and the reason that the Affordable Care Act does not work  is not going to work  is that nothing has been done to curb the marketplace of exorbitant bills and exorbitant profiteering on the part of hospitals medical device makers and obviously the drug companies. And the insurance companies are as much the victim of that as we are. Now they are terribly managed. I mean again you know the CEO of the largest company cannot even explain you know what his bill means. You know they are incompetently managed. They are not very nice people when you get them on the phone but they are sort of stuck in the same ditch we are in which is being forced  unlike the payers for health care in any other developed country on the planet being forced to pay uncontrolled exorbitant prices and high profits that are generated by nonprofit hospitals and by drug companies and medical device makers. So in that sense I kind of feel sorry for them.  OK. Let us look at some more charges on your hospitalization bill. And let us specifically start with what you were charged for the surgery and the eightday stay in the hospital. You say that was a total of 149872.50. Do I have that right?  But who is counting? Yes.   But who is counting? So 20992 of that was for use of the operating room during your sixandhalfhour operation. Does that seem like a reasonable charge for you? It is very  I assume it was a kind of hightech surgery. We are talking openheart surgery.  Yeah but you know let us just step back for a second. There are two ways to look at this. The first way to look at it which is certainly the way I was looking at it the morning after my surgery and the morning eight days later when I walked out of that place a healthy person is that those people saved my life. So in that sense would I beg borrow and steal or insist that my insurance company beg borrow and steal to pay for all of that? Yes. Were the people there you know highly professional highly skilled? Did they care a lot about me? Yes. So in that sense it is reasonable. If it had been 249000 I guess I would have thought it was reasonable. In the sense that if you step back the way I did as a reporter and look at the economics of health care in the United States it is absurd. That nonprofit hospital makes a lot of profit. The executives are highly compensated. The people who sell all the equipment that is in that operating room have humongous profit margins. The drugs that I was given  the prescription drugs that I was given have humongous profit margins. And we have done nothing in this country unlike every other country in the free world to control that because we have lived with the illusion that health care can be a free market. One of the hospitals that I write about in the book  the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston  had an operating profit  the year that the patient I wrote about who was stopped downstairs from getting his first cancer treatment because his check did not clear  they had an operating profit margin of 24 percent. That is an incredible profit margin. And yet they are thought of as a nonprofit you know charitable organization. They do great work. They save lives. But you know everybody involved except actually most of the doctors and the nurses is making a ton of money.  My understanding of that is that hospitals spend a lot of money on people who come into the emergency room and then maybe get admitted who do not have health insurance. So they are basically charity cases that the hospital takes on. And the money for that has to come from someplace. What is your understanding of that?  Well two things. First of all hospitals spend a lot of money on charity care for people who come into the emergency room and then they spend still more money on lawyers and bill collectors hounding those people and suing those people into bankruptcy. Sixty percent of the personal bankruptcies in the United States are the result of health care bills. And it is not like you know people wander into the emergency room because they want to get something for free. You know nobody does that voluntarily. This is their health we are talking about. Second the Affordable Care Act really changes that because a lot of those people are now insured. So one of the reasons the American Hospital Association  the hospital's lobby  supported Obamacare was because Obamacare created so many new paying customers for them who would now be able to pay so they would not have to sue them to collect on their bills. They would now show up with insurance. So the hospitals are doing much better. The forprofit hospitals are reporting record profits as a result of Obamacare. And the nonprofit hospitals are typically believe it or not more profitable than the forprofit hospitals.  If you are just joining us my guest is Steven Brill and his new book is called America's Bitter Pill Money Politics Backroom Deals And The Fight To Fix Our Broken Healthcare System. Let us take a short break and then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR and if you are just joining us my guest is journalist Steven Brill  author of the new book America's Bitter Pill Money Politics BackRoom Deals And The Fight To Fix Our Broken Healthcare System. And it is a story of all the deals that enabled the Affordable Health Care Act to be passed. And it is also an analysis of what works and what does not work with Obamacare. You write in your book that a lot of people blame doctors for the high cost of health care but you do not think doctors are responsible for that. And so I want to talk about doctor's fees. Let us take a look first at your bill again from when you had the openheart surgery. Your surgeon's bill was 19500 which it was an over six hour surgery and a difficult one and your life was saved. So first I want to tip my hat to your surgeon and thank him for saving your life and for doing a good job. But does that seem like an especially high amount?  Well let us remember this particular surgeon you know they keep stats in New York on the success rate of these kinds of operations. And he is in the 99.9tenths percentile. So he not only succeeded with me but he is you know he is one of the best of the best. The second is as I recall his bill was 19000 but the insurance company their discount reduced that bill to something like six or 7000.  Oh.  So...  What is the point of that? I never understand that. Why is the billing number so high if they know they are not going to be...  So you will feel good about your insurance. So you will feel great about your insurance.  Seriously is that why?  Yeah.  Did it make you feel great about your insurance?  Well look at it this way  so suppose you have a coinsurance of 20 percent. So you get a bill from a doctor you know for a surgery like this and let us keep the math easy. So let us say the bill was for 20000. And then let us say the insurance company's prenegotiated discount for doctors in the surgery group where he practices brought that down to 10000. Then since you are only paying 20 percent you pay 2000. So you look at the bill and you say oh my god I got 20000 worth of surgery for 2000  thank god I have insurance. So that sounds like a pretty good deal. Now in the case of this doctor it is a good deal but when your hospital as I point out in the book is billing you 77 for a box of gauze pads that you could buy at you know Walgreens for twoandahalf dollars  if that  and you are getting a 77 bill for it and then you see that your insurance company got a 50 percent discount off of what is called the chargemaster price  the 77 price. Well a 50 percent discount off of 77 if you are still paying 38andahalfdollars for a box of gauze pads it is not such a great deal.  You saw a lot of different doctors in a lot of different specialties when you were in the hospital and you think some of that might not have been necessary.  I do not know.  You do not know right. OK. You do not know. But you...  But that is actually the larger point which is we never know. And we rely on doctors to make those judgments. But to come back to your question about you know my surgeon of all the ills in the healthcare industry if you sort of stuck them up you know that would be pretty far down my priority list. For example  you know the fact that you know you can be a salesman selling CAT scan equipment that hospitals do not need in you know Southern Connecticut and you can make two or 300000 doing that each year or that you can be a hospital administrator in Pittsburgh making 5 million a year  the fact that my surgeon might make you know seven or 800000 a year which is you know the equivalent of a senior associate at a Wall Street law firm that does not keep me up at night. That guy is saving two or three lives a day and he might be making what a junior partner or senior associate doing debentures at a Wall Street law firm makes. That is not one of you know the great scandals in our society.  Steven Brill will be back in the second half of the show. His new book is called America's Bitter Pill. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest is journalist Steven Brill author of the new book America's Bitter Pill Money Politics Backroom Deals And The Fight To Fix Our Broken Healthcare System. It is a followup to his 2013 Time magazine cover story investigating inflated and incomprehensible hospital bills. While reporting on the rollout of the Affordable Health Care Act he became a patient. He was diagnosed with an aortic aneurysm and required openheart surgery. He is recovered now. Let us get back to our discussion about the Affordable Care Act. The pharmaceutical lobby supported the Affordable Care Act. What did they get...  As well they should.  What did they get from it and what did they insist on?  Again what they got  what everybody got  and the reason the Affordable Care Act passed was all the businesses that employ you know tens and hundreds of millions of dollars worth of lobbyists in Washington  the pharmaceutical companies the medical device makers the hospital industry the people who you know who make CAT scans and MRIs  you name it  they all got a lot more new paying customers  because if more people have health insurance that means more people can pay into the system. So there are more people who will be you know who will get a prescription for Celebrex and their insurance companies will pay Pfizer the same money that my insurance company paid. So you know that is a great deal. You know basically what Obamacare did was a very good thing. It gave tens of millions more people in this country the opportunity to have health care. And it is  you know it is a longtime national disgrace that we are the only developed country where tens of millions of our citizens cannot get health care. So what Obamacare does is it gives tens of millions of people the opportunity to get insurance coverage. That is the good news. The bad news is that the way it does is it is it provides them with subsidies that taxpayers pay so they can get that insurance or in the case of people who are poor 100 percent subsidy by expanding the Medicaid program so that the taxpayers are paying for tens of millions of new customers to pay the same exorbitant prices in fees that everybody else has been paying and which makes health care in the United States roughly the equivalent of 16 to 18 percent of our gross domestic product when all of our competitive countries  it is maybe 9 or 10 percent.  So you explained how the pharmaceutical industry benefits from the Affordable Care Act  because so many people  so many more people now have benefits and can afford to buy medication...  Right.  ...Because it is all or partially covered. The pharmaceutical industry also lobbied against items that they did not want in Obamacare. What were the things they did not want to see in Obama care?  So there are two or three proposals when it comes to prescription drugs that the pharmaceutical industry has resisted. One of them is  let us finance something called comparative effectiveness studies. We will have you know a group of professional doctors you know with peerreviewed studies and they will look at drug A which let us say is you know 100 a pill versus drug B which is 10 a pill. And they will report objectively if drug B at 10 a pill is as effective as drug A at 100 a pill. The pharmaceutical industry fought that and got that defeated. The second piece was  let us let the biggest buyer of drugs in the world Medicare negotiate the price that it pays for those drugs. The pharmaceutical industry fought that and as a result the law continues to be that Medicare has to pay the pharmaceutical industry whatever they say their wholesale price is for drugs plus an additional 6 percent. That is how it stayed. So the third piece of reform on the drug side was  let us let people buy drugs in Canada. If they come from you know the exact same supply pipeline the same drug in the same packaging why cannot they you know do mailorder sales into Canada? And that would just kill the industry in the United States because the dirty little secret is that the exact same prescription drug in the United States is typically 40 or 50 percent less in Canada in the United Kingdom in France in Germany in Australia in every other country in the world because every other country in the world controls the price of monopoly drugs. And all drugs if they have a patent have been given a monopoly by the government. And usually when the government gives someone a monopoly it regulates the price  not so with prescription drugs in the United States.  Would the drug companies say therefore Americans are doing more to support the drug research than other countries are because we have a bigger  there is a bigger profit margin here? We pay higher prices.  Well that is one of their arguments which is the very high profit margins that drugs earn in the United States is necessary for the research and development that creates products that save people not only in the United States but around the world. Now the answer to that first is the math does not add up. If you look at the financial reports that these companies file with the SEC and with other regulatory bodies their expenses on research and development in no way justify the profit margins that they are taking. That is the first point. But the second point is I do not remember who signed the United States up to support research and development to help you know patients in Japan and Germany and France and England. Why do not you know we even out all the prices?  If you are just joining us my guest is Steven Brill on his new book. It is called America's Bitter Pill and it is about the behindthescenes negotiations that led to the Affordable Care Act  the dealmaking behind the Affordable Care Act. And it is also about what that means in terms of the pricing for health care now. Let us take a short break and then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Steven Brill. His new book America's Bitter Pill is about all the backroom deals that led to Obamacare how Obamacare was only passed after all these deals were made both in Congress and with the medical industry with the insurance industry and so on. And nearly two years ago he had an article in Time magazine that was actually the full edition that was about pricing. And it examined seven people's medical bills and tried to figure out why are the prices so high? Who is making the profits? In terms of the dealmaking that enabled the passage of Obamacare you write that Republicans who had always opposed the right of Americans to buy drugs through Canada and have that paid for by their health insurance companies they actually launched a plan to try to block some of Obamacare or block all of it by supporting the liberal position of allowing Americans to buy drugs from Canada and having that paid for by their health care company. And that the whole goal of supporting the liberals in that was to get the pharmaceutical industry to block Obamacare.  Exactly.  So that a way of defeating Obamacare was to support liberal Democrats in wanting Americans to buy cheaper drugs from Canada and have their health insurance company pay for that.  Well that is right because they knew it would be shot down. It was you know a completely cynical play. And you know let us step back and sort of look at the big picture. What I think most Americans do not understand about Obamacare is Obamacare is a Republican policy position. Obamacare is slightly more conservative than a plan that Richard Nixon proposed in the '70s to headoff a Ted Kennedy plan that was much more liberal. Obamacare is more conservative than Romneycare. So imagine the Democrats' surprise when they sort of finally relent through Senator Baucus in the Senate and write a bill that basically you know kind of throws in the towel on decades of Republican opposition to more liberal plans and throws in the towel and says all right we are going to go along with the Republican plan. We are going to do Romneycare for the country. And the Republicans still oppose it and oppose it vehemently. And oppose it by taking measures like the one you have described where they actually say well we will write an amendment into the bill that if it passes people will be allowed to buy drugs from Canada. And we know that if that is  that if that amendment is sitting in the bill the allpowerful pharmaceutical lobbyists will get enough Democrats and Republicans to oppose the bill that the whole thing will go down in flames. And let me just you know stress something here; the lobbyists  you know this is a nonpartisan sport. The lobbyists were just as influential on the Democrats when Obamacare was being written as they were on the Republicans. The most obvious example is there is nothing of any substance in this bill about medical tort reform. And any expert who ever has looked at this dispassionately will tell you that the lack of tort reform is what allows hospitals and doctors either the reason or the excuse  you can take your pick  either the reason or the excuse to over test in the emergency room to order many more lab tests than are necessary to order MRIs or CAT scans whenever anybody comes in and says they have a headache. Tort reform is nowhere to be found in Obamacare.  You are very critical of the Obama administration in terms of the bureaucratic administration of Obamacare and all the problems that the administration had with the website when it was launched as an example of that. And you write that you knew something was wrong when you asked different people well who is in charge of administering Obamacare and you got seven different answers  seven different people were mentioned as the person who is administering it. So what did that tell you?  Well I was going to do another big Time story about the triumphant launch of Obamacare because I thought it would be you know all these you know people in government you know the law's been passed and then in October of 2013 it was going to launch. And I thought I would write sort of the inside ticktock of how they pulled it off. And as I started my reporting during the summer as you mentioned I began with the innocent question of OK who is in charge of this thing? And I got you know seven different answers. And I remember coming you know back to New York that night from Washington after reading my notes and telling my wife well this story is not going to work because they are not going to launch. And I think again the reason I did this book is I think in every respect this whole saga of Obamacare  the politics of it the bitter you know partisan politics of it the lobbying and in this case the challenge of governance  all are emblematic of what is really eating away at our country. The incompetence in the White House  you know we can agree or disagree with the president on his policies on his goals on his aims  but there have never been a group of people who more incompetently launch something and it is principally because the people in the administration who knew it was going wrong went to the president directly with memos and in person and to his chief of staff and said we need to bring people in from the outside to launch this. And the president was protected mostly by Valerie Jarrett from doing anything. And I guess one of the really sadder aspects of this is that nobody who knew what was going wrong spoke out and still has not spoken out even in the aftermath of the whole thing being a total bust and for at least a year discrediting the whole notion that government could actually run a program.  So you are saying Obama was protected by his own people from knowing what was going wrong?  He was protected but  you know what?  at the end of the day he is responsible. He kept getting reports; he kept getting all these green lights on his laptop of all you know on a grid  everything's going great everything's going great. Literally the night before the launch on October 1 his chief of staff called a friend of his and said we are going to knock your socks off tomorrow. Well he was right about that. But you know the president you know whatever we can say about him on policy and on giving speeches as a manager he failed. He did not know what was going on in the single most important initiative of his administration.  There are several challenges now to Obamacare. There is challenges in Congress there is challenges in the courts. Of all the challenges to all or part of Obamacare which do you think poses the biggest threat to the program now?  I do not think ultimately any of those challenges are threats in the sense that it will be repealed. I think the big challenge and the one I really try to focus on in the book is that there is going to come a point  it is going to be you know in the next few years  where something is going to snap. We cannot pay for this. We cannot pay for this. It is great that more people are getting health care but we cannot continue to be a country where health care prices are 40 50 60 percent higher than they are in every other country where the health care results are as good or better than ours. It is just unsustainable. So the only ray of hope I have is that Obamacare will force changes in the cost structure just because there are going to be so many more people buying health care that we will just have to change the cost structure. That was sort of the implicit expectation that Governor Romney had in Massachusetts which i