 I must start by acknowledging something that we share in common. I was creeping through your Instagram page as I do with all of my guests before I interview them and I discovered that you are a big fan of the 99-cents store.  Do not.  I just did.  Like you do not - I guess you do understand. Like I - there are a few things that send me into a place of euphoria instantaneously.   From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Tituss Burgess really really really loves 99-cents stores. If you look at his Instagram there are these videos of him like walking the aisles confessing his love for just about everything on every shelf. It is intense.  Ninety-nine-cents stores most closely resemble jazz.  Do tell.  You are there for one thing and you come out with all sorts of gadgets and doodads that would not make sense to anyone else. But once you have assembled the composition I mean it is just the best improvisation I think I have ever discovered in retail form.  My guest today is Tituss Burgess veteran Broadway actor star of the Netflix show Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt and lover of 99-cents stores. What I found out with Titus in this chat is that his career like his relationship with 99-cents stores it is jazz. It is improv. There are a lot of notes and it is kind of full of surprises. Most of you know Tituss Burgess from his role as Titus Andromedon on Kimmy Schmidt. He plays this gay black man living in New York City desperately trying to make it on Broadway but plagued by self-doubt after years of rejection. And this character Titus Andromedon is loud big in your face. But like I said Tituss' career is improv. It is jazz. And there is a lot more music in there than just that role. You will find out in this chat that in real life he is pretty much nothing like his character on Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt. He is a lot quieter a lot more reserved. And he is got a lot more going on than just that show. For instance Tituss is writing his own musical right now. It is a side of Tituss Burgess you have never seen - well heard - before. All right I was in LA. Tituss was in New York for this chat. Enjoy.   Testing one two three. Testing one two three.  Hi Tituss.  Hello.  How are you?  I am busy. How you doing?  Booked and busy.  Booked and busy.  Listen. It is better to be busy than not busy right?  Yes it is.  When were you the least busiest - I guess before this all started for you and you were ascendant? Like what was it like to feel not busy? I am sure you had a time when that was the truth for you.  Do you know? I am the least busy when I am filming.  Why is that?  Because there is so much downtime.  Huh what do you do during filming when you are not filming and there is that downtime? How do you...  I mean I write while it is happening. And I write - I was working on a musical I have written.  How much can you tell me about that?  I can tell you lot about it.  Oh do it. Do it.  I bought the rights to The Preacher's Wife.  Oh be still my heart.  Yes sir - starring Denzel Washington and...  Oh I know I know.  All right. And I wrote the book - excuse me - I wrote the lyrics and the score. And I hired a young lady who is a writer on Unbreakable to do the book. And we had a really successful reading about two months ago. And we are going to London this summer to do a workshop. And then we will go from there.  That is exciting though. That is a lot of work.  It is a great deal of work. But it is a labor of love. And I did not have the idea. It just came to me so I was obedient.  What do you mean you were obedient? What? Who brought it to you?  Obedient to the call.  I like that.  Yeah I mean some things you create and some things are created for you and sent to you I feel. And those are the things that - at least in my experience - a symbol themselves with very little effort on your part. That is how this is turning out for me.  Yeah so I want to talk all about the newest season of Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt.  You will remember far more than I will.   Tell me why that is the case.  Because we have been done for like a year.  Oh it is been that long?  Almost yeah.  OK so for this last season - and I do not want to give away spoilers because I have screwed up before and given away spoilers to stuff and heard it from our listeners. But how much can you tell us about Titus' journey in this last season of Kimmy Schmidt. He is feeling some fame thanks to his appearance on this Netflix's Daredevil series. But I do not want to say too much. What can we say?  You know I think it is - for me it is less about plot journey for Titus.  OK.  Although there are some very funny things and situations that he finds himself in ultimately Titus' greatest challenge and the largest scale journey is one that he had been starting since the series began which quite simply is considering other people's feelings before his own - the sort of crash course in optimism and relentlessness and resilience that he is learned from from Kimmy Ellie Kemper's character and coupled with the unbridled and unexpected surprise of the love that he - or the wealth of love gravity of love that he feels for Mikey has sort of ambushed him into becoming a different version of himself. And I think finally giving over to that and diving into the epicenter of that results in a lovely arc for him. And I think audiences will be pleased when they see the end.  Yeah. And Mikey is his on-again off-again boyfriend in that show.  That is correct.  Yeah. Was it hard for you to channel all that you need to make and be a character who was so candid and so himself all the time?  No I am very much like that. But what is very - what was very hard for me was the level of outrage and effeminacy in his person. I have no problems with effeminacy but I am not overly effeminate. And so to channel that energy at 4 oclock in the morning and to be on a 10 - you know I hover around a one.  .  And I do not like to be around a lot of people. And I rarely like you know dressing up and having attention drawn to me. I am dressed mostly in black all the time unless I go to an event. So I did not have trouble with that part of him. But you know the things that I just described - that was the most challenging for me.  Yeah. You know I imagine one of the biggest challenges in playing that kind of character and being the kind of person you are in real life is when fans see you in public...  They are so disappointed.   Viewers come up to you expecting Titus Andromedon. They get Tituss Burgess. Are they - what is the most common response when they come to you?  Everyone has been so far so wonderfully beautifully respectful and loving. But the - what is uncomfortable for me is the level of familiarity with which they house when they come up to me and say my name and then subsequently grab me.  Oh no.  And often time the grab comes before the acknowledgment.  That is not right.  It is not right but it is - and I think I am in a unique position because I think it is solely because my real name is Tituss.  Yeah. Are you - I mean when you first saw the first script for the first season were you like what the hell is this?  No I got it right away.   Really? Why'd you get it right away?  I - well I mean I - having had worked with them before I understood their tonality. And you know if anyone was going to make a comedy out of such a dark dark premise it was going to be Robert Carlock and Tina Fey.  Yeah. You have talked at length before - and I do not want to make you drag it out again but you have talked before about how your character Titus Andromedon who is this eccentric theatrical black gay man in New York - how he actually is the everyman of this show. And I think that even that idea is beautifully quietly subversive. But I want you to let our listeners know why you think he is the everyman because I think a lot of folks watch that show and might not see that at first.  Oh. Titus is - well he is every minority ever.   And you know he is a guy with a dream. Whether he should be chasing this dream or not is inconsequential. He has a want a desire. And he - once he is rallied by his roommate he goes after it. But you know in this economy it is very difficult to often find work in the field that you were trained in and then - let alone taking in account his age and then the fact that he is not white and the fact that he is not skinny and the fact that he is gay. There are several things working against him. And then he cannot afford his rent. And he is living in a quickly gentrifying neighborhood. You know so I cannot think of a single character on television currently that more closely resembles the hardship of you know sort of the fabric of many many Americans right now than this guy no matter how dressed up in eccentricities and isms he may or may not be.  Yeah. All right time for a break. I am talking with Tituss Burgess one of the stars of the Netflix show Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt. When we come back Tituss tells me all about growing up in the country and how he got out - also that one time he worked at Disneyland on a Lion King show. All right BRB.   How much of the specifics of the challenges that this character faces in the show were true to you at points in your life? I mean...  Several of them are...  Yeah.  ...Forever true. I am still black.  Yeah.  And I am still gay.  Yeah.  And I am still overweight. And you would be surprised even at my modest level of success how difficult it is to convince - I should not say convince - how difficult it is to engage people with pre-existing ideas of what you can do based on what they have seen you do. But that is just America though is not it?   Right right.  I do not - I cannot speak for another country...  Yeah.  ...'ecause I do not live anywhere else. But...  Yeah.  You know it is hard to consider this-and but rather it has to be...  You do this. This is what you are playing. This is your role.  You do this. Exactly exactly. It is so unfortunate.  It is and it is scary. I mean it must - because like you are a creative. You want to be able to do whatever the hell you want to do. And like you have done this now iconic role on this show. I am sure a lot of folks who call the shots in Hollywood on Broadway whatever I mean are they going to typecast you because of the way you did this role? I do not...  Well they all - I do not know. But what I do know is that I am the author and finisher of my fate.   Yeah.  And I have control over how I am seen. And I have the great fortune of - and the world will see it very soon.  OK.  This is not speaking to my level of skill at composing and writing but I now have the opportunity to put content out that I have long since been creating because of Kimmy and something else that is about to be announced shortly. I do not focus on casting directors and their ability or inability or producers and their savviness and know-how. I get it. I know what is commercially necessary to create the most money. I know how this system works. I am not...  Yeah yeah.  ...Going to change it but I can create another system. And - but I will never do another job that is handed to me by someone who has not thought out the possibility that I could have been some other character but just 'ecause they have seen me - you know it is - you know who else do the same thing?  Who?  And you do not but journalists and hosts. I have had more interviews with people who regurgitate questions...  Yeah.  ...Based on the content that I have already put out rather than listen...  Yeah.  ...To the space in between the question and my answer to figure out how I communicate and the things that I find thought-provoking to get a good soundbite - to get a good interview. And it baffles me that people sit in positions of power and real influence how often they just miss whole opportunities because time is not taken to slow down and really do a little digging.  I want us to dig. And I also want to follow up 'ecause now I am being nosy. But what is the most I guess galling or insulting or uncareful question you have got in some of these interviews that you are kind of referencing?  Not so much the - they were not so much appalling or offensive as much as they were either not pertinent to the thing that I was there to promote or insensitive in a way that - or they do not listen.  .  I tell you what - oh my Lord that is my - of all the things...  Yeah.  ...In the world the - if you want to send me into a fit of rage is if you do not listen because I take care to explain it and give you as thorough an explanation or question as I possibly can because I hate for people to waste my time.  Yeah.  And I refuse to waste anyone else's time.  When did you get to the point in your life where you were like my time is important...  I was a kid.  ...My words are - really?  Yes sir.  You were that kid.  I am an only child. And my grandparents - I spent summers with them and - because my mom had to work. And I was not old enough to stay at home alone. And I had chores. And they were up at the crack of dawn in that garden and with their horses. And you heard the rooster crow and you smelled the biscuits cooking. And you knew it was time to get up.  Yeah.  And...  This is Georgia right?  In rural Georgia - in Stevens Ga. And just because you were a child did not mean you did not have things you could do. The house had to be taken care of and you needed to be fed. And there were only two people. And there was you know several cousins. But they were with their parents 'ecause - all my cousins had both parents in the home. But they would often come down for day care. Anyways the point is I knew that time is of the essence.  So you grew up in the country. What kind of kid were you? Were you enjoying that life? Were you dreaming of another life?  Oh I hated it.  What did you hate about it?  Being in the country.  .  I just knew I did not want to be there.  How did you know?  How did you know you liked girls?  I do not.  How did you know you like boys?  I did.  How did you know?  I just ...  Exactly.  I just knew.  You just knew.  Yes yeah yeah. So when you knew what did you do?  I dreamed. I sang. I did plays. I did anything that closely resembled the life that I wanted to live that I had access to as much as my mom would and folks would allow. And until I could make more decisions on my own you know to get into a place where I could call some of the shots in my little corner of my own little you know world you know that is what I did.  So then walk me through - I mean you end up on Broadway . Was it hard to get there or you just - did you finish school and just say I am going to New York now? Or I mean like...  No I went to - I worked at Disney World for a little bit to get my Equity card. And then I left after one contract. And then I went to New York and went through the few little thousands of dollars that I had. And was it hard to - it was not hard to get on Broadway but it was hard to not have a job. And it - again it was hard to convince theatrical casting directors that you can be something other than what you appear to be as you walk in the world. And people can only I suppose represent you as far as their reach goes. And some people just do not got the reach.   As not that the truth.  It is so true.  As not that the truth. You know I would spend literally an hour talking with you about the work you did at Disney 'ecause I find that fascinating.  .  But like tell me briefly what were you doing at Disney?  Oh I was in some show called the Festival Of The Lion King. I should not have been there.  The Festival Of The Lion King. OK.  Yeah it had nothing to do with The Lion King.  What?  Just used their characters and some of the songs but people were bouncing around and swinging in trapeze art and things like that. But it was fun.  What character were you?  A character that is subsequently not in The Lion King.  Oh.  That is why I am - like it would not even do for me to tell you 'ecause you would have no idea.   They just sort of threw all these things together.  OK. When we come back Tituss Burgess tells us how he would write Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt if he ran the show. BRB.   When I talk to folks in the biz my favorite part of the conversation especially the ones that go to New York to make it is asking them about their girl-I-was-so-broke moment 'ecause everyone has one. You know you are like - the last check is - you have run through it. You are waiting for the next gig. You are not getting the calls back. You are in the roach motel with five other roommates. Like you must have like that moment where you were like dear God I might not make it I am so broke get me out of this city.  Oh I always feel like I am not going to make it...   ...Even though I got some money. I...  Was there like a certain moment where you were just like oh my God?  There were several moments.  Yeah.  But they all looked the same.  Tell me about them.  And they were not so story-worthy though. But I will say I do not know how I managed to survive.  Really?  Yes. And I talk about that with my friends often because my work early on was so infrequent. And I worked - you know I sang at some churches and little one-off concerts and such. And the check would be like maybe 75 100 bucks here and there. But that is - I may have had one or two of those every two weeks and I couch hopped. And I tell you though that the dollar slice is your best friend.  .  And I would get my - literally my pennies together...  Wow.  ...Reaching in couches and such just to try and get enough money to eat.  What was the like - I do not know - biggest lesson you learned in that struggle-slice part of your life?  That I can survive anything. And it is all - I have it all to attribute to the leanness and the meatness. And they both exacerbate something about who you were have always been and who you will be. And so it allows me to walk around not questioning that 'ecause I have got a lot of other stuff to be doing than you know...  Yeah. I do want to ask a bit more about this show in Kimmy Schmidt because you know hearing you talk about being the master of your own narrative - all that I read about the show itself it is very much a production where they write the words and you all say them. Like I was reading somewhere you - like there is not that much improv in the show.  There is no improv.  Wow. What is that like for someone who...  For me it is brilliant.  Do you like that though? I mean 'ecause like you...  Oh yeah dude.  Why? OK.  I am not a stand-up comedian. I do not know how to do that.  .  I am not - I am an actor. Like give me - tell me what to say but I know how to say it.  Yeah yeah.  You know that is where my strength is and where my contribution to that is. But you know Tina Fey does not need anybody improving upon her words.   She is good. She is good.  She is good.  Yeah. Have there been any moments in which some of the words you had to say - I do not know - I mean like...  Yeah where it did not come out right?  No where you did not feel good about it.  Yeah yeah. And we - I go to them. And they either change them or they give me alts. And we do it every which way. But at the end of the day my job is to find a way to say it as convincingly as possible because whether they change the line or not is inconsequential. Because once they get to the editing room you as not - you have lost everything.  You as not have no control.  You as not got no choice. You know what I mean?  Yeah yeah.  So do not labor - do not think about it too hard.  Yeah yeah. I mean I bring this up because - and you have answered these questions before but I have to ask them. You know there have been some critiques of Tina Fey's work in this show throughout it is run about some of the roles and the way they deal with race and stereotyping and you know not seeing people or races fully. Do any of those critiques in that regard - I am talking about the geisha episode. I am talking about the Native American plotline. Do any of the critiques of those things hold water with you?  No.  Why not?  Well if people watch standalone episodes which...  It is hard to do with this show.  Right.  You need to watch the whole thing.  So - exactly. So already that is told me that they do not understand how to properly critique anything because in order to critique you must understand the scale and the beginning and the end. And if you were sans those things I will know it inside your critique. And so then I cannot have an - a discussion with you about it because it is unbalanced and unfair. And you are not equipped to discuss this with me so no.  You know I watch it. And I watched 30 Rock. I watch this show. And there are some times - as someone who loves Tina Fey's work I think I read Bossy Pants three times. Like I am a fan. I stan. But there are some moments you know when she tackles race in her writing where I am like I get it. But also should I - you know it is...  I...  It kind of makes you like go ah...  Well first of all that is the point - what you are doing now. And the second point is that we are talking about it...  Yeah.  ...Long afterward. But third of all her job is to exacerbate the folly and the ridiculous nature of stereotypes that seem to be a part of the fabric of our country. And if it is offensive to you then it means one of two things - that you disagree with the stereotype and you feel protective of the thing that is being stereotyped which then means you will probably go into the world and more severely be protective of it and try to push against it or at least change how it is seen. So she is not promoting it. She is leaning into it.  Yeah.  You know America is on the whole erring on the side of not making the best choices and chasing or following leads that are not thought through and that are haphazard and impulsive. And it shows you just who those episodes are meant for in hopes that they watch it and that it is such a glaring offensive portrayal of a thing of a person that they too will go well is that how I think? Or is that what I - you know what I mean? So I think that is why they do it.  Would you - were you making a similar kind of show and you were in charge of everything about it and similarly trying to force viewers to examine race in the way that Tina Fey is doing would you do anything differently?  I would have more black people but that is just because I would because I think black people are fascinating peoples that still have not been mined for as severely or - the sides to them have not been sufficiently exposed. You know that is how I would tell it you know just because you got to write what you know. That is the only thing I would do differently just out of sheer necessity.  Yeah. I am trying to imagine now. I mean like how would Titus' character live in that show if there were like two or three more black people in it regularly?  I do not know. I do not even know if Titus would be the - black.  .  I mean I think Kimmy would be black.  Really?  Oh yeah man. Instead of a you know bunker it would probably be about you know just getting away from some sort of familial incest or something like that or you know rape by a family member which happens more often than...  Than we care to admit.  ...Than we care to admit. Carol Kane's character she would definitely be black - some educated black lady who you know owns the building or something like that. And then you know Jane's character would probably be - maybe - her older sis who got out before you know any of this started. But she probably knows about it. You know what I mean?  Yeah - The Unbreakable Kenisha Smith.   She would not be called Kenisha. See that is another stereotype.  OK. I know a Kenisha. That is...  Yeah but her name could be Ellie.  Yes you are right. You are right. You are right. You know you have given me so many truth bombs over the course of our conversation. And I know that our listeners would love any advice you could share for folks that are still on their way up trying to make it trying to come through and get through. Give - yeah.  Do not take a no from someone who does not have the power to give you a yes in the first place.  Yes - framing that.  Amen.  Amen. I appreciate that.  This was great.  This was so delightful. I am so grateful for your time and your body of work. And I just look forward to all that you do. And I cannot wait for that Preacher's Wife musical.  I cannot wait to give it to you. Thank you so much for having me man.  Yes sir. You take care.   Many many thanks to Tituss Burgess for this chat. Final episodes for his Netflix show Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt are all out on Netflix right now. Go enjoy that show if you have not already. And while you are enjoying that show let us know that you are enjoying this show. Leave us a review on Apple podcasts. Tell your friends about the show. Send your dog photos to me as well - all the good stuff. Thank you so much for listening. Talk soon.  