 This is FRESH AIR. This is a busy weekend for cable TV with several series returning with new episodes to start the year. Our TV critic David Bianculli has opted to focus on one in particular a show he feels deserves more attention than it is gotten to date. It is the comedy series on Showtime called Episodes.  After the holidays it did not take any time at all for TV to get back into the swing of things at least on Sunday nights. Last Sunday both The Good Wife on CBS and Downton Abbey on PBS returned with strong new episodes to start the new year and ABC premiered an odd little musical comedy series called Galavant. All those shows are back with fresh episodes this Sunday and this weekend they are joined by a handful of returning cable series as well. Girls is back on HBO picking up where it left off last season with Lena Dunham's Hannah accepted to the Iowa Writers Workshop. And both House Of Lies and Shameless are back starting new seasons on Showtime with their lead characters working their way back from respectively prison and neardeath. All of these shows I watch and enjoy on a regular basis. But this year as it begins season four I would like to focus on Episodes a series that is quietly become one of the best current comedies on television. Episodes stars Tamsin Greig and Stephen Mangan as Beverly and Sean a happily married British couple who cowrote a hit TV series in England. Hollywood came calling and seduced them with prospects of fame money and the chance to adapt their highly acclaimed comedy for an American audience. In England their comedy was about an elderly history teacher whose lectures and passion inspired his students. But by the time American network TV executives were through improving it the series was a broad comedy about a coach of a high school hockey team. The series was renamed Pucks and its star instead of a stuffybutlovable old man was Matt LeBlanc. Matt LeBlanc plays an exaggerated version of himself in Episodes like Larry David does in Curb Your Enthusiasm and this TV Matt is not any more flattering a character than the TV Larry. This Matt is a selfcentered womanizer who uses his celebrity and money from Friends to coast through life and his new sitcom. In previous seasons the relationship between Matt and his British TV writers has been laughably complicated. Sean admires Matt's wealth hedonism and carefree attitude while Beverly vehemently dislikes Matt and everything he represents. But eventually she ends up sleeping with him separating from Sean and having a very tough time of it in Hollywood. Last season Sean and Beverly worked their way through their problems and got back together just in time to flee Hollywood and return to London quite happily after their American sitcom Pucks was canceled. But just when they thought they were out Hollywood pulls them back in with a reprieve for Pucks an unexpected order for new episodes that neither the writers nor the star want anything to do with but are contractually obligated to deliver. This puts the three main characters on the same side for once which somehow makes their interactions even funnier. In Sunday's season premiere of Episodes Matt LeBlanc attends the funeral of his longtime accountant only to learn that the man committed suicide after embezzling the accounts of his clients. Matt goes straight to Sean and Beverly for sympathy which he receives but only up to a point.    I do not deserve this. I am a good person.   I do not know that it is about good or bad per se.   Go along thinking everything's great. I mean not the stupid show.   Sure.   Right.   You wake up one day and half your money's gone just just gone.   Wait I am sorry say what?   What?   You said half? Half your money's gone?   Yeah.   Oh you made it sound like he took everything did not you think?   I did yeah.   Well if it is not everything...   He stole 32 million from me.   No that is a ridiculous amount of money of course.   It is insane unbelievable.   But you still have...   A little over 31. What?   Nothing.   What?   I do not want to diminish what you are going through in any way...   But?   ...But it does seem slightly less dire.   I lost 32 million.   Absolutely but the good news is you still have 31.   But the bad news is I lost 32.   Right I get it.   I do not think you do.  All three of these characters and actors have made me laugh out loud often very unexpectedly. And the rest of the ensemble cast playing network executives and other TV types adds to the overall enjoyment and excellence. Episodes was created by David Crane who worked with LeBlanc on Friends and Jeffrey Klarik one of the writers and producers on Mad About You. They know the TV world inside and out. And today when so many television shows are adapted from programs from other countries this brand of satire is particularly timely. And thanks to actors and writers who deserve much more notice than they have gotten to this point Episodes also is extremely wonderfully funny. There is a lot of competition for your Sunday night TVviewing attention but Episodes most definitely belongs on your short list.  David Bianculli is founder and editor of the website TV Worth Watching and teaches TV and film history at Rowan University in New Jersey. 