Brooke Shields There was this outside image of me that I was a Lolita or I was a very mature sexually. But then I became the most famous virgin in the world. So you can imagine my confusion! You can imagine why I needed therapy! This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot. .and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Brooke Shields is 50 years old. Her career is 49. That was my first relationship was my career I mean next to my mom. I have a very strong enduring relationship with my career. And I do not plan on divorcing it. She booked her first national modeling campaign before she was a year old. By 12 Brooke had landed a lead role in the movie Pretty Baby where she was a child actor...playing a child prostitute. Violet Im not a child! Bellocq Excuse me that is your opinion. Then there was Blue Lagoon...the sexy teen romance movie. Richard Kiss me. Emmeline You are all sticky! Richard So what? Kiss me! Emmeline Stop! I cannot breathe! Richard But I do not wanna stop. When she was 15 Brooke became the face of Calvin Klein jeans. It was a controversial campaign... Brooke You wanna know what comes between me and my Calvins? Nothing. Brooke was a sex symbol. But she was not having sex. When she wrote her first book in college she admitted she was a virgin. And then she became well known for that.  I was very naive. I had a very strict father and a very strict mother. And I was not aware. I was not sexually aware. And I had no problem talking about it because I was not ashamed of it. In fact I was sort of proud that I was standing up for myself because I was afraid! Sex scared Brooke. but her early workthe film shoots and the modeling gigsdid not. She remembers feeling safe.  The sort of odd part about it or the crazy part was that I was really just a little 13 year old kid who was so sheltered who went to regular schools who loved horses. And so there were these two kind ofthere was a juxtaposition of those two things.  I wonder if now being a mother to young girls has it changed how you think about the work that you did when you were a young woman and the question of consent?  Its a really good question. I thinkI think having children just changes everything that you think of. But what Ive really learned to appreciate is that I cannot compare them to me. I think its a very different era right now. I mean I would not want my children now to be in this industry at all. Its borderline toxic forif you are not of a certain mental and physical constitution if you dont have the right surrounding people around you. But when I was younger I felt like I did have more control because it was just my mother and myself. Brookes mom Teri...was always there with her. Brookes parents split up not long after she was born...and her mom managed her career.  How old were you when you were the prime breadwinner for your family? For you and your mom?  Oh god from eleven months until 29. I mean I was reallythat was it. I mean it wasyou know I always used to say to my mom like I wished she had taken a salary because it would have been clearer had she had taken a salary. The thing is you know it was sort of all mine but you know we bought houses we bought cars and you know werent also - not very well advised. You probably shouldnt have six homes at one time. We didnt have anybody saying You know should probably sell this before you do that. And we didnt you knowpeople wantedpeople said yes. You find the person that sort of says Sure yeah okay I can do that. You know but I waswithout my working we didnt have an income. While she was working Brooke was also...trying to manage her moms alcoholism. Brooke organized the first intervention to get her mom to rehab when she was 13. It didnt take.  When she was drunk she was nasty. You know and its hard. Its funny because people always say Well have you forgiven her? It is sort of like I forgave her the minute after she ever said anything unkind. It was almost like the split second because somewhere in my bones I knew she loved me. And she would ruin things and I would get angry but you cant get angry for someone for being weak and incapable. And she damaged almost every relationship she had. She cut almost everybody off. And I was the only thing left. But I do not resent it because I concurrently made a life. So that no matter what she was going through I didnt have to take it personally. And I could still love her and she could still love me. Somewhere along the line that became my defense mechanism and I stuck to it and I think it helped me.  When you were 29 you separated from her professionallyfinancially and as far as who was going to manage your career. Do you wish youd done that earlier?  I definitely wish I had done that earlier. I was sort of beholden to her and so afraid. And had no other people in my life that I could go to and trust because those bridges had been burned. I think that if I had had the guts tomaybe not at a teenager age but definitely pretty soon after thatif I had had the guts and the strength to leave her and get the proper professional guidance I think it would have been a wise career move. And it mightit mightve even been better personally with the two of us. But I was scared I was too weak I couldntI didnt see a way out to be honest. Brooke says it was her first husband tennis star Andre Agassi who helped her find that way out. One weekend behind her mothers back Brooke had their entire business office packed up and shipped to her new home in Las Vegas. The legal wrangling afterward between mother and daughter went on for years.  Do you remember when your finances were finally separated from your moms what the first major purchase was that you bought for yourself?  Oh god I dont think I bought anything for a really long time.  Really?  Really.  Were you afraid to spend money?  I wasnt in a very celebratory mood.  Yeah.  You know I wasnt reallythere was a lot that needed to be sold and tied up and legal fees and stuff that I really had to assume. I mean I really had to do all that. So my whole thing was justyou know actually it was spending money on her. On getting herher house sold. Getting her in a facility that could keep her healthy. Thats where all the money just started getting doled out to.  So you spent money on her but you were also setting her up to not need you.  Need me. I just wanted to get her in a position so that I could finallyI could know that there waswhatever was being dipped into was hers and was gonna last. So that I could then just sort of start earning money again. 'ecause I really needed to I kind of started at zero again. You know a lot of people start then.  Yeah you were just turning thirty.  I was just turning thirty so...  Its when many careers begin!  It was all fine. I just you knowone cancels out and the other one starts over. Coming up Brooke talks about her struggle to adapt to motherhoodand how her postpartum depression impacted her second marriage.  Im saying to him You dont understand. You dont understand. You dont understand. And he doesnt. He cant. Theres no possible way he can. But hes thehes part of the byproduct of it. And hes a casualty of it. I mentioned in the Death Sex  Money newsletter that I was spending the holidays in California. I was holiday-ing with family but also doing some fact-finding for a big life change in 2016. In about six months Arthur and I are going to leave New York City and move to the Bay Area. Hes joining the faculty at UC BerkeleyIm very proud. And Im going to be opening the west coast headquarters for Death Sex  Money. This means Ill be leaving New York City after seven yearsthe longest Ive lived anywhere since college. A lot has happened while I lived here. So Im in one of those weird moments in life...when you know everything is about to completely change...but it hasnt yet. And I need some music to go along with it. Were making a list of the songs that have been your anthems during moments of big transition. For me I spent the summer before I went to college scream-singing the song Wide Open Spaces by the Dixie Chicks while I drove around in my Dodge Shadow. For our producer Chester it was Common People by Pulp which he listened to while working up the nerve to quit a desk job he hated.  So were building a playlist over the next few months. You can find a link on the Death Sex  Money Facebook page.  It can be the soundtrack for my move...and for whatever else you have coming up this year. Speaking of big leapsbase jumper and wingsuit flier Jeb Corliss is on the next episode. We talk about his many brushes with death and how he learned to deal with fear when he was a kid getting bullied.  I never saw school as a place to go to learn something. It was a battlefield. It was a place I went to go to war. I got a real understanding of fear real early in life. And what fear was. And how to not only control fear within myself but once I learned how to kind of harness fear and understand it then I learned how to control it towhen you are getting attacked by ten people you know you cannot win physically.  This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Brooke Shields married comedy writer and producer Chris Henchy in 2001. They immediately started trying to have a baby. She was 35 and she found she needed IVF.  I sort of jumped in with humor. You know Oh Im gonna go get my eggs today! Ill tell ya how they look! You know. The hens gonna go lay em! You know whatever the thing was cause that would be my thing. That was my schtick you know. In a very strange way it made me feel like I was a normal person who had struggles. And I think all my life I have tried to a fault to prove that Im not better than anybody else. So then all of a sudden I had this struggle and I thought Oh this is great. People will identify with me now. But then what happens is then more and more of your friends start getting pregnant and having babies and youre still the one not. Or you lose your first child. Or by the time I got to my sixth IVF then I started to get a little bitter. And thats when I kind of shut down and didnt talk about it anymore.  How many miscarriages did you have?  I had just one pregnancy and miscarriage at three months. It was the first attempt. So I got pregnant in the first attempt. And so I had this unbelievable sense ofit was just going to be a great thing. And then three months into it was told it was an unviable pregnancy. And then had to basically you know give birth. That wasthat was when I kind of gotlike losing the first one was the thing that changedsort of changed me more than the whole process did.  Yeah.  You know justand you sort ofit is a very lonelyeven if you talk to people that have gone through it even with your partner or spouse or whoever like it was interesting. It was only the dog that I would allow be in the room with me. Because she just sat at my feet and she would sort of slowly come up and lick my face and then go back down. 'ecause it took a reallyit took through the night. And I remember waking up and thinking Well itsIm definitely not a kid anymore. You know it was definitelyI was older. Emotionally and just psychically I was just an older person the next morning. When Brooke did eventually get pregnant again it almost felt unexpected after so many tries. And she was thrilled.  It was like birds were flying around my head when I was pregnant. Her daughters birth wasnt easy. After 24 hours of labor Brooke needed an emergency C-section.  My uterus was like blown out of the water on the table and the babys got her cord wrapped around her four times and the doctors telling me you know You may die so weve taken precautions. It was just all veryI was just very angry at everything. And then just felt inept. And didnt realize that I was just very unhealthy you know chemically. Biochemically.  When did you realize that something was wrong?  You know it took me a while. It took me aboutit was at least between three and five weeks of just being so miserable and unhappy and scared and just out of my body and notand you know and having everybody tell me one thing. One persons telling me to stop breastfeeding. And another persons telling me to do this. And another persons telling meeverybodys got a solution. And you know you go to the doctor so many times when you have a newborn. You go every week. And its all about the baby. And you know if they say How are you? and you say Oh you know Ive been crying or Its been hard they say Oh itll pass. Youll get over it. You know its the baby blues. Or Youre tired your bodys going through a lot. And it I just kept going darker and darker and darker. You know I saw my baby goinghitting the wall. Like being flung across the room. I was the kind of  You visualized that.  I visualized that. I didnt want the doing it. But I would sit there. I would close my eyes. And these horrible things these images would come through my mind. On one visit to the doctor for my daughter I took the doctor aside and I said Can I talk to you for a second? And he said Yes. And I said Ive made a terrible mistake. I really cant do this. You have to figure it out. I need to figure out something to do. You know it wasnt about giving up the baby. It was just what do you do when youve made a horrible mistake and you cant handle something? I was like I cant do this. I thought I could. I was stupid. I should have learned. You know I couldnt have children naturally so that must have been a sign. And I should have never played with fate. I felt like I was dying. I wanted to disappear. I just wanted to separate myself from the situation and pretend it never happened and I wasnt in it. You know and even if I had to go far away I figured shed be fine you know everybody that was normal would be fine and they could take care of her. It was just a very rational hysteria. The doctor asked if Brooke would consider taking medication for postpartum depression. That infuriated Brooke  You know Im not depressed. Im not broken... ...then her husband asked her to consider it so she started taking an antidepressant. The first drug didnt workbut after a couple of tries she found a combination that seemed to help.  I then decided that that would be a perfect time to go off everything cold turkey. Because that was a brilliant idea that I had and...  Because you were fixed.  Because I was fixed. And clearly it wasnt the medication. Because I had taken all these other medications and this was just no different. I just happened to have been you know got better. Or got something. So I went off cold turkey. Hit ahit a very bad bad bad relapse. But it was the first thing that made me realize that what I had was a real thing. It was a real affliction. A biochemical shift that needed to be addressed. Whereas prior to that I was thinking I had much more control over it. And that I was just a failure.  Yeah its interesting to me that it was much easier to accept that it was your failure to be an adequate mother than it was that you had something happening with your brain chemistry.  Oh absolutely. Because see if the psychology of that for me was Ive never been normal. Ever since I was a baby I was sort of singled out as something. Then I was this. Then I had a really non-conventional life. And then so by the time I got to this I thought well of course. Of course! You didnt listen in the beginning. You had to try. You had to have a baby. You had to be normal. What were you thinking? And then of course Im not equipped to be a mother. I had an alcoholic mother. I didnt you knowI wasnt normal. So it would make sense that I would then ruin another little childs life. You know those are all the poisonous toxic thoughts that actually very clearly and rationally speak to you when you have postpartum depression.  Did it make you nervous and scared to try to have a second baby?  Have another one? No cause in my third trimester I balanced myself hormonally. I took the right medicine. I took the rightI did everything to fortify.  You were public about your struggles with postpartum depression nearly almost as it was happening. Within two years after the birth youd written a book about it.  Mhmm.  How have you talked to your daughter about that time?  Um Ive had to really make sure that I dont give her too much information because she is 12.  Yeah.  So you know my tendencymy tendency in my brain is to want to sit down and really talk about all of it. And then you look at her and youre like shes 12. She doesnt want to hear about your uterus. Shes not interested. In your ovaries shes not interested. She wants Instagram or candy. You know? Its liketheres no realI dont think theyre really ready to talk about it. And you know I have to be really really careful. And so I also cant make my struggles hers. You know I cantthat was something I really did go through and she has absolutely no part in it. You know no fault of hers. Shestheres nothing that she did. But if you dont word it right at the right time it could be interpreted that she was somehow responsible for my misery. You know what I mean? And I think that thatyou have to be really careful with not making your problems their problems. Brookes getting daily reminders of that...now that her oldest daughter is almost a teenager.  I was trying to get her out to school today and theres a sort of inordinate amount of time that shes standing in front of the mirror. And shes just posing kind of doing this with her hair and fixing herself. And I was like Can we get out the bus is coming can we please get out of the house? And I said You look fine your hair looks fine can we please go? And as I was walking to the bus I thought my god I used to fall in dance class cause I couldnt look at myself because everybody else had looked at me so much. And part of me is envious of her. Part of me is you know angry that I couldnt do that as a kid. And then part of me is so proud that she feels that waythat she is able to do that and I want to nurture that. But I have to remember shes not me and so Im instantly you talk about its like I dont know how to deal with a person like that that self-confidence! I dont know what they do.  You do know that she has to catch the bus.  And I also dont want her to be vain so Im trying to go like Stop staring at yourself! Get out of the house! It all wasit all just came kind of in at one moment. I think that you know we also as a parent your ego is so fragile. And you know I want their approval all the time. You know and Im alsoIm in competition with her for her fathers attention. Its ridiculous! Around the time that Brooke's second daughter was born Brookes mom started showing signs of dementia. After a long deterioration Teri Shields died in 2012.  Do you ever have flashes of anger at her still?  I have flashes of anger a lot but Im pissed off at her for notnot being able to stick around and watch. My kids are hysterical. Theyre so funny. We have likeweve really built the life that Id always wanted to build. So its that kind of stuff. And then I sit there and I think You know its a shame. She wasnt as strong as you are. You know She didnt like herself as much. You know she didnt learn to love herself to take care of herself. I couldnt do that for her. Like I cantyou cant do that for someone else. Thats the stuff that just kind of pisses you off. And youve got no control over it.  So youre fifty years old. When you think about where you are in your career what are you excited to do?  Im excited now to have even more energy going forward. Im producing more. I realize I have actually earned my opinions. And I think it really tookI think myI had to become this age and I think I had to lose my mother before I really could come into my own and not be waiting constantly to be picked. Or approved of. Or chosen. Or in the crowd going Ooh ooh! I can do this! Instead now and I dont know there was a shift that happened and its on my terms. So now its about what do I want to do? How do I want to spend my day?  How do you think - why do you think losing your mom led to that shift?  Because even though she wasnt present in my daily life everything was done with her in my mind. It was either I was trying to run away from her or I was running towards her. I was trying to fix her or I was trying to find someone else to fix her. I was trying to keep her alive or hiring someone else to keep her alive. I wasevery time the phone rang I thought it was going to be a healthcare professional. You know everything. Theres that sort of vice that is on your chest especially if youre a single child. Theres no other relatives. It was me and thats it. And everything I did I thought okay I better you knowI gotta call today. I gotta go visit today. And there is this preoccupation and you are watching someone just absolutely deteriorate. And youyou still have so much to do every day with it. And II cant have it anymore. Its not there. Like thats not a part of my day anymore. And with that time I just took that for myself.  Is it hard for you to share money now in your family given what you went through with your mom?  What do you mean? Like with my kids?  With your husband like figuring out finances.  No you know its a really funnywell its not funnyIts actually very embarrassing. I am having my first realnow Ive had these meetings with my accountants and lawyers since I was a kid. But I cant say Ive ever really read through a document. And it wasnt until after my mom died again I dont know what it was that I started reading all the fine print. You know its weird before youre fifty youre sort of stillyou can still go oh Im in mythese years and Ive got those people are good and I trust them and dah dah dah and you know theres all these little bubbles that you can kind of put yourself in and you dont really have to be aware of the boring horrible scary terrifying nature of money. Right? So its just recently. And tomorrow afternoon I have my first sort of really proactive I called it fully cognizant fully aware have read all the documents even know the numberstomorrow. And Im fifty.  A financial planning meeting.  A financial planning meeting where I pay attention. Ive had financial planning meetings before and I tell ya I cant wait to get out of there. Im actually going to walk in there likelike an executive producer! That I am.  That you are!  That I am now. Im going to bring a clipboard! Thats Brooke Shields. She wrote a book about her mothers death called There Was a Little Girl. Its just out in paperback. And shes executive producing and acting in a new TV series called Flower Shop Mystery. Brooke says its like Murder She Wrote but in a flower shop so for all you Jessica Fletcher fans find it on the Hallmark's mystery channel. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Or you can email us anytime with your story or feedback anytime at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And do us a favorif you like the show give us a review on iTunes. It helps other people find the show and we like to read them. Brooke Shields says that another thing thats changed since her mothers death is her sex life. She says her mom could make her feel guilty about sex even with her husband  Im reveling in it more because I dont feel like I have to apologize. I have to apologize to him for certain things.  I had carpal tunnel and people were saying you know well how did you get it? And my husband's like Ill tell you how she didnt get it! Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.