 Hey this is Anabel one of the producers here at Death Sex  Money. And this week were re-airing our most-listened-to episode of all time  its called Lets Talk About Porn. We wanted to revisit this episode because weve spent the past few weeks on the show thinking about how we learn about sex... and for many of us pornography plays a role at some point. And as youll hear in this episode our relationships with porn can be so complicated! You sent us stories about how porn helped you get comfortable with your sexuality and also how its damaged your relationships out in the real world. Okay heres the show.  Currently my wife is out of town. Weve been married for seven years. For the past 20 I have been addicted to pornography. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  Hi. Id ask that you not use my name or my location. I would like to remain anonymous.  We got this voice memo last spring from a listener Ill call James. Hed stopped looking at porn months earlier at his wifes urging. Now she was away And those old cravings were coming back.  It is hard as fucking nails for me to want to not do anything about it. Shes going to be gone for another 11 days. Im afraid that Im not strong enough to make it on my own. I hope I am. Well find out. Hearing this message made us wonder how more of you feel about porn. So we asked you. And a lot of you responded. Porn?  My husband and I both watch porn. We almost didnt get married because of it. I was living this double life of being a goodie goodie church kid and getting just depraved as hell on my computer every night. If Im not having sex Im definitely watching all sorts of porn. Its very hard for me to watch porn and not feel like im watching women get raped. I would watch it I would masturbate and then afterwards I would just feel gross. Even though it confused the hell out of me Im still thankful for it. I swear every time that I do look at it I really believe itll be my last time. But then sometime within the next week or so it creeps back and lures me in. You told us about when you first learned about porn. What turns you on. How you use porn. And why its caused real problems for some of you. Something else we learned about porn? It is hard to talk about. We use porn in our most private moments. So when I asked you about it even my most basic questions could sound really intrusive.  Do you watch on your phone or your laptop?  You know it is like desktop. I need to be comfortable.  Phone is the easiest.  Do you hold your phone up while you are watching?  Um with my left hand.   This is very technical--technical question. At their request we changed all of the names of the listeners in this episode. Including this woman who asked to go by Rose. It wasnt until she was in her 30s that she first came across porn on her smartphone.  I was looking at Tumblr and it popped up to my surprise.  And what--what'd you see?  It was a scene of two people coming into a room and they had oral sex and then they had uh traditional sex.  Did you like watching it?  I did. I wasat first I was kind of shocked. And I was at my moms house. So you know I had to put it away. And then I went back and looked at it. And uhand well the first part of it they were just so like they were in love and I was also going through a heartbreak at that time and really craving affection and love and desire. And seeing that acted out I found it satisfying.  Did you discover things by watching porn about what turned you on?  Uh a little bit. I did get dissatisfied that the camera was always focused on the woman and I was like I want to see what the guy is doing. How is he reacting to this? But I would notice that there was one girl and she just looked to be enjoying herself so much that I was like Wow! I would like to experience that. Rose spent a lot of time with porn that weekend but after that she says it started to feel boring and scripted. She doesnt watch much anymore. Antonio on the other hand is relying on porn more than ever.  The first thought that comes to my head is Thank god for gay porn that I didnt do anything because I would feel so horrible if I had. Antonio recently moved in with his boyfriend of two years. Theyre monogamous. But thats not always easy for Antonio.  You know Ill have these thoughts. And these thoughts will start growing and getting close to the surface and bubbling. I think most of my friends when we talk its a pretty general termthat you get thirsty.    And everything triggers a thought.  So when youre feeling that way do you go back to certain scenes or certain videos you know have turned you on before? Or is always kind of something thats novel and different?  No theres definitely themes to the types of videos that I watch.  Whats your type? How would you describe it?  Its always -- mostly scenarios where there is a relatively older man with a younger man. Doctor-patient teacher-student best friends dad with best friends friend. Um theres definitely some sort of authority thing going on  some sort of generational gap. You know old leading the young. Before he started dating his current boyfriend Antonio experimented with trying out some of these fantasies in real life.  I was interested in knowing if I actually lived this in reality will I want it a lot in reality. And will I really wean myself off porn if I have this. And maybe thatll be my thing.  And then Ill know that I want to be with a man whose older. And I had a couple of real life experiences and they were great they were fantastic but they were still not realistic. There was this disconnect where I liked them I enjoyed them I fantasized about them I dont know if I want to have them in my real life. I want my real life to be what I have now. Its just two guys in their early thirties and there is no stereotype or archetype. Figuring out your relationship to porn when youre in a relationship with another person is something a lot of you have tangled with. I think I hide my porn watching from him... Anytime wed have sex hed have to watch porn to get going which was a real kick in the balls. You know it makes me feel inadequate. And it makes me feel like you are looking for something that I cannot give you. In a married relationship with little to no sex at all I needed some sort of a release. I would watch with boyfriends. Or you know my husband now. This was a secret thing he did. And the only reason I found out was because I caught him one night when he wasnt in bed with me.  She doesnt care too much. Like shes OK with me watching it. She just doesnt watch any on her own that I know. Or maybe she does but I dont know. This is Martin. Hes open with his wife about how he uses porn but when he got a letter in the mail that threatened to reveal his habits publicly he panicked.  I was frightened. Like very frightened. Martin had been illegally downloading porn. A company tracked him down with his IP address and demanded 1000 for every video.  Thats actually like a really really big number. Like in my case it would have been over 30000. Then the attorneys said why dont you offer them 10000 and let us make it a deal and they accepted.  Thats a lot of money.   It is a lot of money.  Did you have the 10000 to pay a lump-sum?  I did. I was lucky enough to have it. Its money I have from my emergency fund and if something goes wrong with me or with my family then the money isnt there. Like my wife and I want to have children and you know like all that money would have been very well employed into medical bills or anything for the kid and its not there.  When did you tell your wife that --  Immediately.  Was she angry with you that you were going to lose this amount of money because of illegally downloading porn?  Luckily no. She actually was very supportive of me which I mean sounds weird because it was such a stupid way to lose money and it is enraging.  Do you still have the porn that you downloaded before?  Well they make me pay a lot of money for those movies so yes I kept them and --   Its your 10000 collection.   I mean I never watched them because it is painful to think about this. But theyre there. Martin says he still watches other porn. He streams it now. Most evenings after work after he walks the dogs and before his wife gets home. He says its relaxing. Coming up we hear from people for whom porn is the opposite of relaxing including James...the listener who was trying to resist while his wife was away.  I love her more than I love porn and eventually that was one of the largest motivators for me to want to get clean and start talking about this.    Back when we first aired this episode we also featured a listener we are calling Lily. She wrote an email to us in 2016 titled I dont watch porn I am porn.  Well every weekday I get online and I am a cam girl. And so what that means is people can pay me to do certain things that are sexual on camera. She started right after she graduated college.  I had a part-time job. I wasnt starving or you know about to be on the streets. I didnt need need the money but I wanted it. Lily performed every Monday through Friday from 10 am to noon. She told us she made anywhere from 6 dollars to 300 in a shift.  Like I will flash my boobs for this price or show my butt for this price or... um Im sorry Im feeling like shy about it. Back then Lily told us she wasnt sure how long shed keep camming. So we wanted to check in with her to see if shes still doing it today.  Yeah. I actually just did yesterday. Though its more sporadic than it used to be. She works full time in education now but says she still gets on camera once or twice a week.  It can be really fun and I make some money doing it and thats good enough I guess. We also wanted to know what camming had taught her about sex that she hadnt learned growing up.  I was pretty sheltered growing up and so once I got to college and I was on my own it was like I couldnt stand up for myself. And thats something thats changed so much. I definitely say no to people all the time when Im camming because you just have to theres no other way to do it. You have to have a thick skin and you have to be sure of yourself and know how to deal with people in a polite way but also just be really firm. All month long we have been talking about what you learned  and did not learn  about sex in our series Our Sex educations. If you want to hear all the episodes in this series visit deathsexmoney.orgsexed. On the next episode Anna talks with poet Nikki Giovanni live on stage about her fifty-year career... which started at the height of the black arts movement in the 1960s.  I am not going to get killed for writing bad poetry but there are people who have gotten killed for trying to tell the truth. And so I just think that all I wanted to do was my share and I had a story to tell and I thought that I should -- I should tell it.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. One of the things we heard from a lot of you about porn is how its shown you what you like and what you dont like. Person  I am an avid porn watcher and I have been for many many years. Person  Ive been able to explore my sexuality with it and kind of hone in on what it is that I like and what it is that turns me on. Person  Ive definitely noticed that my taste has gotten more extreme over the years. Person  She has sometimes the role of the kind of assertive dominant person. And sometimes I do. Person  One of the things I do really enjoy are um lesbian porn videos. Which is funny because I am straight identifying. Person  I think we have a very fulfilling experience because of our knowing what we want and asking for what we want. Person  I have never really watched it with a lover but it is something I would be open to. But it is very very personal to me. A listener named Michael has been watching porn  and collecting it  since he was teenager. He sees it as the ultimate form of self-care.  You know there are days where everything goes wrong and it is just like You know what I am going to give myself this and it is going to feel good. And uh I am going to use this beautiful material to love myself for 20 minutes. Michaels married now and he watches porn a few times a week. He keeps his collection on a special hard drive that he has not shown anyone.  My porn is really really boring you know. It is like these videos of domestic couples making breakfast together and then having sex you know and it is beautifully lit and shot. And so it made me realize OK -- this more sadomasochistic stuff is not -- is not for me.  You were drawn to like domestic scenes.  Oh yeah yeah is not that funny?  Um...and also it was an affirmation I think of who I was as a person. I had a lot of questions about -- or I did not have questions let me rephrase that. I did not have questions about who I was sexually as a teenager and you know I have always been attracted to girls. But when people meet me their first assumption is that I am gay because I have this feminine... these feminine gestures about me the way I carry myself. And so I think watching porn completely in private and investigating what aroused me gave me a very safe space to figure out and affirm Yup this is what I like.  Hmm. Was that comforting?  Yes.  Absolutely.  Have you ever felt like you are using porn too much and you need to let go of it?  Yeah I do I have -- there have been times um you know well when you are a teenager it is like all night. But you know in my mid twenties or so it would be like OK I have done this for three hours that is probably too much.  But then like deleting the collection is like a gut reaction -- it is like a knee-jerk reaction to go extreme in the other way. And --  Would you delete it?  Yeah! But then of course I always have a backup.  You always have a backup and you know you have a backup.  Always have a backup Anna.  So you would delete it because you felt ashamed?  Yes. And then I would say Wait a minute. Where is that shame coming from? Why do I feel shame about this when it feels so good? I think All right what would happen if I died and you know my wife's rooting through and my family is rooting through my belongings and they find my hard drive full of porn. Were they going to think Oh my god! My son how could he? Look at all this porn? Why is it not accepted to be attracted to beautiful images? I do not have shame in it like I am happy to admit it.  But you think about what will happen if you die suddenly? And what people will find.  Yeah if they -- they are going to find this collection of high art erotica that I tend like a rose garden.  It is highly curated. For Michael porn is precious. Something worth protecting. But for some of you porn feels like a major threat. Its taken you to dark corners of the internet...and of yourself. Like for Daniel.  When it got really bad it would be several times a day. And I was looking at it outside of the house like on my cell phone at work. Like in the bathroom and stuff.  Like you would take your phone into the bathroom at work and watch a video?  Yeah. Yeah. Mh-hmm. That was about three years ago. It was not a good time in Daniels life. He was drinking too much. He gained a lot of weight. His relationship with his long-time girlfriend was fraying.  And you know it kind of all just culminated into this giant ball of shit where I just started feeling really disconnected and ended up like in the hospital like in the psychiatric ward. Daniel has OCD obsessive-compulsive disorder. One of his symptoms is intrusive recurring sexual thoughts.  My OCD kind of all started with these sexual thoughts about children. And I have never hurt a child never been inappropriate in any way it is just those thoughts have popped into my head when I am having sex and those are -- that is another thing I have had to talk myself down from.  That must be terrifying.  It sucks you know. And um...it was really terrifying for a long time. Daniel says hes never looked at child pornography. Just having those thoughts about children was deeply upsetting. He says he was using other porn to escape those thoughts. Daniels getting therapy regularly now. Hes on medication too. And hes completely eliminated porn from his life. But he says its hard to stay away from it.  I still think about it on a daily basis and I would definitely say it is kind of like a craving.  Do you think it is because of your particular mental health makeup that porn is difficult for you?  Yeah yeah. I mean I do not know why it was not something else. I just feel like that was honestly the best sort of vice that was suited for me.  Mh-hmm. Yeah. Was it a problem in your relationship?  It was not one we talked about but it was definitely a problem. She would say that when we had sex sometimes it felt like I was looking like at her like she was an object just like taking in her body not like taking in her. I can kind of I mean I know what she is talking about just like kind of a disconnect.  Hmm. Is it is it possible to have sex that does not feel hard now with your girlfriend?  Sometimes yeah. I mean is there ever a time where we have sex that I do not have to talk to my brain? Like use my conscious part to talk to my sort of unconscious part? No. But it does not mean it is not good.  So like what is a sentence you have to tell yourself?  I will be like That is not real. That does not mean anything. It is -- that is not really what you want. Think about what you really want.  Has it gotten simpler since you have eliminated porn from your life?  Yeah yeah.  In what way? What is changed?  I do not go down that rabbit hole. I know it is like an addiction but I want to pull myself. I know I cannot look at it. Like if I go on the internet I will start typing into a browser and I will want to type in the address to a porn site. I can feel it. And I will just breathe. I will know how terrible it will feel if I went to one. How bad it would feel even just going and looking at it. Even if I opened it and closed it I would feel so bad. Its hard because it gives me a really intense feeling. A really intense uh sort of pleasurable feeling but its also usually followed by a lot of shame too. Daniel describes a rush followed by regret then the urge to do it all again. Like an addict. But the idea of porn as something you can be addicted to is a controversial one. The American Psychiatric Association has not classified porn addiction as a mental disorder. And this month the American Association of Sexuality Educators Counselors and Therapists spoke out against the idea of porn addiction saying scientific evidence is lacking and the term can unduly pathologize sexual problems. But understanding porn as an addiction has been useful for James the listener who was waiting for his wife to get home from her work trip.  Im afraid that I am not strong enough to make it on my own.  Were you strong enough to make it on your own?  I did. I was in a place where that feeling of of being overwhelmed by loneliness was a really bad trigger for me. But I pulled myself out of my own head.  When was the last time you consumed porn?  Somewhere in the range of about a month ago. I relapsed yeah. At the time I relapsed I was about 380 days clean. And um I was very upset with myself that I allowed myself to cross that line. Porn has been an issue in James' marriage for years. He and his wife were both virgins when they got married. And his wife told him his porn habit made her feel inexperienced and inadequate.  Finally my wife looked at me one day in the car. Wed just had a big fight. I told her again that Id looked at pornography and she said to me Im done. She says I have nothing left. Youre either going to find a way to walk free of this or Im walking away.  So it was an ultimatum.  Yeah. It was a very clear ultimatum for me.  What do you do to try to control the enticement to just go to a porn website?  Well Im very open about talking with my wife. I actually have software that monitors my web usage and submits a weekly report to her and to other individuals.  Wait to your wife?  To my wife yeah. Thats my choice. So she receives a weekly report of you know websites I visited. If she sees a trend you know shell approach me about it. In the past year its been less than three times that Ive had issues with porn and like my wife has turned to me and said you know -- and she voluntarily just came out with you know I feel like this is the best year of our marriage that weve ever had. And weve been married you know for a while. And you know full disclosure Ive had some of the best sex of my life in the past year. No matter what  whether you use porn or you dont  talking about it makes you get really honest. About what you wonder about and what feels like a step too far. Sharing your browser history can be more exposing than sharing your sexual history.  Actually I would not mind if somebody I was dating found out what I was looking at I would be like Go for it. In fact I would share it with them I hope I would share it with them. Jennifer says when shes dating its helpful to bring porn up because it quickly reveals someones personality and values around sex.  I am like When do you watch porn? What kind of porn do you watch? And I feel like it makes guys so uncomfortable. And it is not that I am trying to push their buttons but I in a way I want them to be comfortable with talking to me about it because I think it is important to just get it out of the way and you can have kind of a better sex life I mean not kind of a better sex life you can have a better sex life when all the cards are out on the table and people are willing to discuss.  What did you learn from porn about what you like?  I can get really psychological about it. I think a lot of people you know my tastes have definitely changed and then I am like What does this mean about me? Trauma in my childhood? You know just psychoanalyzing yourself. It is easy to just you know kind of explore especially on Tumblr and be like Oh this is -- I can get down with this today but maybe not tomorrow. And see something that might be a little too extreme and backpedal like I am not going to go down that road.  You mean it is sort of like there is the one part of you that is exploring maybe this is going to turn me on and there is  the other intellectual part of you that is like Is this healthy for me be indulging? Is that what you mean?  Totally. And then when you orgasm you are like Who cares? It is over! Both   Thank you to so many of you for sharing your stories about porn. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville California. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Ali LEsperance and Rich Renelique. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Thanks to Hannis Brown for additional original music and scoring in this episode. Im on twitter annasale. The show is deathsexmoney. And please go to deathsexmoney.orgdonate to support the show. Most of the stories we got from you were about internet porn but some of you took us back to simpler times when youd wander into the adult section at the video store and admire some of the great titles of yesteryear. You know like Shaving Ryans Privates was one of my favorites. Mr. Hollands Orifice. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.