 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Yesterday before extremist proTrump rioters many without masks stormed the Capitol building I recorded an interview about the mistakes missed opportunities and behindthescenes struggles that allowed the coronavirus to spread out of control across the U.S. The virus does not care about politics or the future of our democracy. The COVID numbers are spiking. And a new more deadly strain has shown up in the U.S. Yesterday we broke another singleday record for COVID deaths in the U.S. 3963. I spoke with Lawrence Wright about his new article The Plague Year which is published in the current issue of The New Yorker. His article helps answer the question why is it that America accounts for 20 of all COVID deaths although America has only 4 of the world's population? A few years ago in what now seems like a prescient move Wright started working on a novel about a flu pandemic caused by a virus that kills 45 of the people it infects. By the time the novel was published last April we were living through the COVID pandemic. There are many epidemiological and political parallels between what he imagined in his novel called The End Of October and what has happened in reality. He did a lot of research for the novel that has contributed to his reporting. Wright has also reported extensively on terrorism. He won a Pulitzer Prize for his 2000 book The Looming Tower AlQaeda And The Road To 9/11. It was adapted into a Hulu series starring Jeff Daniels and Alec Baldwin. Wright is also the author of a book investigating Scientology called Going Clear Scientology Hollywood And The Prison Of Belief which was adapted into an HBO documentary. Wright is a staff writer for The New Yorker. Lawrence Wright welcome back to FRESH AIR. So planning around the virus has been very chaotic under the Trump administration. President Biden and his administration are about to take over. Do you know what the reaction is within the CDC that Trump is leaving?   I cannot quote any of my sources. But I can tell you that they feel like the fever has broken. And you know the CDC  you know when I was a young reporter I did several stories out of the Centers for Disease Control. I lived in Atlanta. I thought it was a noble institution. It was the example of enlightened government at its best and above all other health institutions in the world. You know it had the greatest reputation. The people who worked there you know I thought they were just so remarkable. They were brave. They go off into these disease hot spots that I would not want to get close to. They were you know brilliant and humble. And to see that proud institution so handicapped so brought down so low it is just heartbreaking. So you know it is time for new leadership not just at the national level but at the CDC. And the people that work there should be given the opportunity to do what they do best.  You write about moments when events might have turned out differently turning points in the pandemic. One of the early ones was when the head of the Chinese CDC George Fu Gao assured the head of the American CDC Robert Redfield that there was no evidence of humantohuman transmission of the virus and that each case arose from exposure to exotic game at markets in China. Redfield was skeptical and offered to send a CDC team to China to help. But that never happened. Why not?  Well you know this is a question for the Chinese. But you know the same thing happened with the SARS outbreak in 2003. When that disease appeared Chinese hid symptomatic patients from world health authorities. They took them out of hospitals and put them into ambulances and checked them into hotels. And new health rules were written to try to address that kind of coverup. And once again when presented with a novel virus in this case the Chinese did something very similar. They dissembled about the nature of the disease. Redfield even questioned his counterpart on that first call on January 3 because several family members were ill at the same time. And were they all in the same wet market in Wuhan contacting wild game? It seemed unlikely. But Gao assured him that there was no humantohuman transmission. The other thing Redfield wanted to send a team into China to help out but also discern where this virus came from and what were its distinctive characteristics. Gao said you know that he was not able to invite him but you know appeal to higher authorities which Redfield did repeatedly as did our secretary of state and others. And the Chinese would never allow that. Had that happened Redfield is convinced that he would have learned in early January that this disease was spread through asymptomatic transmission. In other words people who do not seem to be sick are carrying the virus and spreading it. And as it turns out 50 to 70 of the people who are affected by this virus are in that category. Had we known that we would have addressed the question of asymptomatic transmission early on. But we really did not know it definitively until the end of February.  So one of the people who you write about Matt Pottinger was a deputy national security adviser who became aware of the virus early on. Can you talk about who he is and how he was trying to get the government to start preparing for the pandemic?  Matt Pottinger was a  I guess it is notable that he was a reporter. He had worked for Reuters and Wall Street Journal in China when the SARS epidemic broke out in 2003. And then he  at the age of 32 he joined the Marines  surprising everybody spent several tours in Afghanistan. And then he was a protege of Michael Flynn who was the first national security adviser in the Trump White House. So Flynn was out practically overnight. But Pottinger stayed through five other  national security advisers and quietly became one of the most important voices in American foreign policy. Early on at the outbreak of the you know this new virus in China he began to monitor Chinese social media. He speaks fluent Mandarin. So he was seeing a big difference between what the Chinese government was saying and what was going on in social media. And then he went to a Chinese New Year party with a lot of Chinese dissidents and former China diplomats. And there was a lot of alarm among those people. So he started calling his old sources you know doctors who were working in China and so on and getting a totally different picture. This is at a time when the American intelligence community was essentially uninterested in this virus. And so it was Pottinger who arranged the first  what became the corona task force bringing elements of the government together to talk about how to address this. And eventually they were meeting every single day. So I think many of the things that have happened that were effective  the travel ban the advocacy for a mask and so on and promoting Operation Warp Speed Matt Pottinger deserves singular credit for.  He had been a journalist with Reuters and The Wall Street Journal before he was in the military and before he worked with Michael Flynn or in the Trump administration. Do you think it was helpful that he had a journalism background that he had some understanding of what a fact is and how to handle government distortions or exaggerations of facts?  Well I think it was critical. You know for one thing you know a reporter knows how to pick up the phone and call people to ask for information rather than just you know relying on the National Security Agency to listen in on conversations. The other thing about him is that you know he was  when he was in China you know he was beaten up by a government goon you know when he spoke to a whistleblower. And he  in order to protect his sources he had to flush notes down the toilet. He was totally aware of how China would try to stage manage this outbreak. And so yeah there was  it also happened to be the case that Matt's wife was an epidemiologist who had worked at CDC and his brother was an infectious disease doctor in Washington state. So he used these informal sources you know people  doctors that he knew in China and members of his family to find out what was really going on.  My guest is Lawrence Wright a staff writer for The New Yorker. His new article in the magazine is titled The Plague Year. We recorded our interview yesterday morning. Last night Matt Pottinger Trump's deputy national security adviser who Wright has been talking about resigned in objection to Trump's encouragement of yesterday's violent protests at and in the Capitol building. We will hear more of our interview after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. If you are just joining us my guest is Lawrence Wright a staff writer for The New Yorker. His new article is called The Plague Year and it is about the mistakes and behindthescenes struggles that enabled the coronavirus to spread across America. He is also the author of a novel called The End Of October about a flu pandemic that kills 45 of the people it infects. He started writing that novel years before the current pandemic but the novel was actually published in the early days of the pandemic. The government had federal stockpiles of various emergency equipment and PPE. How come they never freed it up? Was there a big debate about that within the administration?  Yes. It is supposed to be a repository for emergency situations like the pandemic and it is supposed to be a place where states can call upon the need for you know emergency supplies  ventilators PPE that sort of thing. What happened instead in March  you know every week there is a call between the president and the governors. And of course the governors are all you know panicked about what is happening with this virus. And it had spread you know irregularly. It was it was in Washington state. It was  you know it was beginning to show up in New York in frightening amounts. So they feared an onslaught that they would not be prepared for. But they expected that the government would step in and provide. You know FEMA would be on the case the FDA. You know there would be  they would be able to withdraw PPE and ventilators from the storehouse. There were so many expectations that they had about you know what was going to happen. And the president assured them that we are behind you. And then he explained what he meant by that which was we will support you but you know as for PPE and that sort of thing you should get it yourselves. And so suddenly we had  instead of one pandemic we had 50 state epidemics thrown into the laps of these governors who were totally unprepared. So suddenly they had to go out on the market and try to find PPE mainly in China. That is where you know most of it is made. And they were bidding against each other. They would put in a bid for you know a million facemasks say Michigan. And then suddenly New York would put in  would top that. It was  Andrew Cuomo the governor of New York said it was like being on eBay. And then when they actually were able to supposedly purchase the PPE  for instance with the state of Massachusetts they bought several million masks and a number of ventilators from China  when it came into the port of New York FEMA the Federal Emergency Management Association seized it and paid a premium to the supplier. So you know the next time the governor of Massachusetts made an order for masks he sent the New England football team team plane to China to pick it up. And then they brought it back to Logan Airport and smuggled it away to hide it from the government. And this was typical. This story is replicated in virtually all of the 50 states  the governor scrambling to try to find a way to buy enough personal protective equipment for the frontline health workers at exorbitant prices because there was no national plan.  There was a debate within the Trump administration about whether to shut down travel from China and then from Europe. The debate was partially about stopping the virus versus killing the economy. Can you talk about the debate within the Trump administration between people who were arguing we have to stop the virus and people who were arguing it is going to hurt the economy and create a global depression?  Essentially there were four camps in this. The public health people typically did not believe that travel bans were useful or effective. You know they felt that there was a need for medicine and so on to flow freely and that doctors needed to go in and out of infected areas. They thought it was stigmatized countries that were facing a contagion like this. So there was reluctance inside the public health contingent. The economic people and the Treasury and the Office of Management and Budget and the chief of staff at the time Mick Mulvaney were fiercely opposed to any kind of travel ban and  because you know it blocks trade. You know it would kill the travel industry. You know there were economic ramifications that they were really fearful of. And you know then the State Department was sort of neutral on that. They just mainly wanted to get the diplomats out of Wuhan. And then there was Matt Pottinger. He had the view which was unorthodox that a travel ban was the only thing we could do immediately to try to stop the transmission into the United States. And he eventually was able to swing the argument around and even he swung the president around with great reluctance.  Trump takes a lot of credit for shutting down travel from China. When asked early on like what have you done to stop the pandemic he always said you know I shut down China travel. That had a really big effect. What was his role in doing that? Did he have to be convinced?  He did have to be convinced but he was convinced I mean you know he does deserve some credit for that. Unfortunately the time we bought to you know try to slow the transmission inside the United States was squandered. So it made in the end no difference at all.  Let us talk about the coronavirus task force which initially held almost daily public briefings. And sometimes Trump would attend and sometimes he would not. What exists of the task force now? Does it still exist?  Nominally. It does not really meet. You know it was created essentially in the National Security Council by Matt Pottinger who assembled a group of you know Cabinet officers and deputies to try to formulate some kind of policy to address this novel influenza that was circulating in China. And that eventually became the task force. At first it was headed by Alex Azar the head of Health and Human Services. And then Trump bumped him off and appointed Mike Pence in the role. And then  and really it came to an end when Scott Atlas you know a presidential adviser who was a radiologist and had no experience in epidemiologist he monopolized the president's advice. And they put him on the task force. And it essentially brought an end to it as an effective organization.  Scott Atlas who became Trump's chief medical adviser has some very outofthemainstream views about medicine. What are some of those views?  Well you know he  first of all you know and there is something to be said about his argument about keeping the schools open. But he also believed in allowing people to get infected in order to create herd immunity following the example of Sweden. And you know the truth is we are kind of following the example of Sweden and that it is  the chaos that has enveloped the country because of the divided messaging spearheaded by the president and people like Scott Atlas has undermined a clear path through this pandemic.  Do you think herd immunity is an attractive theory for President Trump? Because it basically means you do not have to do anything. The virus will kind of spread on its own. And then we will develop herd immunity. So you do not need policies. You do not need to be vigilant. You do not need to wear masks. You do not need to organize things. You know it is just going to happen.  Well the president has not said that but his policies demonstrate that that is exactly what he feels. And you know his chief of staff Mark Meadows essentially said that. You know he said that you know the virus will do what it is going to do. And it was an abject surrender essentially. And also it absolves the administration of any responsibility. From the very beginning the Trump administration has tried to deny any responsibility for this at all first of all by throwing the responsibility into the hands of the governors who were totally unprepared for it and absolving themselves of any kind of accountability for what would happen. It is  you know every country has struggled with this virus. We are not alone. But no other country had the resources that America did and the plans already in the bank to how to handle it. And so the catastrophe in America is not just because we are you know 4 of the world's population and 20 of the deaths. It is that we failed to make use of our own resources. We had plans in place. We could have confronted this virus effectively but we failed in that.  We are listening back to the interview I recorded yesterday morning with Lawrence Wright a staff writer for The New Yorker. His new article The Plague Year is in the current issue. His novel about a pandemic even more deadly than COVID is called The End Of October. We will hear more of the interview after a break. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Let us get back to my interview with Lawrence Wright a staff writer for The New Yorker. His new article is called The Plague Year and it is about the mistakes and behind the scenes struggles that enabled the coronavirus to spread across America. Before the pandemic actually years before the pandemic started he started writing a novel about a flu pandemic that was more lethal than COVID. And that novel which is called The End of October was published during the pandemic last April. You know you say that once Scott Atlas became Trump's chief medical adviser Trump stopped speaking to other health advisers. What impact do you think that had that he shut out the real epidemiologists the real infectious disease experts?  I think the message of Scott Atlas that has been taken to heart by the Trump administration is surrender. The virus will do what it is going to do. We cannot do anything effective to stop it so why do anything? And I want to  you know I will take exception to the you know Operation Warp Speed and you know the attempt to get the vaccine out and into American arms. You know give them credit for that. But you know the absence of leadership that would have curtailed the you know the spread of the virus to some extent that is simply gone.  Deborah Birx who was on the coronavirus task force ended up being a very controversial figure criticized by both the left and the right. What can you tell us about her and why she was criticized by both sides?  You know it is a fascinating story about Dr. Birx. She was the U.S. global AIDS ambassador and had been very effective in curbing the spread of AIDS in  especially in Africa and other developing countries. And she had the reputation of being tough and parsimonious and maybe a little harsh sometimes when she wanted to get her way. And that is why Matt Pottinger enlisted her to be the coronavirus task force director. And she was a highly esteemed figure in public health circles until she took that position and stood beside the president when he made some of his more outlandish statements. For instance that iconic moment when he talked about you know injecting bleach or letting sunlight inside the body somehow. And you know the camera caught her looking so pained. People attacked her for being complicit in that and you know...  Because she did not say anything. She did not interrupt and say that is ridiculous. That is dangerous.  She said that it would  probably not an effective therapy you know or a treatment. But what was she to say? You know what she might have said in private people did not hear but she was an effective advocate. And then Scott Atlas came along and  with his theories that were totally counter to public health orthodoxy. And she and Atlas had it out in the Oval Office. And it was pretty clear that the president was going to side with Atlas. And so Birx decided to take to the road. And it is interesting. She was the only federal official who actually was going state to state talking to governors talking to university authorities public health people tribal chiefs. You know she went to 43 states and visited more than 30 universities driving around with Irum Zaidi her chief epidemiologist  who likes to drive fast. She got a ticket for driving  she did not get a ticket. She got off from a ticket in Texas which is hard to do. She was driving 110 trying to get to an appointment in New Mexico. But you know they spent  they covered the United States three times you know. And I think it was a noble effort on her part you know talking to people on a statetostate level in person giving them advice about how to  the most effective means of trying to stop the the epidemic in their own state.  You write that Trump subverted his health agencies by installing political operatives who meddled with the science and suppressed the truth. Give us an example of that.  Well the best example is Michael Caputo. And he was appointed the chief information officer for Health and Human Services. And of course HHS is the Cabinet position that oversees the National Institutes of Health the Center for Disease Control the Food and Drug Administration. And the person who is in charge of messaging for that entire installment of our public health  Michael Caputo. He had  he was the best friend of Roger Stone the convicted political operative and prankster. He had worked in Russia where he spent some time working for Gazprom. And allegedly his  one of his tasks was to try to polish the image of Vladimir Putin. You know this is the person that was appointed to oversee all of the messaging. And one of the things that he wanted to do was have an ad campaign using celebrities talking about how the president is treating you know confronting the coronavirus. And in order to do this it was essentially a political ad but he took 300 million out of the CDC budget to fund this. And it never got off the ground because he could not find the celebrities that were appropriate for their message.  Let us compare that. I know the sums are really different. But Peter Navarro the trade adviser wrote a memo at the end of February proposing a 3 billion supplemental budget appropriation to accelerate the vaccines PPE for frontline workers and effective therapeutics. And Mick Mulvaney Trump's acting chief of staff decided 800 million was enough for now. So instead of getting 3 billion it was 800 million to accelerate the vaccines PPE and effective therapeutics. What was the thinking behind that? What was that  what went on behind the scenes in that incident?  Well in that incident the  you know the money people won they did not want to hurt the economy. And they needed to do a gesture that would show that the administration was paying attention. And 800 million was no more than a gesture. was no more than a gesture. It would not even be enough to get the vaccine through one trial. You know it was a feckless proposal. And even  it is rare in Congress to see you know senators from the Republican Party arguing that more money was needed.  Let us take a short break here. I want to talk with you about your novel which is about a pandemic. And you learned a lot about pandemics from writing that novel. But first we have to take a short break. If you are just joining us my guest is Lawrence Wright. He is a staff writer for The New Yorker. He has a new article called The Plague Year which is about the pandemic. We will be right back after we take a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to my interview with Lawrence Wright a staff writer for The New Yorker. His new article is called The Plague Here. And it is about the mistakes and behindthescenes struggles that enabled the coronavirus to spread across America. He is also the author of a novel called The End Of October. That is about an even more lethal pandemic that kind of decimates the world and creates chaos in every aspect of life and government around the world. And he started writing that years before the current pandemic. But it was published last April during the COVID pandemic. Why did you want to write a novel about a pandemic before we actually had one?  Well you know I  as I said I had written stories out of CDC when I was a young reporter. And I was enchanted honestly by the world of public health and the kinds of people that are involved in it. And it seemed like a place where you could find a real modernday hero. And I also thought  you know when I was young I read about the 1918 flu. And you know this was an interesting experience  pandemic you know that was largely forgotten until fairly recent times. And you know it killed between 40 and 100 million people 675000 Americans died. That is more than all the American soldiers in all the wars of the 20th century you know? And yet it was essentially buried in public consciousness. And I thought if there is anything that is really a threat to civilization it is another pandemic like 1918. So I began researching it. And I was asking my sources you know if something like the 1918 flu came back would we be any better prepared than our ancestors? And I was pretty shocked by the answer.  What was the answer?  Well there is  with a new pandemic a novel virus we have  that we have no vaccine for and no effective therapeutics we would be in exactly the same boat. And the only way you can deal with it at the beginning until you have vaccines and therapeutics is through what are called nonpharmaceutical interventions. And that is social distancing handwashing and masks  you know? The only difference in a century you know is that we have better masks. But you know we are in the same boat. We do not have the tools. Now...  We have a vaccine now...  Well we do now but...  ...In theory.   Yeah. But  and you know science has not  I mean in 1918 science barely knew what a virus was. So you know we are far advanced in that. But I think that we had developed a kind of complacency with the heroic achievements of medicine in the 20th century. We thought that we had put infectious diseases to bed. And  but that was an illusion.  As part of your research you did a lot of research about earlier plagues and pandemics. What is the worst one that you researched?  Well you know I think you know they are all horrible. But you know I was really fascinated by the Black Death in Italy in the 14th century. And I had a conversation with Gianna Pomata who is a medical historian used to be at Hopkins before she retired and returned to Bologna her hometown. And I had asked her what our current plague reminds her of. And she said that mostly it reminded her of the black plague not in terms of the scale of the death  I mean the black plague killed a third of Europe  but in terms of the kind of consequences that might be available. You know the Black Death essentially began the process of ending the Middle Ages. All the presumptions that you know we had about the society about religion about you know the medieval medicine they were thrown out the window. And what eventually replaced the Middle Ages was a renaissance. So Gianna was hopeful. And it inspired me to think that you know we could maybe have a kind of renaissance politically and economically because we have seen how our country has failed in so many different ways. And the pandemic has been kind of like an Xray into the broken places in our society.  But we need the right people to recognize that. We need the right government to recognize that and rebuild.  Well it is up to us to make those things happen. I mean I am not saying that because we have had this tragedy and we failed so miserably we are going to have a renaissance. But I am saying that we know that we need one. And you know there have been times in America's history when  you know like World War II where you know  we built the most powerful economy in the history of the world in the Great Depression where we reshaped our society in the middle of the Depression making it you know more just and equal. So  and  but then you know there is Vietnam and there is the invasion of Iraq where we you know we had largely failed. And you know it is up to us as a people to address the the failings that we see in our society and make a better country.  In creating your novel did you want to create a competent or an incompetent federal government?   I wanted to create a government that was  that resembled the government we have. I made a little calendar on my computer and it was essentially keyed to what happened in 1918. So I superimposed the experience of 1918 on what would happen now. And so roughly speaking you know if you look through the events in my novel they mirror what happened you know a century before. And then I also used you know the current time that we live in as a way of you know addressing how are we going to handle such a thing? And that was  you know that is  I wanted it to be a kind of cautionary tale. Unfortunately  at the time it came out you know we were already you know swimming in this sea of the virus. And you know the book  you know people thought I was exploiting the epidemic. And there was one presenter in England who said I suppose no one would pay any attention to this at all if it were not for this pandemic...   ...As if it was some sort of sinister publishing plot on my part to put out a book and then when all the bookstores are closed...  Yeah right  yeah a brilliant scheme. Let me reintroduce you here. If you are just joining us my guest is journalist Lawrence Wright. His new article in The New Yorker is titled The Plague Year and it is about the mistakes and behindthescenes struggles that enabled the coronavirus to spread across America. We will be right back after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. My guest is Lawrence Wright a staff writer for The New Yorker. His latest article is called The Plague Year and it chronicles the first year of the COVID epidemic. He is also the author of a novel about a flu pandemic. He started that novel before  was published last April during the pandemic. What did you get right in your novel that foreshadowed how the Trump administration responded to the pandemic?  Oh a lot of weird things  you know I  for instance you know a task force was set up and the vice president was put in charge. You know that  a lot of people pointed to that. To me there were a lot of things I knew would happen and did happen because I had done the research. And I talked to the experts and they laid out for me what would happen. And so I used their  you know that kind of background to paint a portrait of what would happen to our country if we had this  had a pandemic like 1918. And so when people say that you know that it is eerie that I made it so similar to what actually happened it is not eerie. It is just you know using the research that I would done to imagine how we are actually going to be effected. And you know all of the information was available to the government that I used. In fact you know there were tabletop exercises that I studied that were done by even the Trump administration that would show how would we behave in the face of a pandemic? And we behaved exactly as they fe