 Hi. I am Isabel. I am 4 years old. Elise is my mom. This week on the show Washington Post tech culture reporter Nitasha Tiku and Farhad Manjoo opinion columnist for The New York Times. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. We are coming to you this week from NPR member station KQED in San Francisco. And I am joined by our guests this week that were introduced by my 4-year-old - Nitasha Tiku tech culture reporter at The Washington Post. Hey Nitasha.  Hey. Thanks for having me.  It is good to see you in real life.  I know.  We have talked...  After years.  ...A lot before.  Yeah.  Exactly. And Farhad Manjoo an opinion columnist at a little newspaper you might know called The New York Times. Hey Farhad.  Hey. Good to be here.  Do you all know who we are listening to?   Yes. Billie Eilish.  There you...  .  ...Go. Do you know why she is in the news?  No.  She is going to do the James Bond theme song?  That is right.  Really?  The 18-year-old...  Yeah.  ...Has been chosen to create the theme song for No Time To Die the next Daniel Craig James Bond flick. She calls it a huge honor. What do you think of the choice?  I did not really know this was a huge honor. Like I did not...   ...Know that Bond theme song was like a prize up for grabs. But it you know - her sort of style does seem to fit with - if I were to pick an artist who would be James Bond-y she seems kind of James Bond-y.  Yeah. I think maybe the James Bond franchise is angling for like TikToks. Billie Eilish is...  Oh .  ...Really popular on TikTok. So you know maybe by honor it is also like a good financial incentive for everyone.  Yeah. Marketing.  Daniel Craig has said this is his last Bond. He is been doing it since Casino Royale in 2006 when Billie Eilish was 4 years old.  Wow.  Wild.   OK. Let us get into the news. Each week we ask our guests to describe some news from the week in three words. This week because we are here in San Francisco you all have some news and tech intersections I presume for your three words. Nitasha you go first.  OK. My three words are stuck in neutral which I think describes the way that like kind of intractable social and political topics in Silicon Valley we often end up reverting back to square one. So I think of it as like a regressive tendency. And it really came into focus for me recently when I was working on this profile of this top Google public policy executive named Ross LaJeunesse. And he alleges that he was pushed out of the company last year for demanding that Google make stronger commitments to prioritizing human rights which is something that he thought was necessary when he learned about Project Dragonfly. I do not know if you guys are - well....  The Chinese search engine.  ...I know Farhad is. Yeah.  Yeah.  Exactly - the censored Android search app which would link your phone numbers to your searches - obviously a huge concern in China. And Ross had been working for Google for 11 years. But the really interesting thing about him is that he was Google's man in China in 2010. Well just to back up a little bit...  Yeah. Remind us why...  Yeah.  ...Google had to take a stance about its China policy anyway.  So they first launched a censored search engine in 2006. And you know the argument at the time was that Google would be able to make the society more open. They would be candid about what was being censored. And of course that is not what happened.  China do not play that.  Yeah. You know the government was emboldened. They asked for more takedowns. And then Google discovered that there was a really sophisticated cyberattack originating in China to look at the Gmail accounts - to hack the Gmail accounts of dissidents and human rights activists. And that...  And that could have been at the behest of the state or the state doing it.  That is what is implied between the lines. You know when I went back to 2010 and I am reading the arguments about like oh you know we did not know that this was going to you know fall out this way I guess we have a new responsibility and it felt like a decade later you know the same debate is happening. And rather than have a conversation about like OK obviously you know Google just turned into a trillion-dollar company...  Right.  ...You know we are a trillion-dollar company. We are financially incentivized to go into countries with weak rule of law. Let us put in measures of accountability some external oversight like look at U.N. standards - commit to those publicly. It is like back to square one of like well is censored search results in China a good thing? And I just noticed this tendency.  They are just having the same argument.  Yeah.  Yeah. I read Ross's Medium post just sort of like telling why he left Google...  Yeah.  ...And sort of arguing that it had changed. And I thought it was really interesting because I mean I think a lot of people have documented this huge change within Google where it used to be kind of this freewheeling internal culture. And it really kind of became the template for I think all tech companies since then. Like you know Uber is sort of Google-ish. And Facebook is kind of run in that way. But now you know you and others have documented how Google is just sort of changing. They have this big kind of anti-union push in the company. They have fired organizers. They have fired sort of internal activists. It seems like a different kind of company. And also it seems like you cannot raise these things - these concerns within Google the way you may have once been able to.  It is rather wild to me that we rely - like as a society we rely on these giant companies to be benevolent because for so long it is just like well Google has not really acted poorly so they can just continue to run things. And we will trust or give them this inherent trust that they can run our massive systems and have a huge lever on society without complaint. But that sort of raises the issue of whether there should be more responsible parties.  Yeah exactly.  And where do you come down on that?  Yeah. Well I think that you know the China question is fascinating because that is actually I think where the myth of like this conscientious tech worker who is going to step in if anybody crosses the line came into play. And you just cannot rely on the personal you know morality or politics of any individual executive. You know that was like - in that case it was Sergey Brin Google's co-founder. But as we have seen you know that Larry and Sergey are sort of pushed out of Google. And so I think having those - like they do not want anyone in the room who is going to seriously question them. I think we have seen that across the board with the push for self-regulation from every tech company. But you know the time is way past nigh to...  So does that mean it is time for external regulation?  I feel like with external regulation that is like step 10 and we do not even have like basic transparency right now into the decisions that they are making.  Yeah although I think - you know we are seeing this push for regulation that is really coming from Washington and activists and other companies. I really wonder if consumers really care at all. I do not think it is been sort of a politically resonant issue. And the companies are doing really well. Like the market does not seem to think that they are going to be in for any kind of regulation at this point you know? I think that kind of getting to a place where the public and regulators and the companies can you know put really effective controls on these companies - I - it seems a long way off to me.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here this week at NPR member station KQED with Nitasha Tiku tech culture reporter at The Washington Post and Farhad Manjoo opinion columnist at The New York Times. Farhad you are up. What are your three words?  Unlock your iPhone question mark. Does that count?  Question mark - yeah. No that is perfect. Say more.  There is been this fight between law enforcement and tech companies about encryption about how law enforcement how the courts can get access to your data on your devices. And the fight has really been between Apple and the FBI. And it kind of came about again last week when Attorney General Bill Barr criticized Apple for not doing enough he said to get them inside the phone of the shooter at the naval base in Pensacola Fla. last year. And the FBI wants to get inside the phone and Apple has ways for them to get into sort of cloud data. But the phone itself all the data on it is encrypted. And you need some kind of Face ID or fingerprint or code to get inside and law enforcement cannot get inside.  But neither can Apple right?  Neither can Apple.  Apple claims that it cannot get inside.  Right. So the way Apple has designed these phones is you know they say out of a respect for privacy. If you do not have a legal way to get into the phone you cannot. The data is encrypted and Apple says it does not have a way to get inside. The fight then really becomes like whether Apple should build some way for law enforcement to access the data on your phone. This is kind of a reprise of a battle they had in 2016 when the FBI at the time was wanting Apple to open the phone of the terrorist in San Bernardino Calif.  OK.  And there was a sort of a big legal fight and at the last minute the FBI dropped its fight before there was going to sort of be any kind of real courtroom action. And they went to a third-party cybersecurity company that you know got them inside the iPhone. But that route according to the FBI is sort of drying up. Like Apple patches...  Is patching it.  ...The security flaws in its phones and so there is sort of less vulnerable to kind of other ways to get into the phone. So I mean this is a fight that I think is going to be with us for a while because there is this kind of fundamental question of should we let law enforcement get in our phones? You know if they have a legal way...  Well in the name of public safety is law enforcement's or the government's argument right?  Yeah. I mean but there is a - I think there are a lot of other considerations here. You know we were talking about other governments. If Apple builds a way for the FBI to get inside your phone that same way could be used if you know the government of Saudi Arabia orders it to get inside someone's phone or China or someone else. You know Apple has to obey the laws wherever it operates and so their argument is that it makes everyone less safe if you have some kind of backdoor into the iPhone. And I think it is just going to be a battle that we have you know over the next decade or more to figure out like what is the line there between you know when law enforcement can get inside a phone and you know not just phones - kind of all of our digital devices now.  What is different about the stakes now in 2020 and with this administration versus the last time you...  I mean it is - in some ways the fight is the same but all the context has changed. So you know Tim Cook has been really one of the best friends of the Trump administration. In the various different rounds of tariffs imposed on China Apple got waivers and got exempted from a number of them because you know Tim Cook has sort of played the game well. And I think that it is going to be more difficult for kind of Apple to navigate this especially because Trump is just much more aggressive than the Obama administration was about this question.  Nitasha what have you observed as you have watched this latest round of this privacy versus public safety battle?  Well what Farhad was saying about the context changing I think that is so key you know? Like the hypothetical authoritarian regime abusing this back door just is you know in the headlines.  Yeah.  Like you do not really have to stretch your imagination at all.  I mean we at The New York Times have been doing this yearlong project on privacy. And we have you know seen in that project in - kind of in a number of other reporting that there is just so much data that the tech industry collects on people that - and it is so hard to avoid you know? Even if you do not use Facebook even if you do not have any - you know a smart home device there is so much that these companies can get about you in a very very intimate way and know you know essentially everything about you more than like any close family member knows about you. And this raises the stakes for you know the security of personnel around the world the security of like you know your family your safety. And it just makes it very - a much more kind of high-stakes battle because you know you get inside the data on somebody's phone you really know everything about them.  And there is a real chilling effect to feeling as if you are surveilled or just knowing that you are surveilled right? I was based in Asia. And so China comes up as an example a lot. A lot of times reporters would return to their homes and there would be policemen in their homes just rummaging through drawers not to take anything - you know they are not thieves - but just to make you aware that you were being watched. And so there is a chilling effect to that whether you are a regular person a journalist who is supposed to be a check on power or the power itself. So in light of all of this what do you think we should be doing collectively to better stand up for our values?  I mean the thing that I would say is like my biggest takeaway from kind of thinking about privacy over the last year is that I am much more cautious about adopting technology - or I think people should be more cautious about adopting new technology. I think one of the things that we should all do is just sort of slow down. Like I am really worried about cameras everywhere. Like there is been this huge discussion about this company - this doorbell camera company called Ring...  Right.  ...Which Amazon owns which Amazon bought you know relatively recently you know was a huge success. Every - lots of people are installing these doorbell cameras because it makes sense to - you know it seems like a convenient technology. Someone rings your doorbell you know at home or you want to see who it is. And you can just look at your phone and see who is at your door. But the company is creating this weird like neighborhood watch program and allowing law enforcement to look at your camera.  They like subsidized it so that law enforcement could get access to your camera. And people are putting them in their like children's room you know using them as like a baby monitor.  And the security has various flaws in it you know. People have hacked these cameras. And you hack a home security camera and suddenly you know everything about those people. And I think what was interesting is that people just rushed to buy these cameras - like the company did really well - without considering the implications of like are we creating a neighborhood surveillance device that is going to profile everyone who comes on our street? Like that could easily happen. I mean it is sort of - there are parts of it that are happening already. And no one really had this discussion.  Yeah consider the implications before you adopt.  Yeah.  Got it. All right. Time for a break. When we come back imagine an issue of Vogue magazine without any photos - why the magazine's Italian version went illustration-only for its latest issue after the break. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Elise Hu. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here this week at NPR member station KQED with Nitasha Tiku tech culture reporter at The Washington Post. Hey Nitasha.  Hey.  And Farhad Manjoo columnist at The New York Times. What is up?  Hey.  So have you heard about the best feel-good story of last weekend? Diego the giant tortoise.  Oh yeah the tortoise that had sex a lot.   Did you hear this Nitasha?  No I did not.  So Diego the giant tortoise - I love this story so much. He was sent from the San Diego Zoo down to the Galapagos Islands as part of a breeding program about 40 years ago because there were only something - some very small number of tortoises left on the island of Espanola. And after his campaign of sexual promiscuity there are now 2000 tortoises - 40...  Oh my god .  Wow.  ...Believed to have been fathered by Diego. But yeah Diego is now retiring.  So is he going back to LA?  He is 100 - . He is 100 years old.  Wait seriously?  And he is fathered...  Wow.  Yeah.  Yeah. They live past 100 right? Yeah.  He is 100. He is fathered like 800 babies. He is done his work .  I feel like we have a lot to learn from the Galapagos because did you guys remember a few years ago there was this story about a romance between two of the tortoises where they would give each other tomatoes and they had like decades-long love affair but then just like decided they did not want anything to do...  Oh wow.  ...With each other?  Maybe it was Diego.  .  Honestly I do not think so.  .  But I will send you the link.  Next week...  Yeah.  ...In our tortoise chronicles.   So something intentionally different graced the pages of Vogue magazine's Italian edition this month - not radical fashion but a radical idea. Editors put out the magazine without any glossy photographs. The entire edition is made up of illustrations - something not seen in Vogue's pages since the early 20th century. Vogue Italia came out with several different covers for its January issue each cover by a different artist. These artists do not typically illustrate fashion so the result is rather striking. One includes a painting of a woman with a long stretched neck and curves in pink and brown. Another by a Mozambique American painter depicts a bloody mosquito hovering near the drawing of a model. To talk about this issue the magazine's creative director Ferdinando Verderi joined me from Milan. He said this decision to go photo free is not just about art or design. It is about sustainability starting with what it takes to create a photo shoot.  The photo shoot which is what everything is made of today in editorial world is often - especially at this level - a very complex production. There are tons of flights involved. Clothes ship internationally up to 10 people flying from all over the world to one location and a very huge display of effort that obviously in the conversation on sustainability translate into waste pollution and carbon footprint.  We do not think about what is so wasteful I guess about a magazine's production until you list things out like this.  Well nor do we. You start looking at your own day to day and you realize that before speaking about broader topics that you can hardly affect you better start looking into what you can affect. And I think for us it was really like the provocation to ourselves. Like can a magazine be great or better if we drastically challenge the way it is produced?  Well what do you think? What is your reaction to how it turned out as a creative director? And then...  Well obviously I am partial to this question because I have actually been trying to introduce illustration - or the language since my very first issues a few months ago. I am new here a few months in. And I have sort of a lot of heart for illustration and drawing as a medium that connects to the original of Vogue. I am very pleased with the reception from the public which has been incredible. And that sort of the main goal for me to see how a visual language that would be replaced like photography of the main language of fashion. You can attract so much interest and emotions and also very pleased about how the idea came across. And obviously this is not just an artist shoot. It is an issue that has a very strong point. I tried to demonstrate it in a lighthearted and positive way trying to propose what could be a very old solution to a new problem. 'ecause obviously illustration precedes this all.  In this magazine you are highlighting the cost of production for fashion spreads. But...  Yes.  ...The production of a fashion spread or a fashion shoot a small compared to the environmental impact of the clothing industry writ large.  Yes yeah.  So how are you thinking about the industry in which you work in light of how much it costs in emissions just to produce and manufacture and ship clothing? And then this clothing obviously changes styles every season.  It is a big conversation. What we did is started from the inside that we just wanted to look at what we can to affect our day to day and inspire other publications to look into the way we operate. I am sure that fashion being a creative industry at heart will find a solution that has some beauty in it. But it is definitely not an easy one. There is obviously like an inherent conflict between selling clothes and the fact that clothes are often the cause of production processes that pollute. It is hard to imagine the future. But there are still lots of interest and opportunities to make a difference.  I want to ask a little bit about Italy because the whole world watched...  Yes.  ...As so much of Venice flooded this winter. And Venice has always been a city at risk as sea levels rise because of climate change. So I wonder did the way climate change became so visible in Venice affect your thinking or affect the editor-in-chief's thinking about this issue and if so how?  I did not say yet that the savings that are byproducts of this new production went to a foundation in Venice that is related to the conservation of art and the beauty of the city. And...  So the proceeds go back to Venice?  The savings that resulted from this streamlined production process which is the one of illustrations versus photography...  Oh right - the savings. OK.  Yeah exactly - went there. And we are dedicating an issue in February partially to this huge problem that Venice is facing. And it is something that is close to us because we are obviously geographically close and culturally very close but it is symbolic of a broader issue obviously that affects so many parts of the world. So Venice and its tight connection to sea level and to nature is for us a symbol for obviously a global issue.  You mentioned that the reaction to this issue has been exceedingly positive. You also mentioned that you wanted this to spark a conversation a larger conversation about the industry. Has it?  I think it has and I think it has received praise and criticism. The criticism is that - well you are doing an issue and then you are going back to doing it normal. Yes I mean this is part of the idea. I think this is not the solution but it is a publication an experiment to show how creativity which is one of the Vogue values - creativity is the most relevant powerful force that we are dealing with in this case and we use that as sort of like a vehicle for change. So I think that the conversation have been achieved. In fact your talking to us is proof of it. I do not think it is a conversation about Italian Vogue. I think it is a conversation about fashion opening to potentially different ways of thinking about itself.   Thanks again to Ferdinando Verderi creative director at Vogue Italia. Time for a break - when we come back a test of how closely you followed some lighter news of the week in our news quiz Who Said That? I am Elise Hu and you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here this week at NPR member station KQED with Nitasha Tiku tech culture reporter at The Washington Post. Hey Nitasha.  Hey Elise.  Also Farhad Manjoo columnist at The New York Times - hey Farhad.  Hey.  OK do not get nervous. It is my favorite time of the week - time for Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  It is a simple game. I will share a quote from the week. You guess who said it. You do not have to name the person who gave the quote if you can at least identify the story I am referring to. Best two out of three wins - wait for it - nothing but you know the prize of victory.  Right.  So first one - this should be easy - congratulations to those men. You all are staring at me with blank faces.  Congratulations to those men. I have no idea. It sounds like something Trump tweeted but...  Yeah.   It is got to be...  No it is far from it. Think opposite end of the spectrum.  Oh.  You do not have to know the name.  It was the Oscars director category.   And someone was announcing it.  Issa Rae.  OK.  Oh.  Yes yes.  That is actress Issa Rae who said that. She was announcing the Oscar nominees on Monday morning. And that line - let us hear the tape...   Martin Scorsese Todd Phillips Sam Mendes Quentin Tarantino Bong Joon-ho.  Nice.  I did it. I did.  You did it.  Thank you so much. Congratulations to those men.   I love her.   Yeah it is her one-line jab after reading the names in that category which included - I do not know if you noticed but - zero women directors. The academy failed to acknowledge female filmmakers yet again. OK so one point for Farhad. One to nothing - this is your opportunity Nitasha.  OK.  Quote number two - this is Times Square 42nd Street where New Yorkers go to relax.  That seems like a candidate who does not know anything about New York.  I think I should have done that...  Bill de Blasio.   No it was sarcastic.  Yeah .  Along with his bagel comments - oh.  It was delivered sarcastically and I feel like I should have either delivered it more sarcastically or in a more announcer-y  voice. Does that help?  Yeah.  Do you want a hint?  Yes please.  Yes.  OK. A new voice is announcing subway stops in New York.  Oh it is Awkwafina.  Look at you.   Got me beat.  All right what is the story Farhad?  She is doing the the subway announcements for one of the trains. I do not know anything about the New York subway but she is doing the announcements.  Yeah. For the next week or so on select trains...  Yeah.  ...New Yorkers will hear Golden Globe winner Awkwafina announcing stops on the subway.  That is actually a high honor.  Do you want to hear a little tape of it?  Yes please.  OK.   This is Times Square 42nd Street where New Yorkers go to relax.   This is Grand Central-42nd Street. Go for the train stay for the large clock.   Perfect.  Why is this happening? Well it is sponsored content. The announcements are running right up until the premiere of her new show Nora From Queens on Comedy Central.  Oh wow. I did not know that that was available for sponcon.  It has not been right? Historically I have never heard anyone else.  It is the continued selling-out of New York.  Woo-hoo.  Yeah.  We are nothing if not capitalist in New York. All right. So Nitasha I do not know how you come back.  Oh my God. I cannot.  But maybe just for your own pride you should try to get quote No. 3.  Yeah.  I will try. I have been trying.   Stop not trying.  Please try now.  I am not not trying.  OK. Quote No. 3 - I think I have met Mr. Hudson's absurdity with my own absurdity. This is written down so nobody - I do not have tape for this. I think I have met Mr. Hudson's absurdity with my own absurdity. It involves a court motion and a divorce.  Divorce?  Yeah.  Kate Hudson Rock Hudson .  OK. If you do not think you are going to get it I will just tell you. That is Kansas man David Ostrom. He is a divorced guy who filed a motion for a trial by combat with his ex-wife's lawyer...  Oh my God.  ...Mr. Hudson ...  Wow.  ...Featuring the finest Japanese swords he can source or forge in the next 12 weeks.  Wow.  Is this a legal option that is open to people?  The court has not yet ruled.  OK. Also I like that the sword has to be forged anew you know. He cannot get a preexisting sword.  All right. Congratulations Farhad.  Thank you.  You won nothing.  I will savor it.   Congrats all the same. Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Each Friday we ask you to share with us the best thing that happened to you all week. We encourage you to brag and you do. Let us listen to a few.  This is Kylie  from Atlanta Ga. And the best part of my week is that I randomly started writing my 8-year-old daughter little notes on a pad of paper and leaving them right where she eats her cereal in the morning. And then she will write back and leave it right by the coffee. And I have been reading it right before I go to work. And it is been the best part of my week.  This is Lauren  from Dallas Texas. And the best part of my week was that I finally after almost three years of saving signed a mortgage for a condo.  The best part of my week was I just passed my nursing Ph.D. qualifying exams.  The best part of my week was talking to my brother after he got promoted and so happy about that.  This is Clint .  And Katie .  And the best part of our week was bringing our son Benjamin  home from the hospital.  The best thing to happen to me this week was that I made the decision to go to Israel for a 10-month teaching fellowship where I will be helping to teach students English. I am really excited and nervous at the same time. But I cannot wait to go on an adventure and learn about a new country and place to call home.  This is Emmett  calling from Lincoln Vt. and I am lying in bed 6 a.m. Best thing that happened to me this week is that my 15-month-old daughter has just slept through the night for the first time ever. And my wife has just slept through the night for the first time ever.  Thanks for everything you do.  Thanks.  Thanks. Have a great week.  Bye.  Bye.  Thank you to those listeners - Kylie Lauren April  Joseph  Clint and Katie Sarah  and Emmett. Thank you for sharing your best thing with us. We listen to them all even if we cannot play them all. To share your own record an audio file and email it to the show at samsandersnpr.org. Best part of you all's week?  I got a huge tub of candy from Amazon.  Huge tub? How huge?  It was way bigger than I thought.  .  Like a foot-tall tub of Now-and-Laters.  Oh.  I do not know what I am gonna do with all of them because I was not expecting it to be that big. But I will eat them I think.  It sounds delicious. What about you?  I tried acupuncture for the first time and I loved it.  That is a huge win.  Oh you loved it?  Yeah.  I have never tried acupuncture.  Me neither.  Yeah I do not know what I was waiting for.  Nitasha Tiku tech culture reporter at The Washington Post thank you.  Thanks for having me.  And Farhad Manjoo opinion columnist at The New York Times. Thanks Farhad.  Thanks.  It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced this week by Anjuli Sastry Danny Hensel and Brent Baughman. Our editor is Kitty Eisele. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. The senior vice president of programming at NPR is Anya Grundmann. And special thanks to the folks at member station KQED in San Francisco for hosting us this week. I am Elise Hu. Sam Sanders is back next week. I know you have missed him. Thank you for listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   Introduce yourself.  Hi I am 4 years old.  Oh you forgot to say you are Isabel. Say hi I am Isabel.  Hi I am Isabel. I am 4 years old.  