 Magnetic Fields the band created by the songwriter singer and multiinstrumentalist Stephin Merritt and a shifting group of collaborators that includes Daniel Handler author of the Lemony Snicket books. The new Magnetic Fields album is called Realism and rock critic Ken Tucker says its music may sound whimsical but it leaves up to its title.    On winter nights the mermaid sings I was made for better things. Better things dearie better things.  Stephin Merritt is the master of the cutting understatement as well as the elegant overstatement. Hes highly prolific  at least 17 albums under various group names since 1991 one of them the collection of 69 love songs entitled 69 Love Songs. His vocals tend toward the deadpan tuneless but he writes lovely melodies with a sting. Take this ohsopleasantsounding composition called You Must Be Out of Your Mind. Listen beneath the pleasant acoustic instruments to hear a tartly sarcastic gravely judgmental song.    You think Ill run not walk to you. Why would I want to talk to you? I want you crawling back to me down on your knees yeah like an appendectomy sans anesthesia. If you think you can leave the past behind you must be out of your mind. If you think you can simply press rewind you must be out of your mind son. You must be out of your mind.  To compare a hopedfor reconciliation to quote an appendectomy sans anesthesia and to assert a bit later in that song I no longer drink enough to think youre witty well we can see the sort of realism Stephin Merritt is going for on this album Realism. In another song Seduced and Abandoned Merritt assumes the guise of a woman who has been left with her newborn child by a dastardly cad and she meditates morosely on her future.    Seduced and abandoned and baby makes two baby abandoned by you. Seduced and abandoned and what can I do? I think I might drink a few. Seduced with a grin I was taken all in taken in sin and in shame. Seduced by a smile I walked down the aisle then waited awhile no one came. Seduced  This album is meant to be a contrasting companion piece to the Magnetic Fields' previous release Distortion. That album exploded with fierce squalling guitar feedback in which Merritt's vocals came off like menacing growls and once again sang lyrics that were frequently at ironic odds with the music. He is gone in the opposite direction on Realism. Nothing could be further from Distortion's jangling powerchords than the toy piano of The Dolls' Tea Party.  Ms.   At the dolls' tea party we preserve always the long afternoon of a warm summer day with extended pinkies and pink  cups and saucers and pots and a liberty tray. That is why we take  at the dolls' tea party. At the dolls' tea party we twitter along...  The Dolls' Tea Party with a lead vocal by Claudia Gonson is one of the few pop songs in this new decade that uses the word twitter in something other than its socialnetworking sense. The dolls twitter merrily making what seems like innocuous conversation. Merritt can be cutesy and cloying. That song certainly comes close. But then he comes up with the perfect use of his broad taste and essentially bohemian worldview in a song such as this rousing musical manifesto called The Dada Polka.    People of Earth when you dance dance the Dada Polka life is only a dream. When in the mood for romance dance the Dada Polka. Be as cute as you seem. Gyrate like a gyroscope collide like a kaleidoscope. Freeze. Do something anything. Do something please. People...  Do something anything Stephin Merritt sings here. Do something true. Certainly Merritt follows his own advice. He is said that he likes short songs quote I do not go for big statements in general. Sometimes however small gestures small creations when gathered together combine to form a statement bigger than their creator may have intended. Or in the case of Merritt  a selfconscious a selfconscious artist in the best sense  he knows that the accretion of detail over the course of these 13 songs has resulted in a realism that is vivid hardheaded and never halfhearted. He does something true.  Ken Tucker is editoratlarge for Entertainment Weekly. He reviewed the new album by the Magnetic Fields called Realism. 