 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. A lot of us know more about the British royal family than we used to thanks to The Crown the Netflix drama series that offers an inside look at Buckingham palace when a young Queen Elizabeth was adjusting to her new life as monarch. We get to know her husband Philip whose life is turned upside down by her ascension her rebellious sister Margaret and her uncle David whose abdication from the throne in the '30s shocked the nation and caused a deep rift within the royal family. The second season of The Crown is now available for streaming. Our guest today is the series writer and creator Peter Morgan. Morgan wrote the screenplay for The Queen starring Helen Mirren which earned him a Golden Globe. Morgan's also written awardwinning plays and the screenplays for the films Frost/Nixon The Last King of Scotland and The Other Boleyn Girl. Here's a moment from the first season of the crown. A few days after Elizabeth Windsor then 25 had learned her father has died and that she is now queen. Elizabeth is played by Claire Foy. She is with her husband Philip played by Matt Smith. We hear first from her private secretary played by Harry HaddenPaton.    Though it would help if we could decide here and now on your name.   My name?   Yes madam your regal name  that is the name you will take as queen. Your father took George. Obviously his name is  was Albert. And before he abdicated your uncle took Edward. Of course his name was David.   What is wrong with my name?   Nothing.   Well then let us not overcomplicate matters unnecessarily. My name is Elizabeth.   Then long live Queen Elizabeth.  And the first time Queen Elizabeth hears those words from The Crown the Netflix series that is created by our guest Peter Morgan  Peter Morgan welcome to FRESH AIR.  Thank you.  It is remarkable to imagine a 25yearold woman suddenly inheriting this responsibility. She says a few times in the series that she would have preferred to live a more anonymous life. And I saw a piece where you were quoted as calling her a countryside woman of limited intelligence. Was this taken accurately or in context?  No it was  yeah I have paid for that.   It was at the headline of the story I saw of course yeah.   Just about anything unfortunately that I say about the show ends up in the headlines somewhere that I do not want it to end up. So I have ended up being quite private about this and about my responsibilities here. But yes I do think she would have been more comfortable as a country woman. I do think she is naturally a modest  naturally a shy retiring person. I think one can sense that. You know one can sense when someone is hungry for the limelight and when someone would sooner avoid it. That of course is quite different from her sense of duty  and you know which in itself is such an interesting thing to explore. You do not get a sense that people talk about duty very much anymore. And so you know when I started sketching out episodes and thinking about what the show could possibly offer me as a writer or an audience  you know what was the central dilemma at the heart of this  psychologically emotionally for the lead character  it would be you know that who she is as Elizabeth Windsor and who she is as Elizabeth Regina you know the queen are two very different things  and the push and the pull between those two things  a bit like Russian Dolls one within the other.  Right. And her mother tells her that the queen  the Crown must always win. You know it is fascinating as I hear you talk about this. You know she bore this responsibility of representing this institution properly. You kind of bear the responsibility of interpreting these lives to a lot of people who do not know very much about them. Does that feel like a weight on your head?  I think  I hope that it is that weight and it is the responsibility of all dramatists would feel when tackling reallife figures. You know there came a moment after the film that I wrote The Queen had come out where Tony Blair was asked about his audience with the queen. And in his book  in his autobiography which of course came many years after we made the film The Queen Tony Blair when referring back to that critical period in the aftermath of Diana's death used a number of expressions and quotations that seemed to me to be very familiar because they sounded like my dialogue. And I remember thinking well hang on a minute. That cannot be right. It cannot be right that I got it right. I cannot have got it that right. I mean I think we were all pretty confident we knew what Tony Blair represented. We knew what the queen thought. But surely he did not say the very things that I would written that he would said. And I rang a couple of people and I said have you read the Blair biography  autobiography because it sounds very much like the scene that I wrote. And it seems that even Blair's memory had sort of become blurred with what we had done. And it is both funny but also sobering because you suddenly realise that you know the predisposition people have towards sort of blurring  once you watch something on film it becomes that thing. It becomes the way it was. And so much of what I write cannot be exactly the way it was because I do not know. I am just guessing. And even then the absolute accuracy of was it really like that  that is like saying to a painter  but that painting is  it would be more accurate to do it with a camera. And the painter would say yes but what I have done here is I have chosen paint for a reason. And I very much think of myself as a painter. I do not want to be judged only by the yardstick of what  was it really really like that. You are bringing so many different assumptions and imaginations to something. And then for Blair in this particular instance to have taken those imaginations or guesses and reconstruct them as the truth. It was confusing.  Yeah in his own account...  In his own account he said I then said that. I was like well you did not. At least I do not think you did. Well if you did what a stroke of luck on my behalf. But I am pretty sure you are actually just quoting what I wrote which you have watched and which you have subsequently denied that you have watched but which you have clearly watched.   Well what we were talking about  the very young Queen Elizabeth inheriting the throne at the age of 25 and adjusting to the demands of it. And one of the things that we see in here is the effect on her marriage with her husband Philip. And he finds it difficult  the constraints of living in a palace and all of the demands on her and being kind of second to her. And I wanted to play a scene here. This is in the second season where Philip has been away on a long trip representing the Crown in Australia and some other places. And he is back and information has been surfacing in the press suggesting infidelity on his part. And this is not a complete surprise to Elizabeth. And this is a scene where they are I believe in a room on the yacht. And they are going to have a frank talk about their marriage in the context of the demands of being a royal couple. And I am just going to mention one thing for our audience. You will hear Philip refer to the mustaches. He is referring to the functionaries and secretaries who set rules and enforce traditions around the palace. So let us listen to this. This is Elizabeth and Philip. Philip is played by Matt Smith and Elizabeth is played by Claire Foy. Let us listen.    Thought we might take this opportunity without interruption without distraction to lay our cards on the table and talk frankly for once about what needs to change to make this marriage work.   All right who goes first? Stupid question  if I have learned one thing by now it is that I go second.   If I am to go first that is where I would start  your complaining.   My complaining?   It is incessant  whining and whinging like a child.   Are you surprised? The way those Godawful mustaches that run the palace continue to infantilize me.   Perhaps if you were not behaving like an infant.   Giving me lists sending me instructions  do this. Do not do that. Wear this. Do not wear that. Say this. Do not say that. Can you imagine anything more humiliating?   Yes. As a matter of fact I can. I have learned more about humiliation in the past few weeks than I hoped I would would in a lifetime. I have never felt more alone than I have in the past five months.   And why do you think that was?   Because of your behavior.   Because you sent me away.   Yes and why do you think that was?   I do not know. You tell me.   Because you are lost. You are lost in your role and you are lost in yourself.   Christ.   Look; I realize that this marriage has turned out to be something quite different to what we both imagined...   Understatement.   ...And that we both find ourselves in a...   Prison.   In a situation that is unique. Our marriage is different to any other in the country because the exit route which is open to everyone else...   Divorce.   Yes divorce  it is not an option for us ever.  And that is Claire Foy and Matt Smith playing Queen Elizabeth and her husband Philip in the Netflix series The Crown created by our guest Peter Morgan. It is a terrific scene. How do you find the voices for this young couple in this situation?  I suppose in some shape or form it is like the high wire walker who does not notice the distance beneath his wire you know or her wire. You know I  the fact that I am writing these two people does not seem for some reason to give me vertigo. It  I just write them and therefore you are then writing about a marriage and that would be something any you know screenwriter would be expected to do. I just seem to be able to write them. And you know we know they were holed up on the Royal Yacht Britannia for a good many hours before they emerged publicly. We know that they were in a storm. We know the dates that they were there and we know what had transpired. We know that his best friend Mike Parker who had also been his private secretary had just been divorced very publicly by his wife for infidelity. And so you know as a dramatist you see a series of dots. And what you hope is that through research the dots are brought close enough together  we know where they were. We know roughly what their official function was. That much with these people is extraordinarily you know evident and minuted. We know where they  we pretty much know for every day of their lives where they were and what they were allegedly doing. What we do not know is what they were feeling what they were thinking. And so it is my job to draw the line between those two points and to do so in the way that we were talking about earlier in as responsible a way as possible.  You know I  watching the series one gets the impression that Prince Philip probably did play around although it is not completely clear. And I gather the royal family has never acknowledged  there is been no clear proof of it. Do you  have you ever gotten any feedback from the royal family at all about your work in The Crown or...  Well I mean the royal family's not going to give me any feedback about Prince Philip and infidelity but other people might. And the royal family  you know I am delighted to say that I have only met them on a couple of occasions and on those occasions I steer well clear of telling them who I am or what I am responsible for and if they know it making sure that we are talking about something else. I am thrilled to give them the distance to have total deniability and in the same way I want to have respectful distance from them to be allowed to get on with what I do and to take responsibility for what I do. That is a different matter from where do I get the information from about Prince Philip and his alleged infidelities? And what I can tell you is no one has come forward. Therefore there is perfect deniability on behalf of the palace. And so then you have to ask am I making it up? If there is nothing on the record is it irresponsible for me to make it up? And then what you have to do is you have to talk to enough people to get enough information. And all I can do is I can assure you that I am doing them more favors than harm.  You cast a wide net. You do what you can and...  You cast a wide net. I have 10 wonderful researchers that work around the clock. But then even they  you know they do not have access to those circles and  but bit by bit those doors have now opened to us. And you know I am not  trust me. I am not writing anything for which I do not feel I could be answerable if not in a court of law then in the court of critical judgment.  We are speaking with Peter Morgan. He is the creator of the Netflix series The Crown. Its second season is now available for streaming. We will continue our conversation in just a moment. This is FRESH AIR.   This is 're speaking with Peter Morgan. He is written many movies that you would recognize including Frost/Nixon and The Queen. He is also the creator of the Netflix series The Crown. The second season is now available for streaming. You know one of the things that drives this story is the abdication of King Edward VIII from the British throne in 1936. And you know this was a case where  David Windsor was his name before he was king and he wanted to marry a woman an American Wallis Simpson who was twice divorced. And this was simply not permitted in part because the king is the head of the Anglican Church where you know divorce is not accepted. And so he could not remain on the throne and marry the woman he loved so he chose to abdicate which was a really  you know I do not think I quite realized until I saw this you know what a seismic shocking traumatic event this was at least for the royal family kind of like the way Watergate was for us. It was in the '70s but it was a constitutional crisis that we remember decades later. In the early episodes here we see the abdicated King who is known as David before he was Edward VIII. He is around but he is sort of banished. You want to just describe the relationship between him and the rest of the royal family.  Well let us just stop thinking about the royal  as a royal family for just a second.  Sure.  We will think about them as just a regular family which I have to frequently do in order to enjoy writing this. You know I do not want to feel like a historian or a royal biographer. I want to feel like a storyteller. And what we have here is a  you know is a fantastic family saga. And in  you know at the heart of any family saga there is shame or there is regret. Or there are misdemeanors of the past. And no family is complete without an embarrassing uncle. And he is the ultimate embarrassing uncle.  .  And you know what he did betrayed everything. You know he did the very thing that makes the hereditary principle impossible to defend. I mean you can argue on behalf of the hereditary principle. You can sort of say well you know it works. And yes here is this one family. And let us just say they have been chosen by God. And let us just say that they have an exalted place and that they deserve the honor that they have. If  as soon as one of them says do you know what; I do not really want this you are inviting the entire hereditary principle concept to be you know shattered. And so here's this shattered individual who is now living in Paris surrounded by all the memorabilia of the office which he gave up for love. It is  you could not make a character like that up. He is a gift to any writer. And I absolutely loved writing him.  The cast is terrific here. And he is played by Alex Jennings. You know it is interesting. The reason I guess that he could not marry Wallis Simpson and keep the throne  at least one legal reason was that the sovereign the king is the head of the Anglican Church which did not recognize  you could not marry someone who is divorced  who was divorced whose previous spouse was still alive. So there was that reason. But from his point of view you are separating me from the one I love and it just seemed cruel to him.  But divorce  just to pick it up because it is so pertinent to that clip that you played  you know divorce and  you know divorce not being recognized by the church then the responsibility to the church because you know the queen is head of the church which means she outranks even the bishops and the archbishops. Above her is  in a hierarchical order above her is only God. So divorce is a complete nono and was. And you know therefore marrying a divorced woman whose husband's still alive  it just was not acceptable. And of course that blight then destroyed Margaret's life as she you know was first in love with a divorced man. And then she was the first royal  I mean this is the bit that really  it puts things into perspective. And she...  To remind the audience Margaret is Elizabeth's younger sister  right yeah go ahead yeah.  Yes Princess Margaret  she  when she then married and when she then finally got divorced to Tony ArmstrongJones Lord Snowdon that was the first royal divorce since Henry VIII...  Wow.  ...And Catherine of Aragon. So you know that gives you some idea of how reluctant...   ...How reluctant they were. Heads rolled.  Not a small thing.  It really was not a small thing. And it  of course we were all laughing because you know the divorce happened in the 1970s you know by which time of course it was completely acceptable socially and you know  and widespread and  even in their circles.  Peter Morgan is the writer and creator of the Netflix series The Crown. After a break he will talk more about The Crown and about his other films including The Queen starring Helen Mirren and Frost/Nixon with Michael Sheen and Frank Langella. And John Powers reviews The Assassination Of Gianni Versace the second installment of the FX Limited series American Crime Story. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. We are speaking with Peter Morgan the writer and creator of the Netflix dramatic series The Crown a look at a young Queen Elizabeth and others in the royal family in the 1950s and '60s. The second season of The Crown is now available for streaming. You know Claire Foy is just terrific in this role. And I assume you were involved in the casting. You know what were you looking for and what did you see in her this 31yearold actress?  Well the casting of Claire Foy which is now sort of almost impossible to imagine was  you know she was overlooked. So this does not reflect well on me but I will tell the story and live in shame. So what would happen is we would be  I would be sent a list of people coming to the castings and I would look down the list. And Wednesday's as it were casting session would involve the following five young actresses. And I looked down the list. Like well I know that one that one that one  oh yeah they are all rather interesting. I will come in at 11 to see that one and I will come in at 12 because I am busy and important and I am far too  and whoever this Claire Foy person is I am absolutely not interested. And I overlooked and snubbed Claire on no fewer than five occasions until there was one time where I simply could not avoid it because I was interested in the one before and the one after her. And so I then stayed to see her. And then I was like well why has not no one showed me her?  .  What is the matter with any of you? Why did not you tell me to look at this one? They said Peter says she is been there on four or five occasions. And each time you have studiously avoided her. And I said but she is fantastic.  Yeah what did you see? What did you see that captivated you?  Well it is not an easy part. I mean you have to be both  forgive me when I say it. But you have to be both plain and stunning you know? She has to have both. And a number of the actors that came in were simply too beautiful you know too conventionally beautiful or too  their faces did not have the full range because Elizabeth Windsor is a beautiful  was  is arguably still a beautiful woman but not all the time and not from every angle. And her face lights up you know with a smile and can look quite grumpy quite like a wet weekend when not smiling and be overlookable and quite plain. And you need to believe she has intelligence and understand her intelligence 'ecause the queen  contrary to what people think I think she has an intelligence and a very sharp mimicry and an intolerance of fools. But at the same time she is not that intellectually curious. And so she has to be both quick and alert and yet at the same time capable of repose and being quite docile. So it is not easy. And she has to be emotionally stable and I do not think an actor can act that. I mean of course they can but it so helps if they all that. And Claire brought a lot of thought into the part and then acted a lot of the stuff that she did not have to perfection. And I saw it in an instant that she could do it.  Well I want to talk about  we have talked a bit about The Queen which is this  the feature film that you did before you did the series The Crown. This was directed by Stephen Frears. And we will hear a scene here. This is about the moment in 1997 when Princess Diana has been killed in a car accident. And because she is divorced from the royal family the queen sees her death as a private matter with no need for a public appearance or even a statement from her the queen. And in fact she takes her family and Diana's two boys who are her grandchildren to the royal estate in Scotland kind of to just get away while London is mourning. And in this scene we are going to hear she gets a call from the Prime Minister Tony Blair played by Michael Sheen who is concerned because the public and the press are seeing the royal family as heartless because it is expressed no grief at Diana's passing. So we hear the queen pick up the phone to speak to the prime minister.    Prime Minister.   Good morning Majesty  sorry to disturb but I was just wondering whether you would seen any of today's papers.   We have managed to look at one or two yes.   In which case my next question would be whether you felt some kind of response might be necessary.   No. I believe a few overeager editors are doing their best to sell newspapers and it would be a mistake to dance to their tune.   Under normal circumstances I would agree. But well my advisers have been taking the temperature among people on the streets. And well the information I am getting is that the mood is quite delicate.   So what would you suggest Prime Minister some kind of a statement?   No Madam. I believe the moment for statements has passed. I would suggest flying the flag at halfmast above Buckingham Palace and coming down to London at the earliest opportunity. It would be a great comfort to your people and would help them with their grief.   Their grief  if you imagine I am going to drop everything and come down to London before I attend to my grandchildren who have just lost their mother then you are mistaken. I doubt there is anyone who knows the British people more than I do Mr. Blair nor who has a greater faith in their wisdom and judgment. And it is my belief that they will any moment reject this mood which is being stirred up by the press in favor of a period of restrained grief and sober private mourning. That is the way we do things in this country  quietly with dignity. That is what the rest of the world has always admired us for.  And that is Helen Mirren as Queen Elizabeth in the film The Queen which was written by our guest Peter Morgan. You know it is interesting that in The Crown we see a very young Elizabeth who is struggling to put duty above her personal interests and feelings so often. And in this episode you know many decades later it would seem the queen puts her personal feelings about Diana and her failed marriage and her disappointment in Diana above her role and  you know as a sovereign kind of embodying the nation's grief. Does that make sense?  No.  No.  I think no. I think that it was exactly the opposite. I think it was that she was doing exactly what she thinks the principle  the right thing to do was which had nothing to do with her personal feelings. People interpreted it as a personal vendetta. But actually there is strict protocol at the time when you have a  even if you are the mother of the future king if you are divorced you are no longer part of the royal family. At that point you are no longer entitled to you know the titles. And as such when you are second or third or fourth or fifth in line or whatever it is there are quite clear precedents for what happens. And this is in a system which you know works entirely through precedent. You know what are the rules for what happens when this happens? And of course when the rules are in conflict with what the natural emotional intelligence or response to a situation would be that is when you get into trouble and that is where the royal family has frequently come  you know has run into trouble  is when their response appears to be emotionally out of step with the strict systems or rules or you know  and if I went to my researchers I would be able to come back to you with six or 10 really interesting examples  I am sitting in a radio station; I have got no access to that  but where there would been really interesting examples where actually you would want emotionally to respond in one way. But actually it is really clear that in the case of say the Prince of Wales you know who is heir to the throne the following rules apply. And she the queen behaved perfectly correctly in that scene that you just heard even though as a motherinlaw or former motherinlaw it might appear cold and inappropriate. And that is why the response in the country was so animated. She was only doing what she thought the right thing to do was.  And she was eventually persuaded to come to London and join in a national mourning give a televised...  Yeah the queen by the way never attends funerals  almost never attends funerals. You know so no matter how close she is to someone you will find that the queen does not attend the funeral.  Why?  She will say...  It is protocol?  ... I  yes because  I think yeah it is protocol and it is like the crown does not attend a funeral. It is  again if you gave me a couple of hours to respond I would be able to respond with more information. And you know because again you know my  I keep doing this. I keep refusing to swallow all this information myself because I  you know my responsibility is to be a storyteller. These people interest me only insofar as they are a family and a vehicle with which I can analyze the second half of the 20th century or the dynamics of a family as a longrunning saga. Swallowing this royal porn which is what we all call it  you know sort of swallowing the minutiae of apparently completely crackpot protocol and so forth  it is not something I particularly delight in. We have  I have 10 fulltime researchers on this show and they work round the clock. And they have certain areas divided up within them. And some of them are more focused on politicians and some of them are more focused on royal matters.  We are speaking with Peter Morgan. He is the creator of the Netflix series The Crown. The  its second season is now available for streaming. We will talk some more after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is 're speaking with Peter Morgan. He is written many movies that you would recognize including The Queen. He is also the creator of the Netflix series The Crown. Its second season is now available for streaming. You know I saw The Queen when it was made. I think it was 2006. And then I have watched The Crown recently all 20 episodes. And then I watched The Queen again and it was so much fun to see the same characters that are in the series The Crown now you know decades later much older drawn by the same writer you Peter Morgan. You know they are different actors in some cases but we see these same people after they have matured and gone through all this life experience. And I am sort of fitted  this is Peter Morgan's vision of these people now later on although you did them in the reverse order. You did the older one  the more recent one first...  That is true. Yeah...  ...And I wonder if you were doing The Queen now after this deep immersion into the Elizabeth of her 20s and 30s and 40s do you think you would have done it or written it any differently?  Such a good question. I do not  I really do not know. I could not tell you. I have not rewatched The Queen. I do not tend to watch anything  you know by the time you have reached you know final cut on something you are so sick of it. And you know by the time you have done promotion and so forth  listening to it just now I you know I was  the only affection I had was not from my writing but for the beautiful score by Alexandre Desplat who I noticed is just on The Shape Of Water and won the Golden Globe the other night. It was a great pleasure to run into him again. He is a wonderful composer. But I tend not to look back on it. But it is interesting that I wrote the older character  the older versions  and let us see. You know I  at the moment I cannot bear the idea of continuing to write these characters for much longer. But I am surprised at how much I am enjoying storylining seasons 3 and seasons 4 as they are coming up which would be the  as it were the middleaged queen which you know comes in between of course the queen that you saw in the movie played by Helen Mirren. And there is a whole generation as it were to be played by another actress. And we have asked Olivia Colman to do that and happily she said yes. But actually the cumulative depth of knowing that they  you know knowing them as  having written them as younger and having invested in their marriage in the early years of their marriage and now as the marriage hits middle age and as they hit middle age and as they have midlife crises and as they you know go this way and that way as characters maybe  and this is one of the joy of writing television and having the time to really really stay with characters  maybe that will really pay dividends. And maybe I will love it.  But the plan is to do six seasons  right?  to take them up to the present time.  No we  I cannot think that far ahead. It makes me want to blow my brains out. I can