 Hey you all. I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Every Tuesday we have an in-depth conversation with one person or on one topic. This week we are talking about the politics of the MeToo movement from the time of Anita Hill to now. Anita Hill was a young lawyer who back in 1991 went public with sexual harassment allegations against Clarence Thomas. Yes that Clarence Thomas current Supreme Court justice. Back in '91 he was still waiting to be confirmed for that seat. NPR's very own Supreme Court correspondent Nina Totenberg broke this story and she was the person that Ms. Hill trusted her story to. So I wanted to talk with Nina about that this kind of MeToo moment before we actually had a name for it. And I also wanted to bring another person into this conversation PBS White House correspondent Yamiche Alcindor. Yamiche and I got to know each other covering the election in 2016 and she is been covering the MeToo movement and how it is playing out on Capitol Hill now. So the three of us get into a lot in this chat - what is different about MeToo in politics and how these issues play out in D.C. compared to other industries and places. We also get into some generational differences between women and how they view sexual harassment. And a warning for parents. If you normally listen to this podcast with kids just a heads up. This entire conversation deals with sex and sexual assault. So know that going in. All right here we go - me talking with Nina Totenberg who was here with me at NPR and Yamiche Alcindor who joined us from WETA's studios in Virginia.   Hey Yamiche.  Hey.  Hi Yamiche.  Hi. How are you?  I am fine.  I am so excited to talk to you because you are like someone who broke this really big story. And you are like a legend. So I am trying not to fangirl.  Do not - it is OK.  But just so you know.  You can be all the fangirl you want.  I am absolutely fangirling right now.  .  That is excellent.  I hope we are rolling on this.  Those old - we old broads like fangirls.   So we are having a conversation about the story that has been here and it is not going away and I think that is my first question to you both. When the Weinstein story happened which was months ago at this point I said to myself this is big it is going to be a big thing for a while. But I expected the country to move away from this topic a month or two after that. It is been months. It seems like it is not going away. Have you been surprised by the longevity of the MeToo movement so far?  This is Nina. I have not been surprised by the longevity.  OK.  I have been surprised by the generational differences...  Yeah.  ...And by the intensity of the way young women feel and their inability - or many many young women have an - seem to have an inability or an unwillingness to draw any lines between Harvey Weinstein's kind of conduct and just generally boorish kind of conduct and just guys making a pass and failing kind of conduct.  I have not been surprised by the endurance in that I think gender much like race is something that is so personal and so touching to so many different communities that when you start to surface you realize that everyone almost has a story. So I think there is this idea that for a very very long time we have been talking about race in this country. I am one of those reporters who thinks that we should continue to always talk about race because it is something that is completely part of the fabric of America. So I think some people maybe for the first time are finding out that the way that women are treated sometimes unfairly is also part of an American culture or capitalist society whatever you want to call it. So there is this idea that most women that I have talked to in the months that this has broken have a story that if it is not something that is overtly assault it is something that said wow I had to get over this and I had to normalize this behavior in order to do my job.  Is it a thing Nina where you look back and say well I was like that when I was their age? Or is it something different?  No. When I was their age I was really grateful to have a job period...  OK.  ...In journalism.  OK.  And I got catcalled in the lobby of the House of Representatives where members would sit there and just dissect me as I walked - verbally as I walked down the...  What is the worst thing they said to you?  I do not even remember. You know? And you know they would just say hey you want to come here? Sit on my lap honey? You know that kind of thing.  Lord.  Yeah. It was not subtle.  OK.  And I did interviews with men who would just stare at my chest and not my face. And I had a boss who was all over me like a rug every time he asked for a ride home.  He did not have his own car?  He would somehow arrange not to. And it never occurred to me in those days that I could even tell anybody...  Yeah.  ...Any of this or complain about it.  Yeah.  So you know  as a young woman I learned to suck it up.  OK. Just got to clarify. This boss that was creepy in your car please tell me he did not work at NPR.  No it was not at NPR.  OK. All right.  No. This was long before that.  OK.  And I - there was no law of sexual harassment at the time.  Yeah.  So the idea - nobody had an HR department that you could even complain to.  Yeah.  It just did not exist. So I am from what I call the suck-it-up generation. And you have to assume that we have a different view. But having said that I spent decades being an advocate for young women...  Yes.  ...And sometimes counseling them that you have to pick your battles. And if somebody gave you a compliment said you looked nice that was not worth having a big fight about. Other things were - whether or not you got the job whether you had to do anything to get the job...  Yeah.  ...Whether anybody touched you to - you know all of that. So I have thought this through and I have some pretty clear lines but they are not probably the same lines that Yamiche has.  Yeah. You know hearing Nina talk about this divide perhaps between generations of women have you seen that too as a young woman covering this movement too?  I do not - I mean I do not think that I can talk that much about whether or not there is a divide there because I have mainly been talking to women who have actually I think had stories that most people including my editors or producers thought was problematic. So there is this idea that of course there is a gray area. Do you - does one person being raped and another person being catcalled repeatedly is that the same thing? I think most women I talk to understand that that is completely different things. The issue though is that with millennial women that I have talked to they say that they are less likely to want to even blow past something. So they are not going to just let a guy who is continuing to harass them at work what might have been called you know something before - just hitting on them and being persistent - they are not going to let that behavior fly. But most women I have talked to even as they are telling me like you know I really did not like that my supervisor sent me a whole bunch of pictures and continued to send me these pictures - I talked to a young woman like that - she recognized that that was different than someone who got fired maybe because of a gender issue or someone who got assaulted physically. I think women inherently understand the difference.  Yeah. One of the interesting things that I want to talk to you both about is how much there was a MeToo before there was a MeToo. And there are a lot of different points in our history where these issues have come to the forefront but I want to lock in on one. And this is a story Nina that you broke.   This is Weekend Edition. I am Liane Hansen. A woman who served as personal assistant to Clarence Thomas for over two years has accused him of sexually harassing her.  The Anita Hill story. This was involving the confirmation hearings for Clarence Thomas who is now on the Supreme Court.   National Public Radio has learned that the woman brought her accusation to the Senate Judiciary Committee last month.  This is one of those stories that combined race racial stereotypes and sex.  And power.   NPR's Nina Totenberg reports.  And power all into one.  And politics.  And politics all into one.   According to Hill's affidavit Thomas after a brief work discussion would quote turn conversation to discussions about his sexual interests. His conversations she said were vivid. He spoke about acts he had seen in pornographic films involving such things as women having sex with animals and films involving group sex or rape scenes. Hill said she repeatedly told Thomas she did not want to discuss those kinds of things but sensed that her apparent disgust only urged him on. Justice Thomas was the second African-American appointed to the Supreme Court nominated by the first President Bush and he denied it in his testimony calling it a high-tech lynching.   This is a circus. It is a national disgrace. It is a high-tech lynching for uppity blacks who in any way deign to think for themselves. And it is a message that unless you kowtow to an old order you will be lynched destroyed caricatured by a committee of the U.S. - U.S. Senate rather than hung from a tree.  And...  And just - I mean like some of the things that she described are so out there like pubic hair on a soda can. Just really strange stuff.  Yeah. According to her he said at one point did you put this pubic hair on my Coke? Or something like that and that he would talk to her in very explicit ways.  Yeah.   He spoke about acts that he had seen in pornographic films involving such matters as women having sex with animals and films showing group sex or rape scenes. He talked about pornographic materials depicting individuals with large penises or large breasts involved in various sex acts. On several occasions Thomas told me graphically of his own sexual prowess.  And so I mean you know like there is I think a direct line between that and where we are now. What is the biggest difference you see perhaps in the way that those kind of issues were handled then and the way they are handled now? And I mean perhaps the biggest question is do you think that Clarence Thomas had those stories come out today been able to be confirmed to the Supreme Court?  You know this is a good question. I do not know. Certainly the hearing would have been more thorough. There were other women who had similar stories that the committee did not call. Senator Biden former Vice President Biden was chairman of the committee then and he decided not to call them and has apologized to Anita Hill now for not calling them and for not being more expansive in the investigation. But I do not know. He was a very persuasive witness and she was a very persuasive witness.  Yeah.  If you did not have actual information and it was as we said back then a he said she said...  Yeah.  ...It was very hard to tell. You either found her credible and simply found him not credible or you said - but she was treated as by Republicans on the committee as a delusional person.   Professor Hill you said that you took it to mean that Judge Thomas wanted to have sex with you but in fact he never did ask you to have sex. Correct?  No he did not ask me to have sex. He did continually pressure me to go out with him continually.  You are not now drawing a conclusion that Judge Thomas sexually harassed you?  Yes I am drawing that conclusion. That is my...  Well then I do not understand.  Pardon me?  Then I do not understand. Page three. It was my opinion at the time and is now my opinion that Ms. Hill's fantasies about sexual interest in her were an indication of the fact that she was having a problem being rejected by men she was attracted to.  Wow.  For any woman watching the hearings it was the way rape victims used to be treated 50 years ago where - what did you do to encourage this?  Yeah.  That kind of thing.  One of the things that you have to talk about when you talk about the Anita Hill story is race and how this black woman with these allegations against this black man was treated by these very white bodies. I am talking about the Senate and these committees. I just - compare it to now Yamiche and Nina. Like the face of that story was a black woman. The face of MeToo has predominantly been white women. Yamiche when you hear these stories from folks that come to you and talk about their stories are you hearing from more white women? Like...  I think there is two things. The one thing is that the MeToo movement that I am most familiar with as a political reporter was the congressional aspect.  Yes.  The Congress is not a place that employs very diverse people. So just by virtue of who works there that means that I was essentially interviewing way more white women than any other race. So there is that aspect but I think that when we talk about a conversation of whether or not black women are treated differently than white women you really I think have to go all the way back to the campaign in the Access Hollywood tape. I wrote a story for The New York Times where I was working before that said one of the main reasons why the Access Hollywood tape was such a big deal was because it was perceived to be Donald Trump talking about white women and white women historically had had a different value. Because there is this idea that he had been talking about Mexicans he had been talking about brown people and those people were women of color. But when senators and congresspeople started saying well I can see my daughter and I have a daughter and a wife I cannot - I can no longer support this man the experts I talked to essentially said that a lot of these lawmakers did not see themselves in the Mexican women or the Muslim women that President Trump was attacking before. So when we go back to the MeToo movement I think that in some ways the value that white women have historically had in American society is obviously playing into that. I mean obviously impacting that. And part of this also is the idea that black women - at least some of the ones that I have talked to - said that they also feel bad when it comes to speaking out against black men because there is this idea that black men have already gone through so much. I mean think of in Clarence Thomas's case. You know he is had to go through all these things just to get to this huge accomplishment of being nominated to the Supreme Court and here goes this black woman essentially having a case against him and trying to take him down. And I think even to this - to now there are a lot of black women who feel as though they do not want to be seen as someone who is going against their race.  All right. Time for a quick break. We will be right back with more of our MeToo conversation then and now.   With politics it seems there have been a few big names that have toppled - Al Franken John Conyers - but a lot of other men that have not been forced to leave their jobs. And when I compare D.C. to Hollywood and the reckoning they are having there the fall rate in politics seems a lot smaller. Is that a fair assessment and if so why?  I do not think I know because they are not as - well if we look at the - if you include in Washington the media world some rather large media figures have fallen some more famous than others...  Yeah.  ...Including two here at NPR who were not particularly well-known. So you know the great world outside probably it is not a big deal to them.  Yeah.  And also what they did was not as bad as what the big media stars did .  Yeah.  Let us face it.  They were no Weinsteins.  There were no Weinsteins. I think if you include the larger political media world it might not be quite as different as you think.  Yeah. But there are like Hill staffers we just have not heard of.  Yeah. There are Hill staffers you have not heard of.  There are aides and chiefs of staffs and state offices...  And reporters...  Yes.  ...And editors and all kinds of people most people have not heard of.  Yeah.  We know them but most people have not.  So Yamiche I mean part of the coverage that you have done recently talked about how hard it is for women working on Capitol Hill to even report and go through an HR process on these claims. Might that be part of why it seems at least fewer men are falling or is it something else? I do not know.  I cannot tell much like Nina whether or not there is a fall rate difference in politics than other industries. I think that definitely the fact that Congress does not have a real HR specialist that is going out there saying look you can come to me to talk about this I also think that the idea that many many people did not know that the office that handles these cases actually even exists. There are so many people that I talked to who were shocked to even find out about the office...  Really?  ...That handled them. So there is this...  Wow.  ...Idea that people have no idea including I would say lawmakers. There are lawmakers who did not know that the office existed.  .  So you think in that case not only no one in the office can know because the person who heads the office does not now. So that is one thing. The other thing I think about is we are talking a lot about politics because - or at least I am talking a lot about politics because that is the part of the movement that I covered. But what about restaurants and hotels and all these other places where women are probably still having to work with those bosses? The fall rates there if there are any are probably the lowest in the country because probably the less money you make I would venture to say the harder it is for you to speak up because you would have a whole family or whole livelihood on the line. That might be different than other people. Even though obviously the women on the Hill are also dealing with their livelihoods. They get blacklisted or it is hard to find a job after you are appointed as someone who will speak up in an office.  And you know it is interesting to me now because I have started to see the think pieces about this very problem the fact that women that are the most on the margins suffer from this probably more and get less coverage.  Yeah.  So now that we all are aware of that what makes it better? I do not know what it is. And I am not asking either of you to like fix this thing. But I wonder like what would make it better?  I mean I think the only way you change a culture is when relatively powerless people go to more powerful people who can help them. And that is not always the HR department.  Yeah.  It may be. That is the only thing you can hope for is that there are places and individuals other women that women can go to.  Yeah. Yamiche I am thinking about how Washington will respond to this to the MeToo movement writ large and I know that there is some movement to tighten up and streamline the processes of reporting harassment on the Hill itself. But have you heard or seen anywhere of any movement from senators or Congresspersons to do some kind of MeToo bill or a law that really touches the whole country?  When I think about this conversation - I guess it is because I am a black woman - it goes back to race. Like when I think about that question about is there a MeToo bill that is going to fix our problems because there is not a racism bill that is going to fix all our problems. I have seen kind of piecemeal bills about basically signing agreements and whether or not those agreements should be confidential how businesses that get money from the federal government how those those companies essentially will deal with harassment claims. But at least in the conversations I have had with aides there is not like a national this is how the country's going to deal with sexual harassment. Mainly it is because all of these industries are different and people still have their private HRs. So even in Congress when they have - as they operate in their kind of little fiefdoms where senator such and such is completely different than another senator's office. You also have to think how do you deal with people who are maybe out all day and they are construction workers versus someone who maybe works in an office. In some ways I think there might be maybe a push to have mandatory training. But even with that what does that mandatory training looks like - look like? There are some people that are like OK there should definitely be a video. Other people want it to be a full day. I think it is going to be hard for Congress to say here's the blanketed way that harassment is going to work out for people because then you run the risk of leaving out loopholes. And that is essentially what Congress is good at. It is good at sometimes passing bills that might be intended to do one thing and then having to go back and tweak it and tweak it and tweak it because they realize that when it is actually put into effect that it is different.  Yeah. OK for this chat we asked our listeners to send us questions. And we got a few and I want to give you both this question. And it is about nuance in the MeToo movement.  Hi my name is Megan . I live in Oregon. And I am curious if your guests think the momentum of the MeToo movement might fizzle out due to the extremism of some voices in the movement. I do not have a better word to use for it. But it seems like we are lacking a lot of nuance in the difference between malicious sexual assault and abuse and clumsy sexual or romantic passes that are just ill-informed and poorly timed. And the need for nuance I feel like is really important for this movement to be taken seriously.  There are two things I want to say here. First in the employment context we have to think about for what malfeasance will men - and we are largely talking about men - be executed. Is it capital punishment? Like do they get fired from their jobs and they are never going to work again? And that is true for some of them.  And there is a story to be written three years from now when these men do start to work again because...  And then secondly...  ...At some point they work.  Well then the second - well sometimes they cannot.  Yeah although I think that will change over time.  And secondly we have to develop some sort of a proportional response. That is number one. And number two if you do your job is there a way back to redemption ever?  What does it look like? What does it sound like?  And maybe for Harvey Weinstein - probably not. But you know there are lesser offenses. And third we have the daily not-employment context which is what do you do when you are peers and you are dating?  I think for me there is this idea that like someone might call me the N-word. Someone might just say that my hair is wacky which has happened to me. And someone might just want to touch me. I think yeah there is a scale for all those things. But I think all of those things are inappropriate. And as a result my different - my response is going to be different. But that person needs to understand that they are a problem - that they are having problematic behavior at work and need to be told to stop doing those things. So I think whether or not you get redemption for calling someone the N-word versus touching my hair I think that we are in a society where you want to think that people can be - can get redemption. But it is also very hard if the person is someone who is very problematic and has been doing it for years. And they have been getting away with it like Harvey Weinstein who essentially was hurting dozens of women and stopping careers and taking away their livelihoods.  Yeah yeah yeah.  But there are other ways to deal with this. You can suspend somebody...  Yeah.  ...For a month without pay and then bring them back - all kinds of things you can do. But I want to turn the conversation just a bit because I think this is - when we talk about the culture...  Yeah.  ....We are also talking about the dating culture...  And the gray areas there.  ...And all of the gray areas there...  Yeah.  ...That are carried over from workplace outside of the workplace whatever.  Yeah. So backstory I gave the two of you some homework - some advanced reading in light of today's conversation. There has been much coverage about an article in Babe.  Babe.  Yeah a 3000 word expose - a woman's story told by a reporter a woman who had gone on a date with Aziz Ansari that - I think all will agree - went badly. But there are questions about how bad it really was. And on the one hand you could call it something tantamount to sexual assault. On the other hand you could just say it was a date gone wrong. And there was the original article and this really really interesting range of response from women. A lot of younger women seemed to side with this woman that said Aziz went too far and did not read her verbal and nonverbal cues. Some older women wrote these scathing op-eds saying this is a hit job and it was this woman's responsibility to say no and leave his house. Several months into MeToo we have this story that underscores how murky this all is. It has not gotten clearer in the last few months. It is gotten murkier. What do we make of that?  I think that - I mean I am in some ways because I am a reporter and not an opinion columnist. In some ways I shy away from saying this is how I would have done this piece. Or here's all the things that are wrong with this piece. And go to this idea of a gray area. I think that what we can say definitively is that there are going to be way more problematic things that are - in terms of the numbers of things that are going to come out we are going to have cases that are going to make people feel completely uncomfortable. I think of Al Franken. There are people who think he should have completely been thrown out of the door. And there are people who think the Democrats shot themselves in the foot by essentially ousting him from the party. So there is going to always be a gray area because that is the culture that we live in. I will say that when I was reading this piece there is this idea that women - and maybe that is how I have been in my own life. I have been very verbal and very blunt. A man will know if he like - if I like him or not. And will know if I want him to touch me or not touch me. I am not someone who is going to say no with my eyes. That is something that needs to be maybe talked about more. Is there - are we in a culture where women feel paralyzed - where some women are intimidated by a celebrity or intimidated by just a man's power if they are your supervisor? I am not a woman who is intimidated by any of that. But I think that there is - I am not unsympathetic to women who feel as though they put themselves in situations where they now feel really bad about doing that.  Yeah.  So I want to be very specific here for those who have not read this piece.  Yeah go ahead.  It is very explicit conduct of Mr. Ansari asking for oral sex and her feeling quote pressure to do it and more. And she felt awful afterwards. She felt violated afterwards. And I would suggest that some version of this hopefully not so extreme happens to every young woman. And this woman was I think 22 or 23. Some boy usually or a young man is trying to get you to do something you really kind of do not want to do. And he talks you into it. And you feel awful afterwards because the little person in the back of your head said I do not really...  Yeah.  ...I do not think I should do that.  Yeah.  And I think that is what happened to her.  Yeah.  I find it - just for me. I find it hard to be having this conversation about a very private event that happened because you do not know unless you are in the room. Like there is a difference between a man asking you to sleep with you. And a man throwing you across the bed and saying you know I am taking you now. Some people might find that to be completely amazing. Some people might find that to be I am not going to - I am going to teach my son to be a little bit different than the way that he interacts with women.  Yeah.  To bring this full circle journalistically when I first reached Anita Hill found her and knew that she would filed an affidavit with the Judiciary Committee. She asked me if there was not some way that she could do this without her identity becoming public. And I said no.  Really?  I said absolutely not.  Why?  Because if you are going to make a serious accusation against somebody you need to be willing to stand up and have a face. You cannot be a faceless informer.  A lot people...  A faceless informer is...  ...But a lot of young women and men today would say it is OK to be anonymous if you feel like your livelihood or your safety is - or if you just do not want a million tweets about you right? I mean I...  Right.  I mean as a reporter I lean toward the way that Nina is casting this in that the most of - many of the women that I talk to - the first story that I wrote about this along with my colleague we pushed to make sure we had women on the record who were - when they were naming men - mainly because yes it is true that it might be something that endangers your livelihood but you are also might - you also might be endangering someone else's livelihood. If you stand up and say Senator so-and-so - or this one woman I interviewed she said that there was a congressman who made her twirl because he was attracted to her and she had on this powder blue dress. And he essentially was like just turn around. Oh I love your outfit and then gave her a raise because of that. As a result I wanted to not - I wanted - I pushed to have her on the record because she was naming the man. And as a result I think that if - that we are in this culture where so many people think oh yeah I am just going to be anonymous because it is just easier. But I think that we have to push ourselves to be more than that because in and - I do not think that we should force people if they do not want to talk to us to tell us their names because obviously we could just not quote you. But I think if you want the authority that comes behind speaking to PBS NewsHour or somewhere else. I think most of the times it is worth it to also be putting your name out there.   OK. One more quick break right here. When we come back how men can support women in this movement - that and more after the break.  At the Golden Globes a few weeks ago this award show had women walking the red carpet in black dresses in solidarity. And it seemed as if every woman on stage that night spoke about the MeToo movement - this new Times Up movement. But say for the host of the show Seth Meyers not a single man on the stage that night actually addressed MeToo at all.  It would have been crazy. But did you see...  But this is the thing...  But did you see the faces of the guys who were nominated for best director I guess...  After someone said...  After...  ...It is all man up for these awards.  After Natalie Portman said the all man - all male. And I mean it is not their fault they got nominated. But they looked actually embarrassed. And I felt a little sorry for them for at that point.  But I mean - but like knowing that it gets to a question that we got from a male listener in California this Twitter user Michael Ceil . He said how do you think guys and men can best respond to and support this movement knowing that even some of the most powerful men in the country these leading men in Hollywood kind of probably felt scared to talk about MeToo at a place like the Golden Globes?  Be nice. And be willing to be an ally.  Yeah yeah.  I think I would say two words which is speak up. I think that so many times men are in these gatherings where they hear problematic language. And they maybe do not say anything. And maybe you need to speak up and say hey you know what guy? I know that your girl is not here. There are not women here. But I do not appreciate the way that you referenced that. I think the other thing is that I do not feel bad for people who find themselves in positions of privilege because of either misogyny or racism. It is not to - it does not take away from whatever you have accomplished. But you should under - you should be reflecting - are these group of men better than every single woman director out there? Are these - these men have beat out every single woman in the country? If that is the case then you can really believe that. Then you should not feel bad. You would not look - your face would not look twisted. You would feel like yes...   ...I deserve everything. If you realize that you saw a vid - a movie directed by a woman...  Lady Bird  ...And yo