 This is rry Gross. The hit Comedy Central series Broad City starts its second season tonight. My guests are the show is cocreators cowriters and stars Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer. They play two single 20somethings named Abbi and Ilana who live in New York have deadend jobs and spend a lot of time hanging out together. In The New Yorker online Rachel Arons wrote the show is rough enough to inhabit the brodominated world of Comedy Central but it is also surreal and strange. This week Dave Itzkoff wrote in The New York Times quote in the 10 episodes shown last year 'Broad City' offered an absurdist slapstick look at two women scraping by in New York. They have each other's backs through apartment lockouts minor drug deals and the occasional hurricane and it becomes clear they care far more about getting into a Lil Wayne concert than getting anywhere in the latter of life unquote. Jacobson and Glazer met through the improv comedy group the Upright Citizens Brigade which was cofounded by Amy Poehler who is now an executive producer of Broad City. Let us start with a scene from season one of Broad City. Abbi and Ilana are in Ilana's apartment sitting together on a couch and looking at their laptops.    Oh my goodness this dude Brian Nicholera  I went to high school with just friended me. He just moved here.   Oh my God people from high school only friend you like after business hours if they want to hook up.   Really? I had a huge crush on him.   You should ask him out.   I cannot just do that.   Oh my God he likes Roseanne? OK this is your new sexual partner.   All right I am asking him out. I am just going to do it.   Do it.   This is so great. Like why are we waiting for guys to come to us Ilana? Did Amelia Earhart wait to be asked to fly around the world? Definitely not. She asked and then they said no. But she still did it.   And she died but she like died doing it.   Exactly. I am doing it again. I am asking someone else out.   This is the Abbi I love and fell in love with and I am obsessed with.   Skylar CummingsConkelmann   I used to babysit for him. He was adorable. He is  yeah he is 20. That is acceptable.   Troy Megliarino   he spent a hot sec' in jail. But he lives in South Jersey and I know he would steal a car and come up for the night.   Chris Wazcyleski   he was a nude model in my life drawing class and he like always angled himself out to me.   Chad Michael Fong   we met at a hardware store. He was disgusting. I am going to go with this.   OK who else who else? Henry Rowdenbush  had a unibrow all through middle school. And then he started waxing it and all of a sudden it was like glasses off you are bleep gorgeous.   It is like She is All That.   I feel like I am on coke right now. P. J. Mallory ...   Bobby Cornhauser .   Johnny Fissinger .   Danny McCarrow .   Ryan Long .   Rod White .   We are like feminist heroes right now.    So OK that is 36 guys that we have been rejected by and one lady.   OK so what dude? You know what the Internet is so '90s. Let us go find some guys IRL.   You know you can just say in real life. It is the same number of syllables.   That is from season one of Broad City. Abbi Jacobson Ilana Glazer welcome to FRESH AIR. I am going to ask you to each describe your character in Broad City.  We sort of wrote these characters and write these characters sort of as us before we found Broad City. So she is 26. She is an illustrator but has not yet been able to make that her career. So in the meantime she currently works at this highend gym as a janitor cleaning all sorts of disgusting things up mostly bodily fluids and remnants  but dreams of bigger things  Ilana describe your character.  A free spirit very loyal  she is a stoner. She is a hedonist. She likes to feel good. She likes pleasure. I feel like at this point in her life the most important thing is her friendship with Abbi. That is like a grounding through line for my character.  Your characters are not shy about their bodies and neither are you as actresses. And they are not shy about talking with each other about their bodily functions and their sex lives. They use the word vagina a lot.   When I was growing up that was such like a hard word to say. I mean you would just like turn purple if you said the word I think. And I am just wondering what attitude you were brought up with in terms of being able to speak about your bodies and be comfortable with your bodies and now you know to be able to use that in your performances.  I think I grew up in more like conservative way where we were not always talking about our bodies or sex or anything. It was never discouraged but it was not...  Encouraged.  It was not encouraged or like dinner talk or  I did not really share much but I have  I grew up with like an extremely supportive family. I think that is part of how Ilana and my voice developed. As  when we were writing the show that became a much more of a thing than it was for me growing up.  What would surprise us most about your childhood? And let me get started that you know Abbi in eighth grade you were the Student Council rep for your homeroom class. And Ilana you were the class president in 11th and 12th grade and according to what I read you were in an antidrug group called The Positive Edge.   Oh my God that is right.  I will just say I did  I was secretary of my class in high school too. I did continue on through student government.  Thank God.   What were you doing? Secretary what was your like  was it like treasurer?  Treasurer is like money. Secretary is like  I ran like canned food drives and AIDS walks...  That is so you.  ...More like organizing stuff.  That is very you.  Go ahead why do not you talk about that antidrug club you were in?   It was vaguely Christian or it like felt like it. And it was  my brother Eliot had done it years earlier. We used to like gather and talk about how cool it was that we did not do drugs. And we like  I do not know we went to sixth and fourthgrade classes  we could miss class. That is what it was.  So one day some bad kid from the tracks came and pulled you out of this?  I just got a boyfriend who like was a huge stoner. And I was like oh finally. I like knew it was my calling.   If you are just joining us my guests are Abby Jacobson and Ilana Glazer the cocreators cowriters costars of the Comedy Central series Broad City. When you were starting Broad City as a web series and then as you transitioned into an actual program did you ever sense of what you were as a show and what you were not? For instance like you know when Girls started it was compared to Sex And The City and when you started your show was compared with Girls. Did you make comparisons like that in your own mind or did you see yourself on like a different track?  You know the webisodes were such slices that they were really just I feel like for tone. In character development  we did not realize it was going to be character development for a TV show later  but I think we looked to Larry David more than anybody else.  Yeah we did the web series from 2009 through 2011 and I think it was like Curb Seinfeld and Louie was just starting.  Yeah we talked about Louie a lot.  Because they  yeah because they were these short slices that did not wrap up usually or they were just sort of little segments of these characters lives.  However the  our lives are reflecting Sex And The City more than ever now that we are like becoming the age of the characters. We talk about Sex And The City a lot and have seen all of those episodes. And I definitely see overlap with Girls with the content with tone with characters  like the characters could be friends or be at the same party or something. But I think that comparison was more just a result of the reductiveness of like a headline for example. A lot of headlines...  What do you talk about when you talk about Sex And The City?  Often times in the writers' room...  Oh my God.  ...When we are pitching ideas you know we have the pleasure of working with a lot of our best friends who write on the show. And we are talking about just something that is happened to us whether it is a sexual encounter or friend thing oftentimes someone else will be like that was a Sex And The City episode so we cannot do that.   They have covered a lot of ground that is still extremely relevant and relatable.  And their situations too like  they had a real world you know?  Oh yeah.  So we will find ourselves being like oh that is very Curb world or like that is very Sex And The City World.  So it sounds like in order to write the show you and your cowriters part of what you do is sit in a room and share some of the most awful and embarrassing things that have happened to you.   Exactly and also amazing things that have happened to us.  We try to do like the most New York you know what I mean? It is more like that. Like there is definitely universal experiences to be had but the funniest ones  like Abbi in the first season with the mail with the package going to North Brother Island for the package. Like that is just so New Yorkcentric. Getting a package in New York City is different than getting a package anywhere else. Like our show is a lot about suburban transplants still being in awe of the city even when it is a really annoying result that you have to endure.  I feel like I think about our show a lot where it is as if you are like walking through just this gross block and there is just trash and people peeing and spitting on you. And then you turn the corner and look up and it is like oh right I am in New York. This is like the most beautiful city in the world.  Well yeah there is a scene on the subway where there literally is a pile of feces in the middle of the subway car. And people in New York have probably been exposed to worse.   Yeah.  And well another thing you were both exposed to as you know  your characters exposed to as young women young single women in Manhattan is that you know men are brushing up against you and rubbing against you in awkward places.   And I am sure that is something like every young woman in New York has had to deal with especially on like crowded subways crowded stores.  Ew it is true.  So do you sit around the writers' room like talking about  and here's what happened to me?  Yeah all those little details are never lost.  We like love the mundane. It cracks us up the minutiae the muck that you have to wade through in the city. It cracks us up. It is like this sick masochistic romance that New Yorkers  permanent New Yorkers have with the city where they love how tough they are. And like friends who move to LA are like over it later. Like but there is some sort of pride that New Yorkers have. Somebody texted me the other day who had seen that episode at our premier party  Phoebe Robinson standup comedian...  Who that happened to. It happened to her.  Did she send  did she tell you?  No.  She...  It happens every so often  a bleep car comes down through the subway.   She walked in everybody's running out.  I know.  She does not know why.  But that was sort of just all of us brainstorming like what crazy almost unbelievable things have happened on the subway? And we  on the show we tend to heighten those things a little. It gets a little bit surreal but...  That is like the real car. Nobody invented that one.  My guests are Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer the cocreators cowriters and stars of the Comedy Central series Broad City which begins its second season tonight. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. The Comedy Central series Broad City begins its second season tonight. Let us get back to my interview with the show is cocreators and stars Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer. Broad City started as a Web series. When you were first starting with the Web series did anyone know it existed? And how do you find an audience when you do not have like a larger organization or network to hook up with?  Our Web shorts are still not widely viewed at this point. They were never viral. Basically we came  we had both worked these SEO jobs  search engine optimization. We had both worked these different jobs that dealt with dealing with the Internet and using social media. So we sort of made this spreadsheet of press outlets that we felt needed content. And so we thought about our Web series that we thought well what different types of places would be interested in this? OK it is about two women. OK it is about New York City. OK it is about Jews. It is about stoners.  Broke people.  Yeah.  So you like go to those subsets and look for those kinds of blogs or Twitter.  And you do research. And we made a spreadsheet of all these different sites. And then you have to research and find the editors or the writers and different contacts. And you just start emailing them and you will hope that some people will write some articles and post  when we release a video they are going to post a video that is about  oh they are in Washington Square Park and it is about them selling  or buying weed. And it is like that is something that relates to like our viewership. And it was just very slow and steady but every little blog post was not such a big deal for us because it got the word out. And I have to say because we came out of this amazing community like Facebook built our show.  Yeah I was just going to say that was like the main vehicle for the show. That was where like we like counted those likes more than YouTube views.  Oh yeah  people would share. That was huge. And I will never ever forget  we were part of this teeny little film festival called the Iron Mule and somehow like we submitted to be on that somehow. And we were working at this company Lifebooker at the time  both of us sitting next to each other  and for whatever reason The New York Times was advertising this little film festival and used our photo.  And we did not know.  And it was this little  it was a little photo with a teeny little blurb about the film festival. But I remember taking the subway to work that morning like hugging the newspaper like everyone knew. That was just such a huge payoff from this sort of outreach that we had been doing.  And that was like something  that was like another receipt to show our parents.  Oh my gosh. That was huge.  Was it important to have something to show your parents to kind of prove to them that what you were doing was real and not like a waste of time and a diversion from figuring out what your future really should be?  Oh yeah. What do you think we are doing this interview for?   That is funny. . I want to play a short clip from what will be episode four of the new season. And in this scene Abbi you are with your neighbor Jeremy who you know you are attracted to. And this is the day well you know Elana's grandmother has just died. And so you are saying to him that you know you are talking to him about how death has been on your mind. And you both have some  I do not know if it is wine or champagne I do not know exactly what you are drinking but you have that in your hands. And here's the scene.    You know I have been surrounded by a lot of death lately too. And sometimes death really makes me think about  life.   I totally agree.   To life. And to remember and to being and  that is it.    You are really eloquent about death.   Well my favorite TV show is Six Feet Under so that is probably why.   I have not seen it.   You have not seen Six Feet Under? Oh God. You are so lucky. You know I have the box set if you want to borrow it.   Maybe we could watch it together sometime.   Yeah. I mean yeah if you want to.   I definitely do.   OK. That is going to be great.  . I think that is a really funny scene. Because obviously like your frame of reference for death is a TV series. . And your profound thought about death is so like not profound. So can you talk a little bit about writing that scene Abbi?  Yeah. I mean I have had actual death in my life. But a real thing is that Six Feet Under is my favorite show of all time. And as weird as it sounds is a wonderful portrayal of life and death.  Oh I agree.  But I think that show was a really big influence for me in writing because it is so dramatic but it is so funny and deals with such dark things. It is such a wonderful dark comedy.  But I also think we were like capturing like how stupid dates are. And how like you are just trying to like  in this day and age  like trying to seem real. And it is like so hard. There is so much like surreality and virtual reality and cyber  like all of this like weird distortion of reality. It is like funny to quiet down and actually hear this character try to be real.  So are you already thinking ahead to when they get older when the characters get older how will they change?  Well we are using special serums and creams...   . Serums.  ...On the daily to make sure that never happens.  A lot of Botox on this show. We are lowbudget but then the Botox is sort of outofpocket. They say start early so that is what we are doing. But we have been talking about this like sort of calibrating our expectations for these characters. And so far it does not feel like we have had  we have told that many stories of this baseline that we are working off of. I mean season two I do think the characters grow in an organic way not a necessarily pointed way. But we are still like figuring out how far they get.  Each episode is for the most part 24 hours  maybe a little more maybe a little less. And so there is really only been  you have only seen 10 days of these characters' lives. There is not a ton of time that has passed. I just like sort of love thinking about other shows and I love thinking about Seinfeld about how they did not really change much.  They did not have to change. I feel also like this is only our first TV show. You know? We plan on doing writing and performing for a long time.  Well I want to thank you both so much for talking with us.  It is an honor...  Absolute honor.  ...And a pleasure.  Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer are the cocreators and stars of the Comedy Central series Broad City which begins its second season tonight. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.  