Hey this is Anna. I want to remind you that all this month our episodes are about life after 60 in America right now. If you missed our last episode check it out. Listeners from around the country shared very real stories about their relationships friendships what they value and what theyve let go. Its guest-hosted by Jo Ann Allenand if you are not over 60 yet take a listen and then send that episode on to someone in your life who is over 60. We have a special link for you to do that at deathsexmoney.orgaging. And now Marlo Thomas.  A lot of people wanted to marry me. And I really do believe that there is no uh - more marriage catnip than a person who does not want to marry.   You were irresistible huh?  Yes. My girlfriends would say Oh he will not marry me. And I thought everybody's - not everybody but - many men that I went out with asked me to marry them. And I really think it is because I did not want to get married. I think if I had wanted to get married nobody would have asked me. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Fifty years ago Marlo Thomas was in her early 30s and very happily single.  I had already been a bridesmaid literally about 17 times and I was a godmother about a thousand times. And um and some of my girlfriends were already divorced. With one or two children. And I thought what a mess. What a absolute mess.  It was the early 1970s and Marlo at the time was following in the footsteps of her famous actor father Danny Thomas. She was starring in and producing the TV show That Girl a sitcom about a single aspiring actress living in New York.   It was the first time on television that there was a girl who said she did not want to get married. And she lived in her own apartment and she did not have you know she was not with her mother or her brother or her whatever. In fact the network at one time said we would like to have an aunt move in with you. Or a six-year-old brother or something. I said I am not going to do that. And they were scared to death that the that the American public would not accept a girl who did not have a family unit.  At that point in your life when you were thinking about marriage and what marriage meant in particular for women how did you think about it?  Oh I thought it was a very bad institution for women. And it was nothing that I wanted to be a part of. I was very happily single. I was living the life I wanted to live. I was making my own money. I had my own house. I had my own china pattern and crystal and silver pattern and I thought boy I am doing it. After That Girl came to an end Marlo continued to build on that success in acting and activism including co-founding the Ms. Foundation for Women. And then in 1980 Marlo famously did get married to TV host Phil Donahue. She was 42 years old. Marlo and Phil are now both in their 80s. They celebrated their 40th wedding anniversary last year. I talked with Marlo while she sat in her office in the apartment overlooking Central Park where she and Phil have spent most of their marriage and a lot of alone time during the pandemic.  Our housekeeper did not come in because we were in quarantine. We were laughing. We could not figure out how to do certain things.  What did you not know how to do?  We did not know which was at washer which was the dryer. Because they are the kind that are stacked and they look exactly the same. They both have a round window. And I said to Phil whatever one says rinse has gotta be the washer.   Who folds the laundry?  We both did!  Anyone whos surprised that Marlo Thomas splits the folding with her husband clearly did not grow up listening to her childrens album Free to Be You and Me which is the best. When it came out in 1972 it was a real breakthrough in how adults talked to kids about gender and what was possible for them. This poem from it Housework was performed by Carol Channing  Children when you have a house of your own make sure when there is housework to do that you do not have to do it alone. Little boys little girls when you are big husbands and wives if you want all the days of your lives to seem sunny as summer weather make sure when there is housework to do that you do it together! When Marlo made Free To Be You and Me she gathered together a lot of her famous friends to pass on some essential life lessons. She did that again last year in a book that she and Phil wrote called What Makes A Marriage Last in which they interviewed 40 well-known married couples about their relationships. And they write about how they came to be married after Marlo thought for years that marriage was not good for women.  It wasnt that I didnt believe I could be faithful or I did not believe I could love someone. I just didnt believe marriage was a good place for a woman. I just thought it really was a place for one and a half persons. The one person could either be a man or a woman. And the other person would be the half person that would support the other person in their dream. And certainly in my family my father had this very big career and my mother uh was in support of it and and she did that and and she was kind of happy. I mean she had given up her own singing career to travel with my father around the country before he moved to Los Angeles and made it in television. So I did not see a good model and I think that is very important. 'ecause if you do not see it you cannot be it.  Did you have the kind of relationship with your dad when you were an adult that you could say you know I do not really want to get married if it means marriage looks like what you and mom have had?  Oh yeah. We had big discussions about that.  And how did how did those conversations did he did he feel insulted by that? What was that conversation like in your family?  No he was not insulted by it. He got it. You know he knew that I was not my mother. He knew that was not going to be me. He did not raise me to be to be my mother. He raised me to to be someone in the world. And my sister and my brother not just me. He knew I was not headed there. I mean my nickname as a little girl was Miss Independence. I was always independent. I just never you know my father kind of instilled in my sister and me that we could be anything we wanted to be. And his his um his uh what should I say his compliment which I know sounds sexist now but he used to say to us You are man-sized women. You are going to be man-sized women. I guess to him being man-sized women meant we were as good as a man. He did want me to marry and have children and he would every now and then comment on that. But uh he was so proud of how hard I worked.  When you thought of your mother as a young woman did you feel um a sense of like frustration on her behalf that she did not have the same choices that you did? Or did you feel a sense of like did you think look at her and think you are not as you are not as strong as I am? Like how what was that relationship like?  I was very protective of my mother. Uh I just I always felt that she needed a little tending to.  Hmm. Tell me about that. In what way?  Because she was you know um she had her own radio show when she met my dad. So uh and then she gave it up to travel with him. It was uh a little radio show in Detroit where they both were where I was born. And we were there about six months. I was out of Detroit uh quickly and um as an infant. And then went to Chicago my father wanted to go where the better nightclubs were. He was a nightclub comedian. So my mom loved him. I mean she adored him. Her whole life she adored him. And so she went with him. And my sister was born in Chicago. We moved to Los Angeles when I was around five four or five. And then my father started to have a Hollywood career. So my mother you know she was going from city to city having babies in every city. Um so that was her choice. And and yet you know she would sometimes she would say to me Boy you are really doing it the right way kiddo.  Oh she would.  Yeah. She said you are really doing it the right way. I said one time on a Johnny Carson show or someplace. I said I am my mother's revenge. Oh she loved that. She liked to think of me as her revenge um that I had done uh what she wanted to do. She was very very um touchingly supportive of me. She really was. It was very I remember when I first came to New York to audition for a play long long long time ago. And she drove me to the airport and she put her little rosary and a hundred dollars in my hand and she said Good luck baby. Oh my gosh. It makes me cry to think of it.  Yeah. Something about that just really hit me. That is just beautiful.  Yeah it was so touching you know she just she wanted me to have my dream and I think it is because she did not have hers. She had a regret about it but she would put it in me. Marlo did have her dream. She longed to be a comedic actor and her career took off early. Marlo wasnt yet 30 when That Girl became a hit and ended up running for five years. But even before then she got regular television work that helped her pay her own bills.  I was living in a tiny little apartment 200 a month apartment in the Hollywood Hills. And I loved it. It was a darling little apartment and I was completely independent and paying for my own rent. And I just you know very proud of myself. And uh then I got the series and I made a good amount of money. And so that was my dream to have a house of my own. Uh and so I bought a beautiful house. Swimming pool and a pond and very pretty house. And I was I was happy as a lark.  Can you tell me about when you decided to buy your own china? I mean that is that is usually a wedding gift. When did you say I am buying my own and I am picking out my pattern?  Well because I had been to all my girlfriends' weddings. And their showers you know with their china pattern and their crystal pattern and all of this. Uh it was actually yellow. It was very pretty it was a yellow uh border. I do not have them anymore. It was very fancy and I do not really like fancy stuff but I did then because I was trying to replicate what all my friends were doing I think. And a beautiful silver pattern which I still have. And um and I gave dinner parties and I entertained uh I gave a huge Thanksgiving because most of my friends at that time Candy Bergen and David Geffen and Barry Diller and Warren Beatty and a whole lot of people nobody was married and nobody had children. Some of the people were gay. Uh and some of them were just they were unmarried like I was. We were all uh career oriented and independent and did not really need um we did not need the status of marriage and that is such a good thing. You know it is so funny. I received so many letters from young women who would say I am so glad you are not married. I can always point to you to my mother and say well Marlo's not married and she is not crazy. So that was I was sort of a beacon for a lot of young girls young women. So I was perfectly content. And and I had lovely men in my life actors and directors and and mostly people in show business 'ecause that is who I was around. Um but I did not have the urge to marry. I was just sort of following my heart and my nose and my feet and going in the direction that I wanted to go in.   Phil had gotten divorced in a few years prior and he and Marlo hit it off. Within months they started dating long distance. Marlo was in Los Angeles and Phil was in Chicago along with his four sons.  He approached the subject of marriage within the first year. And I said no I really do not want to be married. He said okay. And we did not bring it up again. We dated for almost three years. We dated about three years. And then I do not know even how it happened. We started talking about it and putting our lives together because our lives were crazy by this time. I mean between you know he had these four boys and he is you know getting he said I just gotta get my boys through high school and then I could move my show to New York. And so then I moved to New York from LA. So we would have a shorter trip from New York to Chicago. So we were inching and inching and inching toward putting our lives together. But it was not an overnight thing that oh boy I want to be married. It was oh boy I really love this guy. I really trust him. And he is a good decent human being. And that was very impressive to me and exciting to me that he was who he is and who he is always been. Um but a lot had to happen. I mean I had to understand that I could define my own marriage. I did not have to have somebody else's model. Coming up Marlo and Phil get married. But first they break up.  Were unhappy we are crying all the time that we are alone and you know all that stuff. So we decided that you know what let us be grown up about this. Let us let us just cool it and rethink it. And you know maybe this is just one of those things that cannot work.  Last spring we asked you to share your stories about missing touch during the pandemic. And we heard from a lot of you who were single and having big feelings about it. I have been pretty steadfast in being single and being content until now. Maybe if I had dated more maybe if I had been less picky. All the times when I did not go out with friends when I did not go to that event because I did not want to go alone. I am really kicking myself. And although I am an introvert I desperately have been seeking out flirtations even unsolicited ones that I should know better. And I do not know. It just makes me think. What I am looking for is that going to change? Because deep down I am by myself. If this happens again is this what I want for me? If you are single right now and dont want to be how would you describe your approach to dating right now? Have you tried dating during Covid? Have you noticed that what youre looking for has changed? Were collecting stories about what its like to be single and looking. Record a voice memo or write a note and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode our series of conversations about life after 60 continues when I talk to Beverly Glenn Copeland. Hes spent his entire life making music. And the financial realities of pursuing his art have shifted as hes aged.  I feel that you know one has to have the means by which to live your dream. It is easier to do on peanut butter when you are 21 or 20 or whatever I was. That is very different from being you know in your seventies.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. In 1980 three years into their increasingly serious relationship Marlo Thomas and Phil Donahue decided being long-distance was not going to work.  It was getting really hard mostly because of the children his children you know he could not just take off every single weekend. And I could not because of my work I think I was doing a play at that time so I could not get there. I was working on the weekend so it was becoming really difficult. And I think we both said this is too hard. It is just too hard. It is hard for you. It is hard for the boys. It is hard for me. So we did break up. And in those three months I know he started dating people that he dated before. I went back to an old boyfriend which is what you always do.    Actually he was like a vulture. He heard that I broke it off with Phil and he called me from LA. He said you broke up with Phil and he said okay I am coming to New York to see you. So we hung out for awhile and it was good. It was a very good thing to do. Because we were able to look at it say you know what it is truly worth it. This is the person I want.  How did that conversation happen? What happened after three months?  He called me. He called me and said uh I never thought anybody could be this irreplaceable.  I did not think anybody could be this irreplaceable.  Right.  Whoa.  Yeah.  And did you feel that way?  Oh for sure. I was miserable. I was miserable but I was trying to be like okay you know I have my work and he has his work and he is got his kids and this is life. And I you know I am not some little sorry-eyed kid I gotta trudge along here and you know but I I was I was miserable. And then the boyfriend that I had gone back to I had stopped that because it was not making me happy. And I was thinking in the back of my mind somehow this has to work out. I mean how could we do this? How could I never see him again? And um we did not speak for those three months.  Oh really?  Yeah. It was a real break but it was it was good. And I say that to a lot of people um who are not sure. And having troubles over it I would say you know - I mean unmarried people - I would say you know just get away for awhile. It does not have to be three months. Maybe it is a month. Maybe it is two weeks whatever just get away from it. And you know walk away and see. Marlo and Phil married in a secret ceremony at her parents house and were able to get off to their honeymoon without the paparazzi finding out. But pretty quickly word got out about their marriage.  There were a lot of women who were unhappy that I got married. Um they you know they felt that I was a symbol of something but I did not feel a responsibility to that. You know when uh when we were on our honeymoon we were on a plane. And uh and Phil had gone to the bathroom and I had on my wedding band and my diamond ring and all that stuff. And this woman sitting across from me she said You are Marlo Thomas! And I said Yes I am. And she said Are you married? And I was like - I felt like a blushing bride and I went Yes I am married you know? And she said Oh my God why would you be married? I am so disappointed! I thought oh my God what have I done? I have let all these women down. So I did have some of that. I did have people who wrote to me and said you know I always look to you as a beacon uh of you know being an independent woman. And I thought well I was independent and I am still independent but I am married now but I am still independent.  Yeah. I think of that as a time when in some ways the feminist movement and the women's movement uh could be quite rigid during that time. Like did you have friends from doing political organizing around women's rights that that um you felt like you had to explain your choice?  Oh no uh uh. That is kind of a a myth to tell you the truth. You know Ms. Magazine which is about as feminine as you can get - there were a lot of married women who were editors and writers for Ms. Magazine uh and were married and had children. And there were several who did not marry and are still not married. So I do not - no I never felt uncomfortable. I mean Gloria Steinem and Bella Abzug gave me my bridal shower.  Oh really?  Yeah.  Where was it? Tell me about it. I want to be able to picture it.  It was my friend Carole Hart's apartment. And it was hilarious. It was after we came back from our honeymoon because we nobody knew we were getting married. So when we came back everybody was mad at me because I had not told them I was getting married. And um and of course they all bought me things like mops and Tide you know and all that just to make fun of me.   Oh they did! They - things to clean the house.  Um and they hung on on the walls some of my earlier sayings about marriage one of them was uh Marriage is like living with a jailer you have to please.   That was the decoration at your bridal shower.  Right. And another one was uh Marriage is like a vacuum cleaner. You stick it to your ear and it sucks out all your energy and ambition. So there is no doubt why I would never married with that attitude right?  How did you think about what your role would be as a stepmother? How did you think how did you understand that when you were marrying?  I did not understand it at all. I um again that was my rosy glasses. You know I love this guy he is got four kids. What is the problem? You know I just did not see it. Um I had no idea about it. And it was not until like about a year in um there was a crisis with one of the kids and I um I went and I did not really feel comfortable you know you know getting into the fray in crisis situation except to comfort Phil or talk to Phil. And I um I went back to a therapist that I had seen years before and I told him you know this is really hard and I am not sure you know how to do this what my place is and so forth. And he said to me you have to become a part of um uh an entity. An adult decision-making entity you are not as a bystander. This is your life too. So you and Phil have to understand that you are team as a decision-making entity. And once he gave me that it really again it just unleashed my own reticence to step where maybe I should not be stepping. And but then I realized it was important to our marriage as well as making a family unit.  Mm hm. How did you - did you when you figured out how to be involved in the decision-making did you communicate with their mom or was that still Phil's job?  No I did it mostly. And I made a decision about that. I thought I am not going to be a feminist in one corner and be one of these women who is got a bad relationship with uh my husband's ex-wife. So uh I made peace with her early on and I liked very much and she liked me and we still do like each other. You know that does not say there was not there were not complications and there was not pain and there was not you know negotiations and all that but um it was pretty good because he he has very good kids.  Speaking of negotiation I am curious I have seen that you you and Phil decided not to sign a prenuptial agreement when you married. Did you did you choose to combine your money when you got married when you had both been sort of financially independent?  We did eventually. We did not at first. But we did eventually.  How did that feel for you as someone with your own house and your own china?  Yeah well I still have my own house. I also have my own husband. Um we just decided to do it. We did not at first. I was I wanted to have my little pot and he had his pot and he was raising his kids and I had my pot and all this stuff. But then as you know we are married 40 years. As the time goes by you know you own everything together. We own our house together. Own our boat together we own everything together. So you know it it does not matter you know what is mine is his and what is his is mine.  I do want to ask you have had a long marriage 40 years is a long time. And I imagine you have had um some difficult moments during that time. Like looking back was there ever a time where you you know thought I am not sure this is going to work?  No never not ever.  Is that is that kind of astonishing to you? That is pretty amazing.  I do not know. I do not know. You know I do not really think there is a gigantic mystery to marriage. I think you have to do a lot of accommodating and figure out you know what you need from the other person to do for you or stop doing for you or whatever. But basically it is like other than lust and love it is about liking somebody you know and listening to them. You know I think that is that is a very big thing. Most people do not listen to each other. I I really um and sometimes because of time if you do not have enough time uh because you are focused on on a project or something you are not listening you are not hearing and that is that is dangerous. And that that I really we both work on that. My dad used to always say that noticing was the most important thing we can do as human beings. And when you do not notice them that is when you get into trouble.  Do you and Phil talk about what it is been like to age? Like how much do you talk about aging and how that is affecting the way you?  Oh we talk about it a lot you know with every little creak and groan you know but uh you know his eyes are not as good as they used to be. And I am not as flexible as I was even though I work out four times a week. Um yeah. I mean you notice that uh that you are different than than you were 20 years ago. 30 years ago certainly 40 years ago but we do not - thank god we are healthy. So we are not really you know what we are talking about the things like you know eyesight glasses hearing aids uh upset stomachs you know that kind of stuff. But um you know when everybody said well you know we are the elderly you cannot go you know go get  well god we are the elderly you know. I had not thought about that. Um I was very excited when we became seniors got half price at the movie theater. I thought that was hilarious. Um but I do not think I do not think we think a lot about it. In fact I have uh another friend who is uh around my age and we we are saying I do not really feel that different. I do not think myself that differently. I should not say I do not feel that different. I do not think of myself any differently. I do not think oh my goodness. I may have only 10 years left. I do not think like that. I never have I do not have a great concept of time.  Yeah I do want to ask one last question. And that is I I was struck in the book that you write about how the flip side of love is loss.  Yes.  And you know you have just in this project where you have interviewed all of these people who have spent so many years together. You have had the experience of of losing parents. Like what - are you scared of are you scared of losing each other?  Yes. Sure. Of course. Yeah. How could you not be? You know you are together all the time. You love each other you are completely interdependent. And yes of course you know we do not we do not dwell on it but. And Phil does not talk about that kind of thing at all.  Really? That surprises me.  Uh he he is Irish.    The Irish just take it as it lays you know. He does not talk about it much. We do like if somebody dies or a friend will lose their spouse and we will say wow that is hard. That is really sad. And then we will talk about wow that is that is rough. But we do not say oh my gosh I do not want you to die before me. We do not do that. I know there are people who talk about that. We do not talk about that. I do not see any reason to. Because itd be horrible if I lost him. It would be horrible for him if he lost me but we do not need to talk about it a lot. We know that. Thats Marlo Thomas. Her latest book that she wrote with her husband Phil Donahue is called What Makes a Marriage Last. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Katie Bishop. The rest of our team includes Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. And if you missed our last episode check it out. It is all about getting real about getting older right now. Its called Just Ask Us Your Stories About Life After 60. You can find it in your podcast feed or at deathsexmoney.orgaging.  I have really enjoyed talking with you. Um thank you for your openness.  Thank you. Well my life's kind of an open book so it is a little late to become mysterious.   Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.