 The Iron Lady based on the life of former Conservative British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher opens everywhere today. It opened in limited release at the end of last year to qualify for the Oscars. Meryl Streep gives a star turn as Margaret Thatcher. Film critic David Edelstein has this review.  I admit I was biased against the Margaret Thatcher biopic The Iron Lady  not you understand against Thatcher and her Tory politics  against Meryl Streep and her accents which are great no doubt. But I went in resolved not to fall for her pyrotechnics yet again. I wanted realism. Well it did not take long to realize that I was watching not only one of the greatest impersonations I would ever seen but one that was also emotionally real. The Iron Lady has a freeform structure. It drifts back and forth between Thatcher as an old woman in the early stages of dementia and Thatcher rising to power with Alexandra Roach playing Thatcher very well in her late teens and 20s. The first thing you notice about Streep is that her makeup is uncanny and also that she inhabits it fully. She has big false teeth and a voice that is even in Thatcher's fading state a nasal trumpet. Streep gets the music in the voice and through the music the mind. As the middleaged Thatcher Streep plays a woman armored for battle a female in a male chauvinist's world and a Tory in a quasisocialist one. Her lacquered hair signals strength her pearl necklaces a pride in the fruits of her wealth. Her philosophy of free enterprise comes from her shopowner father seen in flashbacks preaching selfreliance over welfare. But Margaret's prickly spirit is all her own. In an early scene she is furious being directed to sit with the ladies while men who have been wooing her to run for office move into the drawing room to smoke cigars. The director Phyllida Lloyd and writer Abi Morgan clearly admire her feminism  not that Thatcher would use that word  but are studiously neutral about her politics. This has already goaded some viewers and critics who'd like to see Thatcher's ideas given a proper airing. And it must be admitted that on that level the film is weak tea. You will have to make up your own mind on the merits of say Prime Minister Thatcher's decision in the early '80s to attack Argentine's junta after it seizes the Falkland Islands. But it is hard not to thrill to Streep when her Thatcher talks tough as she does to the patronizing Alexander Haig played by Matthew Marsh.    We will stand on principle or we will not stand at all.   But Margaret with all due respect when one has been to war...  With all due respect sir I have done battle every single day of my life. And many men have underestimated me before. This lot seem bound to do the same. But they will rue the day.  In later scenes in which Thatcher quarrels with fellow Tory Michael Heseltine  played by Richard E. Grant  over how to cope with an economic crisis the political machinations were harder  at least for this American  to follow. What is clear is that the filmmakers finally view Thatcher as someone with an inflexible and somewhat limited intellect. The imperviousness to criticism that brought her to power also leads to her downfall which is swift and dramatized in short brusque scenes with little emotional kick. Yet The Iron Lady as a whole is extremely moving. What clinches it I think are the scenes between Streep and Jim Broadbent as her husband Denis alive in flashbacks but a fantasy companion in Thatcher's scenes as an old lady long after he is died. Denis was often spoofed and ridiculed in the U.K. but here you see the sweettempered clown who took off Margaret's edge and made her laugh. Some former Thatcher allies have expressed outrage over scenes in which Thatcher suffers from the delusion she is still prime minister in one directing staff to release a statement of condolence after a terrorist bombing. But I think those scenes make her look more admirable than pathetic. So much else is gone yet Thatcher's sense of civic duty is undimmed. Unlike the masks of many  arguably most  politicians the one Streep presents in The Iron Lady is held in place by character not expediency. Streep makes you think it was the role Margaret Thatcher was born to play.  David Edelstein is film critic for New York Magazine. 