 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. Our guest Matthew Aid is a historian of the American intelligence world who wrote a highly regarded history of the National Security Agency called Secret Sentries.  In his new book Aid looks at the enormous growth of the intelligence world since the 9/11 attacks and how the nation's spies have responded to the challenges of new missions and new technology. And he assesses how well the intelligence world has addressed the failures highlighted in the 9/11 Commission's report. Matthew Aid's new book is called Intel Wars The Secret History of The Fight Against Terror. Well Matthew Aid welcome to FRESH AIR. In this book you give us a picture of just how big and sprawling the U.S. intelligence community is. There is one page where you list all these different agencies and about how many employees each has. How many people are we talking about? How many agencies?  Before 9/11 there were 16 agencies. We are now up to 17 if you include the addition of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence which is the nominal intelligence czar of the United States. Total number of personnel is about 210000 civilians and military personnel deployed in the United States and about 170 countries around the world.  And that is government employees. That does not count all the private contractors who do work right?  That is correct.  OK.  Now people know of the CIA and then of course the NSA the National Security Agency but I am fascinated by some of the other agencies that are here. The National Reconnaissance Office. What is that?  The National Reconnaissance Office for the last 50 years operates and maintains the constellations of spy satellites. And this includes what they call imaging reconnaissance satellites meaning the satellites that take pictures of the earth below; as well as signals intelligence satellites which are these gigantic monstrosities of machinery that are parked 22000 miles above the earth and can scoop up radio signals and electronic emissions from the earth's surface. You know at any one time there are probably somewhere around 15 to 25 of these secret satellites in orbit over the earth. What happens is when they stop functioning whether you know for mechanical reasons or they reach the end of their operational lifetime they basically just stay in space. They become space junk and cluttering up our stratosphere. So you know it is a  but it is the National Reconnaissance Office is probably the single most expensive component of the intelligence community and it always has since it was created back in 1960.  And they take all of this data and then parse it out to the other 16 agencies?  There are two agencies that basically take all of the information that the satellites collect.  The pictures that the satellites take go to an agency called the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency which is based in Northern Virginia now. And there you have hundreds if not thousands of imagery analysts who go through the pictures and generate intelligence from it. The intercepted radio signals and radar emissions and the other electronic paraphernalia that the satellites collect goes to the National Security Agency up at Fort Mead Maryland. And there you know the material is processed and then you know sent down to Washington D.C. to be fused with other information into reporting going to President Obama and other intelligence consumers here and overseas.  And then of course each of the military branches have some intelligence apparatus. The Pentagon has you know what tens of thousands of people. Even the Coast Guard has its own intelligence force?  Yeah.  You know 9/11 created a bunch of new players in the intelligence community and one of which is the U.S. Coast Guard. Well you know the Coast Guard is always been in the information collection business primarily because of its longstanding involvement in trying to interdict the flow of illegal narcotics into the United States. But you know that was sort of an afterthought to its main function of just cruising around in the Caribbean and the Pacific trying to stop this stuff. After 9/11 they created their own intelligence organization including you know recruiting and training a number of signals intelligence specialists. And all the Coast Guard cutters especially the big ones that you occasionally see anchored in our harbors or cruising off our coast have a little compartment inside very deep inside with a cipher lock on the outside and the people inside the compartment are radio intercept operators listening to the radio communications of Columbian narcotics traffickers and the like. So yeah the Coast Guard has now become a player in the intelligence game.  You posed the question what do American spies look like by which you mean of these 210 000 government personnel involved in this is there a demographic profile?  No. You know if you read the books the Cold War you know many authors describe the CIA as being you know it was a very narrow demographic. Usually graduates of Ivy League universities coming from welltodo families you know well traveled well educated. The demographic has changed dramatically but it is been changing steadily since the 1960s. But 9/11 has just accelerated the dramatic changes in the demographic of the intelligence community. The people who now populate the 17 spy agencies pretty much resemble you and I in most respects. They are still very bright well educated well traveled but they are no longer restricted to just you know the Ivy League schools in the Northeast. You know recruiting now takes place on all university campuses across the United States. The clandestine service of  or what used to be called the clandestine service of the CIA still goes out and recruits a lot of people who have special skill sets people who have no problem lying for a living.  And so where do you go fishing for that kind of personality?  Well the CIA has gone out and looked for people who are aggressive personalities. And what they have done is they have recruited a lot of police detectives a lot of criminal prosecutors  people who are used to dealing with ne'erdowells on a day to day basis are basically pretty aggressive in terms of their personality. And there are other types of people who fit that profile.  And you write that the Mormon community is a rich source of recruitment right?  The Mormon community has historically provided a significant number of linguists to the National Security Agency and the CIA and the other branches of the intelligence community because the church requires that all members spend several years overseas as missionaries. And so you know these people come back to the United States and they are culturally sensitized and aware. They usually are pretty well versed in the language or languages that they spoke and so it is like a happy hunting ground for the intelligence community. And because you know they do not smoke or drink getting a security clearance for members of the Mormon church is a relatively easy process.  You know after the 9/11 attacks there was an effort to change the way the intelligence community operated. The 9/11 Commission called for a complete overhaul to deal with the fact that information was not shared among disparate agencies. You know dots were not connected and signals you know signs clues were lost that might have detected the 9/11 plot. And there was this idea that we are going to create a director of national intelligence someone that could make all of the parts work smoothly together and get out of their kind of bureaucratic isolationism. Well first of all how was that proposal viewed among people in the intelligence world when it was made?  They hated the idea of an intelligence czar. You have to understand that each of the 16 intelligence agencies that existed before the creation of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence they are bureaucracies and they have a bureaucratic identity and lifespan of their own. Which means that you know they love their independence. So I mean it is in that sense they are no different than a major corporation.  But surely they recognized that the inability to share information and coordinate investigations harmed the effort endangered the country. What did they think needed to be done if not you know a new intelligence czar some directorate?  Well the purpose of the you know the creating the Office of the Director of National Intelligence was exactly as you suggested to create an intelligence czar a strong individual who would sit on top of the 16 other intelligence agencies and force them to share information and work together in peace and harmony.  Right and after a lot of debate in Congress there was an office of what? It was the Office of the Director of National Intelligence right was created.  That is correct.  And did it do that? Did it address the issue?  Well yes and no. The no portion is that the legislation that finally came out of Congress was so badly watered down by rival interests you know both within the intelligence community and on Capitol Hill. And everyone knows in Washington that if you want to run the ship if you want to make sure that everybody follows your lead you have to control the money. And the first thing that Congress did is took away the authority of the director of national intelligence to control the budgets of the 16 agencies of the U.S. intelligence community. The other problem is that former Secretary of Defense Don Rumsfeld got a couple of members of the House and Senate to revise the legislation in such a way that the Office of the Director of National Intelligence was given very very limited authority over the 100000 or so spies who work for the Pentagon. So the result is that basically you have today two intelligence communities. You have sort of the civilian agencies who report to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence who is now General Jim Clapper and then you have another 100000 or so spies who work strictly for the Pentagon and they have their own boss who is the undersecretary of defense for intelligence. They have separate budgets they report to different committees and you know it is a structural nightmare.  So if the director of national intelligence does not really have any authority over the military intelligence apparatus is there a mechanism by which information is shared and you know investigations are coordinated?  Oh yes. I did not mean to suggest that the director of national intelligence did not have some degree of control over the activities of the various intelligence components of the U.S. military. The money component is handled by the Pentagon but there are various mechanisms by which the military provides all the information that they collect you know into a series of databases which are you know operated and maintained by the director of national intelligence or his subordinate agencies. But it is just you know you talk to officials who used to work or work today at the director of national intelligence's office and there is just frustration. I think I quoted one DNI official to the effect of you know it would be nice if the boys over at the Pentagon you know once in a while let us know what they were up to you know which is I think sort of gives a hint that things could be more tightly controlled than they are right now.  We are speaking with Matthew Aid. His new book about the American intelligence community is called Intel Wars. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us we are speaking with intelligence historian Matthew Aid. He wrote a history of the National Security Agency called The Secret Sentry. His new book is Intel Wars The Secret History of The Fight Against Terror. All right. Big question here. Even though we did not get a national intelligence czar which truly controls the budgets and personnel of the intelligence community everybody knows that there needs to be or there needed to be much more sharing of critical information. Is that happening? Are we better at connecting the dots now?  We are better at connecting the dots. To give the intelligence community its due not only is it collecting vastly larger amounts of information than it was prior to 9/11 but the quality of the information is much better and there is much greater sharing of information within the intelligence community. New databases have been built and new communication systems have been put in place to ensure you know the more even flow of information within the intelligence community. The problem is some of the databases were sort of put together on a spit and paste basis. They were not designed to be as gigantic as they are today and so they do not work very well. The other problem is  you know I have interviewed a number of analysts and collectors who worked in Iraq and Afghanistan and one of their biggest complaints was you know is not it wonderful? Here I am sitting in a foxhole in the back desert of Afghanistan and I have got 3000 emails coming in from Washington every morning with all the latest intelligence and you know the guy said you know it is wonderful that they are sharing the stuff with me. I just wish they were a little more selective about what they were sending me. The bottom line is that we are so focused on pushing intelligence down to the lowest common denominator in the field that we are drowning our intelligence analysts working in you know not just Afghanistan but in the Philippines and Yemen and elsewhere.  Well and there is just an incredible increase in the amount of data coming in all these drones that are in the air producing information right?  Absolutely true. And you know the drone is  it is the superweapon of the intelligence community. It is become over the last decade the principal means of finding and monitoring insurgents and terrorists around the world. And just to give the you know the listeners an idea on 9/11 the U.S. military had a grand total of I think about 200 drones in its inventory. Today there are over 6000 of you know a multitude of sizes flying all over the world. And I will tell one funny story of I was in Afghanistan driving south of Kabul with my driver who was also my fixer and we felt nature's call so we got out of our SUV and I looked up and there was a very small  it looked like a balsa model that I used to fly when I was a kid hovering right over us monitoring what we were doing by the side of the road. And you know it turns out that about 80 percent of the time spent by these drones is  it is not spent trying to kill alQaida. It is basically you know drones fly up and down up and down roads and dirt tracks in Afghanistan looking for guys trying to plant bombs by the side of the road to kill U.S. and NATO troops. But you know they have become omnipresent and they have become essential to the way the intelligence community works. The problem is that each new iteration or generation of these drones produces several orders of magnitude more data than the last one. And again the amount of data is literally drowning the analyst to the point where it now requires something on the order of 275 operators and analysts to analyze the result of each drone intelligence mission.  Have military intelligence operations grown to the point where they rival or are bigger than the CIA?  Yes. We have spoken already about the operations of unmanned drones as sort of an example of sort of the new omnipresent weapon of the U.S. intelligence community. Well with the exception of the 30 drones operated by the CIA which are you know used for a very specific purpose in northern Pakistan to hunt down and occasionally kill alQaida the remaining 5970 drones that belong to the intelligence community are controlled exclusively by the three military services. And I get the impression that the Office of the Director of National Intelligence actually has very little control over whether the Air Force buys one drone or another or how many it buys how much it pays for these drones or necessarily how the information is collected and used and analyzed. And you know this is again one of those frustrating facts of life of trying to do business within the intelligence community. And just so you know the number of people engaged in working on the drone program within the U.S. military probably about 40 to 45000 people. You know I am talking about pilots and intelligence analysts and maintenance personnel and all the various other support people. So the CIA has 25000 maybe 30000 people. There are more people working on the drone program than the entire CIA combined. That just gives you an example. Another example is the U.S. Army intelligence apparatus consists of 54000 people almost twice as large as the CIA. You know this is you know the Army has all these people stationed you know around the world especially in Afghanistan but it just gives you a sense of how large the military's intelligence presence is around the world and you know how potentially severe the problem could be if the Office of the Director of National Intelligence has not enough control over their activities.  Matthew Aid's new book is called Intel Wars The Secret History of The Fight Against Terror. He will be back in the second half of the show. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross who is off this week. We are speaking with Matthew Aid. He is a historian of the American intelligence world whose new book looks at the dramatic growth in intelligence operations since 9/11 and how well the nation's spies are coping with new missions and new technologies. His new book is called Intel Wars. You wrote a book called Secret Sentry about the National Security Agency  which you know has this massive network of analyzing signals intelligence and monitoring all kinds of communications around the world. And I wanted to talk a bit about the chapter on the warrantless surveillance of the communications of Americans  which was of course revealed in a New York Times story in December 2005. But this program had been going on for a while. How closely held was knowledge of this program within the NSA?  Well the number of people at NSA who were cleared for access to the warrantless eavesdropping program was maybe one or two hundred people. It was a very closely held program kept secret by orders of former Vice President Dick Cheney and his chief of staff David Addington who largely ran the program from you know the West Wing of the White House. And you know this was the way the program was run for basically the first four or five years that the program ran after 9/11. And the program has been brought under the rubric of FISA now so they are a lot more people who are cleared for access to it today.  Yeah for FISA the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act right?  Surveillance Act.  OK. Right.  Correct.  Right. Now there is the question of the legality of this program and the National Security Agency is not supposed to be spying on Americans. It is  in fact its director had said before this was revealed that it was an urban legend that such things were happening. There are of course lawyers within the NSA. Did they consider the legality of this?  Yes. According to former NSA director Mike Hayden before he went ahead and executed the program he brought in a group of lawyers and asked them you know can we do what the White House wants and still keep it you know within the legal framework? And they told him according to General Hayden yes we can. The problem is that Hayden himself is not a lawyer and I am not convinced that the NSA lawyers were fully briefed into the nature and extent of the program. You know they were given a very narrow legal question that they were asked to answer and they did you know based on the information that they were given. The more I learn about the program the more concerned I am about the legality of the program particularly during the first four years of the program when it was largely unregulated.  Right. And just briefly I mean what was the program? What are those concerns about its legality?  My concern about the program is that the legal authorities for the NSA warrantless eavesdropping program were not written by NSA. It was written by a lawyer in the Justice Department named John Yoo who basically wrote a series of legal briefs between 2001 and 2002 that you know the gravamen of his argument was that the president's wartime powers superseded the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States which is to say that well in wartime there are no restrictions or bars on what the president of the United States can and cannot do. We have one of John Yoo's briefs which has been released by the Justice Department but my attempts to get the Justice Department to release the other five that Mr. Yoo wrote have been rejected by the Justice Department.  But when the National Security Agency's own lawyers and its Office of General Counsel were considering the legality of this did they get to see the legal arguments the briefs that the Justice Department had prepared?  No. That is the interesting part which is why I question how the lawyers up at NSA headquarters could have made an informed judgment about the legality of the program without seeing the Justice Department authority which formed the legal basis for the entire warrantless eavesdropping program. And then there came a point I think in 2004 when the inspector general and the general counsel of the National Security Agency finally three and a half years after the program began asked to see John Yoo's legal briefs to find out if in fact what the agency had been doing for all these years conformed with you know with federal statute. They came down to Washington from Fort Meade and were told in no uncertain terms by David Addington Vice President Cheney's chief of staff no you cannot see these documents. So the NSA officials got back in their car drove back up to Fort Meade and we still do not know what if anything they said to NSA Director Mike Hayden at the time.  Right. So in the end the program was exposed and there was a long controversy that followed. The administration got Congress to enact a bill granting the communications companies immunity from I guess civil and criminal action for the actions that they had taken in cooperating in this surveillance. But I am interested in  did the career professionals at the National Security Agency that you know and spoke to believe that the program itself was effective?  Depends on who you talk to. Most of the people I have spoken to were you know had no security clearance for access to this program. Some may have seen the finished product that came out of the program. I have talked to people you know elsewhere in the intelligence community who claim to have seen the material and there is sort of like 60 70 percent of the people I have spoken to say the material that resulted from the warrantless eavesdropping program was of marginal and maybe little assistance to their counterterrorism efforts but it really did not result in any major arrests it did not expose any alQaida sleeper cells in the United States. And in fact most of its successes at least the ones that I am familiar with were overseas in places like Iraq trying to halt alQaida or Iraqi insurgent attacks on the United States. So I guess where I come down on this is that we spent a hell of a lot of money building a system of dubious legality which really did not give us very much in terms of making the United States more secure. But I reserve the right to change my opinion you know if and when the Obama administration or future administrations declassify some more documentation about the program.  In your book about the National Security Agency you talk about some of the challenges that they face including new technology which  that generates communications they have to monitor which are hard to monitor like Skype you know the kind of  the video images through computers and BlackBerries and cell phones and the like. But one of the things that is hard to believe that you said is an issue for them is a shortage of electrical power?  As ironic as it is the NSA during the 10 years after 9/11 was spending billions of dollars on new collection systems and vast amounts of computer hardware and software and jamming it into its headquarters complex up at Fort Meade but did not build additional power stations to keep all these new systems you know that were being installed in Fort Meade up and running. So you had these embarrassing instances you know three four years ago where if you plugged in a coffee pot you literally could knock the electricity out for an entire wing at NSA headquarters. So you had these rather strange situations where every office had to have an electricity monitor. And if you wanted to install a new percolator coffee pot in your office they had to measure the number of amps that the coffee pot generated and then they had to you know write up a formal request to install the coffee pot...   ...in their office which then had to go through 27 approvals before some very senior official signed on the dotted line and then it went back down the chain of command. I mean that is how serious the electricity problem was.  We are speaking with Matthew Aid. His new book is Intel Wars The Secret History of the Fight Against Terror. We will talk more after a quick break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us our guest is historian Matthew Aid. His new book is Intel Wars The Secret History of the Fight Against Terror. The book is filled with fascinating little revelations. And one of the things is you describe an FBI program of surveillance flights over Washington  planes operated by the FBI that go up and look at something. I mean you talk about where the hangar is. What are they up to? What are they looking for? Do you know?  Yeah that is the question. We do not know. Just to sort of take you back just a little bit the reason I became interested in this subject is it sort of fell into my lap. I started noticing that there were these frequent flights of helicopters over my very quiet residential neighborhood in northwest Washington D.C. And as time  this is all post9/11  as time went by the number of flights increased and they became very irritating especially when  I will give you one example. I came out of the George Washington University library and there is almost always a helicopter conducting some form of surveillance lowaltitude surveillance in the neighborhood. And the helicopter came down and started hovering over my position and being somewhat irritated at the time I raised my right hand and gave the helicopter the finger which the helicopter then proceeded to follow me...   ...for the next 10 minutes as I walked to a metro station. But what I started doing was taking down the tail numbers of these helicopters. And I plugged the tail numbers of these helicopters into the computer database of the Federal Aviation Administration and the computers identified five front companies that had been formed by the FBI in the late 1990s during the  sort of the tail end of the Clinton administration to operate upwards of 130 fixedwing aircraft and helicopters which they are based everywhere in the United States. It is not just the Washington D.C. area. If you live in New York City there is a Naval Air Station in New Jersey where the FBI keeps a small fleet of aircraft that are in the air over New York City at any one time. San Francisco Los Angeles Miami Chicago FBI aircraft are operating over all of the major urban areas in the United States.  Well this does raise a question that I am sure you come across all the time in your research and that is you know what can you responsibly report? I mean I assumed you asked the FBI about these aircraft. Did you have any qualms about revealing this and the location of their hangars and that kind of information?  Well I have first of all I am not a reporter so I have no First Amendment protections and so I have to be very very careful. I have to selfcensor because you know obviously it goes without saying that the worst thing that could possibly happen to me is to get a knock on the door and a pair of FBI agents are standing there in the doorway. So I tried to be very careful. I kept a lot of material out of the book that dealt with ongoing operations particularly those of a technical nature  which you know if I was to say or write anything about them you know could cause harm to national security.  But it was OK to describe where these FBI aircraft are? I mean did you talk to them about it?  No. Actually I talked to some people in the intelligence community about the whole issue and they said look if you can find this hangar  and by the way if you knew where to look the information is available on Google. It is  you just have to know where to look. I mean I am not claiming that you know this was any massive discovery on my part; it is just you know all the various bits of data were out there you just had to know where to find it. And I am sure the FBI will not be happy with me about this but I did not disclose a lot of information about the activities of these aircraft or the identities of the companies involved. That may have gone you know crossed the line and I just did not want to go there.  Well Matthew Aid it is been really interesting. Thanks so much for speaking with us.  My pleasure. Thank you.  Matthew Aid's new book is called Intel Wars The Secret History of the Fight Against Terror. 