  Hey you all Sam Sanders here. It is BEEN A MINUTE - hope you are well. If you are like me you have already made and broken about 12 New Year's resolutions so far. So to keep you and me on track we have a chat today with the guy who wrote kind of a self-help book. It is actually kind of an anti-self-help book. I will explain. I am talking about Elan Gale. Elan is one of the executive producers of two really big shows on ABC - The Bachelor and The Bachelorette. You may have heard of them. Before you start running through your preconceived notions of reality TV let me just say about every part of this conversation upended my ideas about reality TV and those who make it. As for the self-help book I mentioned it is called You Are Not That Great . It is a quick read. It is got personal stories and interviews with Elan's friends and some entertainment industry-type people. And I will be clear - this book does not take itself too seriously. But Elan is very serious about the message behind it. This idea that embracing self-doubt and other negative emotions it can lead to success. Now since we are talking about things like emotions and wants and desires and what is going on inside of our heads and our hearts and living our best lives got to say neither I or Elan are certified life coaches or mental health professionals or therapists. But you already knew that. Anyway this is a really fun surprising conversation no matter where you are coming from and even if you have never seen The Bachelor or The Bachelorette. And if you are a fan of the show do not worry. We have you covered on that front too - actually took some questions from Bachelor and Bachelorette viewers for Elan. All right. Here is me talking to Elan Gale a few weeks back. He was in LA. I was here in D.C. Enjoy.   I started with The Bachelor a little over nine years ago.  OK.  I came on as a segment producer and would just kind of help to figure out some dates and work on locations and stuff like that. And I slowly moved my way up and now I am one of the executive producers. I have been there about two or three years doing that now which really just means kind of just making sure things go OK. It is not - I do not really know how to describe it better than that. It is like any TV show. We have a giant team of super-skilled people and they are amazing and so I do not have - it is sad to say but I do not have to do a lot .  OK. OK. You know from looking at like your social media and just like - it seems as if former cast members they like their producers. You are close with some of them. You all develop real relationships.  Well you know...  Go ahead.  Sorry no you go ahead.  Well it is just like - it is out of - it is not in sync with this counternarrative that like reality producers are nefarious and always scheming and plotting that it is like - no some of these people seem to like you.  Well you know people are people everywhere.  Yeah.  And that is kind of a philosophy that I have is you know the way I would talk to you is the way I would talk to anybody.  Also though like is there - there are so many cast members and former cast members who speak very highly about their time on the show. Is some of that also because like there is a little incentive to stay in the fam because you might get on the next season you might you know get some appearances. Like it is better...  I mean maybe.  OK.  I think - you know it is hard for me to detect what people's intentions are and it is a fool's errand to guess. But I think that most people who come on any television show are doing it - or people that work on television shows - are doing it because there is something about a more ordinary life that leaves them wanting something different. And when you get to do something different like being on The Bachelor or being on Survivor or being on Big Brother or working on any of those shows you are doing something just a little bit different and it changes you. It changes you. It gives you a broader worldview. And what you end up doing more than anything is you end up interacting with people you would not normally have interacted with. You interact with people from all over the country who have very different upbringings than you. And when you spend time with those people you end up learning a lot about them. You learn about - more than anything you learn about how similar we all are. And you also learn about yourself and you learn about yourself simply by being forced to listen to other people.  Yeah. One of the things that people always say once they are done with their time on the show is I learned so much about myself.  Yeah.  What is it about your show and the way that it is made that leads folks to that? Because these folks are adults at this point - 25 30 years old. What are they learning on the set of The Bachelor and Bachelorette?  Well it is the same thing that you learn when you are just kind of exposed to people that are not like you.  Yeah.  If you listen to people and you talk to people the idea of just asking yourself how do I feel or somebody else asking you how do you feel today and someone listening that is rare. I know it sounds so silly but most people never get asked questions about themselves.  That is true.  They do not. People just do not ask people questions. How did you grow up? Where are you from? How do you feel? What made you the person you are? And so anytime you are getting to know people anywhere I think the experience is the same. It is just that it is a you know condensed time period.  Yeah yeah.  You know you are away from your phone. You are away from your job and you ask questions and you answer them.  So you learn stuff. That is true. OK. So the book it is called You are Not That Special and the entire...  It is You are Not That Great.  Why did I say special?   It is the same thing. It does not matter.  I am obviously not that great today.  It is OK.  But to sum up the philosophy of this book in 30 seconds it is basically like you are telling us to one not ignore negative feelings we have.  No indulge them.  Lean into them indulge them and use them to fuel us to our better selves. You say at one point harnessing things like fear and guilt and anxiety and as you said quote making it your B. I am using B instead of another word.  Yeah. I think that life is full of negative emotions. And I think that negative emotions are incredibly motivating. I think that things like rage and spite they are really motivating. Contentment is wonderful. It is not motivating. And if you are happy with where you are in life if you are really truly happy then you do not need this book and you do not need this philosophy at all.  Beyonce do not read this book.  Beyonce does not need this book. In fact I reference Beyonce in the book saying we cannot all be Beyonce. We are not all Beyonce. We are not going to Beyonce but you can try. You can try. You may fail miserably and that is part of life. But the idea of the whole book is all of those things that you are told to kind of repress and to push down the anger and the rage and the fear those are the things that can actually really help you achieve your goals.  Yeah. And what I love in the book is you have these interludes where you talk to people that have succeeded either in Hollywood or elsewhere all about how they basically spent their whole lives and careers harnessing those negative emotions to succeed. You are talking to folks like Rachel Bloom from Crazy Ex-Girlfriends Iliza Shlesinger a comic who I love and talked to on this show recently. What other folks did you talk to for the book? There is a lot.  Well I talked to Scott Derrickson who you know directed Dr. Strange this year. I talked to my friend James Gunn who directed Guardians Of The Galaxy. I talked to Travon Free who is a writer now with Sam B but for The Daily Show for a couple of years. And he was a great - he was the first one I really properly interviewed. He is an old friend. I met him in New York when he really did not have much of a job and he was just trying to get his career going. And he had you know 4 when he finally got his career going and now he has Emmys for writing. But the thing about him that was so fascinating was I asked him you know what was - like how did you get successful? How did you become successful? How did you do it? And his answer - you know there was many many long stories but they all boiled down to revenge.  .  It was an ex-girlfriend or it was a colleague. There is all of these stories that are like this  told me I was never going to make it. And now I have two Emmys and no one knows who the  that guy is. And that - that is what made him successful.  Yeah.  Like the dude that told him he would not be anything that was what did it. It was not like oh I just feel really good about myself and I had a really great inspiring teacher and the teacher told me that I was really a competent writer. It was like all revenge. His entire - and he is going to be one of the most successful writers of our time I think in TV especially in politics. Like he is one of these guys - wrote for The Daily Show wrote with Jon Stewart with Samantha B now. Like he is just killing it and it all came from revenge - all of it. And when you feel revenge as a young writer you are told oh no just put that away. Focus on your craft. No  that. Focus on revenge.  And it is funny just hearing you now talk about this idea of revenge as a motivator like I was just thinking about - like I - nobody who knew me growing up would ever think that I would host a podcast and a radio show. I had the worst speech impediment as a kid. I stuttered so badly. I like could not talk. And finally around high school I just started making myself do things that would force me to have to talk so I would do student government. I would do student council. I was this. I was that. And then like the culmination of all it was like saying I am going to make myself have a career in radio. And it worked out. But it is like - yeah like...  Did anybody ever make fun of you?  Oh my God they made fun of me. Yeah.  Do you remember?  I do. I do.  What'd they say?  It was more like this frustration of just like what the hell is wrong with you? Like I remember even people in my church would just look at me and say like what are you - what is wrong with you? Like that was - so it was less making fun. It was more just like a frustration and this exasperation that I could not just spit it out. Just spit it out. Just spit it out.  But you can recall - that was a long time ago right?  Yeah. I will never forget it. A woman who was very close to me in our church growing up told me once in front of like several other young friends of mine like just spit it out. And it was just the most embarrassing thing ever.  Right. That is...  You never forget it.  It is vivid is not it?  It is very - I can see the room. I can see her face. I can see my reaction.  And then do you remember - like if you could go back to that time in your life was there anyone in that same room that you can as vividly say like do not worry pal you are fine you just take your time and you just - you talk as slow as you want?   No. Either they were saying get it together or they just said nothing which was even worse sometimes because you know that they were sitting there thinking I was crazy and just not saying it.  And look I was not there and I do not know you.  Yeah.  But I would - I would wager that there probably were a couple people who tried really hard to make you feel OK about it but you do not remember that...  That is true.  ...Because it was not part of your journey.  Yeah.  It was not part of your story and it was irrelevant. It does not mean they were not good and it does not mean they were not helpful and nice.  Yeah.  But it did not help you.  No .  And let me ask you this. What was your - before you had this show...  Yeah.  ...What was the last thing you did?  Well I hosted our Politics podcast.  Got it. And when you were hosting the Politics podcast were you thinking to yourself I have reached the pinnacle of my career?  No I was thinking everyone thinks I am stupid and I have no idea what I am talking about. The night before we taped the first episode I was in the office at midnight trying to study up crying at my desk playing like Christian rock.  And do you think that that - first of all why were you playing Christian rock? Let us stop for one second. The Jars Of Clay Christian rock or Creed Christian rock.  Oh not the - not the .  Audio Adrenaline?  I love that you classify Creed as Christian rock because people forget that. People really forget that.  Oh no. Oh man I love Creed.  Ditto ditto. With Arms Wide Open - it is a jam. Higher - it is a jam. And it is funny because I grew up in a black church playing Pentecostal music but like when I am in like a dark dark place I want to hear like K-Love stuff.  Got it.  Like that white rocker acoustic guitar Christian rock.  Like Audio Adrenaline. Did you ever listen to the Louvin Brothers?  No. I am going to check them out now though.  L-O-U-V-I-N.  OK.  Now just to go back to you for a second...  .  ...Christian rock.  I love how you are interviewing me now.  Well it - but this is how - this is the thing. I feel like people are initially really - and not that you have been but like people are initially usually not that interested in this concept of being introspective and reflective and self-hating as I like to be.  Yeah.  But most people find that when you actually do it you learn about how powerful you are and you learn about how much you can accomplish if you feel like it because like that dude who was depressed and crying and listening to Christian rock to kind of like help heal those wounds is the guy who now has a show that I want to get on.  Aw.  Right? That is how - that is how that happened. And it did not come from you feeling like you would reached your pinnacle and being content and happy. It came from you being fearful and that fear is what - I mean - and probably a lot of other things but that fear is what made you the person you are now. And you probably - I do not know you again but you probably still have some fears.  You are right .  And if you indulge those fears if you continue to allow yourself to indulge them then whatever you want to do next you will do in order to - because it is more comfortable than the fear.  Yeah. What is a fear that you still need to indulge?  Oh man. That is a good question. You know it is funny. I am afraid of everything.  OK.  I am - I am afraid that I am unclear. I am afraid...  What do you mean unclear? Unclear as in like...  Well I - when I sat down to write this book for example like this is the most total expression of how I feel about life. But it is still 192 pages and it is not entirely clear because it cannot be because I cannot talk to each individual person the way I want to. And I fear that I am not able to get my point across. Like I could talk to you about this for three hours. And every single person that reads the book or talks about this concept I could talk to for hours and just get to know them and try to figure out how this can help them and also learn if I am wrong about things which is something that I enjoy doing and I have discovered a lot that I am wrong. I interviewed - I talked to Alec Baldwin for this and I talked to another guy named John Darnielle who writes - he is the Mountain Goats one of my favorite bands of all time.  OK yeah yeah.  And they both were like no man. You are totally wrong about this. You have it - you have it wrong. That is why I put them in the epilogue because I am not ever convinced that I am right about anything. And they said listen you are right to a degree but at some point you have to let go of all of these negative things. You have to let go of it. Like Alec Baldwin said like at some point you have to stop.   You have to stop being the underdog. You have got to stop.  I am actually going to read the Alec Baldwin quote. He says quote those underdog feelings can motivate you. But one day you turn around and see that you are not the underdog anymore. So it is time to take that label off. That is really poignant. Do you agree with that?  I do agree with it but most people do not realize that they are still the underdog.  .  Do you know what I mean? Like I am still the underdog. Just - like I do not feel accomplished. I wake up every morning feeling insecure and like I have accomplished nothing and that this was a failure and I am a failure because nothing satisfies me. Nothing makes me happy and that is OK because happiness is not my goal.  What is your goal?  Desire - consistently feeling desire. I love the feeling of desire. I love it. I love seeing something and wanting it. I love thinking of something and wanting it and getting it is great. That fulfillment you get after desire that is cool.  It is also just 10 minutes.  Yeah exactly. It goes away so fast. It goes away so fast and so if you are obsessed with fulfillment you are going to have like an empty  life.  That is so true. I got a pair of new shoes this Tuesday. Today is Friday as we are taping this. I already hate them.  Right.  It is like - and every single thing you are just like OK fine.  So I do this thing where I am - I am obsessed with food. I am obsessed.  OK.  And I am a fat kid. I was - I was fat almost all my life. I am no longer fat because I forced myself to lose weight by deciding...  You discuss it in the book yeah.  Well yeah. It was - and that was scary because like I always pretended I was not fat. I would just like dress in a way that was funky. And I had like a big beard and funny hair. Like I made things about me stand out more than my overweightness...  Yeah.  ...In order to disguise - 'ecause like you would look at me and you would not say that is a fat guy. You would say that is a weird looking you know hipster weirdo...  With the crazy hair and that big old beard...  Yeah.  ...And that crazy shirt. Yeah.  Yeah exactly just all kinds of stuff around it so that you could not see it. I am going to really distract you. And I was living a life of distraction. And then the way that I lost the weight was by taking my shirt off in public on a regular basis going to the beach and taking my shirt off and feeling the judgment.  And not just any beach right? If I recall correctly you were on the set of one of the seasons of The Bachelor or Bachelorette surrounded...  Yes.  ...By really pretty skinny people and that is where you began to take your shirt off.  That is where and it continued. I mean it goes - I would just come - I lived in Santa Monica at the time. And I would get up in the morning and get my coffee and go down to the beach and walk around with my shirt off on the beach.  Which beach?  Down on Santa - like down you know where Winward Circle is in Venice?  Yeah.  Right there. And I would just walk there. I would get my coffee at Menotti's every morning and I would walk straight to the ocean right where the breakers are and I would take my shirt off and I would sit there. And I would feel how I felt to be in this body that I did not like. And I do not - and it is one of those things where I feel like sometimes people feel like there is some kind of like fat shaming involved here. And the truth is is that it is really all about whatever you want it to be. Like there is nothing wrong with being overweight. I just did not like that for me. It was not my preference.  Yeah.  And there are some things you can change about yourself. Like I do not know how closely you read the book but I talk about the fact that I have raccoon teeth.  Can I read you...  I do not know if...  I actually had an excerpt that I wanted to read. One of the big questions I had for you was like how do you allow yourself to be so self-deprecating? So I want to read from page 61 of your book. And this is just what you wrote.  OK.  Quote I am 5'8'' with shoes on. I have a very slow metabolism so no matter how much I try I am always slowly gaining weight. There is nothing wrong with being short and fat... But then you go on and say  I also have kind of an annoying body. It collects fat in all the wrong places like under my arms and around my waist. So I have this weird-looking muffin top that is so soft that it even appears when I am just wearing underwear.   True.   I also have caveman teeth. I have an occluded bite so I look like - and then you said that you look like you are two steps back in the evolutionary process.  I do.  Go on I am going to stop.  But it is all true. That is the thing. It is - all of that - none of that is a lie.  You are describing the Geico caveman.  That is what I look like.   No.  I am sorry. I wish I did not. And that is - I am - if you saw like I work out every single day. If you saw me in a pair of underwear you would go yeah that muffin top exists.  Oh OK OK.  You do because that is the truth. And some people look at me and they go like oh that guy's doing well. But I do not feel that way and that is OK. That is my process. My process is not feeling well. My journey as a human being is not feeling well. Maybe it is the Judaism you know...  .  ...Maybe it is the 5'8''-ness . Whatever it is not feeling well and not being confident that is my jam. And so here's the funny thing. And I am telling you this now. I have not told any - I have told literally no one this. And I kind of have been fighting - going back and forth in my mind with like am I going to tell this story? Am I going to be honest about this thing about me? So part of the book is really about like if there are things you can change you should change them. There are many many many things you cannot.  Yeah.  But if there are things you can change - so I wrote about my occluded bite and my caveman teeth or as my girlfriend lovingly used to call them my little raccoon mouth.  She is a hater. She is a hater.  She knows what it is like to be with a guy who has a raccoon mouth. She is honest and that is why I love her.  .  She loves me despite my raccoon mouth not because she is pretending it does not exist. So I literally said OK I just wrote this book. I published a book that I tell people they should change things about themselves that they do not like that they can. And here I am talking about something I can totally change. And so I went a week ago and I am going back right after this interview for the final step. I had my front 12 teeth shaved down.  Girl stop.  Yeah. And I have had them replaced...  Oh my God.  ...With new porcelain teeth so that I do not have to have the thing I do not like anymore.  OK.  And it is expensive...  Yeah.  ....And painful...  Oh I am sure.  ...And terrible...  Oh my God.  ...And totally probably not worth it. And the best part is everyone that is seen me since I have changed it like people that know me well they go you look the same. And that...  .  Because the truth is is that people do not notice the things about you that you hate as much as you do.  OK.  But they do not have to live with my raccoon mouth. I do. You know what I mean?  .  And so the fact that like - so I just could not be a hypocrite and go oh man there is this thing that I hate about myself and not change it. So now I have these new teeth. I feel like I sound weird. Everyone's like no you always talk like that like overly dramatic and like you are maybe angry and trying to be interesting. But that is just you know like it is all this constant evolution. That is what this whole thing is to me because I do not believe in purpose. I do not think we are here for a reason. In fact I am very confident that we are not. The fact that you and I are talking now is totally happenstance.  OK.  And I enjoy it. I am more grateful for it because it has no meaning. And I think the purpose of being alive is to find meaning and to create it...  Yeah.  ...And to build purpose and to - like you and I get to decide what this means to us.  It means a lot to me. I am liking this conversation.  It means a lot to me too. And I am enjoying it because we are talking and we are listening to each other. And that is something that you get the freedom to do when you get out of your own head care less about your own happiness and try to become invested in another human being.  I like that. One last question about the book if that is cool.  Yeah.  You you know talked to successful people in the industry and other places who talked about how they deal with negative emotion to kind of fuel them towards success. Rachel Bloom from Crazy Ex-Girlfriend said that she is learned that pain is universal. Iliza  said that she just is someone who gets angry very quickly. She is always mad and she uses that in her comedy. What was the most surprising thing you learned in interviewing these folks about their experiences with negative emotions and success?  You know I think Rachel Bloom was probably the one that surprised me the most because her persona - you know Iliza  is someone I have known for years. And I have seen her career...  Yeah.  ...And like her anger comes through.  Yeah.  And as someone who is also like worked with her she gets mad quickly. And she is super judgmental. And I love her for it.   Yeah. And she is really good.  She is so good. But Rachel is someone that you watch on TV and it feels - I do not know if you follow like Lin-Manuel Miranda on Twitter.  Yeah.  I do not know if you have heard of this guy. He did a show. It is called Hamilton. It is very popular.  Oh yeah. The kids love it these days.  The kids love it. There is a lot of singing and dancing and it is very good.  Yeah yeah.  But anyway Rachel Bloom has the same kind of I think public persona where she comes from this place of love.  Yes yes.  Everything feels like it comes from love and joy.  And positivity.  And positivity. And when you meet people like that I am always surprised to see that deep down even though they are not angry people that anger really propelled them that I will-show-you thing really propelled them in the same way that John Darnielle from the Mountain Goats his music is so much about kind of like often rage and exhaustion and depression. But he is the opposite on the inside.  Yeah.  You know he tries to find - because he had such a dark childhood he tries to find the fuel mostly from his kids his kids that are joyous and excited.  Yeah.  He finds that fuel. And it is just interesting when you get to know people and you think you know what makes them tick.  It is so true.  And you never really do.  That is so true. That is so true.  And then you do not really know what makes you tick.  Yeah.  And if anything that is the - sorry to keep going.  You are good.  But I think that is the overall thing I would like people to take from the book is figure out how you tick. Do not assume you know. Maybe you do but maybe you do not.  All right time for a quick break here. When we come back Elan's surprising story of his struggle with addiction plus more on The Bachelor and The Bachelorette. B-R-B.   One of the most poignant parts of the book is towards the end you describe alcoholism. And there is this scene in the book where someone you know at a party pulls you to the side and says I am a doctor. I know what this looks like. You are an alcoholic. I can see it. And he said basically you might die. And you should really start to worry if any part of your body turns yellow.  And I of course was like super offended as we are when people tell us the truth about ourselves.  Yeah.  I was really hurt. And I was like who the  is this guy? He does not know me. What is he going to tell me that I do not know about myself? Which is the most common reaction that we all have myself included when people are honest with us about things they observe. And then it was maybe a month later. I think it was less than a month later. I you know I used to drink really heavily. And when I say heavily I do not mean it in like a fun way because it was almost always alone. It started when I was not you know like working. I never drove drunk which was something I learned pretty young. I am very lucky in that way. So I never had like - I never had a wakeup call. I never got in a fight. I never got fired from a job. I never like cheated on anyone. I never made any of those big mistakes that people make which actually kind of propelled my addiction forward because nothing bad happened from it.  Exactly. And just to underscore you write in the book you were averaging per daynight either four bottles of wine or a full bottle of tequila or vodka.  Absolutely.  Wow.  And that was not even like a heavy day. That was an average day. So there were days that were you know the last day I drank I definitely had a bottle of tequila in the last three hours of the day on top of whatever else I would had that day.  Oh my God. And so you describe in the book basically - well I mean you tell us.  Well I will tell you the story. I basically went to bed really drunk. I woke up in my hotel room by myself. And I had to pee and I could not find the bathroom in my hotel room. And I peed into a pile of clothes that I made into a little toilet in the corner of the bathroom just to show you like the level of inebriation I was at.  Yeah yeah. And that was after sleeping.  That was after sleeping for three or four hours.  Oh my goodness.  I wake up in the morning I get in the shower and I am just like you know that feeling when you have been drinking and you feel shame? You feel like shame and dread.  Yeah. Yeah I know it.  I do not know if anyone feels it but I definitely felt it a lot. And I got in the shower. And I was washing my body. And I looked down and the right side of my body looked like it had been splattered with like a highlighter.  It was yellow like that doctor told you.  It was yellow. It was like I was like a Simpsons character.  Oh my goodness.  And the  part was I did not know if it was new because I had not looked at myself. You know what I mean? And no one else was - I did not - I was single and no one else had any reason to see me walking around shirtless. So it could have been there for a month. I have no idea because I was paying that little attention to myself as a human being. I was drunk so often that I was unaware of what I looked like. And I saw it and I realized that this guy was right and that I was going to die. And the good part was I was able to make the decision I had to make larger than about drinking because it really was not about drinking anymore it was the idea of like do I want to die or do I want to live?  Do you think alcoholism was you secretly saying to yourself that you wanted to die?  Yeah I think so.  OK.  And the truth is is that I mean this is the hardest part. You know my mother read the book. And this was the part that she wanted to talk about afterwards which is the decision of wanting to live or die was not easy. It was not like oh yeah I want to live. I really had to think about it because living as a sober person was not a thing I would considered. It did not sound fun to me. Also you know quitting drinking for me was not that difficult. The actual...  Really?  Yeah. Not drinking was not hard. It still is not. The hard part is living soberly.  OK.  Because I started drinking so early like I would never been - I do not remember like ever since I was a kid - like when I was a kid I am sure but like I would never been on a plane sober. I would never been to a concert sober.  Wow.  I would never had sex sober or been on a first date sober.  That is better sober actually - pro tip.  Yeah. You know what the weird thing is?  What?  Everything is better sober.  .  And the reason everything is better sober is not because you enjoy it more but because you have a clear understanding of it. And so when you go to a concert and you are drunk you may really like bad . So when you are sober you go this is bad and I am not going to listen to this anymore.  I am leaving.  I am not going to do this anymore.  Yeah.  I am going to go home now and do something I enjoy. But it is a hard decision to make. And the idea of like do I want to live? Like that is not an obvious one when you are as drunk as I am for as long as I am. And when you do not particularly love your life then you just go I do not know maybe I will just go out. Maybe I will let this thing happen. But like why not?  Yeah yeah. But all of this is happening - the intense alcoholism is happening while you are reaching career success. At this point you are a pretty well-established producer. Like one how did you manage to be that much of an alcoholic and st