 From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today on the show an actress whose work I have been bingeing for the last few years Kathryn Hahn. You have seen her in Transparent. You have seen her in I Love Dick. You have seen her in Parks And Recreation. And Kathryn Hahn is out with the new film on Netflix called Private Life. In this movie Kathryn stars alongside Paul Giamatti. It is directed and written by Tamara Jenkins. And this movie Private Life it is this captivating slow burn of a film. Kathryn and Paul play this couple in their 40s in New York trying to have a kid. But as they try and try and try to have this baby you also see them grapple with what you do when your life just does not turn out the way you thought it would on several levels - not just parenthood - and how you deal with that. Kathryn and I talked a little while ago here in LA. And we talked about a lot her past work and some of the overriding themes I see in all of the stuff she does. We talked about her childhood growing up in Cleveland and we talked about this really interesting thing that we both have in common as former church kids. All right. Here's me and Kathryn Hahn. Enjoy.   I am researching you getting ready for the interview. And I find out that we have a thing in common a very strange weird thing in common. We have both played in our youth Psalty the Singing Songbook.  I am going to burst into hysterical tears right now...   Yes.  ...Because I was under the impression all these years that that was written strictly for St. Ann's elementary school.  No madam. I played it at St. James Catholic School in Seguin Texas.  What are you talking about?  Yes  yes.  I have never met a Psalty - P-S-A-L-T-Y. What?  Do you remember any of the songs?  No.  .  But I mean I am a recovering Catholic. Like I do not remember really...  Everyone is really.  I used to think...  I was raised Pentecostal just went to Catholic school.  Yes 'ecause it like good cheap private education.  Exactly. And they - so my mother went to Catholic school because they would take the black kids...  Total - yes.  ...When no - when the public schools would not you know?  In Texas.  She was from Birmingham. It was a good experience.  Were you taught by Jesuits...  No I wish the cool ones.  ...The priests?  No we had nuns...  Yeah we have nuns too.  ...Who were not F-ing around.  Actually I like the nuns better than the Jesuits.  Well the nuns get stuff done.  The nuns get stuff done. They are good educators and pretty progressive actually.  Yeah. And they take no guff. We have talked about Psalty. To segue into your work - so you started out doing plays.  Not that that is not my work.   That is your...  That is the birth.  When they give you the lifetime achievement Oscar there is going to be a clip of you as Psalty.  They are just going to start and end just slow motion on that dog...  Yes.  ...And then just pan.  Yes.  Yeah I started - I did actually fall in love early early early early.  Yeah.  It was like around that time. And it was around - in Cleveland there was the Cleveland Play House which was like the sacredest  most holy space for me...  Wow.  ...More so - no offense - than the Catholic Church.  Yeah.  I loved the bubble like the holy bubble that it created. Like when it was like me and a bunch of scrappy actors all barefoot with our long toenails just like making something out of nothing there was like a holiness in it that I - and a safety especially because - just always like so many of us I just never felt like I was in my skin. Or I always felt like I was like kind of not sure who my true self was. And I was always trying on something on the outside like we all do.  Yeah.  And yeah. And so I did theater there all through elementary school. And I was like that was...  And you stuck with it.  Yeah.  Do you find the same holiness and community doing TV and film?  It has taken a second. It is easier to find in the theater...  Yeah.  ...I think because of a lot of factors I think because of the idea of an ensemble. I love a backstage. It pisses me off to such a profound degree when an actor does not pick up their clothes hangs - and does not respect their costumes like...  Yeah.  ...Does not respect their props does not respect the crew does not respect like that we are all - that does not respect the...  You do not have any of this without craft services...  No.  ...Without costumes without - it is all together.  And in fact these people are there hours before you are and stay hours after you leave. I just do not understand how like real true empathy-building work can happen when it does not happen in that - within the world that you are making it.  Yeah yeah.  So anyway...  Do you think that theater has more of that community than like the film crew?  Not always. But in my...  I can imagine film crews being like the big-name actor comes in and then leaves. And it is like no connection.  Yeah a lot of it. And that is why I think I felt so disheartened when I first came out to - when I first started getting work in this medium...  Yeah.  ...I guess or out here. It was like there was a weird divorce between the work I was being asked to do on camera and the work that I wanted to be able to do.  How did you deal with that?  I do not know. It was like - just there was a - I was dissatisfied for a while. I do not know exactly what it was. But it took a second for me to realize that I could marry the two that I did not have to pretend to be something I was not for this weird...  This weird place yeah.  ...Business that - I was trying to fit - it was like I was doing like two different jobs. I was trying to like not just do my work I was trying to like do what I thought they were supposed to be. So...  Yeah. You were trying to be yourself and them at the same time...  Yeah.  ...Which is too much.  Too much.  You know but it feels like with Private Life especially that what you want your work to be and what your work is kind of come together no? This feels very much like - hearing you talk about the movie and hearing you talk to me just now this seems like art and work that is closer to your vision of what you want your career to be than some of the stuff before?  Oh yeah. For sure. I mean there is been some projects before it too that I would say like kind of paved it. But yeah this for sure. The experience of it the ease of it the chemistry the - yeah the everything of it was just like - ah. For sure. And Tamara's voice also.  This is the director. Yeah.  Tamara Jenkins who wrote and directed it. Yeah. And Paul Giamatti who is like...  Yeah.  Still it is so strange. I just saw him recently for the first time in a while. And it is so strange to talk about this movie without him or the experience of it without him because I really and truly like do not remember much of what - it is hard for me to remember much of what I did. I just remember like his face. Like I just was so - we were so clued into each other.  Well a lot of the movie's the two of you all working stuff out.  Yeah. She shot it like a two shot. We rarely see either of us in a close-up. It is like usually we are in a two shot which is also really rare and I love.  That is good. We should say for those who have not watched it...  Oh yeah.  ...This movie Private Life it is on Netflix now. It is getting some awards buzz. But it is you and Paul Giamatti. You are playing this couple in their 40s trying to conceive but there are complications.  Yeah.  And like it is funny. In talking about this movie with other people preparing for this interview I realized as someone who is not trying to have kids right now is single as hell can barely take care of a dog.  Yeah. You are a baby.  I am a little baby.   But a lot of people in my life a lot of people that I work with that I know they deal with this stuff and you realize unless you ask they are not going to tell you about it.  Yeah.  But a lot of people deal with the difficulties of trying to have a kid.  Well no. It is interesting. I was - you know in my 20s and 30s I did not have health insurance. You know I had my long-term boyfriend but I was not - like there was - like babies were nowhere - like nowhere nowhere nowhere.  Yeah.  I was kind of raised to think like I was somewhat in control of my fertility and my decisions and that it was my body and my - you know and I was - the 20s were about figuring out who I was and my - all those good things which are - and valid. And I am so glad. I would never have been ready to be a mother in my 20s and even into my middle 30s like there is no way. But then what I think is the pickle is that our biology is just - that is our most fertile time as women. So it just sucks.  It is like your spirit is not ready your body is.  Yeah it sucks.  Then the spirit gets ready the body is like tap out.  And it is like - it is not in everybody's cards and it is not for - and we are just strictly talking about I think right now like women. I think people are waiting later and later to start families. And with all of this technology that is available which is - you know in assisted reproduction which is incredible. But then for - people then I think also rely on it a lot now as a choice. Like I am going to wait because this and this and this is available.  Yeah. Because the technology is there. And does that give folks false hope sometimes?  I think maybe it does. Because it is - you know you look at a People magazine and there is like someone on the cover with like...  I was 73 and I had a child you know? And it is like...  Yeah. And you are like you do not see all the story behind it. And you know Michelle Obama just recently talked about having IVF with her kids and it was like a big deal in the book. And it was so awesome that she wrote about it. It was so beautiful that she - but so I think more and more people are like shining a light. But...  And this puts it out there. Like the very - and what I found eye-opening about the movie and the way that your character and Paul's character go about the hard business of trying to have a kid it is like you will make a decision and say well this is the way we are going to do it and then you will second-guess it. And then you will make that decision and say we are going to do it this way then you will second-guess it. I think on the outside looking in I was assuming well my friends who are trying to have babies they have decided on this route and they go down this path. But in actuality there is turns all along the way.  All along the way that we kept calling it the baby carrot that would be dangled. Like you would think that there was this line in the sand like I will go up to - like we will do up to this point but this is where I draw the line in the sand.  And then you go further. You want a baby.  And then you go further because there is so many other options and then you - and then how do you tell somebody to stop? Like how do you tell somebody if it just takes one more egg or just one more round of IVF or one more like...  Yeah. Why would you not do it?  Why would you not do - well I mean financially - A. But like it is - it is an impossible rollercoaster to get off. And I think that is why Paul at some point during it said to me this - said to both Tamara and I like this is Waiting For Godot and we were like totally.  But Godot's a baby .  Yeah. Because it really does feel so existential. Like it is just this constant like loop that they are on that they have even forgotten what they want. Like what the endgame is.  Is it really about the baby anymore?  No it is not even about the baby. Like they forgot who they were before this baby project. They are just existing - because if they stop and examine like actual grief and actually where they are in their life - they are not where they thought they were going to be when they were going to be in their 20s. Their dreams - you know they are in the same apartment. They thought they were going to have these careers that they - you know it is all those things that we like are running - it is life.  It is life.  Like stuff we are all doing. Like running away from what we thought we were going to be.  And thinking a baby can fix it.  And the fear - yeah - of actually confronting it and thinking like woo  looking down the barrel of that final chapter. And like OK who are we now? Who am I now? What do I want? They think it is this baby. But I do not know.   All right time for a break. When we come back Kathryn Hahn on MeToo and the struggle to stay focused on her work. BRB.   Did you bring any of your like theater training - I am assuming you always bring your theater training. But like was there a certain part of you and your theater work that was brought to this film? Because it does feel and it breathes in a way that like a really good stage play does.  You know I had been doing - I think before this the work that I had been doing there had been an element of improvisation. And I love that. It can get tricky but this - because the script was so baked fully-cooked by the time we got it and it was like there was really - she did not want any improvising at all which was actually like a huge relief I think.  Really?  Yeah. Because I could just focus on it.  Yeah. And living in that moment. Yeah.  So that felt like all I had was in this beautiful piece of writing. I did not have to look outside of it at all. So that was on the script level I think on the work level. And then on the - you know the back - the backstage level like we all - you know we shot in an apartment building. We all shared the same - Paul had one bedroom. I had another bedroom. And we shared a you know toilet in the middle. And like with - so we basically had like a backstage area and then they would call us to set and we would walk upstairs and go into the apartment. So it did feel like theater in that way.  Yeah. It was a cool set.  Yeah.  I read that to prepare for this role playing a woman who is struggling to conceive that at night after shooting you would go to where you were staying and watch YouTube videos of couples trying to do IVF?  Mm-hmm.  Wow.  Mm-hmm. I was drawn to these testimonials these video testimonials that are on YouTube. And there are many of them.  Which I had no idea.  But I mean there is anything you know on YouTube says the parent of a 12-year-old boy.   But they - for some reason it was like - it just became my little ritual every night is that I would just kind of like - before going to bed I would just like watch - not even like really consciously. I was just like hungry to see them. So many couples would just kind of tell their stories and set them to like music.  Oh wow.  And it would just be these stories of their fertility journeys with either positive or you know heartbreaking outcomes. And that is kind of how it seeped into my bones I think.  Yeah. This is the kind of movie that you do and it inherently leads to conversations about your own life and your own fertility and your own mother-whatever issues. And you have talked about that before in relation to this movie. But it is like I was thinking before this interview do we expect women to talk about stuff like this when it is tied to their work in a way that we do not expect men to? Like should I ask you about fertility or not? I would never ask a man about it.  Yeah. I was going to ask you would you ask a man about it?  I do not even think I have ever thought about fertility as a man thing.  Interesting.  You know what I am saying?  Right.  Yeah.  Well you know it is interesting you bring this up. Like I have done - in walking around for this movie and in these discussions there is been a lot of like you know the MeToo movement discussions and all these things. And it is so interesting to think like you wonder how many of like the men have been asked this question about how they feel like things have changed since last year. Because I feel like I have been asked that question so many times which is such a weird question just to feel like one human with a vagina can speak...   For the women.  ...For an - right. It is just a very interesting - anyway it is a very interesting time is it not?  Yeah. Do you get tired of that question?  I do not know if I get tired of the question because it certainly is - I am glad that conversations are still happening. But I just still want it to feel - I hope that it still feels fertile...  Yeah.  ...To bring it back into this conversation.  Yeah .  I just I - you know what I mean?  Yes. Like...  It starts...  Are we still paying attention? Are we still feeling this movement in this moment?  What is the like thriving living changing heartbeat in it? You know what I mean? Like what is actually being discussed rather than is it just because you are a woman and happened to be in front of the camera...  I feel obligated to ask you the MeToo question and - yeah.  And what does that mean? Yeah.  Well and then it is like you have all of these thoughts about the world and your industry but you have still got to just go to work.  Well this is what I think. This is an awesome segue Sam.  .  It is hard because you cannot really bring it to your gig. Like you have to walk in. I mean at least in this gig I have to walk in...  In the role.  ...Into the - yeah - into the room and not have - because if I am conscious of any of that then that is like a - that is an inhibitor to me that gets in the way. Like I cannot walk in thinking about a big picture. Or like it cannot be like an issue movie. Otherwise I also do not think it works.  No.  Like it has to be humorous.  How do you separate? How do you turn that switch on and off? 'ecause you are an activist. Like you are involved in politics outside of your work and you...  We all are.  But like do you have a problem like leaving politics at the stage door I guess?  No. It is maddening. I mean that is an understatement of the century. Again. Like I cannot even like...  .  ...Like I cannot even say it. Like maddening. What are you talking about?  Maddening.  It is a hell state.  .  Like everywhere you turn. Like it is like you cannot even...  .  I cannot . I cannot even turn anywhere. It is like even just on top of everything else there was that like climate change report that was like and then that is around the corner.  The smoke just cleared from the fires.  Yes.  You know? We are waiting for mudslides.  Like we might not have that as long as we thought.  Yes. Yes.  I mean I look at my children and I am like how do I protect them from like crippling anxiety? .  Yeah.  Like cause it is - it is bananas.  Yes.  So anyway work is I would say at this point...  An escape?  ...Soul food. Yeah. I mean it is always been the place where I feel like I think - like I articulated at the beginning of this - the place where I have always felt the most like .  Yeah.  For sure.  All right. One more break. Do not go away dear listener. In a minute we are going to talk about a show I love I Love Dick and also a place I love where that show is set Marfa Texas. All right. BRB.   Talked about private life which I just enjoyed thoroughly. But I want to talk about like your other work 'ecause you have been busy the last few years. And one of the things that I have actually watched two or three times now is I Love Dick.  You have?  Yes I have. Can I tell you why?  Please.  I am obsessed with Marfa Texas. I am from San Antonio.  Yeah.  And for the third year in a row now I stop in Marfa for like five or six days before I go home for Thanksgiving. So I was just there a few weeks ago again with friends. And in the Airbnb I made us all watch I Love Dick.  Oh my God.  I have watched that show a lot.  That is awesome.  It is a good show. And I have walked through some of the places where you all have shot.  Yes.  I have friends at the station there public radio.  In the old gas station?  Yeah.  I had to get changed in there a few times.  .  That was like a - that was a little makeshift dressing room.  Yeah.  Oh my God. That is beautiful. I love - I just had a sweet email exchange with Rob Weiner who is like the head of Chinati.  Yeah.  Yeah. I loved Marfa so much and I loved that show. So it was a...  It is...  Yeah. Yeah.  I love the way that you - and you bring intensity to every role but something about the character you played in that show the entire time you are this volcano waiting to explode. And there is such intensity in every movement in every eye roll in every whisper. And it is this beautiful expression of how everyone whether they show you this or not everyone in that same way is barely holding it together.  Aw.  Everyone has like the stove - hot top on top of the boiling water. And you do that in that show so well.  Sam that is really sweet to hear.  .  Oh God.  I sort of liked it.  I love it. I am seeing Sarah Gubbins tonight who was the writer of - anyway I cannot wait to tell her. Yeah. We - that means a ton.  Man. I am telling you I loved it.  God. I love it.  You did that.  Aw. That means a ton. Yeah that experience I will hold very dear. It was a really tough one.  It seems tough.  It was a hard place to live for that - yeah.  How did you get to that place and stay in that place? Because you are in that mode for the whole arc. And you have to just be there. Like how long was the shooting?   I had like three hairs left in my hair - on my head.  .  No it was - how long was that shoot? It was about three months - three or four months.  Oh wow. So you lived in that for three months?  No we only lived there for - we shot at Sunset Gower out here for the bulk of the interiors. And then we were there for like three weeks at the end.  Oh OK. Got you. Got you.  And we shot the entirety of the pilot out there. But I did love it and I loved that source material. And - I mean Griffin and Kevin and Roberta the whole cast is phenomenal. But oh thank you for saying so.  Of course.  It is weird too because people always - if people say were you expecting another season? Or were you - I you know of course would have loved - but I think it also kind of exists perfectly as an eight-episode thing. I would have been fascinated to see where it would have gone. But I think it also kind of is like - the cord kind of - it is kind of like perfectly...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...You know I liked how it ended .  Yeah. I mean - but also it is like - one of the things that I noticed about like that role and your role in Private Life and your role in Transparent and other stuff - it is like so many of the characters you play everyone thinks they are crazy. But actually they are just right you know?  Oh that is awesome to hear yeah.  Everything your character thought about Kevin Bacon's character was true you know? All of the angst that your character in like Private Life feels is true. But no one like - and so like what seems to be irrationality is just you being radically right. And no one gets it and then they think you are crazy. It feels like this is a thing women characters in film do because it feels like a way that women in the real world are treated a lot.  Sam well - I mean that is - well what is deep about what maybe you just latched onto there is that - and something I had never thought of - and I do not know if I can again speak to it globally womenwise. But there is certainly something that I had never thought of is that a lot of these women are really really trying to be heard. That is something that I as a human can completely recognize for myself.  Yeah.  That was something growing up I always felt like I was trying to be heard to be really seen.  You thought you were not seen or heard growing up? Why do you think that is - or was?  I think for a lot of reasons personally and family-of-origin-wise . And there is a lot of attention and a lot of other things going on in my family of origin and so I think I was always constantly like the tap dancer of the family if that makes sense.   OK yeah.  So I was always like on the outside of myself. Like I felt like I was - what is that expression? - the extroverted introvert. So like...  Like you felt the need to perform almost? Like you had to...  Oh for sure. Like all I wanted to do is be reading a book. Like I never look at a monitor. I really do not like photo shoots at all because I hate being still and captured. I just get very self-conscious.  OK. I can see that.  I just like - just like...  You are moving. You want to move. You are a shark .  No I get - not even in like a dramatic way.  Yeah.  It is just like I feel like - oh now I have to like be something that I am not.  Yeah.  Like I have to be like oh.  Yeah.  Like it goes back to that like you know trying to fit into like the Hollywood-y ...  Yeah yeah yeah.  ...Actor thing...  Yeah yeah.  ...Or just like to present for somebody else's gaze...  Yeah.  ...Just makes me feel like sick. I cannot describe it.   Does playing these roles these emotionally intense roles - in different ways - Private Life is emotionally intense in a different way than I Love Dick in a different way than The Romanoffs in a different way than whatever - do these roles give you something? 'ecause I can see you giving so much when I see you in these roles. But do they - like do you come away from a performance or a role and say I got something from this? And if so you know what is it?  Always especially when it is something that is - like the ones you describe that feel this - that are this rich that I am asked to bring my full self and that I feel like I am challenged to bring like - to like push myself in ways that I have not before or that I am able to like dig into icky crevices...  Yeah.  ...Or things like that do not feel as like pretty in the light. Like that is being a human being. Like that is - I hold those so - like you know going back to the beginning of our conversation about like just like being in a church somewhere - like..  Yeah.  ...That is where I feel like I have learned something about myself and about what it is to be a human. Like - well I have more wisdom...  You know yourself a little bit more.  ...Of myself yeah - if that makes sense.  Yeah. I love that.   Thank you Kathryn Hahn.  Thank you so much for this.  Oh my God. Thank you. Thank you. Keep this work coming because I am telling you if Kathryn Hahn's name is on it I am eating it up. I am eating it up. I love it.  Oh honey. Thank you Sam.   Thanks again to Kathryn Hahn. Her movie Private Life is on Netflix. And a lot of her other work is all out there in the culture to be consumed. Everything she does is really good. Go watch her stuff. All right. Listeners do not forget - today tomorrow whenever - share with me the best thing that is happened to you all week. Record yourself. Send that file to me at samsandersnpr.org. That is samsandersnpr.org. You might hear that in our Friday show. You might hear it on the radio. Until then thanks for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon.  