  Hey you all Sam Sanders here. It is been a minute. Every Tuesday on the show we bring you a deep dive an interview with one person or on one topic. Today in honor of the Fourth of July from America's best political satire - HBO's Veep - actor Timothy Simons. Timothy plays Jonah Ryan on the show. And just to be clear that character Jonah he is the worst. He is basically a bottom-feeding White House aide turned incompetent congressmen with absolutely no self-awareness. Anyway I talked with Tim recently just as the current season of Veep was coming to a close. He was in a studio in LA. I was here in D.C. And he was needless to say a much cooler dude than Jonah in the show. We talked about how he grew up going to college in New England how he got to television and some of the crazy jobs he is had along the way. Spoiler he used to be a bouncer. I also talked about working with Veep star and comic legend Julia Louis-Dreyfus. And of course we talked about political comedy in the age of Donald Trump. So here's me and Tim Simons. Enjoy.   How is your summer going? Big plans and stuff...  .  ...Traveling.  My wife and I have kids so we do not get to go on vacation anymore. We get to go on trips.  Wait what is the difference between a vacation and a trip?  You enjoy a vacation. You take a trip.  Wow.  No this sounds harsh but do you have kids?  Oh no.  Oh yeah.  No no no no no no.  Yeah this sounds harsh. But like any parent that listens to this they are going to be like yeah. It does not mean - I do - I love my kids. They are great. They are fantastic wonderful...  You have to say that though.  ...Amazing human beings. Whenever I am not with them I miss them. And whenever I am with them I wish I did not have to see them.  .  And so we - our summer plans are kids are going out to Chicago to visit my wife's family a couple of days before I am and then I am going to go - I have to get some work done in town. It is like all that thing that you learn about as you get into this world is like indie financing is sort of hard to get together. So like I might have some acting jobs over the course of the summer like if the funding for...  Yeah.  ...Movies comes through. Like I could be very busy for the rest of the summer until we start filming the show again. Or I honestly could be doing  all because the financing did not come together. But...  Yeah.  ...I am really knocking on wood that it does and it is...  It will work out.  ...All busy and great and then we go back to the show.  This is the thing that like people do not think about enough. People in the industry - actors people in the craft - they are actually always hustling. It is not like...  Always.  ...You did that one job and then you are just set. You are always hustling.  Always. And one thing that is - really has been amazing to see it from this side has been - this has always been true that the work is the vacation. Like when it comes to acting gigs like the work is the vacation. Nothing feels better...  Wow.  ...Than when you are on set because you get to just relax and do it. You do not have to hustle - because like when we are filming I do not have to hustle in - when we start filming in September I do not have to hustle because even if I wanted to hustle...  You cannot.  ...I would not be available to go do it. So I just get to relax and be in it.  Yeah.  It is - so it is like a month before the season ends that is when the hustle starts to pick up again. So like those last three or four episodes every day you are like - and like honestly even in the early stages on my days off like I write and I try to get together and set meetings and like try to like think of things that - like so you are playing like the long game of like - so that right when the season ends you are trying to...  Oh my goodness.  ...Hit the ground running on stuff. So there really is - it is always hustling. And I would have assumed that somebody like Tony Hale - like when I met Tony Hale I was like he is set. Arrested Development - one of the best of all time. And you...  Yeah.  ...Meet Tony Hale and Tony Hale hustles.  Man.  And I think Tony Hale would have looked at Julia and said she is set. Seinfeld's one of the greatest of all time. She is - she is the GOAT.  Yeah.  It is fine. Julia Louis-Dreyfus  hustles...  Huh you got to hustle.  ...All day. It is all hustle all the time.  Hustle hard.  Hustle hard.  OK let us talk about Veep. The season just wrapped. I love Veep so much and I think part of why I have grown to love it is that none of these characters ever show any growth. They have stayed the same kind of stupid and in some cases gotten worse over the course of these - what? - six seasons. Is that...  Yeah.  ...Intentional? And how does it feel to play a character like that?  So I think that if I am going to guess I think that in most cases when it comes to television awful characters have to have a redeemable moment...  Exactly.  ...Where nice music plays and you remind the audience about why they like them.  Yes.  I also love the fact that we do not.  .  That - no like they never learn. They never listen. They never grow. And there are moments where you see humanity in those characters.  Yeah.  But like especially in the case of Jonah - I mean certainly in the case of Selina Meyer but definitely also in the case of Jonah they will always make you regret feeling that sort of empathy for them...  Yeah I mean...  ...You know.  ...So is it hard to go on set and be that guy over and over and over again? Because you seem like a nice guy IRL.  No it - I - I do not know what this says about me but it is not.  .  I think that like - I think maybe like - I did an interview recently with a guy and he asked a really good question sort of about what is it like playing these scenes and like how do you get emotionally attached to them or you know that sort of question because he had heard from another actor that - on a different show - that they viewed these scenes they were in as like battles between the two characters. And how did that play in? Like you know who is winning these battles these - like these battles of objective and stuff like that? And it is a strange thing because our show we have those kind of battles but there is never any emotion behind them. Like there is a complete absence of emotion and connectedness to what these people are - say like with Jonah there is emotion but it is so misplaced that it is not like you are really seeing actual human beings needing something.  Kind of sounds like Washington D.C.  A little bit.   Yeah yeah. Your character - and for those who are listening to this at some point and have not watched the show yet watch the show. But basically your character starts out as a White House aide.  Yeah through a liaison.  The liaison between the VP and the president.  Yes.  And by season six you actually end up in the House of Reps.  .  Tell people how in the world that happened because Jonah does not strike me as a kind of guy who would resoundingly win a congressional race.  It is funny. If I were to talk about it - and like you spend some time in D.C. so I do not know if this is going to be recognizable to you. But like if you had told me at the beginning that he might win a congressional race I would have been like boy that is going to be unrealistic. But the more and more time you spend around...  These people.  ...Members of Congress it comes to me as no surprise that he would. And frankly it seems like the most realistic thing.  .  He is a charmless man with no self-awareness who has failed ass-backward...  .  ...Into this position of power you know.  I agree totally.  Where do you - wait where do you live right now?  I live in D.C. I was actually in LA for two and a half years at NPR's...  OK.  ...West Coast offices. But I am back in D.C. But I was like a Westsider  in LA. Like I...  Oh OK.  ...Did not want to even look at anything east of the 405.  Whenever I go over to the Westside I do always feel like - because my wife and I we live in Silver Lake and...  Oh trendy.  ...Everybody we know generally - like when we moved here from Chicago everybody that we knew was there. And so we just - yeah we moved in there. And we would never go to the Westside. But every time that we do every time we make a trip over bring the kids to the beach - another thing that I guess we are doing just because the kids should have the experience of doing it - I do kind of look around. And like I get it a little bit. Like I get why somebody would want to live there.  Yeah like the Westside is a Texan's version of California you know like a beach and sand...  Yeah.  ...And bungalows. Like that is what I came for.  You are like that guy on the Real World season two who would wear...  Wow.  ...His cowboy boots to the beach.  Wait you got really specific...  John.  ...Right there. What city...  Yeah John.  ...Was season two?  Yeah was not his name John? He was the country singer.  Oh...  And he like...  ...Yeah.  Do you know what I am talking about?  I do.  He was really earnest.  My favorite season of the Real World was probably two - San Francisco because it had Puck who was crazy and then Seattle because Irene and Steve fought like cats and dogs. And remember she got Lyme disease and it was like a whole big to-do.  .  It was a mess.  I do not think I ever saw Seattle so I just love that Lyme disease played in.  Lyme disease was the eighth house member that season .  My old - one of my really good friends when they were filming the Real World Boston they were in college. And he and all of his friends they found out where the Real World Boston house was.  Really?  And they got super drunk and walked across town like picking up sticks and weapons across the way just like sort of hand-held weapons...  That is so Boston.  ...Like the 40 bottle.  That is so...  Yeah.  ...Boston. I lived in Boston two years. That is so Boston.  Yeah and they got there and they said that this calm came over them.  .  They were going to go and they were going to try to beat the  out of somebody.  .  They were going to try to go beat the  out of the Real World cast. And when they got there they said this calm came over them and they started all singing Give Peace A Chance to...  .  And he said that that cast from the show came out to the windows and saw them all singing Give Peace A Chance.  .  I do not know.  I feel like they still probably - but you know what? Speaking of stuff that is also...  .  ...So Boston my other friend that went to college there - this is another so-Boston thing. They would go out to like the bar and they would get drunk. And on the way home they would just fight each other in an alley. Like they were best friends...  Oh my God.  ...But they would just fistfight in the alley.  So I would - yeah I believe it. I can - on more than one occasion I would be like leaving dim sum for like brunch on a Sunday walk out into Boston and just on the street a fistfight.  Like can I say this while saying I love Boston?  Yes.  Like I love Boston. But also a home Red Sox jersey does not count as dressing up.  .  I know it is white.  .  I know it is white but that does not count. You are not dressed up.  Boston you heard it here first.  You heard it here first Boston.  Get it together. So my other thing with Boston like Boston is simultaneously this really progressive city but also low-key racist.  Low-key racist.   I was trying to be nice man.  .  I am going to tell you my favorite low-key racist story about Boston.  OK.  It actually happened on the other side of the river this dance club bar whatever. There were some friends and they are like it is '80s night. It is '80s night. So we are like oh there is an '80s night here. It is going to be great. Let us go. We get in there. We are drinking. We are dancing. And before you know it some of the girls in the group the ladies in the group rather wanted to make some recommendations for some songs. They went to the DJ to ask for some music. And one of them asked for like Janet Jackson. And the DJ puts his headphones down looks her in the eye and says this is white '80s night not black '80s night.  Oh my God.   And like  it was just so like what? This is the thing you want to be racist about?  I am going to go ahead - as this DJ I like him thinking like you have got to make a stand somewhere.  That is right.  Interracial marriage fine. Integrated schools fine.  But my '80s night...  Do not you ever come for my '80s night.   OK time for a quick break. When we come back we will talk about Tim trying to make it in the regional theater scene and some crappy jobs he worked also more Veep. We will be right back.   All right so you mentioned you grew up in New England. You are not there now. How did you leave?  Running away from it as fast as I could? No that is...  We should like post an Instagram picture being like we love our New-England listeners. We think they are great people. Please keep...  No of course.  ...Supporting your local member station et cetera.  I actually really do - I really do love Boston. I grew up in Maine.  Yes.  So I really wanted - I - you know I wanted to go to school at Brandeis. I - we - I had a friend that went to school there. And I just thought it was a - it seemed like a awesome place.  It is a solid school yeah.  Yeah but when you are like a - when you are a terrible high school student you do not get into Brandeis.  How terrible were you?  I really liked school...  OK.  ...And I was passionate about learning things. It just necessarily - my talents did not necessarily translate to like you know regular just-sitting-there high school. I was not very good at that. I got better at it later. I failed a bunch of stuff early my freshman and sophomore year.  So you got it out of the way.  I had a lot of trouble - a lot of trouble my sophomore year. And then actually after that my junior and senior year I - whatever they call it where you get all A's and B's. Is that honor roll?  Yes.  OK I was that from then on. So there was like - I basically - I was trying to recover from a really bad first two years which if I am being super honest it had a lot to do with like - it had a lot to do with like depression and focus issues and stuff like that. So I will be honest with you. It seems like we like each other.  We do.  We see eye to eye...  Yeah we do.  ...On things.  Most stuff.  So that is sort of what it came from. But when you are a bad high school student you do not get into Brandeis. And I ended up going to the school at the University of Maine...  Solid school.  ...Which was exactly what I did not want to do. Like I wanted to get out of state. I wanted to get as far away from Maine as I could. And I ended up having to go deeper into it. But it all worked out great. I actually really - I really loved going to UMaine. And that is sort of where I found - that is sort of where I started doing plays. It is where I sort of found a theater department there which is...  I read that you were like thinking about being a doctor. Then you were like nah I am going to do acting.  It - well it - you are half right. I was being - I was going to study physics because it was like one class in high school where I was like oh man I am good at this. And I get this. And I really like this. And I  aced it. And you know I was like oh I will just keep doing that. But there was like a huge difference between being good at physics in high school and being a physicist.  Yeah.  And so...  You speak truth.  Yeah and so - yeah . I do not know if you have met a lot of physicists...   ...But big difference. And so then I just ended up like auditioning for some 10-minute plays. And that is sort of how I found my way to the department. And that was kind of what brought me out of New England because as much as I - my family still lives there. My parents and my sister and my brother they are all still there. My sister owns a bookstore on the coast. Like it is great. We go back to visit all the time.  Nice.  But I just - I knew there was not - I mean if you look at like how people make a living in Maine like being an actor really is not high on that list. So that is what kind of got me out of New England.  So then you end up - do you go to Chicago right after college?  No I kicked around a little bit. I went to - I worked - I want to say I want to preface this with I love Kentucky.  Oh that came out of left field. How did we get to Kentucky? What?  I got a job working. In my first job I went to this combined audition which I do not know if you - have you - do you know this world that all?  No.  There is this thing that you do called like the SETCs which is the Southeastern Theater Conference or the UPTAs which is that Unified Professional Theater Auditions something like that where you go to Memphis or you go to South Carolina. And 80 or 100 theaters all go to this one theater. And a representative - the artistic director maybe the casting director - sits in that room while one person after another comes out and does a one-minute monologue and a song or two contrasting one-minute monologues.  This is like American Idol regional auditions but for theater.  Yes.  Wow.  And if you get two minutes they ring a bell and you get the  off stage.  What was your minute or two-minute thing?  Oh . There was one from this one-man show that I saw at - in the Fringe Festival in Minneapolis like the summer before. I took like a minute from that guy's play. And then the other one was I think like a two-person play that came out in the '80s. And it was about a gay couple that had - one of the characters has AIDS. And I think I did a monologue from that. And...  And you did well? You got a job?  I got a job...  OK.  ...As an intern at the...  Wait whoa whoa whoa whoa you go all the way down there.  Yeah.  You memorize these monologues. And they are like yeah you can staple these papers for a few months.  For nine months.  OK wow.  And this - and I walked out of this being like all right. It is a hard businessman man. I had to get - I went down there I went - I moved to Kentucky. It was a nine-month gig. I think I got paid a hundred bucks a week. They house you. And they pay your bills. All you just - you got to buy food. And that was it. And I lived in the house with all the other interns kind of like the Real World. And you just did everything at the theater that you possibly could. Like I stage managed. I ran a light board. I think I was in four or five shows with parts of varying size. Like I worked in the scene shop. I - they - like the whole idea was you are going to touch everything that goes on at a theater. And you are also - if you are a performing intern you are also going to be able to act in the shows. And it was great. It was the Lexington Children's Theater. And I still keep in touch with...  Really?  Yeah I still keep in touch with Vivian and Larry who ran it who I think had been running it for 20 years when I was there.  They must be so proud of you.  They - you know what it actually is really sweet. They are. And I like - you know like their kids who were in elementary school at the time are like now grown adults. And like they are really good people. It was an amazing experience. Kentucky's hard if you are from the North.  OK. I can see that.  And I was also - my first day of work was 911.  Oh man.  Look I am not trying to say that I had the worst day on...  No.  ...911...  Totally totally.  That is not what I am...  That is understand.  ...Trying to say.  That is understood yeah.  And of course like my reaction to that was very different than it was to a lot of the people that I was around which was look at this. We get to go to war. And my reaction was very different than that. And that was the general attitude that I was sort of surrounded by. So what I realized when I was there was that I just did not want to like kick around from regional theater to regional theater like for a couple of months at a time. I really wanted - I wanted to go to a city a major city and get a home base and then live there. And if I got at a job at a theater somewhere from that that would be great.  Yeah.  But I wanted to live in a city and work in theater in that city. And that is why I went to Chicago.  And you were in Chicago for a while. But you did not just do theater there. If I have read correctly you during your days in Chi-town were a bouncer as well.  I had a bunch of different jobs.  OK.  Well I - like I temped in accounts receivable at a drywall company.  Wow.  I worked backstage at the Chicago Shakespeare Theater. And that sort of got me into this world where I was a stage carpenter for a long time. I would like audition for plays at night and try to like be in rehearsal at night. And I would build sets during the day. And then when I started focusing more on on-camera stuff I needed to have my days free so I started working at bars. And I was a bouncer at Joe's on Weed in Chicago which on the Colbert show I did in fact say it is the worst bar in America.  .  And I want to let everybody - I want to let your listeners know that I stand by that statement.  OK.  They are - it turned out the Chicago Trib  wrote an article a couple days after or the day after and the last paragraph was we reached out to Joe's on Weed for comment and we have not heard back.   And I just love that I was able to troll them so many years later. It is the worst job I have ever had.  Really?  Because everybody - I do not know if you have seen me. Like at that time I was probably 6'5'' 180.  .  And I am not kidding I was the biggest dude on that staff.  Why...  Everybody else...  Who was the manager of security at Joe's on Weed?  They did not have one.  OK.  Their thought process was we are not going to get them with size because it is such a big bar.  Yeah.  It was like we are not going to get them with size. We are going to pay 25 people 6 an hour. So if something did happen we would literally just overwhelm whatever it was with bodies.  You know what? OK. It is like would you rather fight a horse-sized duck...  Or 100 duck-sized horses.  ...Or 100 duck-sized horses?   We were a hundred duck-sized horses...  .  ...Going after these dudes at like this weird Midwestern country bar that also had a hip-hop shows.  A - hip-hop shows OK.  And one of my first nights working was a Ghostface Killah show. And...  Wow. Just him or  Wu-Tang?  No just him just Ghostface.  OK OK.  I mean he had opening acts.  OK.  It was all going fine. It was running really late. Like Ghostface like I mean he was supposed to go on at I think at like 30 or 11. And nobody had even heard from him. Like he was not only not going on he was not anywhere to be found. And so like the whole night had started late. They rolled out the opening acts a little bit late. And people were not super happy about how long it was going.  Yeah.  And so I told this story on Colbert. And there was something - and the reason I bring that up is because something happened afterwards which was really fun. So - after Colbert not after the riot.  Got it.  So basically...  A phrase I have never said myself - after the riot. I love that.  Not after the riot after Colbert. So...   You have not told me why they riot.  An opening act...  Yes.  ...Comes on...  OK.  ...A New York City hip-hop duo. And one of them I think maybe the crowd was not super into his songs. And so he got upset and I think his exact words were  Chicago hip-hop I am all about New York City - from what I remember.  Fighting words.  And we were serving glass bottles that night.  First mistake.  And - first mistake. And immediately they started raining down on stage.  Oh my God.  And one of the guys in the band - I do not think the guy - somebody - a bartender told me this later. Somebody reached behind the bar and grabbed a tequila bottle - like a full Cuervo tequila bottle - and hucked it at the stage. And it hit the other guy in the face.  No.  ...The other guy in the duo in the face. He runs offstage.  Oh Lord.  The whole place lights up.  Oh my God.  Somebody - I find this out - I was reminded of this later that somebody took a couch and threw it from the balcony onto the first floor.  And here you were thinking Boston was bad.  Yeah.  Oh my God.  I mean at some point 14 cops showed up. I was wearing a shirt that said Joe's on Weed on it. And I asked...  The bar name.  ...My manager like what I should do. And he said he did not know. And so I just - or stop it. Like somehow he was like I do not know. Just stop it. And so I just took the shirt off. And I turned inside out and just pretended like I was at the show. And I joined in with the riot because I was not - like...  .  ...The duck-sized horses could not overwhelm this.  What kind of a rioter were you? Were you a glass-thrower? Were you a sofa-thrower? Were you a puncher?  Oh  that reminds me. I did get punched in the face.  .  I did get punched in the face before. And I think that was the final straw where I was like  this.  .  I am getting paid 6 an hour. I am not getting punched in the face for that. And so...  .  ...I think what I was - I was more of like a I was more of like a yeller and a fist-in-the-air kind of rioter.  Me too.  Like I am just trying to like egg - I was not going to destroy something at my place of business...  Yeah you are just the instigator.  ...Or at my place of work. I was not going to instigate anything. I - yeah I was just like yeah you should throw that couch - like that sort of thing.  .  And so I tell this story on Colbert. And I come backstage. And the musical act that night was I believe the Dan Auerbach band...  OK.  ...Like side project from The Black Keys. Yeah yeah. I say that with a question mark because I do not....  Like you do not know.  ...Follow music.   The Black Keys.  The Black Keys.  Are those The Black Keys? And he goes hey man I was running the sound board at Joe's on Weed that night. And we spent 15 minutes...  .  ...Going like - this was one of the things that like I - like in the story I would said like oh yeah the couch had gone from the first floor - or from the second - or the balcony down to the second floor. And he was like you are not wrong but you are not right.  .  It got thrown off the balcony but it like got wedged in between like the bow truss of this building and the balcony. So it was kind of just stuck halfway between the balcony  and the first floor.  I mean that is a better option than like it hitting someone so I will take that.  Yeah.  .  No 100 percent.  And we should close this story by saying you know like neither of us condone violence...  Of course.  ...In any way.  Of course. It is not - violence is never funny 15 years later.   OK time for another break. We will be right back to talk about how Tim made it into the TV industry and we will talk more about Veep.   OK back to Veep. I am sure the question you get all the time is how has Trump changed things for you guys on the show in comedy?  I do not - like we are lucky in that the show exists in this alternate universe...  Yeah.  ...Like in this alternate timeline that stopped. We - I think everybody says that we kind of stopped it - it splintered off somewhere around Reagan. Like that is the most recent president that we reference. So somewhere around Reagan it just went off in two completely different timelines. So we do not - we are lucky in that we do not have to really hit Donald Trump specifically at all. But I do think that much like everybody else his actual election came as quite a surprise. So some of the things that this - like this season may have been about at some point like he is just a joke. And you do not have to pay attention to it because that is never going to happen. But when it happens then you have to have the conversation. Whether or not you are going to do it or not you still have to have a conversation. So people in a pay grade above mine had that conversation. And that seemed to be how it shook out that basically like we are not going to attack it head-on because you cannot.  Yeah.  Nor did - I mean honestly and if you want like a good Donald Trump joke all the jokes are done by noon. You know like we are not going to put something out four months later that like has like - it is been said. So we could try to hit like the things that might - like we can still satirize the things that might get somebody like him elected. We can still satirize those ideas. But - and Dave - our showrunner Dave Mandel has brought up a good point that Selina's already - always had a lot of Trumpian  qualities.  Totally yeah. So how do you - what do you like most about playing Jonah?  I think what I have always - like and this relates back to this idea of plays. Like the reason - one of the reasons I joined is because I did not really know anybody. And it was my freshman year of college. I did not really know anybody. I was kind of like - I was living in like the football dorm. And like I had asked to leave in like the vegetarian like hippie dorm across campus where everybody did drugs. And I did not get put in that one...  Wait someone was trying to screw with you. That was malicious to...  Someone was trying to screw with me.  ...The football dorm. Oh my goodness.  And I got put in the football dorm. And like again it was kind of like being in Kentucky - just like did not see eye to eye like with a lot of like what was going on. So I was - I was - honestly I was having trouble finding a community I think is the best way to say that. And so I auditioned and found a community there. And thats sort of been the thing - like one of the things that I love about it that is very much present in this show is that ensemble has always been incredibly important to me. I just - I do feel like - in that way of like - like the thing that your grandmother tells you. Like rising tides raises all boats. Like that sort of thing - like if you have a good ensemble if you have a really amazing group of good actors working together that can elevate everything. It elevates good material to great. It elevates great material to legendary. And it elevates bad material to you know pretty good you know or OK or passable. So like an ensemble of actors or people that you can trust especially because there is a lot of trust involved in this - in this job like that you can trust these people to never make you look bad. Even if you  up they will figure it out. They will find a way to sort of get you back on track or raise you up and like - and then not only that you then have the ensemble of the whole thing like writers and directors and actors again all working together. Like that community that all is working I guess in the - and it does happen all the time - like working together. Like thats like the best feeling. So thats what I really like about it.  It is family.  It is family. Vin Diesel voice family.  Family. That - those movies are so awesome. I tell you what.  They are so awesome.  God I love those movies.  Oh my God.  Like...  We - I went to go see it with like my best friends in LA like guys that I was on an improv team with out here. And at one point you know I think it was when - is it Taye Diggs? Is that who is in...  Tyrese Gibson.  That is the guy right?  No when Tyrese Gibson is ice surfing on a car door in Antarctica on like a sheet of ice.  We stood up and started clapping.  .  We stood up out of our seats and started clapping.  Yes and like Ludacris was involved too. There were so many layers to this stuff man.  There were so many layers.  It was amazing.  And they usually have a rivalry. But they came - they got over that rivalry.  Because family.  I am going to name him Brian.  .  The - did you see this thing where somebody brought up the point that like in the first Fast And The Furious which I actually re-watched recently and it is great...  Yeah. Oh yeah.  But in the first Fast And The Furious when they go into Vin Diesel's house for the first time - I am sorry Dominic Toretto's house for the first time...   You know what is up.  ...Ludacris - a Ludacris song is playing in the next movie or two movies later the actor Ludacris is introduced into the world as a person who is not Ludacris.  Oh that is like breaking - that is...  ...So who is singing that Ludacris song in the first movie?  ...Oh that is - that is some Inception-level trickery going on in The Fast And The Furious franchise.  Think about it bro .  OK OK so I was reading - before you got Veep you had never really done TV. You had done like one - like a Geico commercial where you played Abraham Lincoln. But you would really been a theater and improv kind of guy. How 