 I was talking to my therapist this week.  Sure.  And I was like yeah coronavirus is crazy. I am seeing folks who are like making little coronavirus pods and like hanging out with people.  Yeah.  And he was like you know Sam people need that.  People need people.  So I get it. Like no one can be perfect in this. I think at the start of the pandemic everyone was like never leave your house never do anything do not breathe and drink Lysol. That is it. And like...  Sam do not bring up that Lysol with me right now. You know how I feel about it.  .  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show we answer your everyday questions about coronavirus. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. And this week on the show we are keeping calm and carrying on in the midst of this pandemic. It is - what? - like week a million of this thing. And just getting through life every day it can be a lot. Even just going out for a walk or going to the grocery store can be extremely anxiety-inducing. So we asked a bunch of you our listeners to send me your everyday coronavirus questions the kind of questions that in any other context might seem mundane. To help us out we called up a friend of the show Maddie Sofia.  Am I just - I am like Short Wave host. That is the role I am playing right here right now. OK.  I think your answers will be more important if you say that you have a Ph.D.   Honestly in my own family I have found that that is not the case Sam. But yeah let us try. Let us see if people listen to it.  I am joined by CDC chief Maddie Sofia.  .  All right Maddie is not the CDC chief but she is the host of NPR's daily science podcast Short Wave. And also as you heard she has a Ph.D. in microbiology. So clearly we put your questions to the best of the best. So in the spirit of public service and answering those questions we are bringing you on this episode. And so we are going to toss some of those to you. But we should set some ground rules before we begin.  Yes absolutely.  Like how much can we really answer every question? I do not know. You know more. You are a Ph.D.   Well I mean I think any time that you are talking about coronavirus there are some like general ground rules that you have got to think about - any decision you are going to make. Because what you are doing is deciding between different levels of risk and that is going to be different for every person and what they need. So one thing you always have to pay attention to is the amount of coronavirus in your community right? So right now there are different amounts of risk in different places. So you want to really keep an eye on that. And then the other thing you have to keep in mind is your health status and the health status of the people around you that you are sharing spaces with. So if I am a person that is immunocompromised - maybe I am undergoing treatment for cancer or I am like my 88-year-old grandmother - the risks are different. So you got to keep that in mind. And then the last thing to think about Sam is like what is the risk of the activity you are going to do and then one thing that people think about less which is how much payoff do you get from that activity? You know what I mean? So if you are alone and you have not seen anybody for weeks and you are feeling depressed maybe a little isolated there is a big payoff to spending time with somebody. So those are kind of the general ground rules to get us started before we give advice for any of these questions.  All right. With that let us get to the questions. We got so many from our listeners.  I know it. I know it.  Yeah. We picked a few and showed them to you so we are going to have you answer them right now. And I will provide color commentary throughout. You are welcome.  Yeah sure. Absolutely.  All right first question - what is the deal with running? I have heard conflicting things. What is the likelihood of it being spread if someone runs past me?  OK. So this question makes total sense to me because I think there were some scary kind of initial studies around this.  I remember there was one...  Yeah yeah.  ...Where it said like runners could spread it for 20 feet and they were these vectors.  Yeah yeah.  But that was kind of mildly debunked.  Yeah. It was kind of dismissed. I mean there were parts of it that made sense but it was not considered to be like actually a real-world scenario that was tested. And it is really hard to test that. So you know when I think about running of course it depends on what space you are in right? So outside in fresh air you are going to have a lower risk. If you are somebody - if you are wearing a mask if that person's wearing a mask - all of those things kind of factor in. And as best we can tell Sam as you know somewhat a general rule the majority of transmission happens in close indoor situations where you are spending a good bit of time together. That is why it is absolutely essential to be wearing a mask especially inside. It does not mean that there is no risk if you are outside and there is you know only a brief encounter but it is reduced. So if you are running and you pass somebody for a second I am not super worried about that situation. Now if they cough and sneeze and you just slam right into it Sam that is a different scenario. You know go home wash your face wash your hands. But the - you know the experts that I am talking to are not super worried about that situation.  All right follow-up question for you on this topic - as a runner I have heard mixed messaging about wearing a mask when you run. Some folks say well you are outside. You are moving fast. Just dodge and weave and stay away from people.  Yeah yeah.  Others are like you have to have it on all the time. When I - I have done both. But when I have tried to run with a mask on my entire 5 miles I end up with a wet mask and it is like I am waterboarding myself.   Yeah absolutely. I mean of course wearing a mask if you can is a good situation. And if you are in a really really busy city and you cannot get away from people if you are like constantly dodging people I actually do think it is probably a good idea. But if you are in an area where it is a little bit more open I would say it is probably OK not to wear a mask when you are running. Again anytime you have a choice between them a mask is going to be a safer bet. But if you can get up really early before somebody's out there or go somewhere else and it is you know like either I am not going to run or I am going to run without a mask then I think that is a decision you have to make.  So you are saying we should be doing 3 a.m. runs in cemeteries.  I am saying Sam stop phoning it in. Get up at 3 a.m. and get this done.  Get it done. Get it done yes. Next question from a listener about animals - can I say hi to other people's dogs? Oh yeah. Good question.  Sam is this question from a listener or is this question from schmamshandershotmail.com ?  This question is from my heart because I need to talk to the doggies and make sure they are OK.  OK. So I looked this up because I was not sure and the CDC has weirdly complicated guidance on this. So...  Really?  ...Some pets like dogs or cats have caught COVID from humans. But the CDC also says the risk of dogs then giving COVID to people is considered low. Like there is no evidence that you can get it from the fur or the hair of other pets. But...  But if you are one of those owners that kisses your dog on the mouth.  Well I was just about to say. So - because the CDC still says you should not interact with dogs outside their household so I am like man I guess the CDC is worried about people getting pet saliva in their mouths. But you should not be macking on somebody else's dog anyway Sam. You know what I mean? Do not...  Listen if you see a dog and the dog is really really really cute...  Oh my gosh.  ...You have got to kiss.  You are part of the problem Sam.  I cannot miss the kiss. I cannot miss the kiss.  You are going to have to definitely miss the kiss for a while Sam. But - so - but I will say honestly you know briefly a dog has come up to me in the dog park. Its owner is far away. I have pet it. I will say it. I have pet it.  I pet that dog.  But this is - you know official guidance is leave those dogs alone Sam.  OK understood understood. All right. OK this is one that gives me so much - I think about this question every day and I get mad about it 'ecause no one can tell me what the right deal is.  OK.  What is the deal with wiping down groceries and should anyone actually be doing this?  OK so this is a great question. And again Sam it is not you know - like it is a level of risk that you are trying to decide here. So I like this question 'ecause it really gets to the question about picking up the virus from surfaces right? So I would say generally speaking the contaminated surfaces that I am worried about most are those like at surfaces at hospitals or in small enclosed spaces without much airflow that a person has been in for a really long time or surfaces that come in contact with your face or mouth a lot like a cellphone. Those are surfaces that I am going to wipe down most of the time. I am not as worried about a package of Oreos double-stuffed specifically to be clear from the grocery. Like I am not that worried about it. So what I do is I wear a mask. I hand sanitize when I am shopping certainly after interacting with the cashier. I get home. I unload the groceries. I will wash my hands. But you know again this is a decision that I am making as a healthy human. So if you are particularly worried or you have a condition that makes you susceptible there is no harm in being extra safe.  OK. Well this is also - like this gets to a larger question which I still ask a lot is like how long can this thing really just live on a surface? And I am still not sure we know and I think it varies by surface and by condition.  It does. It does.  OK.  And another thing to think about is just because some virus is on a surface does not mean it is still infectious. You know it does not mean there is enough of it to get you sick necessarily. It is all kind of a numbers game. So you know surfaces are not something to be totally dismissed. I am not saying that. But generally speaking with groceries that kind of stuff you can wipe them down if you want to but that is not the highest-risk scenario I am worried about.  Gotcha gotcha. You should just avoid making out with the cashier's dog at the grocery store.  I mean Sam if you can. It sounds like it is going to be a struggle for you.   I do not want people writing in thinking weird things about me and dogs. I am totally aboveboard OK? OK? All right next question - how often should I disinfect my phone?  Oh yes. Yeah. You know this is a nasty surface Sam.  Phones are so nasty.  They are so nasty.  Phones are like the toilet seats of public life.  I mean Sam do you bring your phone into the bathroom with you? Be honest.  You know if I am going to be there a while .  This is what I am saying. So you have got to be wiping that surface. Like it is next to your face. It is next to your mouth. We think with coronavirus if you are getting it from a surface it is from touching that surface and then touching your hands or mouth. And there is nothing that I put closer to my face than my phone. So I disinfect my phone a lot. I try to do it when I wash my hands 'ecause I wash my hands then I am going to touch this dirty phone again? I do not think so. So I have put hand sanitizer directly on my phone in a pinch which...  Same. Oh yeah.  It is not the best way. Like a little bleach wipe will do you good. But it is definitely something you want to be doing.  Yeah yeah. All right does alcohol lower my ability to fight COVID?  Sam it does. It does.  Do not give me - do not depress me with this answer.  I will say you will be devastated to know that alcohol does suppress the immune response as a general rule especially if you are drinking a lot. And the NIH even put out this statement that says if you are drinking when you are exposed to coronavirus it hampers your immediate ability to stave off infection.  OK OK.  I know. I know. And the other thing to think about here Sam though is when you are drunk you are also making decisions that you might not make when you are sober Sam. I mean this accounts for my entire junior year of college. You know what I mean? Like there are decisions that I wish I could undo.   You know?  So it is not just about your immune system. It is also about how close are you going to get to somebody. How loud are you going to talk? So unfortunately Sam for you - I can hear it in your voice you are sad - but there are a lot of good reasons not to be drinking in a large group of people right now at least excessively.  OK. All right next question - if I get a piece of hair stuck in my mouth while wearing my mask it feels like an existential dilemma. What should I do? All right sorry. Just sidebar real quick - I am the guy in the restaurant where if I see a piece of hair in my food I am like well the hair got cooked we are good. And I just eat it.  Yeah .  I really - like I do not care.  Well I am glad you have - honestly for this answer I am glad you have a pro-eating-hair mentality because I will say as a person who has worked in a lab with infectious pathogens when I am trying not to touch my face and like one little tiny stray hair gets out of my hair tie I will say you learn to eat that hair Sam.  Eat the hair.  It is part of the journey. It is part of the journey. But I do think you know it depends on where you are. If you have a safe space to take your mask off deal with the hair wash hand sanitize put that mask back on - I do not have time for all that so you just eat that hair and you be strong you know?  Eat that hair. Also let us be real here. Most hair is cleaner than your cellphone 'ecause a lot of folks out here wash their hair more than their phones.   Ew that is true .  I speak truth. I know you all do not want to hear it but you need to.  .  OK. Next question - can you contract COVID from a swimming pool?  Well well well - finally I have some good news Sam Sanders.  Thank you - about time.   So according to the CDC there is no evidence that you could pick up COVID from pool water - like just from being in a pool with somebody who had COVID...  Because there is chlorine in it - I know how this works.  Well there is a lot of situations going on. And one of them is that it is diluted right? So it is...  Yeah.  ...Like diluted in a bunch of other - I mean a bunch of other stuff. Let us be honest. But - so what I would say is that like I would never go to an indoor pool right now.  OK.  You know I would be really careful about social distancing outside the pool around the pool. Like as soon as I get back to my little chair I am putting my mask on for sure around all these people that I do not know. And I would not be getting closer to 6 feet. So you still have to keep yourself kind of away from people while you are in the pool. Like I would not go into a supercrowded pool. But the water itself should not get you sick.  OK - good to know. Last question actually - oh...  .  ...A heart-wrenching question - how do I smile at people while wearing a mask? Aw.  Honestly Sam - yeah wow. These - I mean the emotional range of these questions...  It is a lot. It is a lot.  ...They are killing me. It is a good question Sam - I guess with your eyes. I do not know. I have also found scientifically that waving works.  OK.  But you know smile with your eyes scream inside your heart 2020. This is where we are you know?  Wow. Wow.  .  Can we make T-shirts that say that?  .  Smile with your eyes. Scream inside your heart.  .  I love it.  Yes.  Well...  Yes.  Thank you for answering my and other listeners' COVID questions. And thanks to those listeners for sending the questions in...  Yeah thank you.  ...Jessie  Hannah  Katherine  Sarah  Marisol  Natalie  Alissa  and Annie . I will add one last follow-up question based on seeing all these questions come in. A lot of people have so much anxiety around coronavirus and this pandemic it is approaching like OCD.  Yeah.  How can people throughout their day take care of their anxiety around this pandemic?  Yeah. I mean Sam this is a big question right? Like there is something to be said about us knowing that we are going to be in this for a while. Right?  Yeah.  And that is pretty scary. But I think one thing that gives me a little bit of solace and a little bit of hope is that we are not helpless in this situation. You know what I mean? There are things we can do to minimize our risks. There are things we can do to take care of our essential workers who are keeping this country afloat right now. And that is trying to take care of each other trying to take care of your mental health you know trying to exercise outside when you can. And know that we do have some agency here. We can make changes that can help us get to the other side of this however long that will be. And so sometimes that is something that I hang onto.  Yeah. Pet your dog. Do not kiss your dog.  Do not...  And go outside.  I mean do not - certainly do not be kissing other people's dogs Sam.  .  We need to have a talk on the way home in the car about this.  But they are so cute.  Oh my God Sam.  So cute.  Get your mouth off these dogs.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders joined this episode by dear friend and colleague Maddie Sofia. A lot of you know Maddie from her hosting duties on NPR's Short Wave podcast a daily podcast all about science. But Maddie I am so glad to have you here for this next segment because it is really not about science.  Oh yeah. All right .  You sound so excited.  Sam this is all I do Sam. This is all I have got. This is my whole life...  .  Here we go.  Well we are going to play my favorite game right now. It is called Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  I will share a quote from the week. You have got to guess who said it or guess the story that I am talking about. The winner gets nothing. The loser gets nothing. But either way you will kind of be a winner 'ecause your opponent...  Either way I get embarrassed...  ...Is yourself.  ...Is how I am imagining this going.  Either way you get embarrassed.  Here we go. Here we go.  You are going to be fine.  I pop culture with the rest of the kids. I am on the Twitters.  Yeah.  Here we go.  Hello fellow youths.  .  All right. First quote - tell me what big company said this. Here's the quote. We want to be clear. We disagree that any of these labels are racist. We do not make decisions based on petitions. Who said that?  Big company that - wow. Sam that is a wide berth. I could see a lot of big companies saying  that right now.  Let me give you a hint.  OK.  One of my favorite grocery stores probably one of your favorite grocery stores.  It cannot be Wegmans.   Wow - high-brow. .  Is it Wegmans?  No this is a grocery store everyone shops at in college because they have the best snacks and they are cheap.  Grocery store  grocery store...  And they had like different ethnic names for their different varieties of ethnic food.  Oh this is Trader Joe's with that...   ...All that nonsense they have on their packages.  Yes. Yes. Trader Joe's - because 2020 is coming for everyone.  I mean honestly.  They are under pressure to change some of the names they use for their food.  Yes. Yes. I mean I have seen that. And I am like why - are you - what is this? What are you doing?  I did not know how widespread it was. So I knew that they were using Trader Jose for their Mexican foods. But they also use Trader Ming's to brand their Chinese foods Arabian Joe for their Middle Eastern foods...  Absolutely not.  ...Trader Giotto's for Italian food. And this one I had never heard before - they call their Japanese cuisine - the brand name for that is Trader Joe-san.  Absolutely not.  What?  Sam I do not even like you - I do not even like hearing you say them.  Right? It is weird.  It is weird.  So there was a petition to have them stop doing that. And Trader Joe's said this week we might change some but we are not bowing to pressure.  Really?  And that comment they gave was to USA Today. They were kind of defensive.  Weird move Trader Joe's.  Whenever someone starts a statement with we want to be clear...  Yeah. Oh that is true.  ...It is like OK.  There is never been a good conversation after that.  That is like when your mother calls you by your full name. They are not playing around.  No absolutely not. Do better Trader Joe's.  All right. You got that one.  Yes.  Congratulations. Next quote - tell me - this was a viral craze that swept the Internet this week. Tell me what I am talking about. Do people not know you can just post a hot selfie for no reason?  Oh is this the black-and-white vibe that challenge?   Yeah the black-and-white challenge. All right. Maybe you know more about it than I do. I am still confused as to what it actually is.  No idea.  A lot of listeners - you may have seen in recent days a lot of women that you follow on Instagram famous or not have been posting black-and-white selfies under the hashtag ChallengeAccepted. It is a black-and-white portrait of herself with the caption that gestures at the idea of women supporting one another. And at first it was cute. But because the Internet within like a day or two everyone was like this is stupid we do not like it it is not real empowerment. But everyone did it - Reese Witherspoon Jennifer Lopez Ivanka Trump this girl I used to date in college. Like everyone did it. And I do not...  Ivanka Trump this girl I used to date in college everybody...   Everybody. Did you see it a lot this week?  I saw it. I did see it. And I have been invited as well. But as a person that is very much offline I was like hm - sounds hard sounds difficult. I cannot be having 65 selfies trying to get the right one right now. You know what I mean?  True true. All right. Last quote - I think we are just going to play the song for you and you have to guess who said it.  Oh no. This is...  It is a pretty famous actor.  Oh no.    If you come within 6 feet it is mask on mask on mask on mask on. But if you have got antibodies it is pants off pants off pants off pants off. Do you...  Wow. This is some immunology-based music. I am trying to think. OK. First of all I am a little concerned with them saying if you have the antibodies it is pants off because we do not necessarily know how antibodies correlate to - but fine.  Well this guy knows.  But fine. You are right. You are right. That is not the point. I do not know. God I have like...  Do you watch Succession on HBO?  No but I have heard things.  It is one of the characters from Succession.  Imagine Dragons? Do they have...   I do not know.  Madam this is not 2015.  Wait. Wait. It is not a band it is a person. OK. Wait. Strike that.  It is an actor who made a song.  Oh an actor who made a song. OK.  An actor from HBO's Succession which you have not watched so that hint is not helping you.  No. I feel bad about this.  OK.  I have got nothing.  This song is written and performed by Nicholas Braun who plays cousin Greg on HBO's Succession.  All right. OK.  So this whole thing is a joke. It is a joke single. The song is called Antibodies . And it is all about the desperate search for love in the COVID era. And so Braun had teased the concept for the song on Instagram just being funny. And an A  R person from Atlantic Records sent him a DM being like you should actually make this a song. And so they made it a song. They made an absurd music video for it. And now it is going to be a benefit for Partners in Health and the COPE Program.  Huh. OK.  Right?  OK.  Thanks cousin Greg. It is a catchy song though not scientifically and medically sound.  I am just a little nervous about it. You know what I mean? That is what my job is - being a little bit nervous for all of you.  Shall we sing ourselves to break?   Absolutely.  If you come within six - no we have to sing an Imagine Dragons song to  break.  Just leave me alone. I thought it was a band.  I like them.  I know. That is kind of why I guessed.  What is their biggest song? .  Yeah. It is doppa doppa doo day  for sure.   I am waking up. Well I know they say I am waking up. And then they say  I may never vocalizing.  Yeah. No I think we got it.    I am ready to rock you ready to rock you.  The sound of my voice singing Imagine Dragons will actually expel coronavirus from anyone's body.  .  Maddie you won the game.  I definitely won the game kind of right?  You definitely won the game. Congratu-freaking-lations . Thank you Maddie for your time this episode.  Absolutely Sam. It is always fun to be with you.  All right. Time for a break. When we come back we talk about my favorite new show - Indian Matchmaking. BRB.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. All right. So a lot of you probably know by now I watch a lot of Netflix - sometimes for work most of the time just for me. Anywho last week just like every other week yet another new show popped up on my Netflix that I could not ignore.   I am Sima Taparia. I am Mumbai's top matchmaker.  That show is called Indian Matchmaking and it stars that woman you just heard Sima Taparia from Mumbai. She is this matchmaker on the show with a bunch of her clients. This show - it is so much fun. But it is also in some ways very problematic. I had a lot of questions about that conflict and to talk it out I knew just who to call. Hafsa hello. How are you?  Hi Sam. I am good. How are you?  I am good. I miss you. It is been how many weeks since you stopped interning for us?  It is BEEN A MINUTE - ha ha ha ha.  Oh my God. Oh my God. That is Hafsa Fathima. Until recently she was our intern here at It is BEEN A ve noticed that she has been tweeting all about Indian Matchmaking since that show dropped. So I will let her tell you what the show is all about.  It is an Indian reality show that kind of details the way that arranged marriages happen not just in the U.S. but also back home in India. And it kind of walks you through the process that a lot of I guess younger Indian millennials are going through like how like they are navigating this cultural tradition that has been you know embedded in Indian culture for so long. They are following it and they are kind of exploring how it is turning into like this new almost kind of a dating situation. So I find that really interesting.  Yeah. And I was surprised by how much of a business this is. So the main character is this woman called Sima Auntie and her job is just to be a matchmaker.   In India marriage is a very big industry a very big fat industry.  And it is a business. She goes out to find clients. She works with the families to help them find matches. She consults astrologists to see if these things will work. And there is a whole regimented process. You know she will send potential mates what is called biodata where it is like a one-page rundown of who this person is. And then you pick and see if you like them or not. It is much more intricate of a process than I think I assumed before watching it.  Oh yeah - for sure for sure. And like that definitely - like I know like a lot of my cousins like went through that process of like you guys like swap biodatas. And I think someone actually like described it as manual Tinder on the show which is a very good description because it essentially is that right? Like you have this one person who is like the medium between these two families which in India is really important because the families also connect. It is not just those two people which can be a good thing or a bad thing depending on you know what your preference is. But yeah I was in awe but I was also really scared of Sima Auntie. I was like oh my God she reminds me of every auntie that I left back home.  Yeah. I mean I found it fascinating and I think my biggest question with this show after having watched it is I am not sure how to feel about it. So I binged it when I finally began to watch it and I loved it. It was just - it was hilarious. It was sweet. I liked all of the characters. The pacing kept me involved. But then as soon as I was done binging the show I began to read all the think pieces about it. And a lot of folks were saying this show is problematic. They were saying you know it favors light-skinned people. It puts more of the burden on women. It is very classist.  Yeah.  It is just like all of these bad parts of finding a partner are on display. And throughout the whole show no one checks that. And so I wondered should I have been offended more watching this show? Like Hafsa am I a bad person for just not caring about those bad parts of the show and just enjoying Indian Matchmaking?  Sam you are a terrible person. You need to go repent immediately.  .  You are canceled.  Repent to Sima Auntie.  2020 is the year that we cancel Sam Sanders and I regret to say that to you. No - but it is true. I mean so like - OK so there is good and there is the bad right? And my like brother and I were actually talking about this yesterday. So we spent the last 10 years in India. Like I moved back when I was in high school. I lived in a city called Chennai which is a city in southern India in Tamil Nadu. So like being from India like is definitely a big formative part of who I am. You know I think that Western media has a tendency to portray India in a very condescending way and I did not see that here. So that was one of the positives right? Like oftentimes in Western media you see India kind of reduced - or Indians kind of reduced to a stereotype. So I think like that is why I loved the character of Ankita so much. Like she...  She was the fashion designer right?  Yeah. So she was the one who had the denim like fashionwear brand. And she was the one who was constantly told like oh you have to lose weight. You have to be more adjusting. Like you should like drop your life to go live with this man that you do not even know. And like she pushed back. And I am like yeah like that is like my mom. Like those are my aunts. Like these are my friends.   I can look after myself.  A man's support is a man's support.  But...  But in this case...  But partners need to be equal equally strong.  Yeah. It could be.  These are the women that I know in India that I rarely ever see represented on something as global and big as Netflix so I think kind of like just seeing her push back and saying like I am going to stand my ground was I think one of the best positives of the show. And I really appreciated that.  But - so like there is positives like that. Like we are seeing fully formed independent young Indians...  Yeah.  ...Who are their own people and are just as smart and global and worldly as anybody else. But on the other hand you know by showing these characters in that realness we see this dark underbelly of Indian Matchmaking.  Yeah. For sure.  You know all of these couples are thinking about skin tone. And Sima Auntie the matchmaker is matching fair-skinned people with other fair-skinned people and talking about that candidly. And so some of that stuff was problematic. How do you take in that good stuff you are talking about as well as that bad stuff?  No I definitely think that like you need to push back. And I think that was one of the things that really like bothered me about the show - just like the blatant colorism especially in the last episode I think. There was the young woman from San Diego - and I do not want to name her - but she is like rattling off...  You can name her. Why not?  OK her name was Richa. Sorry Richa. I have to call you out on NPR. But like she is rattling off like her expectations.   I do not want a fly on the wall - likes to go to the gym likes to stay fit somebody maybe that I can cook with.  And she just blatantly says it. She is like...   ...Not too dark you know? Like fair-skinned - and then someone...  I do not want someone who is like dark-skinned. I want someone who is light-skinned right? And I understand that reality shows are not there to moralize or you know tell us what is bad or good. Love Is Blind is proof of that. But like how do we continue to give these things a pass - right? - under the guise of culture? Like at some point it is something that we need to have a really serious conversation about.  Yeah yeah. Do you think overall that the show itself India