 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Congress has made progress this week on health care reform. To help us understand what the House and Senate are considering like what is the public option and to analyze how politics and specialinterest groups are shaping what is on the table we have invited Jonathan Cohn. He writes about health care politics for the New Republic where he is a senior editor and he writes the blog The Treatment. He is also the author of the book Sick The Untold Story of America's Health Care Crisis and the People who Pay the Price. Jonathan Cohn welcome to FRESH AIR. One of the two Senate committees that had to mark up a bill has done that. So we have one thing on the table that is finished for now that we can talk about. So let us start there. The Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee has come up with its version of a bill. What does it look like? What are the key things? Mr.  Well the Senate  the key thing to understand in the Senate is that you do have two committees writing bills. You might think that the Senate Health Committee would be the committee with the most jurisdiction over this because it has the word health in it. Actually in fact that is not entirely the case. They only have a few pieces of reform. Anything to do with taxes with Medicare and Medicaid that all goes to the Senate Finance Committee. So we do not really yet know those parts of the legislation what they will look like. But the Health Committee does have some very important areas of jurisdiction and what they have done is they have put forward a framework for how they would like these areas to look. So one of the things they have told us as they are in charge of or one of the committees in charge of creating what you will hear about called exchanges. In general the idea here is to create a marketplace where people who do not work for large companies and do not get you know good benefits you know at affordable prices through their companies individuals can go and buy insurance the same way people who do work for large companies do. So they can get insurance that you know offers sort of the basic set of benefits you would want in an insurance policy. It will be available not at outrageous rates and most important the insurance company is not going to say to you oh you have a preexisting medical condition therefore we are not going to cover you at all or we are going to charge you four times as much. This is a very important part of health reform. Anyone who is ever tried to buy insurance on their own and has gone through the gauntlet of that process understands how difficult it is. The exchange is designed to fix that problem and that is really one of the most important things they have  done. They also said that  they have called for creating a public insurance option and if you have followed this debate you have undoubtedly heard about this. It is gotten a lot of attention and the idea is that within this exchange and you know within this marketplace they want to make sure that there is actually a governmentrun insurance program that you could choose to enroll in voluntarily and the idea is that it would look something a little bit like Medicare and the theory is that you know people trust Medicare they always know it is going to be there. Well that would be the case here as well. This is a plan run by the government. They are not out to make a profit. So you can have faith it will always be there for you it will cover all the necessary benefits and a lot of people I would include myself among them believe that actually health insurance happens to be something the government does pretty well and that having this government public insurance option out there would be good for the competition. It would force all the private insurers to behave and to keep up and by introducing this public option we make insurance not just for people who enroll in the government option but insurance for everybody we would make insurance for everybody a lot better.  Well let us look at the public option a little bit more. Are not the health insurance companies worried that because the government could negotiate discount prices because they will be representing so many people that they can underprice the insurance companies and the insurance companies will lose out? Mr.  Absolutely they are worried about this. If you talk to the insurance lobby this is their number one concern and it is not just the insurance lobby. You will hear from the drug makers from the doctors from the hospitals. A lot of the interest groups involved with health care are worried that the public insurance option will come in and basically Bigfoot them and push the private insurers out of business just by undercutting them. Now there is sort of  I think  I would like to think there are two responses. The first response is that to some extent if the private insurance companies cannot keep up then maybe they should not be in the business. I mean that is sort of the point here. We want to get insurance to people that is affordable. We want to give them good benefits and if it turns out the government can do that better than private insurance then maybe we ought to stop trying to fight that and say all right well let the government come in and do it at least for you know a large number of people. Now in fairness to the insurance lobby I mean it is not unreasonable for them I think to think that gee the government has so many advantages it could basically underprice us so much and just drive us out of business while not paying a fair price to the doctors to the hospitals to the drug makers and so you would end up in a world where it was all government insurance right? And the drug makers and the doctors and the insurers would make so little money a bunch of them would go out of business or we would all be in long waiting lines because there would not be enough of them. You know in theory this is a reasonable concern but what you have to remember is that the people who designed the public plan who have been writing this up are quite well aware of this danger. Even if they wanted to create a public plan that would do all of that I do not think the political power they do not have the votes to do that. So they have built into their conception of a public plan a number of safeguards designed to make sure that the public plan never becomes that powerful that it never can just drive the private insurance companies out of business simply because it happens to have big Uncle Sam behind it.  Yeah well I think another concern for the insurance companies is that they are supposed to making a profit they are forprofit companies whereas the government does not need to make a profit from insurance which is another way the government can undercut them. So what are some of the safeguards that you are referring to? Mr.  Well and again I again would say the fact that the government does not need to make a profit I would consider that a feature not a bug and that is part of the issue here. I mean we are dealing with a fundamental question here of whether health care is something on which we should let companies make a profit or at least make very large profits and you know if the government  presence of a government plan forced all private insurance companies to make lower profit margins certainly you know I think that is a perfectly acceptable outcome. Now that said like I said you can take this too far and I do think it is important to have some safeguards. The safeguards I have seen they involve things like you know first of all making sure that people in the public plan have access to enough doctors and enough hospitals. If indeed a public plan started paying far below what is appropriate what providers what doctors what hospitals could live on you would see doctors and hospitals turning away these patients and so you have a kind of trigger in there that says well wait a minute if the number of participating doctors falls below a certain amount then there needs to be some review of payment policies or perhaps payments need to go up. There are other requirements you can have about the  you know one thing that has come up is that look as a private company you have difficulty. You have to raise capital. You are required by law to keep reserves. If the public plan can just keep yanking from the government Treasury money money money anytime it wants it is not going to be competing on a fair playing field. So a lot of the proposals for a public plan say okay we cannot do that. We have to give the public plan some startup money to get started but after that it is got to be on its own. It is got to sustain itself just like a private insurance company would. So those are the sorts of safeguards there are. And then there is a more direct set of safeguards built in which is to say look we can just dictate by the law that the public insurance option has to pay rates that are somehow some fraction of what private insurance pays in an area. In other words it can never be too far below what the private insurers are paying and that is another kind of way you can have a safeguard to prevent the public plan from becoming too large too powerful. And you know that is really the point here. We want to set up a competition. And I actually believe in the long run there are some things private insurance does well. There are some things that public insurance does well. And I think if you get them operating side by side the competition actually might make for a very strong health care system.  And are you saying that as somebody who really prefers a singlepayer universal health care system? Mr.  Well you know if we are talking about what I personally believe  I mean I have said many times if it were up to me if I were king for a day I could wipe the slate clean I would absolutely create something that looks like a singlepayer system and you know a singlepayer system in other words a system where the government is responsible for providing basic insurance to everybody. The system I always tell people that I would model us on it would like what they have in France which actually looks a bit like Medicare. The government gives everybody basic insurance and then you would have  people could buy private supplemental insurance on top of that. But I am not king for a day. I can tell you quite assuredly that my political views are not those of the people for the most part who are writing these laws. There may be some people who support the public option who do think and who do want someday to get to a singlepayer system but the two things  first of all that is not a majority view by any stretch of the imagination. And I can tell you politically there is not a chance in the world we will get anywhere close to that in this legislation. I mean that is just the reality of politics. If anything Congress is well to the right in other words I would say more conservative than public opinion on this issue and it is far more likely that Congress would end up creating a reform system that had a very weak public plan that would frankly you know suffer and not thrive because it had not been given the proper resources and the proper tools far more likely we would see that than Congress would pass a plan in which they would create this super gargantuan allencompassing public plan that would drive every other insurer out of business and you know the next thing you know we have health care that looks exactly like it does in Canada.  My guest is Jonathan Cohn a senior editor for the New Republic. He also writes for the magazine's health care blog The Treatment. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Jonathan Cohn. He is a senior editor at the New Republic. He is been writing about health care politics in the magazine and on his blog The Treatment. He is also the author of the book Sick. Well let us continue our kind of guide through health care politics right now. One of the big questions on the table is who pays? Who pays for all this new stuff that the people will be getting and one idea is you know a tax on the wealthy. Would you explain the proposal for that? Mr.  Absolutely absolutely. The finances of reform basically work this way. If you do health care reform right over the long term it should pay for itself. In fact that is a big reason why we are doing reform. If you have heard President Obama he clearly feels quite strongly about this that in the long run decades from now and to some extent now health care is going to drain resources from other places that need it. So the longterm goal is to create a health care system that saves money and then in the long run can really pay for itself. Now drawing it up on paper that is easy to do. In the real world you cannot do that overnight by flipping a switch. It takes time. If at the same time we want to make sure everybody has health insurance because after all we are not just concerned with the way health care is draining resources out of our society we worry about the burden it places on individuals  we want to make sure everybody has insurance so that you know people do not have to go bankrupt because they get sick. Well if you want to do that you have to spend a little money now. You have to  in effect you have to spend a little money now to save some money later. And the estimates they vary  it depends on how you do it  but somewhere in the neighborhood of a trillion dollars over 10 years you have to come up with. Now just to put that number in perspective a trillion dollars over 10 years so that is about 100 billion a year and this is in the middle of a health care economy that is more than 2 trillion every single year. So really it is not that much money in the grand scheme of things but you know coming up with a trillion dollars in Washington is not that easy. You can do some of it by finding savings in the system. You know we have a very inefficient system. So you can find savings but the other way to do it is to raise some kind of new revenue through some kind of taxes. Now the House of Representatives in their proposal has been talking about a surtax on very wealthy people. And basically it says if you are in the top one or two percent of earners in this country you are going to have to pay higher taxes and you know that is one way to generate the revenue. It is extremely progressive. It takes money only from those people who have still you know have done very well even in the down economy and can afford to pay a little more money and it does you know generate a lot of money. I mean the numbers I have seen suggest you can get about half of the money you need to cover health care reform over the next 10 years through that sort of surtax. So that is one idea that is on the table. But there are other ideas. The Senate will almost certainly not use that. They will go with some other means and you know it remains to be seen which of these different revenue ideas Congress finally settles on.  And what President Obama wants us to have  employers either provide health insurance for their employees or make a payment that would go toward the government program. Mr.  Absolutely and this is  you know when I was talking before about well what are the different pieces you need to put in place that is a very very important piece. The health care wonks call that an employer mandate but it is really just sort of saying employers have to take responsibility. Either you pay directly to give your employees health insurance or if not then you have to pay some money into a big fund  because you know what? If you are not giving your workers insurance a lot of them are going to have to get insurance on their own and they are going to need assistance because they will not be able to afford it so you have to bear some of that cost. So it is effectively saying employers you know we used to call this pay or play. Either you give your employees health insurance or you pick up some of the cost of your employees getting insurance elsewhere and when you do that it has a lot of good effects. I mean one of the effects it tends to have is that employers cannot tend to keep offering insurance to their employees and that is one of the reasons that you know if you are one of those people out there and you say gee I like my health insurance the way it is I do not want to lose it why should I support health care reform well that is a reason because if reform happens and if President Obama and his supporters in Congress get their way there will basically be a requirement that says to employers hey you cannot just drop your insurance because suddenly you have decided it is a good way to get a leg up on your competitors. You have to keep offering that insurance. So that is why you know it is a very important piece. It is worth noting that an employer mandate is not just good for the employees. It is actually good for a lot of employers too because basically it puts all employers on a level playing field. You know right now you have a situation where you are say in the grocery business and another grocer comes into your market and you may be much better  you are much better at sort of finding good deals on produce and you come up with better offerings and you have a better checkout system and that is all great. But if your new competitor is lousy at all those things but has figured out a way not to provide really good health insurance to its employees your competitor is going to have lower prices probably and might drive you out of business. So what this says to business this employer mandate says you know what we are just going to put everyone on the same plane when it comes to health insurance. You all have to pay the same amount and this way you can compete based on what you do. So if you are a grocery store be good at selling groceries. You build cars then do a good job at selling cars. You create software then make the best software programs and if you do those things you will succeed in business.  Give us a sense of who the key players are in Congress who we should be keeping an eye on and let us start with Chris Dodd. We were talking about the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee and he has been heading that committee in the absence of Senator Kennedy. Just very briefly give us a sense of what he stands for in this debate. Mr.  I think broadly speaking he stands for the same values that Senator Kennedy does. He is a liberal and I do not use that as a bad word here. I think he believes that everybody should have insurance that has good benefits that allows choice of doctor that is affordable and to get that it may take a lot of government intervention. The government may have to regulate insurance very hard. It may have to raise some money somewhere and I think as far as he is concerned that is okay. You do what you have to do to make sure people get good health care and I think that is his bottom line. And that when you look at the bill that his committee produced I would argue that you know within the realm of political reality it does a pretty good job of that.  Senator Max Baucus he is the head of the Finance Committee where would you position him? Mr.  Well you know Senator Baucus is a very interesting character. He is not known as someone  he is not particularly known as a liberal certainly and in fact Democrats have long distrusted him. They think he works with Republicans too much and they do not know where he stands. To his credit a year and a half ago two years ago Senator Baucus got out in front on this issue. He made it very clear that this was his mission to pass a health care bill. I think he also wants to make sure everybody has good benefits. I think he also wants to make sure that everybody has choice of doctor. I think he also wants to make sure that the system becomes more efficient so it does not cost so much in the future. The catch is that you know he is the head of the Finance Committee. So number one he is actually got to find the money to pay for it; and number two his committee if you look at who is on it is weighted a little more to the conservative side. The Republicans are very powerful there. There is a tradition of working together that you do not see on all committees. And even the Democrats on the finance committee tend to be a little more conservative. So as a result because he is committed to working with his whole committee he tends to produce legislation that is a little more conservative and in this context that would mean probably will not cost as much would not have the same aggressive regulation and would not make the same level of guarantees to the American people that say Senator Dodd's committee the Senate Health Committee would.  Now Senator Baucus has been working closely with Senator Charles Grassley on the Finance Committee and what does Grassley stand for? Mr.  Well you know and again I think a lot of Republicans think about Senator Grassley the way a lot of Democrats think about Senator Baucus. They do not entirely trust him because he does sometimes work with the other party. You can look at any number of issues  for example on the behavior of nonprofit hospitals. Senator Grassley over the years has been a real watchdog over the behavior of charity hospitals when they have seemed to sort of defy their charitable mission. You know when you heard these stories about hospitals that are supposed to be taking care of the uninsured and then suing these people over their bills Senator Grassley got very worked up about that and really tried to do something about it. That said he is still a conservative and at the end of the day I think what he wants is not going to be what Senator Baucus and certainly not what most of the Democrats want. At the end of the day he is going to be very nervous as a government program gets bigger and more expensive. He is going to be much more reluctant to regulate the behavior of the private insurance industry and obviously I think that is a perfectly respectable view to have. But I think it is important to realize that at some point that view becomes incompatible with the view of people who want to do health care reform. And so we hear a lot about the importance of bipartisan compromise. I think it is important to realize that a bipartisan compromise might mean simply not accomplishing what you want to accomplish with health care reform.  Jonathan Cohn will be back in the second half of the show. He is a senior editor at the New Republic and he edits and is the primary writer for the magazine's health care blog The Treatment. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Jonathan Cohn. We are talking about the politics of health care reform. Cohn writes about health care issues for The New Republic and he edits and is the primary writer for the magazine's health care blog The Treatment. He is also the author of the 2007 book Sick The Untold Story of America's Health Care Crisis  and the People Who Pay the Price. Senators and congressmen of course rely on campaign funding and a lot of campaign funding comes from lobbies and a lot of the big lobbies are involved in the health insurance debate  the pharmaceutical lobby the health insurance lobby. So do you think that there is a lot of behind the scenes conversations going on between senators and congressmen and representatives from lobbies who fund them? Do you think that lobbyists are saying if you vote for this kind of expansive health care reform we are not going to contribute to your campaign next time around? Mr.  Well there is no question there is a ton of lobbying going on. It happens because these groups give money to congressmen like you say and then they say hey we gave to your campaign you better vote the way we want you to. It also happens because these groups are not stupid. They hire people who used to work on Capitol Hill and then they dispatch these people who are familiar with Capitol Hill who know all the players to go make their case. What is interesting is the behavior of the lobbies. Every lobbyist every business every health care interest is obviously out for its own good and its own self interest but the calculus can be complicated. They all are out to cut a deal. They all want a deal that is going to protect their income streams. But they are being a little cautious. They are not firing  they are not coming in guns blazing and they are trying to actually offer some concessions. Enough that they number one look good. They want to look good in the public eye in case they do eventually have to turn against reform but also to sort of protect themselves. And you know the feeling is if you are part of the conversation and you are playing ball that maybe you will not take such a big hit when and if reform passes.  Well let us look at what some of the lobbies are doing. Let us start with the health insurance lobby. You wrote an article not long ago about the chief lobbyist for AHIP which is America's Health Insurance Plans. It is the health insurance lobby group. What insights did you get from talking to her about why the health insurance lobby is willing to talk now? Mr.  Well I think this is a perfect example of the kind of behavior we are seeing from all the different lobbying groups. If you are the health insurance industry if you are Karen Ignagni who is the head of the trade that represents the health insurance industry and you look at reform one way to look at it is to say gee if this reform system passes we may get a whole lot of new customers. That is nice to have. We will have also the  our line of business will be kind of predictable. Yes we may have to make slightly less profit on every person but we will have more people to make profit on. So the big insurers in particular and these are the ones who really she represents. The groups like Aetna and Cigna they can coexist in a reformed world. And so in general they have been talking. Now talking is not the same as doing but they are talking to reformers. They talk to the White House. They talk to members of Congress. And if you listen to their rhetoric they will tell you that hey you know what? If you want to pass these regulations that say we have to give insurance to everybody even if they have preexisting conditions we can make that work. You want to give us a set of benefits that we have to provide everyone? Okay we can make that work too. Now the catch is  and you knew there was a catch  there are certain things they do not like. One of the things they really do not like again is this idea of a public insurance option which they would consider a threat. So on the one hand they are out there trying to talk and they are appearing at White House events and they are saying we support this we support this reform we support this reform. At the same time they are doing everything they can to kill the public insurance option.  Let us look at the pharmaceutical lobby. President Obama has gotten the pharmaceutical industry to concede to what eighty billion dollars in savings by making certain cuts. What? What cuts? Mr.  Well in affect this was a very complicated deal they arranged. If you break it down in affect what it says is that the pharmaceutical industry is going to actually give a little money towards helping to fill in what you may remember from the great Medicare drug debate or if you are on Medicare now as the doughnut hole. That is the gap in coverage you get if you are a senior citizen and you are getting drug benefits through Medicare. So the drug industry has said we will give a little money to help fill that in but the drug industry gets something out of this deal too. In fact you can make an argument that when you look at the extra business they will get and the extra money they will get they will be no worse off and quite possibly better off. So in terms of these deals you look at I have to say I did not think the drug industry deal was all that great a deal from the standpoint of health care reform. That said there is the political virtue of it. If you see this primarily not for about the dollar so much but about the political symbolism remember two key things. Number one every day the drug industry is talking about why it supports health care reform it does not matter what it is doing in private. That is one day it is not spending every dollar and every breath it has screaming at the top of its lungs that reform is a bad idea. I do not know that that particular deal was all that great on the policy merits but in terms of moving reform forward politically I think it was significant.  Let us just talk very briefly about the policy itself. The pharmaceutical industry would be willing to contribute money to the socalled doughnut hole to fill that hole but if you were in that hole you would also have to buy brand name drugs and not generic drugs and the brand name drugs are considerably more expensive than the generic drugs. So that is what you were referring to when you were saying that the pharmaceutical industry probably would not lose much money or that they might even make money but what about the consumer? Would they actually be ahead or behind with a deal like this if they had to buy brand name drugs instead of generics? Mr.  Well you know it is hard to say. The deal is vague enough that it...  Mr.  ...depend a little bit on the actually details of how it was crafted.  Right. Mr.  If in fact the doughnut hole is full if there is no more doughnut hole then I think you know if you are giving people more insurance coverage they would have better access to drugs. So in that sense they would be better off. But as a consumer yes you are paying for your drugs so you have to think about the hit on your wallet for paying for your drugs but eventually you are paying for this program too right? I mean you paid taxes to support this program and if forcing people to buy brand name rather than generic drugs means that you are buying more expensive drugs and that makes the whole program more expensive well in the long run that is going to come out of your pocket some day as slightly higher taxes. Now I you know I would have to sit and talk to an economist. You would have to sit and run the numbers and they can vary depending on little tiny changes in the policy whether consumers were ahead or behind. But I would just say generally speaking that in terms of the drug industry this is something still of a pretty good deal for the drug industry. And health care reformers I hope by the time they are done writing legislation will be able to extract something a little more substantial from the drug industry.  If you are just joining us my guest is Jonathan Cohn. He is a senior editor for The New Republic. He is been writing a lot of about the politics of health care in the magazine and on his blog which is called The Treatment. He is also the author of a book about health care reform which is called Sick. Let us take a short break here and then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Jonathan Cohn. We are talking about the politics of health care reform. He writes about that subject for The New Republic where he is the senior editor. He also has a blog about health care politics called The Treatment and he is the author of a book called Sick. Let us look at the hospital industry and what kind of deal they have been making with the Obama administration about what they are willing to give up in the interest of health care reform. What have they offered to do? Mr.  Well the hospital industry is a very interesting player in this debate. I think most people think of hospitals and same for the doctors as sort of the noble providers of services so you do not tend to think of them necessarily as craving self interested as the drug makers or the insurers. But if you talk to people in this debate they will tell you that hospitals have actually so far been one of the most difficult interest groups