 Hi. I am Gabrielle . Ayesha Rascoe is my mom. She is filling in for Sam this month. All right let us start the show.   Hey everybody. Like Gabrielle said I am Ayesha Rascoe your host for It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am filling in for Sam 'ecause he is on vacation. Happy weekend. Are you ready? Because I am really ready. It has been a long long week you all. So today on the show we are talking sports specifically all the news around Black female athletes especially recent decisions made by the Olympics and other sports-governing bodies. This week it all kind of came to a head - in particular the news around Sha'Carri Richardson. The star sprinter did not make the U.S. track and field Olympic team because she tested positive for THC. She said she used the drug to cope after she found out her mom died.  SHA' I know what I am supposed to do I am allowed not to do and I still made that decision. But I am not making an excuse or looking for any empathy in my case.  That was Richardson on the Today show. Marijuana is legal in many states including Oregon where the Olympic trials for track and field were taking place. And last time I checked marijuana cannot make you run faster. But THC is still considered a prohibited substance by the World Anti-Doping Agency and they set the rules for the Olympics. Richardson's not the only Black woman athlete being affected by some of these decisions being made lately. So I am going to get into all of that and more with ESPN producer and multimedia journalist Terrika Foster-Brasby and The Athletic writer and podcast host Kavitha Davidson.  I am Kavitha Davidson. I am so happy to be here and so happy to be here with Terrika and with Ayesha.  Terrika Foster-Brasby - I am doing my best to be as filtered as possible 'ecause I am quite an unfiltered chick.  We do not want anyone on their best behavior.  .  Be on your worst employed behavior.  Right.  .  Got you.  They started by telling me what the Olympic Committee ruling means for Richardson's future in sports.  It is absolutely punitive for something that does not really seem to be that big a deal to the rest of us. That being said the rule is the rule. I do understand that. The rule needs to be changed and it is just an unfortunate thing to me that this young woman is going to be the face of changing this rule. Like we are having this whole-ass conversation right now about what the future of this is going to look like what the World Anti-Doping Association is going to do built on the backs of this one woman not being able to compete in Tokyo. And I think that there is an injustice there.  And whatever happens with this she will miss Tokyo so that is - she is young. She can come back. But there is a loss there for her. So if they do make changes it is not going to help her right now. But Terrika what is next for Sha'Carri Richardson? What can she do now?  Honestly I love her attitude. I love her accountability. I love that she owned it.  Yeah.  You know what I think about in general the weight that Black women carry where I have to be perfect all the damn time - there is never any leeway for me to make a mistake but the bounce back is so important and I think that she does that. I also think it is fair to note that she is also going to have to repair her image in not any fault of her own. But because when you look at the headlines that were written when this story initially broke it was not Sha'Carri Richardson tested positive for marijuana. It was Sha'Carri Richardson tested positive for a banned substance.  She failed a drug test.  She failed. You know what I mean? Words mean things people. And so when you read that and you are talking about athletics no one's thinking marijuana. We are thinking this girl's doping. She is taking steroids some form of PED. Like all of these things just automatically put a barrier on her that she did not even ask for.  There were people on Twitter - I do not want to give this person - there was some random horrible person on Twitter basically making - that was trending because they were making these statements about Sha'Carri saying because she had long hair and nails...  And nails.  ...That she must have been doping.  Marijuana is growth-inducing or something.  Well as you see my hair - I also must be on some steroids 'ecause my hair is very long right now .  OK. And comparing that same person to Flo-Jo.  Yes.  And I was like clearly you all do not know nothing about Flo-Jo but...  Well Sha'Carri should be compared to Flo-Jo for all the right reasons.  As she should.  All the right reasons yes.  Reasons right. But I will say this too though. I am one of those people who made the comparison between this and Michael Phelps and for a very different reason. I tweeted that she needs to be given the same amount of grace that Michael Phelps was given. And of course I had people coming in my inbox and coming on my status like hey but he lost endorsements and it did not happen to him blah blah blah blah blah. And I am like I get that but Michael Phelps did not make one mistake. He did not make two mistakes. He made multiple mistakes over and over. How many drunk driving cases did he get? And what I mean by extending grace is regardless of the mistakes that was made by Michael Phelps he was continually given an opportunity to redeem himself to represent America to represent his family and himself on the largest stage in his sport. And he won gold for them. On top of that I remember FINA responding by saying we understand the image that you know Michael Phelps has among our youth among young boys and we accept his apology.  Yeah.  OK. So does Sha'Carri get that same grace? Because too often women of color do not get the ability to make mistakes. One time and we are done. It is a wrap.  And I think that is absolutely fair and I think that that also comes down to who it is incumbent on to show that empathy right? Like it is the media and the governing bodies. And let us be very frank about this. The people who encompass the media and the governing bodies look like Michael Phelps more than they look like Sha'Carri Richardson.  Bingo .  Well let us just - let us talk about the way that the public and the media often interact with Black women athletes. Even for me as a casual observer there always seems to be a difference in the reaction that you will get whether it is someone who makes a mistake or someone who gets angry or the coverage of a Black woman versus other athletes whether it is Serena Williams whether it is Naomi Osaka whether it is Caster Semenya. There is a difference in the way that the public reacts and that the media portrays them. And so Terrika talk a little bit about that weight that Black women athletes have to carry.  It is never-ending and it is heavy. And it is exhausting. It is interesting that we are having this discussion because you know people resonate more with who they feel like they have built a connection with. So part of that comes with marketability. The reason why some people love LeBron James the way they do is because they feel his story you know? Outside of him being an amazing athlete we have seen him since he was 16 years old. We have seen where he comes from. We have seen his obstacles. So when it comes to female athletes well we do not always get an opportunity to be a part of that story. Why? Because that story's not often told. And when they are well then there is the generalized stereotypes that comes along with dealing with women of color. Perfect example that I can think of is whenever Serena Williams is in a match and she is upset because she is losing and she wants to bounce her racquet off the ground or whatever it is that she decides she wants to do she is a competitor. No one - you know you can use the word emotional and for some reason to say Serena's emotional and angry resonates very differently than we just saw Reggie Jackson crying because he - the Clippers lost to the Suns in the Western Conference Finals. And you know what happened for Reggie? It was just - aww we feel so bad for that guy. Aww he put his heart into it. Aww he was really really edging to win. Well why is it that when Serena does that same thing and is given that same description she is the angry Black woman? She is a baby. Why does she have to act like this? How can we respect an athlete who acts like this?  Yeah.  These are the kinds of things that women have to deal with regularly. Sports is just a microcosm of the larger world we live in and so the - I firmly believe the reason why we are given this particular outlook on especially Black women and women of color in sports is because this is the way they view us in everyday life.  Well when we talk about you know sports being a microcosm of the rest of the world and the way Black women in particular are treated let us talk about hair. Let us talk about Soul Caps and that decision that came down this week which is a big deal because - and for people that may not know about what is going on with Soul Caps is that the International Swimming Federation basically banned these caps which are caps specifically made so that if a person has braids or locs or a fro that the cap would actually fit over their head. And the reasoning for that decision was that the International Swimming Federation said to the best of their knowledge no athletes competing at international events had ever used or required the use of such caps which immediately said to me well who has been competing? .  That is a very fair question Ayesha. I - the two things that FINA the International Swimming Federation said in their statement were - particularly galling to me - was exactly what Ayesha just said which was this has not been a problem before so why is it a problem now? And it is like well when someone says to you that this is a problem your answer is well this has not been a problem before then how does progress actually happen is the question. The second thing that they said also was that these Soul Caps do not fit the natural form of the head or the hair which was so overtly racist I cannot even really comprehend that.  Yeah. Well and Terrika I will be honest. I do not know how to swim but part of the reason why is because I never want to get my hair wet. And - because you know it is a big thing when you get your hair wet. My mom was like - when I had to go to a swimming birthday party my mom was like you got to wear a shower cap. You cannot get your hair wet. So...   ...It is cold outside. I do not even understand why they having a swimming thing there. But like this is an issue right? Like what happens with your hair after you get it wet that maybe...  Absolutely.  ...FINA does not know about?  And on top of that there is damage that is done to the texture of more kinky hair from the bleach. And I know that they are now reviewing after the backlash but the fact is you have to think back to a former conversation we had with who is sitting in the rooms? Who are making these decisions? Where are the people that look like us? And considering that this is an international organization it is even larger than just the United States of America. This type of thinking is clearly worldwide and it affects people in more than just the United States of America. So I am glad that they are considering reviewing this and bringing this back to the table but I mean honestly this is just - the shape of my head you all?  And so like how do these specific decisions - how does that affect the rest of the sports world? Is this just an Olympics thing or is this a bigger issue?  So Sha'Carri specifically is very interesting when it comes to other sports because this is one of the instances in which the Olympics is actually trying to catch up from behind. The NFL MLB the NBA and UFC - and this is very U.S.-centric I understand but you know four major sports leagues that we have have said in the last couple of years that either they are no longer going to test for marijuana or they are no longer going to penalize their athletes for testing positive for marijuana. So it really does seem like - especially after the you know USA Track and Field statement basically calling on WADA to overhaul its rules when it comes to banning pot it really does seem like the other sports leagues are paving that way for the international governing bodies to be more compassionate and be more just frankly smart about its pot policy its marijuana policy. When it comes to swim caps I mean we do have actually a little bit of a precedent here. I do not want to conflate these two issues but you know when - there was a time a couple of years ago when religious headgear turbans or yarmulkes were banned in competition in basketball and in soccer. And it took fairly - it took quite a few years to overhaul those rules. The reasoning at the time was that there was a safety issue. And then Nike developed a quote-unquote safe version of religious headgear that Muslim women and practicing women could wear while also playing basketball. And then FIBA overturned its ban on that and it was this kind of monumental moment. So here we have a moment where like that happened in reverse right? Like we had the Soul Cap before the rule was overturned and now you have an international governing body having to play catch-up. But there is precedent for overturning a ban like that.  OK. So we have been talking about women in sports and women who play sports but there is also the women who report on sports. And this week we have seen some backlash outcry happening in the sports reporting world. We learned that ESPN's Rachel Nichols who is white suggested her colleague Maria Taylor got an opportunity because she is Black. And then in journalism at large not just sports journalism we had Nikole Hannah-Jones who I am sure you saw who refused tenure at UNC Chapel Hill after it was denied and then it was offered. You have this larger picture of Black women in media dealing with media and it made me think about how all this year we have heard Black girl magic believe Black women you know all of this. But who saves Black women? Who protects Black women?  Ooh.  And so that is what...  Girl.  ...It had me thinking about. Who is protecting Black women who are doing all of these things?  Black women.  Yes. Yes.  That is who is protecting Black women.  You fully answered that question.  As sad as it is...  Yes. Yeah.  ...That is what it is because what I am not going to do is I am not going to play the let us pit Black men against Black women and all this kind of stuff. But what I will say is when the fire comes when it is time to really stand up and stand out you hear more Black female voices advocating for Black female voices than you do any other race or culture of people and that needs to change. It goes back to desire. You have got to want to see women in these spaces. You have got to want to see women of color advance. And yeah it is insulting but at the same time - listen I said this on a vlog two days ago. If I am a diversity hire guess what. I earned that  because I have sat here and watched how many times have white privilege worked for you. I have watched who you know get you into spaces that what you know would have never gotten you there. So if my skin finally got me something I earned it.  Get in where you fit in. That is what...  I earned it.  I mean that is what - I mean that is my thing. Get in where you fit in. The idea that all these people in all these halls are there because they just so smart and they earned it - come on now .  Come on now.  I am going to get in where I fit in in.   This is a great conversation. We could obviously talk all day long and longer about this. Coming up I play our favorite game Who Said That with Terrika and Kavitha.   This week I am joined by multimedia journalist and ESPN digital audio producer to Terrika Foster-Brasby and The Athletic writer and podcast host Kavitha Davidson. All right. Are you two ready to play a game? Because I love playing a game when I am in charge.   That does not work for you. It is called Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  It is really easy. I am going to read three quotes from this week's news and you have to guess who said it or what it is about. You do not have to know the exact person. There are no prizes so the stakes are low but your dignity is at stake.   OK. So ready. And there is no buzzer. You just jump in. OK ready. Here's the first quote. Who am I to tell somebody to retire? I feel fine. I am still able to play 18 holes in the morning and 18 holes in the afternoon and have a little libations for lunch. .  Is that Tom Brady?   No it could be.  Was that Tom Brady? Was that Aaron Rodgers?   No this is not a sports person.  Oh .  I will tell you that. This gets a little - I will give you - it is a little political. It is a little political. It is a little political.  It is a little political.  Political.  OK.  Think about who you might want to retire.  OK.  Who in politics might you want to retire?  Oh my God was that Donald Trump.   No.   Now this one might be a little hard because this is where my...  I was gonna say Mitch McConnell .   A member of Congress but it is not Mitch McConnell. A member of Congress...  OK .  ...But not Mitch McConnell. I will tell you. That one - this one was hard. It was House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn.  Ah.  And he was talking about the Supreme Court. They are tired - people have been talking about Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer.  Yup.  They want him to retire so that Biden could put somebody else in his place. And Jim Clyburn...  We should just expand the court but OK.   Jim Clyburn is like 80 I think. And he was was just like who am I to tell somebody to retire? Look at me.  .  I play 18 holes in the morning and in the afternoon. And I have some libations with lunch.   OK. So 0-0 - but now we start fresh. We start fresh.  OK.  OK. This is the second quote. On the campaign trail a group of young people met with my son and me. They asked how do we know you are not like other politicians who make promises they do not keep? They said we will trust you if you promise to pierce your ear when you win the primary. Promise made. Promise kept.  Oh that is unfortunately our next mayor of New York City Eric Adams.   Eric Adams. And that - Eric Adams who just won the Democratic primary...  He is a cop. I am just saying. He is a cop . Like very...  He was a former police officer - right? - former police officer. Because he won the Democratic primary in New York City the thought is that he is likely to be the next mayor right? Right.   Kavitha's not looking happy about this. He pierced his ear.  I am also trying to maintain my employment. So...  Ok yes. So apparently he pierced his ear to show that he will keep the promises that he is made.  Let us see if he keeps the promises of not turning park spaces into parking lots and actually you know trying to reform the police. But you know we will see.  Ooh.  OK. OK. Kavitha got thoughts. She got thoughts. That is one. So one to Kavitha. OK.  OK.  So now it is one. We could get it tied. But I guess we will make the last one worth two points so we will have a winner OK? Oh. He got pierced at a Claire's. I did not realize this.   He went to the mall.  There is still Claire's? Did he get some jeans at The Limited like...   All right. So this is last one for all the marbles. This is it. We are all vaxed just in time for Tubby hot summer. Who is ready to come out and play?  This...  Oh my god.  Is this a musician?   Is this a musician? Because I feel like...  They do sing. It is - they do sing but they are not exactly musicians. Your children may know more about them.  Oh my god no. This was on Twitter. It is - what are they? Like they dress up in the...  I have no idea.  They are not furries.   Yeah they are not furry.  .  But they are not from this world. They have televisions on their their tummy.  Teletubbies.   Teletubbies. Are they...  Teletubbies yes. OK.   Kavitha is the winner. But yes Teletubbies. So the Teletubbies...  I do not think I am a winner if I know what a Teletubbie is to be honest.   I have not seen Teletubbies since I was like 15. That is a long time ago.   Do you know what? I do remember - like there was a thing about them going around Twitter. And I remember seeing their creepy-ass tummies with like their vax cards or something. And that is...  Yes they have vax cards.  OK. OK .  Yes they got...  Oh that is crazy.  They got vaccinated so now you can come out and play with them. Yes.  Now see if you had used the quote from Juvenile in the Vax That Thang Up video...  You would have go it.  I would have got that.  OK. Listen. That should have been it.  Back vax up a hundred percent.  Back that vax up. And it was something like - what was it? It was like...  Vax that thing up. Sorry.  Vax that thing up.  Vax that thang up - there some very key lines in that one. We should have used that one.    I know you cannot stand it. No holding hands chick. But when we get the shot we gon' be romancing. Girl you can be the queen at the quarantine. We can meet up at the spot and we could do the thing.  You are going to be a queen in the quarantine. It is a thing man.   Juvenile redid Back That Thang Up and he did Vax That Thang. And it was pretty amazing. And...  I did not know I needed that video until I saw that video. I was like...  Yeah.  ...Where you been?  It was so good.  Someone said on Twitter that if this had come out earlier the whole pandemic would have already been shut down - already already.    Acting foolishly you need to vax that thang up. Herd immunity you need to vax that thang up.  Kavitha won so you get a prize. Your prize is yay you won.  Yay.  Yay.  Bragging rights. Bragging rights. So you definitely - so great job. Thank you so much for being here. I really appreciate it.  Thank you. Thanks for having me. I appreciate you.  Thank you for having me. Lovely to see you again Terrika.  Likewise.  Thanks again to my guests Terrika Foster-Brasby of ESPN and Kavitha Davidson of The Athletic. Coming up I chat with Nida Manzoor creator of the TV show We Are Lady Parts about an all-Muslim punk band. Let me tell you it is so funny. A few weeks ago I started watching a show that is not my usual cup of tea. It is about a punk band.    It is an honor killing. It is an honor killing it is an honor killing.  This show is called We Are Lady Parts. It is about an all-women Muslim band. It is not as hardcore as it seems on the outside. It spoke to me because it really shows the sisterhood of these five women who are dynamic and strong and funny as heck.    This is us by us for us.  The show also explores their relationships to faith and community and identity in a way I have not seen before on TV.  There are so many different ways of being a Muslim woman.  That is Nida Manzoor the creator of the show. She said it was important that all the characters were complex and sometimes in conflict.  You can disagree with other women but you know it does not mean that you know any of these characters is having a crisis of faith. And that was just something - I wanted to show that complexity that difference which I sometimes find is often lost in our mainstream media in the kinds of TV and film I was seeing. I wanted to see difference and I wanted to see these women fight about it. And that was just really exciting to me. So it was definitely an important aspect of the show.  And so a part of that expression from the women was what they wear. One of the characters Momtaz actually wears a niqab. Niqabs are actually banned in some parts of Europe. How much did that play into your thinking when you were developing this character?  Yeah. I have a brilliant costume designer PC Williams and we styled each of the characters thinking about who they are where they come from how they wear or not wear their headscarf hijab niqab. And you know with Momtaz what was so exciting for me was that like you know we came up with different kind of very personalized niqabs with - we have a navy blue one that is pleated and one that is kind of shimmery. And again it is sort of - we wanted to show that she is got a sense of like punk and an edginess. Again I wanted to push back against this idea - as you said in some countries it is banned - that like if you cannot see a woman's full face that you cannot possibly have - get a sense of who she is. We do not really ever see her but we definitely get to know her through her actions through her eyes. And actually you can get to know someone without always needing to see every inch of them you know?  Yeah. No absolutely. And we absolutely get to know her. Like and that is one of the parts of the writing that really stuck out to me because you never see that on TV. I want to talk to you about the decision to like have you know Muslims in a punk band. There is sort of like a tension there because there are parts of the Muslim community that consider that to be sinful. I can relate to that. You know I grew up in a very conservative Black Pentecostal household where any worldly music was considered sin and so was like women wearing pants. That was also a sin. So there is this tension between secular culture and being true to your faith. Is that what you wanted to explore here?  Yeah. It is interesting that you say that it is a tension. But also - I do not know your experience but it is also you know being a British Muslim or from you know a Pakistani background or any kind of background you have so many shades and aspects to your identity. You know what I was really keen to show is that you can be into punk music and you can still be a Muslim because you know that is very much been my experience is that you have these...  Yeah.  ...Different elements to who you are. And although oftentimes we are told that they are in contradiction us when we experience them when we live them they are not in contradiction. They can exist side by side without being at loggerheads. And that was something I was really - you know really made me at my heart feel open when I was kind of writing it was that they were not in conflict. They were not angsting always about it. It was actually you know the punk music was allowing them to express their frustration with the world and come together as his creative unit.  That you can have both yeah. And I loved - even though it was considered sinful I loved you know love music and I even loved Tupac. That was - you know? And I loved the Lord. It was - it all worked together.   Yeah.  Speaking of music you wrote music for this show with your siblings.  Yes.  Do you have a favorite song from the show?  Oh. I really love Voldemort Under My Headscarf.  Oh yes.   I think I just - yeah. Oh my God. I really love how the actors perform that.    What could I be hiding? What could I be hiding? Voldemort's alive and - Voldemort's alive and - Voldemort's alive and he is under my headscarf.  Yeah I think I just really loved what they did with it.  And so you kind of touched on this a little bit or this idea that some people you know when they look at faith there are different ways to look at it. And there was some backlash around - when the pilot came out for the show about what it means to be a good or bad Muslim. And some Muslims felt like it was making fun of Muslims. Did that backlash help shape the direction of the show and what you wanted to say through the show?  Yeah. You know I was getting you know messages from Muslims who loved it and Muslims who were like this does not represent me. And it was just - in a way I found it really liberating 'ecause I realized you know that I could not write for everyone and I could only write from my point of view. And that in a weird way just really freed me to really kind of connect with the story I wanted to tell. And part of the story's about this need sometimes to kind of not be too loud. And you know what I really wanted to show with these group of women is that they are you know unapologetic in their voice and they are kind of committed to what they have to say. And I also wanted to show with Amina's character in particular that kind of struggle with wanting to be accepted wanting to be liked and really kind of go into that because I think especially as a woman it is what kind of hangs over - I mean suddenly I felt it hangs over our head sometimes - is like being kind of modest and appropriate - you know this idea of - like and who gets to dictate what appropriateness is. Can it not be one thing for one person and something else for someone else? And that was really just something I find personally very interesting and I wanted to explore.  Thank you for taking time out. And like I meant it when I said I loved the show. I loved all of the characters.  Aw. Thank you so much. That means a lot to me. I really appreciate it. Thank you.  Thanks again to Nida Manzoor creator of We Are Lady Parts. The whole season is out now on Peacock.   Now it is time to end the show the way we always do.  It is time to end the show now - we always do.  Every week listeners share the best thing that is happened to them.  Every  that everything happens to them.  We encourage them to brag and they do.  We encourage them to brag and they do.  Let us share a few of those things.  Let us share a few of those things. My name is Anna Lee .  That is not true .  Hi Sam. This is Deirdre  from Denver. And the best thing to happen to me this week - in fact this year - is happening right now. My parents who live in New Jersey are about to meet their 15-month-old granddaughter for the very first time. It is been wonderful and really hard to hear all the reunions on your show this past year but I knew we would get ours and it is finally here. So they are getting ready to walk in.  This is Sneha . I am based in Boston. And the best thing about my week has been that I took a whole week off from work and I got to spend a lot of time with some family here including kids between the ages 8 to 16. We did a bunch of different activities over the week watching some classic movies including Holes and the movie Legally Blonde with my 16-year-old cousin who had never seen it before.  The best thing that happened to me this week is watching as my daughter gave her presentation to her doctoral committee virtually. She began with the memory of listening to NPR in the car with me. That was a proud mama moment.  The best part of my week was returning to aerial class after a year and a half. I have not taken a circus arts class since the pandemic began and I actually was able to still do a few moves.  Hi Sam. This is Mary Ann  in Carefree Ariz. The best part of my week was finding out from both my PET scan and brain MRI that I have no evidence of metastatic disease after getting a diagnosis of stage 4 metastatic melanoma two years ago. Love your show.  Thanks for everything that you do. I really really love the show.  Have a great week.  Thank you.  Thanks to all the listeners you heard there - Deirdre Sneha Beverly  Monica  and Marianna . It was so good hearing all of your best things. Listeners you can send your best thing to us at any time during the week. Just record yourself and send a voice memo to samsandersnpr.org. Also we are working on a story about quitting. So many people in the last year are quitting their jobs or thinking of quitting. You may be thinking of quitting. You are fed up. You are done. You are putting in your two weeks' notice. We want to hear from you. Why did you quit? What if anything did the pandemic have to do with it? And what do you want others to know who also might be thinking about quitting? Record yourself maybe one to two minutes and send a voice memo to samsandersnpr.org.   This week the show was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Liam McBain. Our intern is Manuela Lopez Restrepo. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss the senior vice president of programming at NPR is Anya Grundmann. All right till next time I am Ayesha Rascoe in for Sam Sanders. Talk soon.   All right I am recording now. So the last time we did this it was a little rough. You going to do a better job this time?  OK.  OK.  Sorry.  Hi. This is Reggie .  And then Gabrielle you go.  Hi. My name is Sally  and my mom...   The mic's out. OK. Now...  Can I say my name again?  No your name is not Sally. Your name is Gabrielle.  My name is Anna Lee.  That is not true .  