 Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend. Happy holiday weekend. Hope you had a great Fourth of July. Here on the show we did. We enjoyed the holiday with our friends and family and animals. In fact as you listen to this as you hear my voice right now we are still at the show enjoying our holiday weekend - which is why instead of our usual Weekly Wrap we are going to bring you a very special edition of the show with a few of my favorite music interviews - interviews full of music that is perfect for a summertime barbecue or a poolside hang or whatever.    I watch life inside of you grow...  First up Nick Hakim. This is his song called Green Twins. It is the title track of an album that I love by him. Our colleague here at NPR Lars Gotrich he says Nick Hakim and his music is quote soul music for outer space.    They will always haunt my dreams the green twins with your eyes.  Nick Hakim has a great Tiny Desk Concert up at nprmusic.org right now. Go check it out after you hear this. But first hear this - my chat with Nick Hakim.    We could have moved to LA. It is always sunny bright out there.   I got to show you something.  Yeah.  Because I want to make sure that you believe me when I say this. I stream most of my music now and I mostly stream through Spotify. But I also have Tidal and Apple and whatever. You sir were my No. 1 streamed song...  What?  ...Of 2017.   Nice. Wow.  Yeah.  I love that they do this.  I know. Is not it cool?  It is pretty cool.  Yeah.  Wow...  Yeah.  ...Man. Thank you.  I am serious. So I - so my favorite song from the album my favorite song of the year is Roller Skates.   Wow cool.  I remember specifically when I first heard it. I was in LA. And I was driving to pick up a friend from the airport and I had KSRW on. And they started playing your song but they had not announced that it was your song yet. I did not know who you were. But like the drums come in like boom boom-chik boom boom-chik . I go OK. Whatever. This is going to be some little indie pop something. Then the guitars come in like chik-chik . And I was like oh this is going to be some little - you know little old scrawny white boy music.  .  And then the vocals come in. And I am like...    I heard about it every day now.  He can sing.  .  This is soul music.    Will you forgive me although I have forsaken all of you...  And then before you know it the song has swelled and this beautiful layering of vocals. And...   ...The song like washes over you.    Here's to you dear. Let us do what you want to.  And you do this thing with a few of your songs where before you know it there is been this slow and steady burn. And then by the end of the song it is on fire.  Yeah.  It must be purposeful.  So - yeah. A lot of that had to do with not really having like a premeditated way of how to end the song really.  .  It is just like I would just let it go...  Yeah.  ...And then I would - but that would leave a lot of space for crazy vocal expression. And on Roller Skates specifically I did the first verse and the first chorus - the vocals were all recorded on my laptop microphone.  Like singing into your laptop.  Yeah.  .  Yeah like no microphone. Yeah.  Wow.    Put my mind downstairs. Let us go for a ride. But yeah the endings of the songs - when you said that they feel like they are like on fire - those were like grand crazy beautiful...  Yeah.  ...Moments of...  Of catharsis almost.  Yeah exactly.  You are letting something out.  Exactly.   What are you letting out?  Just everything.  .  Just - and it is like - it is honestly just like I like experimenting with my voice and I like...  Yeah.  ...Learning how to use it in different ways. And I think the endings of some of these songs are like a real test to myself of like what I am capable of.    Swallow me...  Another song on the album where you get that crescendo at the end...    Swallow me...  ...I would say Needy Bees like just has that moment at the end where everything is like kind of crashing into each other.    Tell me about it. It is like that like crazy - that weird like string line the  duh-nee ...   That is a lovely counterpoint.  Thanks.  Well and then you have that going. You have got the vocals going. And there is like...  Yeah.  ...Some weird like  wow-wow-wow ...  Yeah that is...  ...Sound in the back. What was that?  ...That is just - that was my vocal going yeah yeah but then I just pitched it up.  Really?   That is your voice?  Yeah but it is just pitched up.  And also this song ended up in an episode of Insecure.  Yeah yeah. That was...  Did you know that was going to happen?  Yeah I did. I did. I just...  OK. How did it happen?  I am not entirely sure how they heard it but...  From what I understand Raphael Saadiq and Solange do the music for Insecure.  Right. I think that Issa Rae might have had something to do with it to be honest.  Well she said that she plays your music every day.  I mean I am a big fan of Issa Rae. And I - like Awkward Black Girl  I remember when that came out.  Oh it was so good.  It was so good  yeah.  Yeah.  I was like in college and I...  Yeah.  ...She is funny I would be like .  She is funny. She is got it yeah.  She is - and smart and...  Yeah.  ...Amazing and beautiful and just like a really great person.  Yeah.  It seems like she has like a really great vision for what she is doing.  Yeah.    Tell me about it.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. We are here this weekend with a very special edition of the show featuring a few of my favorite music interviews. You are listening to my chat with singer and songwriter Nick Hakim. He is talking about his album Green Twins.    Tell me about it.   Let us talk a little bit about your story. I want you to walk me through this moment that I read about where kind of everything changed for you. You are 17. Was it a friend or a girlfriend - she invites you to go to church with her? And you hear the music there and then you are like I want to do the piano. This is what I - this is what I have read.  So I had a really good friend. And she went to this - she used to sing in this gospel choir...  OK.  ...For a church. It was a choir that was like open to a lot of different...  OK.  ...Communities and kind of had all these different kids from different like backgrounds and stuff.  What kind of music were they singing?  Gospel.  So like black gospel?  Yeah yeah.  OK OK. And so you heard that and did that change things for you?  Well that taught me a lot because I was just curious. And I ended up working for the musical director this guy Rickey Payton Jr.  OK.  But then I do not know. I started - I mean I have always been into RB and kind of always was slowly unraveling where that - the DNA of that was...  Yeah.  ...Where that was from which is black like the church.  Yeah.  And I think that once I was exposed and started singing you know like the black national anthem and like...  .  If you like - if you met me then I was probably the most...  Then being like when you are 17 or what?  Yes.  OK.  When I was just starting to learn how to sing and perform...  Yeah yeah.  ...And to play piano and instruments and - like I was the most shy. Like it was very difficult for me to...  Really?  ...Project my voice. So I had a very like - I sang from like my throat. And like I could never do...  Do the old voice. Can you still do the way you used to?  I cannot.  Really?  I really cannot. I actually tried.  Really?  I listened to myself. It is very unbearable for me to sing the way - and I would move my head. I could not like stay still. Like I could not be - like it was a really like...  Yeah.  But I just knew that that was something that I wanted to do. So I just kept going and...  And I think like on the album so much of your vocals are layered. You are in harmony with yourself.  Yeah.  And at the Tiny Desk it was stripped down you know?  Yeah. I mean the - on the album the vocals are completely stacked.  How many stacks do you do? Because I hear - it sounds so deep.  Depends. I try not to overdo it.  OK.  But there was one song that had like 40 vocal tracks.  Stop it.  Which song?  The Want.    I want you. I want you to want me.  Yeah?  Yeah that song had like - but it was also like the arrangement was just crazy. And I would just stack the same thing like over and over again. That is the thing about recording on a computer sometimes.  Yeah.  Like you can kind of endlessly record stack yourself or just keep recording things. So...  What point on The Want would we be - most be able to hear the 40 voices stacked?  Probably towards the end though. Like all the background vocals like there is - they are just like really swelled.  Yeah yeah yeah.   Like I would just record myself in like whatever room I was in and just kind of crank up the microphone and just kind of step away. And...   ...I would repeat and stack the same thing over and over again.   It is like one of the most liberating and fun things for me is to...  Liberating and fun? Because I am sitting here thinking about hearing 40 versions of my voice and then like get it away from me.  Yeah.   It is liberating. It really is.  Totally.   I want to talk a little bit about the lyrics of your songs. You do not use a lot of words in these songs. But when you do I find them to be really really powerful like a song like Bet She Looks Like You.    If there is a god...  If there is a god I wonder what she looks like.    ...I wonder what she looks like. I bet she looks like you.  I bet she looks like you.    I bet she looks like you.  Who were you singing that to?  I think that it is one of those kind of things that I was thinking about my partner...  Yeah.  ...The fact that she has the ability to create life. I do not know just kind of glorifying like our women.  Yeah.  I think especially - like my lady she is black. And she goes through a lot of things that I will never understand.    If you ever stopped nurturing me. I do not know I think she is a goddess.  Yeah.    With your breath - oh when you breathe. But you know I mean this is all just a beautiful way of kind of sharing and just kind of - it is truly an extension of myself. So it is really interesting to have other people kind of listen to it. And I just - hopefully not going to be making the same sounding record for the next projects that I do.  Although if you did I would still enjoy it .  Yeah. And so - I do not know. I mean I am trying to explore and learn and grow. And I am also just trying to have fun.  Are you having fun?   Yeah.  I am glad you put this out in the world man.  Yeah thanks.  I really appreciate it.  Thank you for talking to me.   Nick Hakim his album is called Green Twins. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. This is a very special Fourth of July weekend edition of the show in which we are bringing you music for your summer. Stay tuned for more after the break. I am Sam Sanders. We will be right back.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. You all happy Fourth of July weekend. Here at the show we are taking a break from the news to celebrate America. So we are not going to have our usual weekly wrap this weekend. We are going to actually bring you some interviews that are full of summer music. That brings us to Emily King. She and I go way back.   I saw you at Hotel Cafe years ago.  Come on.  Yes I did. I had just moved to LA. It was maybe like 2012 2013.  Oh my God.  And that is a great venue. It is so intimate.  That is a great venue.  It is so intimate.  I do recall that being one of my worst shows ever.  No it was not.    Come back Georgia. Come back. Come back Georgia. Come back.  It was actually a great show. Emily was touring her Seven EP which is just full of these lush intricate delicate songs like this one. It is called Georgia.    Come back Georgia. Come back. Come back Georgia. Come back.  Flash forward to now. Emily has released three studio albums. She has toured with John Legend and Maroon 5. And we sat down to talk about her latest record. It is called Scenery. All right. Here I am with Emily King in Culver City Calif.    Come back Georgia. Come back.  What I really love about this new album is that you went somewhere new to record it.  Oh yeah.  Yeah.  Thanks.  You went like out in the mountains out in the woods huh?  I did. I did.  Where did you go?  I went upstate two hours north...  Of New York City.  ...Of New York City. And - which was really scary for me because you know I - well I was scared to move away because I did not know how to drive for the one thing.  Like a true New Yorker.  Yes.  Yeah.  And I am like I am going to go here. I am going to move first.  So you moved to like the Catskills area?  Yes.  OK OK.  And...  It is beautiful out there.  ...It is so beautiful. And I was prior to that like visiting Airbnbs and getting to know the neighborhood a little bit. And I spent a month at an Airbnb last summer - two summers ago. And I just fell in love with the little neighborhood. I thought there is a lot of musicians that I know. There is a great community of artists. I think you know the Woodstock area even before the festival and it became this kind of...  Yeah.  ...Thing there was artists there in the '30s. And...  Oh yeah.  ...So it is always been a community. And I needed some - I needed nature.  I hear you.  So I had to just go. And I have - I ended up finding a little place. And then my mom and grandma came up with me and helped me buy a car.  I heard your grandma like really helped because she is a used car salesman...  Yeah well...  ...Or was.  ...That was one of her many...  OK.  ...You know hustles.  Yeah. So what did you get?  I got a Nissan Sentra .  OK - solid solid solid. I love talking about you driving because there are a few songs on the album that totally feel like driving songs.  Oh cool.  I am talking about like Remind Me.  Yeah.  I am going to play a little bit of it now.    Been without it for so long forgotten what it feels like.  It is like a song to hit the highway on.  Ah.    And in the darkness till you came along. So glad you think so.  It is just the right BPM you know?  Yes yes.  Where you are like...  Yes.  ...65...  .  ...No traffic.  Totally.    Oh like what I have been missing oh something like what I have been missing oh...  Break down how your process of making songs for this album was different based on the different environment. So you are out in the woods...  Yeah.  ...You are driving for the first time ever. I assume it like changes the way you are feeling the music.  It absolutely did. I mean I could not believe that there was all of this space and nobody else was in it but me.  .  You know...  It is a wonderful feeling.  ...Being from the city I am like how is this even possible right now?  Because you were born and raised in the city right?  I was raised in the city.  Yeah.  And when I got upstate I just like laid in my driveway like...  .  ...I can just - I am here.  Yeah. Yeah.  And you know - I mean...  Yeah - and no one else is here.  ...As not nobody up in here.  .    Oh now I cannot shake the memory. I cannot fake it fake it fake it fake it ooh. You remind me of something... And I wanted to write a song when I felt that way because of course the honeymoon wears off eventually.  Oh yeah.  But - so I just sat there. I just like stared out the window and I just like sang these words into a voice memo. And...  Really?  Yeah.    You remind me of something. You remind me of something - something that I used to feel myself something that I used to feel - like a heartbeat racing. And then eventually I kind of pieced together the hook and I think I cried a little bit.  .  When I say ...    Something that I used to feel something that I used to feel something like what I have been missing oh...  That is when you know.  That is when you know.  Yeah.  I was like - oh my God - this is actually expressing how I feel...    What I have been missing oh... ...Which does not always happen with songwriting...  Oh yeah.  ...Because sometimes you get too heady. And you are like this is the verse and this is the chorus. But this felt like a direct connection. So I thought OK. I am going to stay here for a while.  Yeah.   And you guys - it seems like you all - like when I listen to the music - and this is for Seven. This is for The Switch - I can tell that you and J. Most as folks call him...  Yeah.  ...Are like just in the pocket because there would be these moments where you would just let the groove play.  Yeah  OK. The last half of Teach You...  Yeah.  ...I like that groove you are in.  Yeah.  I kind of want to hit it.   It is like you as an artist and as a singer allow as much stage time and presence to like the groove itself. Does that make sense?  Thank you for saying that. I love the groove.  Right? And...  I love the groove...  Yes.  ...The pocket.  You get in the pocket and you stay there.  Yeah. Yeah.  And it is almost like - you know how in church the song will be so good...  Yes.  And the vocalist has done the two verses and the vamp and the bridge and everything. But the song is over and the band's like no we are still going to play.  That is exactly it yeah.  And it is like you do not leave the song until the spirit is gone. You know what I am saying?  Yeah. And I think honestly if I had a different producer it might not be that way.  Really?  But J. Most has like the best pocket I have ever seen...  It is so good.  ...Anybody have. So it is kind of one of the best things about working with him.  Is he playing the bass?  He plays everything.  I - because I will hear that bass...  Yes.  And it is just driving.  He is on that bass.  Yes.    Do I have to teach you?  Because you - you hear the Top 40 stuff. Everyone is just belting and singing at you for 3 12 minutes. And you are like - even if they are good you are like OK. I get it.  Look if I could belt I would OK?  .  I would be on that radio doing that.   You probably could.  But I am just like let me just play to my strengths. And I know what my weaknesses are.    Do I have to explain how to care for somebody you love? Call 'em up on the phone when they are feeling blue.  What are your weaknesses?  Yeah. I cannot like belt like Whitney Houston. I am more of a softer singer. I think the best place for me is to kind of be - have power but to be controlled and rhythmic.    Do I have to teach you how to show me when times are bad how to ask about the day I had and make it all right... And Jer too I mean he is - J. Most.  Yeah.  He told me that he started singing softly because in his apartment the neighbors would complain...  Stop it.  ...About like any type of noise at all.  Really?  And so when I met him he had this music out. And he - I am like you sing like I do.   Whisper singing.  This is so crazy.  .  Awesome yeah.  Match made in heaven.  There it is.    ...The way. Do I have to explain how to care for somebody you love?  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders here with a special edition of the show featuring a few of our favorite music interviews. You are hearing right now my conversation with Emily King. We are discussing her latest album Scenery. She worked on the album with her longtime producer Jeremy Most. As someone who works closely with a producer it is a certain - there is a certain parenting of the thing that you are making.  Yeah.  And you are both these parents...  Yes...  ...Making...  ...Absolutely.  ...A song or a podcast or a show or whatever. And like if one over-parents the other cannot parent.   Yeah.  And you have go to make sure that like...  Oh that is a good point.  You know like how do you navigate that - what seems like - what can be a parental relationship I think?  I think it is challenging at times. And we both have very strong ideas about what we think is good. And so there are moments where he puts his foot down and then I am like yeah you were right.  What is those - like what do those fights look like and sound like? Are they fights?  Yes.   OK.  It is like - it - yeah it really - it hurts. It is like - not physically obviously.  Yeah yeah.  But it is just like - it is frustrating because you think you have hit a wall. And your fear is that you are not going to overcome this wall to get your ideas out which is all we ever...  That is all we...  ...Want to do.  ...Want to do. Yeah.  And so - you know there is been moments where like I am not going to put this out unless this is this...  Oh...  ...And...  ...Damn.  ...You know. And - but the general census is we both want this to be good.  Which song on this album had the biggest wall to climb over as far as like the production battle with you and J. Most?  Look At Me Now was challenging in a different way.  OK.  That song was really a collaboration.    Are you hearing about me? How you dealing without me? Hello. Did you keep all the records? Do they sound good without me? Mellow. Heard you got a new lady.  This is such a specific breakup song .  Yes.  I am like you were talking...  .  ...To somebody.   Right? Totally.    Did you keep the apartment? Does she like what we started? So that - I had that intro for a couple of years. And I did not...  Oh wow.  ...Know what to put on the back end of it. And then I remember I woke up at the house and I had a dream. And a dream was the rest of the song.    Did you hear about me? I got off the ground. I stood up when you left me. Baby look at me now. It was this chanting melody.    Look at me now. And then that night I believe I played it for Jeremy. And he was just like  look at me now.  Yeah.  .    Look at me now. Whoa ooh ooh look at me. I was like...  Of course.  ...OK let me find out...  .  Let me just - like that is perfect.  Yes. Yeah.  How fun. And so we got that part together. Then there was an instrumental part. And then after the instrumental the original track modulated which was awesome except I could not sing it.  Really? Well how big was the modulation?  It was only like one step up.   That is all right. That is all right.   And I was like so challenged by this.  .  And I - you know he was confused. I said look this is what I have to work with.  Yeah.  Like you need to...  Yeah.  ...Just trust me that I - this is really hard for me to sing this.  Yeah.  And we had a meeting with a label shortly after that. We had to play them our new songs. And of course we did not have anything.  .  And so just the night before we had finally figured out - maybe we do not modulate.  Just stay in there.  Just stay there. It is a - that like it is OK you know?  Yeah.  It all just came together in the nick of time.    Did you hear about me? You pushed me around. But now I am pushing paper. Baby look at me now. Look at me now.  And I love how - you know all the things that I mentioned before like feeling you guys totally be in a groove. But at the same time over the last - what? - this is you all's third record together?  Yeah.  Yeah. Over those I have seen you all move into different spaces. And I like that like I am still getting the core off who you all all but there is a little different. Like with this album - and what I want to ask you about specifically is there is more synths on this one than I felt like in the last one or two...  Oh.  ...Which is interesting because you are in the woods. And when you think of the woods...  Oh wow.  ...And nature...  How cool.  ...You do not make as much like synthesizer. But like there is synths in here and I love it.  Yeah.  Like there is one - the last portion of Marigolds...  Yeah. Oh that is my favorite.  ...The synths are driving. SOUNDBITE OF EMILY KING'S MARIGOLDS  That is nice.  I like it.   Thank you.  Was there a - I guess an intention of having more synthesizer sounds on this one?  I think I really got heavy into Tina Turner like Simply The Best...  Which - oh my goodness.  ...That era.  Yeah yeah yeah.  And I just thought - she managed to make these pop records but they are RB records too. And they are timeless. So I wanted to emulate that. And I also wanted to sound more electronic.  Really?  Yeah and just have more kind of instruments that I think are cool.  Yeah.  .    Memories I will always hold like a dream marigolds.  And like I hate to put music into a decade because...  Yeah.  ...There is always all music all the time. But like I felt a wonderful penumbra of '80s in there.  Oh yeah.  You know what I am saying?  Yeah.  And I was into it.  Thank you.  Yeah.  I think it just came out that way. And I do not know maybe - you know I am born in 1985 but I always considered myself a '90s music...  Yeah.  ...Person because...  Yeah.  ...That is - that was really when I started...  Yeah.  ...Soaking in music. But now as an adult I appreciate the '80s more.  Yeah.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders talking with singer and songwriter Emily King. We are discussing her newest album. It is called Scenery.   I want to ask a little bit about growing up as the child of two musicians. It sounds just like a dream.   It does?  It sounds like a dream.  .  So both of...  Oh man.  ...Your parents - tell us who they are. They both...  Yeah.  ...Were making jazz.  Yeah. Yes. They were a duo at the time called Kim and Marion.  Love it.  And my dad is from the Bronx. And he grew up you know with bebop. And he became a fan of Lambert Hendricks  Ross when he was like 12 years old.  OK.  And he started following them around.  Oh my goodness.  And he actually replaced Dave Lambert on some gigs...  Oh wow.  ...When he was a teenager.  Yeah yeah yeah.  So when he met my mom who was like a singer doing her own thing they decided to kind of take on that style of Lambert Hendricks  Ross.  OK.  And their voices were incredible together.    Ba diddlie do da ba dwee da Ba diddlie do da ba dwee da ba diddlie do da ba dwee de dedala de dedala dwe da .  But then of course they broke up.  OK.  And they stopped singing together which was like - can you all at least still do gigs?   Something.  OK?  Yeah.  I am trying to get a free cheeseburger.  .  Like let us go.   But they stopped singing together. It was really hard for my brother and I.  How old were you all when that happened?  Like 10 and 11.  OK.  And so - but then my mom like completely discovered herself as a songwriter and now makes like the most beautiful choral music. And...  Yeah.  ...She is just writing strings - string arrangements now. And my dad is like straight-ahead...  Yeah.  ...Jazz. And he teaches at Smalls every Sunday. He teaches...  Oh nice.  He calls it the saloon - what does he call it? It is for saloon singers he says. Like...   ...He teaches you how to conduct a band on a gig and...  Oh I love it.  ...You know get over your stage fright and stuff. So they are strong on their own. And...  Yeah.  ...I cannot imagine them together of course...  Yeah.  ...At this point.   When you - growing up in that were you just around music and musicians and the art like all the time?  Yeah. We were around - they had some heavy hitters with them like you know some really great musicians - Kenny Barron and Al Foster and...  Yeah.  So I did not know the caliber of musicianship that I was being exposed to...  Yeah yeah yeah.  ...Just by default.  Yeah.  So I definitely had a lucky childhood in that sense to just be around that and emulate their tone and hold out these long notes and hear the great songwriting of the American Songbook and all...  Yeah yeah yeah.  ...Of this stuff.  Were they taking you all to gigs and stuff as kids?  Yes. We...  Oh my God...  Yeah yeah...  ...I love it.  ...We would go to their gigs. And you know I was always like when is this over? This is boring.  I could easily imagine someone growing up like that saying I want a career that is not at all music because I have had enough of it.  Yeah. Yeah for sure.  Did you ever say I am going somewhere totally different than this always? Or were you always...  They were time...  Yes?  ...As a young child when I just fantasized about being a veterinarian...  Oh.  ...You know? Or I wanted to be a basketball player.  OK.  But I think my - instinctually I knew I did not have those skills. And I just always felt like yeah I can do music.  Yeah.  You know just having - just being around mom and dad and my brother.  Yeah.  But I do not think I was a very good child singer.  It is - really?  No I feel like I forced it.   I was like I am going to do this.  This is happening.  This is happening.  Yeah. When did you feel like you got it?  Tomorrow.   Actually next year.  Yeah yeah.    Maybe I will win. Maybe I will never play. Maybe I will lose. Maybe I will lead the game.  What song do you think from the new album will most affect your listeners?  Oh I really hope they like Go Back. This song - it is the last song on the record.  Yeah.    Had some tough breaks in this town heaven knows. Jesse Singer and I were in the studio one day.    Seen some heartaches weighed me down like a stone. He was playing those chords and then I came up with the lyric.    Well I licked my wounds. I got nothing to lose. I am headed out on my own. I will never go back. I will never go back.  Why do you think this one is going to hit the listeners?  I would hope that people would relate to that sentiment of - it can be triumphant where you are saying I am never going to go back to that.    Will I make it? Will I taste victory? Could be a place or a person or like an insecurity that you had - for me it is like I am never going to go back to feeling less-than. You know? But also at the same time it is kind of about moving away from home. And you are kind of lamenting on damn I cannot really ever go back.  Cannot go back yeah.  Or I cannot go back to being a child.  Yeah.  Or I cannot go back to the innocence or the not knowing or - so I guess there is different ways to take that song but it just feels - it feels like it could be an emotional song.  Yeah.  It is for me.    Ooh I cannot expect to find a feeling like that again. No I will not pretend.  I could see Tina singing this song.   Thanks.    Ooh I know there is something waiting down this road ahead. I will find it in the end - find it in the end.  This was the best.  Thank you Sam.  Thank you.    Go back.  Emily King - we were talking about her newest album. It is called Scenery.    Go back.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders here today with a special edition of the show featuring a few of our favorite music interviews. More music more conversation after this short break.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. Here on this Fourth of July weekend we are taking a break from the news to bring you a few of our favorite music interviews that also happened to be full of great music for your summer barbecue or your summer pool party or a summer drive or a summer stay-in-the-house-with-the-AC-on-all-the-way.   This song is called Come Together. It is the first track off of an album called Hive Mind from the band The Internet. I talked to their vocalist Syd - S-Y-D. Syd is a singer songwriter producer DJ. She has toured with the Gorillaz and Eminem. She appeared in a Drake music video. She is also a former member of the hip-hop collective Odd Future. Syd and I spoke recently in Los Angeles. Here's our chat. Enjoy.   You seem very much like a West LA person.  I am from Midtown.  Where about?  Like Crenshaw and Venice.  OK OK.  Yeah.  I was saying that because so much of the new album gives me this like kind of close-to-the-beach vibe.    And I want those eyes.  I get that. It is a vibe-y flowery kind of breezy...  It is in no hurry.  Yeah.  It is in no rush.  Yeah. That is LA for sure.  Right? I like that.  Yeah I was talking to somebody about it last night. They were saying they love New York 'ecause basically there is always something to do. And I was like yeah I get that.  .  She said like in LA I just feel like I could just sleep all day.  Yeah.    Today or tomorrow what we have come to...  Like this song is not in a hurry.   It is not.  It is just like vibing. Like what is the vibe? Describe that vibe.  Well it just - it gave me a reflective vibe.  I could see that.  You know what I am saying?  Reflecting on what?  Reflecting on just where we are as a human race.    They are going to get us to come together.  Do you think that is a good state right now?  I think it is been worse and I think it is been better .  Yeah?  I just try to look at the bright side and what we can be grateful for.  Yeah.  Of course there is always something for us to work on as human beings.  