 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest actor Christopher Eccleston costars in a new British TV series that is coming to the Sundance channel Wednesday. It is called The A Word. The title refers to a word no one in the family wants to say  autistic. This series is about a couple who finds out in the first episode that their 5yearold son is on the autism spectrum. He has a hard time processing what people say to him. He does not connect emotionally but he is obsessed with listening to music on his headphones and often sings along. The diagnosis disrupts the plans and assumptions that have been made by the parents their teenage daughter and their extended family. Christopher Eccleston plays the young boy's grandfather. Eccleston also costars in the HBO series The Leftovers as the Reverend Matt Jamison. He was also in the films Let Him Have It Shallow Grave and Gone In 60 Seconds and the British TV series Cracker. He played Doctor Who for one season. Let us start with a scene from The A Word. It is set in a small town in Northern England. Eccleston's character the grandfather lost his wife a year ago and is in the process of retiring. He started taking singing lessons. Here he is with his teacher taking a lesson at her house.    A movie queen to play the scene of bringing all the good things out of me. But for now love let us be real. I never thought I could feel this way and I have got to say that I  bloody hell. I am shouting again are not I?   Yes you lost the breathing. When you are letting out the final breath of a note think what it is like to hold in a thought and then finally  relax and let it go.   I have never held a thought in in my life.   Well maybe you should start. Otherwise good Maurice not bad at all.   Do not patronize me Louise. I have not been practicing. There is been stuff at home.   Oh sorry to hear that. Have you got a moment? I have a proposal to put to you.   Not really no.   It will not take long. Sit down and make some tea.   Before you ask I do not want to take up the ukulele.   This is what I am thinking  that you are alone and I am alone and neither of us are particularly short of commitments or company  you with your family and your business and me with the teaching and the choir and Ralph but...   Louise come on.   Here's the but. I am just going to say it. I miss sex. Do you?   I am sorry?   I miss sex.   I am sorry to hear that. Have you thought about the internet?   Oh it is nasty out there Maurice. So I was thinking that you and I should perhaps start a sexual relationship. It strikes me as a practical solution with neither of us are teenagers and we know our needs and we seem to like each  and I can see the thought horrifies you so I will say no more about it.   Well it is not that.   Perhaps you do not miss the sex.   It is not that either. I do not find you  I do not think of you in that way.   Oh.   I am kind of wishing this conversation had been about a ukulele.  Christopher Eccleston welcome to FRESH AIR.   So at the beginning of that scene is that you doing your best at singing or are you singing in character?  That is an interesting question. I had listened to it and I thought I can sing better than that. No I do not know maybe I was doing my best.   And did you...  I thought I sounded a lot better on the day.   Did you...  I love that song Gordon Lightfoot. I love  that scene was really the scene that made me desperate to play the part more than any other. I just loved him that man singing that song.  That song is If You Could Read My Mind. What is it about...  Yeah.  ...That song that you think is so right for that character?  Well it is so wrong for that character actually I think...  .  ...If You Could Read My Mind because it is so romantic and expressed and heartfelt and he has problems with that kind of thing.  So I figure your character is taking singing lessons for a reason. And in my mind  I have not seen the whole...  Uhhuh.  ...First season yet  my mind is going to lead somewhere and maybe not just to an affair with a teacher  because his grandchild is on the autistic spectrum and is obsessed with music I am seeing a possible bond here  between the grandchild...  Well I...  ...And the singing teacher and...  I think that is true but I think it is unconscious. It was not plotted. I mean one of the key things about Maurice is that he is in the early stages of grief for his wife who he lost to cancer within the last two years. And he really is at sea without her. And I think he is very much a TypeA character but he is slowly giving up his business to his young...  His brewery.  ...Young son. Yeah the brewery. And so he is trying to find things to do  selfimprovement. And then he  accidentally stumbles on this music teacher who  myself and Pooky Quesnel who played the role decided that she had been a friend of Maurice's wife. That is how the connection was made. And incidentally myself and Pooky Quesnel were sweethearts when we were 17.  Oh no. .  And we have retained our friendship over a 35year period.  So you have already had a relationship. .  Yeah it was chaste. It was a chaste sweetheart relationship. But it is grown into this extraordinary friendship. And when we were given the opportunity to work together for the second time actually in our careers because we met before we were actors we snatched it. We really snatched it. I love her very much. And she is a  it is a fantastic performance I think.  As you have pointed out your character in The A Word is not very expressive.  That is right. .  And now he is learned that his grandson is on the autistic spectrum...  Yes.  ...Which he is kind of suspected. You know he suspected something was wrong. And he is trying so hard to relate to the grandson but he does not really know how. And they are not quite connecting. What is it like acting with a 5yearold or a 6yearold who is playing somebody with autism? And...  Yeah.  ...I may say is doing a great job at it.  Yeah. It is an extraordinary challenge for that boy and he is done a great job. It does take patience because his  obviously his concentration levels and spans are not that of an adult and an adulttrained actor. It is his first acting performance. And it is the great challenge for the production. You know there will be takes that he does where he is too engaged. You know he is to  for want of a better word  normal. So the directors invented certain phrases like go into your dream world etc. And it was a learning experience.  Yeah. And as a character you are trying to get the boy to engage and yet this young actor has to not engage with you. So it must be really tricky for you when you are trying so hard to engage him knowing that it is the young actor's job to just disconnect and...  Yeah to disconnect.  ...And be in another world...  That is right yeah.  ...Be in another wavelength.  Yeah I mean Maurice is making the classic mistake which I actually made...  Maurice is your character yeah.  Yes Maurice is making the classic mistake which I made with my father when he began to suffer from vascular dementia of trying to bring my father  and Maurice tries to bring the boy  into Maurice's world where in fact what you have to do is  you have to go into their world and play it by their rules. And that is the journey for the entire family dealing with the individual rather than dealing with the condition because there is a very specific individual in there. But you know what? Peter Bowker who wrote the series is so skillfully woven in is that you could probably locate Maurice somewhere on the spectrum. Maurice definitely has a inability to understand the emotional impact on people.  of some of the things that he says and does. I think what Peter has done is he suggested that the grandfather and the boy are linked and indeed throughout the whole series what the writer is highlighting is whether people are autistic or not communication is difficult for all of these people.  I think you put that all really well.  Thank you.  And the series we are talking about is The A Word and the A is for autistic. And it is a British series that is coming to the Sundance Channel on July 13. It is a sixpart series. My guest is Christopher Eccleston and he costars as the grandfather of a 5yearold boy who was diagnosed as being on the spectrum. We are going to take a short break and we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is Christopher Eccleston. And he costars in the new Sundance series The A Word in which he plays the grandfather of a 5yearold boy who was diagnosed on the autistic spectrum. In the HBO series The Leftovers he plays Reverend Matt Jamison. The Leftovers is a series that starts when there is some kind of event when about 2 percent of the world's population just vanishes and no one really knows whether this is  is this a religious event like the rapture or is this some kind of supernatural inexplicable event? And so you know people are just unhinged and like new religions are starting up because nobody believes in the old ones anymore. Other people are getting more committed to their older religions. You play a minister who believes that the great departure as it is known is not an act of God because bad people people who were you know  people who have done bad things vanish. So if it was the rapture only good people would have been lifted up to heaven. So you have been going around trying to like prove to people that people have disappeared. There are some bad people there. So...  And buried in that of course is his own ego that I mean  basically what he believes as if it would have been the rapture he would have been taken because he believes himself to be such a faithful servant of the Lord.  Right. And he is become  he is tried to become more deeply committed to his faith and to hold onto his church.  Yes.  But he is a little unhinged   a little unhinged too.  Yeah. He initially goes through a great spiritual crisis but then lights upon the idea that he is Job of the Bible and the chosen one in that the Lord has chosen him to punish him in order to test his faith. So his reaction eventually after a period of bitterness and anger and railing is to restate his faith and reentrench his faith. And yeah he identifies very strongly with the Job of the Bible who of course we know had great many wives great riches and was God's chosen one. And then Satan challenged the Lord and said I can make him turn against you. So that has been a guiding idea for us throughout the series.  Well there is a great Job scene and you walked us right into it. So let us hear that scene. So your character the Reverend Matt Jamison has gone to a town that has been spared from the great departure. Nobody in this town vanished and it is now considered a sacred holy safe space. And so he and his wife have managed to become residents there. And she is in a kind of vegetative state. Ever since the day of the departure she is been neither here nor there. She is been physically on Earth with her eyes open during the day but there is absolutely nothing that registers on her. So he has taken her in a car in a wheelchair to the doctor and had to leave this special town to do it. And on the way back he and his wife are mugged. Their wristband which is her ID to get back into town is stolen from them and so he is trying to get back into town with his wife who is in a wheelchair and he cannot do it. And the only way he can do it is through this smuggler who says for 500 I can smuggle you back into this town. He does not have the money. But your character sees a woman standing next to a Winnebago with a big cross on it. So he decides  being a reverend he decides to approach her and ask her for help. She is played by Brett Butler. Her name  the character's name is Sandy. Here's the scene and my guest who you will hear in the scene is Christopher Eccleston.    Sandy I am asking for your help. I am calling upon your sense of community and charity Mary and I need so that I can get...   How much?   Fivehundred dollars. I know that is an extraordinary amount of money but I give you my word as a Christian. I will pay you back.   What denomination?   Twenties   whatever you can...   No. You are a reverend. What denomination?   Episcopalian.   Why?   My father was a reverend. I was raised in the faith but I welcome all beliefs into my church.   Where did you go to seminary?   Berkeley Divinity.   Where is that?   Connecticut.   What is your favorite book of the Bible? You got a favorite book?   Job.   What is his wife's name?   She is in pain and she speaks only once. Does thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die.   Wait right here.   Good thing I did not say Lutheran.  That is my guest Christopher Eccleston in a scene from the...  She is just a sensational actress.  Yeah. And later in this episode to further punish yourself in a Joblike way you climb onto a rooftop...  .  ...And put yourself naked in a pillory.  On the top of a taco stand. Yeah.  Yeah just a kind of bizarre scene. But anyways I know that you are agnostic or atheist. I am not sure which way you identify.  You know I am no longer sure now. I would certainly made great play a number of years ago about my atheism. And things have changed in my life.  Oh.  And I know  I am no longer so certain. I  so I guess I would have to say agnostic now.  Really? Can you talk about what is changed?  Oh children. I had children. Two  I have two very beautiful and centerofmylife children Albert and Esme. I lost my father. I watched him suffer through his dementia. I had my own crisis earlier in the year. I do not  life has happened to me I would say life.  So...  And maybe some of the issues in The Leftovers my relationship with Damon Lindelof the showrunner  remember we had a  quite a discussion on faith. He claims that I said that because Matt Jamison in the novel on which the series is originally based only appears for two pages. So Damon was very surprised that I was pursuing that role. But I pointed out to him that you know it is a great dramatic character an Episcopalian reverend who possibly was not taken in the biblical rapture. It is just there. It is for the taking. But he claims that I said that man's reaction to that would be to become more religious. I do not remember saying that. But that is what Damon claims. But we had a discussion about faith. And Damon said look I  that is a very difficult question  to answer because I said  are you a believer?  you know. And I find myself there now really.  So is having witnessed your children's birth and early development and your father's death made you feel the need to believe in something or feel the presence of something in your life?  I just feel that when I was stomping around saying I was an atheist I was not thinking about it enough. I think I was  I mean there is certainly a huge part of me that feels intense anger against organized religion. I mean a real rage against some of the things organized religion has inflicted on us both on a global and also on personal scales when you talk about the abuses for instance within the Catholic Church et cetera. You know I have huge rage at organized religion. But I do feel at the moment a little more spiritually open to what may be religious beliefs. I mean if anything Buddhism is  which is a philosophy of course  the thing that makes the most sense to me I would say.  It is interesting that playing a part in The Leftovers is one of the contributing things that led you in that direction.  Yes. Matt's  the complexity of Matt Jamison's reactions to events in his life.  Did reading the Book of Job also make you think about religion?  Well I had an extraordinary experience with the Book of Job. I was invited to Westminster Cathedral to celebrate the anniversary of the publication of the King James Bible. And I was positioned in a very sacred area of Westminster Cathedral. And they asked me to read Job. And I read Job the section where God turns on Job and says  who are you to question me? Did you create the stars? Did you create this sea?  this extraordinary dramatic moment. And I was I was asked to read that text in front of the archbishop of Canterbury. It  now his name escapes me but one of his distinctive features was he had very pronounced eyebrows. And when I finished it I glanced at him and he waggled them at me...   ...As if to say that is got you thinking has not it son? And then about a year later I was  I had taken my mother on holiday to Cornwall in the southwest of England to give her a break from my father. We walked into a tiny tiny church on the coast of the Lizard peninsula. There was just myself in my mom in there  in the 300 400yearold church tiny. And the book was open. And I  being an actor of course  I went and stood there. And the book was open at Job the same section I would read two years earlier in Canterbury. And I read it. And my mom has a very strong faith. And I read it out loud. And she looked at me and she said  well you did that very well. I said well I have rehearsed it Mom.   So  and then of course I run into Damon Lindelof and all his crazy ideas about Job and Matt Jamison. So there is some kind of link here.  My guest is Christopher Eccleston. He costars in the HBO series The Leftovers as Reverend Matt Jamison. He also costars in the BBC series The A Word which begins on the Sundance Channel Wednesday. I will talk with Eccleston about the difficulties communicating with his father during the last years of his life when he had dementia after we take a short break. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with actor Christopher Eccleston. He costars in the BBC series The A Word which will be shown on the Sundance Channel starting this Wednesday. He plays the grandfather of a 5yearold boy who is diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder. The whole family has been in denial about the boy's inability to connect emotionally. But after the diagnosis they have to figure out how to deal with it. Eccleston also costars in the HBO series The Leftovers as the Reverend Matt Jamison. Because I know you best from The Leftovers when I hear your voice in my head until saying The A Word I thought of you as having an American accent which of course you do not .  No no.  You are from the U.K.  That is correct yeah.  And now I am hearing you on  on The A Word. But is the accent you use on The A Word the same way that you are speaking to us now?  Yes yes. I come from Salford which is right next door to Manchester famous among other things for producing Albert Finney and Mike Leigh. And so I have a Salford accent which has been softened over the years because I moved to London. And Londoners tend to be very lazy about trying to understand thick accents so myself and my Scottish and Liverpudlian friends slightly neutralized our accents. But yeah I am speaking as  I based that performance on my father. Maurice is based really on my father Ronnie  Ronnie  Ronald Joseph Ecclestone.  And he worked in factories right?  He did. He worked in an American factory.  In England.  Colgate  yes in Trafford Park in Salford to the ColgatePalmolive. They called it a soap works but it did much more than soap  toothpaste deodorant etc. etc. shampoo washingup liquid. And that is where he met my mother. They met in ColgatePalmolive. My father came down in a lift on his forklift truck. The doors opened and there stood my mother. And my mother said she looked at him and thought oh he is always a bit of all right. But I can tell he is moody.  .  And I said to...  Is that an accurate diagnosis ?  Yeah absolutely accurate. And I said to my mom how did you know that he fancied you? How do you know that he was interested in you? And she said well as the lift  as he backed  he reversed into the lift after he would done whatever he was supposed to do. And as the lift doors were closing he never took his eyes off me. And I was surprised at how cinematic my mother's description of that was  amazing.  So when you are playing an American as you do on The Leftovers...  Yeah.  ...What do you think of as being the distinctive characteristics of American speech?  American speech  a very good question. Well first of all you locate it very specifically. And I was  you know I spoke to Damon about that. Damon was very funny on day one because I stay in the accent when I am on set you know not because I am a method actor just for muscle memory you know? And he said to me  he came on set. He was obviously very harassed first day of shooting this huge series for HBO. He said is that your American accent? I said yeah. He said it is great. But even if it had not been great  even if it had been expletive I would have told you it was great. And then he disappeared.  .  I love him for that. I will never forget that. And my accent has improved over the three seasons. It was shaky in season one. It got much more secure in season two and it is  I believe will be even better in series 3. It was a huge challenge for a British actor to be totally surrounded by American actors who were simply speaking how they would speak and to adopt the accent. It is taken a great deal of work and dedication but I have loved it because I have actually  I use a different voice for Matt than I have done before than  I have never really altered my voice for a character. But my register is lower because that helps me achieve some of the sounds. So it is been a fascinating and scary experience I have to say you know.  So you have spoken in the British press about how actors with workingclass accents are being shut out of certain roles. Do you feel like your accent has shut you out of roles?  Well really it is more about over the last 10 years. The arts policies in our country has meant that people from workingclass backgrounds are not getting the places at drama schools. We are not producing workingclass actors anymore.  I see.  That was what I was saying. And consequently you know the  our culture is is  you know all the actors are white male and middle class which is not good for the culture. That is what that is about. And  yes there is a  you know anybody who knows Britain knows that class is the key to everything. And for some reason this  there is this great lie that Shakespeare must be spoken in Queen's English Received Pronunciation. There is an association with that accent. It apparently denotes higher poetic feeling and greater intelligence which is absolute nonsense you know? Shakespeare for instance would never  Shakespeare would never have sounded like with great respect the queen. It would have filled with intonations from all over the country. So that is what concerns me the class system really and the fact that actors like me from a workingclass background are now not being given the opportunities.  So you said...  So...  ...This is something that is happened in the past 10 years. What is changed?  A conservative government does not help at all. They are overly concerned with the  with the welfare of white middleclass males. And they are not particular  they do not see culture theater film television dance  they do not see it as central to a country's identity and understanding of itself. There is a great philistinism in the Conservative Party in my opinion.  How do you...  And the arts are just kind of a nice diversion with a bottle of wine rather than something hugely important in understanding society and life.  How do you think Brexit is going to affect the arts in England and in Europe in general?  It is a  Brexit was an absolute disaster and I am deeply ashamed of my country. I am deeply shocked. But I should not be because this is a country that voted in Margaret Thatcher. This is a country that voted in David Cameron God help us. But it is a disaster. It is the isolationism. It is little Englander. You will note that Scotland and Ireland voted to remain. You know they are going to do their own thing now. As for the impact on the culture I just feel it will probably make it more white. And we are not a white country. We are a cosmopolitan multifaith country. And I am sure if you are in a minority in this country you are stuck  you are going to be worried now. We have made a huge step backwards. It is a disgrace and I pray for a second referendum. But I can understand why people voted out. I get it. You know they are scared they are  basically it comes down to this if you have got money like I have you vote to remain. If you have not got money you vote out. So we have lost to these people. Our successive governments have created a disenfranchised group of English people who want out of Europe. That was created by us our policies.  Yeah.  You know...  Well good luck to you.  Thank you.  Let me...  Please do not  please  appeal to the rest of the world please do not give up on us. Please.  Yeah. If you are just joining us my guest is actor Christopher Eccleston. He is now starring in the Sundance series The A Word which is a British import. And he plays the grandfather of a 5yearold boy diagnosed as being on the autistic spectrum. The series premieres on Sundance July 13. He also costars in the HBO series The Leftovers as the reverend Matt Jamison. We are going to take a short break then we will be back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is actor Christopher Eccleston. On the HBO series The Leftovers he plays Reverend Matt Jamison. In the new series coming to Sundance The A Word he plays the grandfather of a 5yearold boy diagnosed as being on the autistic spectrum. The A Word is a British series that premiers on the Sundance Channel July 13. You have mentioned during this interview that your father had dementia during the last 13 years or 14 years of his life. And it was diagnosed as vascular dementia. Is that something different from Alzheimer's?  Yes I believe it is. I think you  it manifests itself  Alzheimer's as I understand it  and my understanding is somewhat rudimentary  Alzheimer's what you often find with people suffering from Alzheimer's is that the past becomes the present. The memories of the past become much stronger and the memories of the present much weaker. So hence you will find them sometimes walking down a motorway insisting that they do not live in the house that they are currently in that their house is somewhere else. My father's vascular dementia was really about a profound erosion of shortterm memory. We did not have the kind  the level of confusion of past and present. He just lost his shortterm memory. Basically you forget who you are. So obviously he would get lost. He would fly into paranoid rages. He threw myself my two brothers out of the house because he did not recognize us. And in his mind he was protecting his wife my mom. He was diagnosed in 2000. Once they diagnosed him we realized  suddenly the penny drops you know. You go  oh so when he was doing that in 1998  so he was really suffering from about 1997 and he died in late 2012. And for all but the last year of his life my mom kept him at home. And the big issue around dementia is the carers often family members who do incredible  what my mother did for my father was incredible. And she said to me  said Chris the worst day of my life was not when your dad died. It was when I put him in that home. But myself and my brothers had to insist really because it was going to kill her. The burden of care was going to kill her because she had to do absolutely everything for him you know.  When things happen like your father throwing you out of the house because he did not recognize you he did not believe that you were his son  how did you learn to deal with things like that? Because you cannot logically convince him that you are his son. I mean if he has dementia...  Well...  ...Logic is not going to work. So what did you do? How did you approach that?  You make mistakes. I took my mother and father again to Cornwall for a break. And I was sat with my father and we were doing a crossword which myself and my father had done since a very young age. You know it was one of our ways of expressing love for each other. It is something that we did. And I wrote out a clue. My dad was sat to my left. And he was pretty far on with the dimension. And I read a clue saying  six letters dictator. And quick as a flash my dad said despot  quick as a flash. This is a man who could not really take himself to the toilet to the bathroom. He said despot and I thought wow  you know I would have said Hitler or Stalin you know. Just you know  it is  so I looked at him and I said nice one pal  we always have this banter  I said oh I love that word pal. Nice one. And as I am writing it down into the crossword I felt him staring at me very fiercely. And he said to me  are you related to me? And I looked at him and I said yeah I am your son. And he said  what? You are my son? Where did you get that from? I said well Dad I am Chris. I am your son. And my dad became extremely agitated. And he went into the room and he said this bloke here  he said to my mom Elsie  he said Elsie this bloke here is telling me that I am his father. I do not know what he is talking about. Now what was going on was my father thought I was suggesting that he had had me out of wedlock therefore that would be a threat to his relationship with my mother his carer. Now the great mistake I made there was that I tried to bring him back into my world for my own emotional needs. What I understood from that time  because it was  it got very distressing because we were in a cottage by the sea and he was very very agitated. He got very very angry at my mother in the bedroom because he felt she was going to turn against him because he would had a child out of wedlock  I hope you are following this.  Yes.  But I  from that moment on I understood that I cannot impose reality on my father. I cannot bring him into my worl