 I know somebody had asked me if you could have anything in life what would you want? And out of my mouth I didnt say a college degree. I said I want a home. I want genuine love. I want intangible things. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. This past May while I was still out on maternity leave an email in my inbox caught my eye. It was from Rashema Melson.  And it was like the most excited Ive been. It was the best email to receive.  Oh really! Aw!  Like several things about it made me excited. First of all that you were letting us know that you were graduating in a week and you wanted us to know... Rashema first talked with me when she was a college sophomore at Georgetown when she was adjusting to life on campus after living in a D.C. homeless shelter in high school. After that she dropped out and got married. I talked to Rashema again after shed decided to end that marriage and give Georgetown another try. Now she was writing to say that she would been thinking about our two conversations in the days leading up to her graduation.  I had a lot on my mind. And I was asking myself who was the girl that - that was then. And just listening to everything that I had said and just how adamant I seemed and how I was really standing up for myself and I wasnt letting a man take over my world and I was going back to the mission that I had set out forth to. It was like wow I cant believe that I did that.  Yeah. And I also thought it was interesting how you described our previous conversations as capturing you at my weakest yet bravest moments.  Mmhm.  And that like listening back to those conversations had helped you?  Yeah. Um if it wasnt for you know us doing that interview I wouldnt have captured myself in that moment like if you had a time capsule. Later Ill talk with Rashema more about what shes up to now after graduation. But first I want to crack open those time capsules that Rashema recently listened back to. Starting with our conversation four years ago. She was struggling then with being vaulted into an elite environment separate from her family. And she was feeling a lot of pressure after becoming a national news story right she was finishing high school.  It is graduation day for Rashema Melsonand with the turn of a tassel this young lady goes from homeless to Hoya. When we talked during her sophomore year Rashema told me all that attention made her feel like a campus celebrity.  And me I am just kind of used to people walking up to me Hey can I get a picture?  Really? What do they say?  They will ask me  it is always this list they have. Oh my god are you Rashema? I am like Yes. You graduated from Anacostia? Yes. You were valedictorian? Yes. You were in a homeless shelter? Yes. Oh my god! And I am just like - it is annoying sometimes because it is like I wish you people would stop calling me that. I am not the homeless valedictorian  I am Rashema Melson. Rashema grew up in the Anacostia neighborhood in D.C. Her father was shot and killed when she was young and her mother relied on public assistance to support her and her brothers. After they lost their housing when Rashema was a teenager they lived in a D.C. shelter.  I am so close like one bus ride away from home. Or you know whatever I call that place.  Yeah.  So.  What do you think what has being a student at Georgetown taught you about money?  Money? Hmm. Got to get more of it. Thats the best thing that I could possibly think about.  What do you spend money on during the semester?  I spend money on my family which is the truth. My younger brother he is 15. He is the only one that is left in the household so my mom gets a certain amount of food stamps so if her food stamps run out she will ask me Hey can you help me out? It is never like a give me or you have to do this. I am always like Hey do you need anything? And a lot of people come to me and say That is not your responsibility you need to worry about yourself blah blah blah. And I get that. But me and my family  I grew up sharing meals with people sharing one meal with like three people. That is always the way my family or me and my friends are gonna be. We are always gonna help each other out. But when it came to achieving and excelling at school...that was something Rashema told me she felt like she had to do on her own.  I remember my first cross country meet in high school. I passed out once I got to like the finish line and I am looking at most people are staring at me. Im like What place did I come in? I do not care how I am feeling. They are like Seventh. You did so good. I am like I did horrible. And I just started crying and I was like Do not touch me. I need to become No. 1. I need to run again. And I was like so full of emotion and I kept saying I am not gonna get into college if I am not No. 1 I need to be No.1 I need to be No. 1. Everybody was looking at me like Oh my God. What is wrong with that girl. And my coach kinda was like Come on let us take you to the bathroom. I was like I do not care you do not understand what I am going through. I was like I am homeless. I live in a shelter. I need money. You know what I am saying? And my parents cannot  I was like my mom cannot afford college. And I was like I need this. I need a scholarship or I need my grades. And I really had a burst of emotion that I feel like I have never had in my life. And when I even think about it now I feel that emotion. Im just like yeah I cannot fail I mean like what would I do? And do I wanna believe that I did not work hard enough or there is something more that I could have done? I just yeah no I cannot fail. So.   So you just looked at your phone.  Yeah.  What was on your phone?  Somebody sent me a donation. Um they said Just a little something for the holidays to spend with your family. Keep us posted on your progress especially if you need help. Help comes in many ways.  Is that from a stranger?  From a stranger. I do not know who this person is. Rashema started a GoFundMe page after all the news coverage of her story and she got a lot of financial and emotional support from well-wishers across the country. But on campus at Georgetown those first two years Rashema spent a lot of time alone.  I really do not get out much. I just study I work and that is about it.  I can remember when I started college just the experience of all of a sudden sharing a dorm and a social life with people from all over the country and who had all sorts of different family arrangements growing up and all sorts of different income levels that they were used to. What do you remember about the first weeks and figuring out who the people were that were surrounding you?  That is what I did not do. My goal here my job here is to just get my education and keep it moving. Its not a bad thing. Its not that I dont like people or anything like that. It is just my motives are different and I think when people come to college you know I hear all about yeah that social life. We are gonna go to parties. Yeah it is a lot of parties here and on Friday night I am like in my bed I am getting some sleep because the week was so tiring. And I kinda had a little breakdown this semester because you know I wanna get out and I wanna have fun and I wanna be able to on a Saturday not just focus on work. But I am kind of stuck I am kind of in a situation with like you are not going back home to a family who financially supports you or you are not going back to this place where it is like you do not have to worry if you do not get a job your dad's gonna talk to a friend and get you a job - it is nothing like that I am the one who is pushing my family.  When did that happen at what point in the semester?  I think it happened - um it was in October. I really felt stuck like I had no option. Like the only thing I have in life is this degree like this degree is saving me. Without this degree I am nothing. Why should I be nothing because I do not have a degree? Like a little piece of paper and some grades do not define me. And that is where I got to the point where I am like I am not about to deal with this. And I thought to myself  I said I need to go back to the shelter.  It is interesting to me that it was - when you hit that wall it was not Maybe I should go out on a Friday night instead of staying in and studying or Maybe I should go out on Saturday or Maybe I do not have to do all the reading on this Monday night. But it was Maybe I am gonna drop out. It went that far.  It did. It did. Like I just felt like that is my life. I feel like people see me as that is the homeless valedictorian she goes to Georgetown. My life is Georgetown. And then it is like if you are not in school then what are you doing? It really made me feel that way where I was like I do not even want to do this anymore. A few months after we first talked Rashema dropped out of Georgetown. Shed reconnected with a high school boyfriend who had joined the military and they quickly decided to get married. Rashema moved to Clarksville Tennessee to live on the Army base where her husband was stationed. She took some classes there through a local college and sold baked goods to make money on the side. I looked at the pictures of her cakes that she posted online and we set up a time to talk in early 2017 when Rashema had been away from Georgetown for about a year. When I called she was on her cell phone driving around town.  How do you like being married?  I like being married like certain parts of it. Its okay. Um I guess its kind of hard to answer that question because we are getting a divorce.  Oh you are?  Yeah but as far as marriage in general I mean I like it.  Whyd you decide to separate? Whyd you decide to split up?  I think we just want different things in life. And um I think this is for the best just so that each party is happy. Um. But I mean...yeah.  Im sorry to hear that. I knew that you had gotten married but I didnt know you all were splitting up. I know thats hard.  Oh I mean were fine. No were fine we are fine. Its not really that emotional. So  Is he in agreement that divorce is the right thing to do?  Um. No he does not - hes asking me - like we literally 30 minutes ago just turned in the papers. Like at the courthouse. And he asked me -  Like just before I called you.  Right yeah. Just before you called me. And he asked me are you sure you want to do this? He wants to work it out. Hes like what did I do wrong? And Im like you didnt - you really didnt do anything wrong. Youre you and one day youll find the person who you should be with. But I just want more. Its not more about money its not anything like that. Its just I deserve more. I worked so hard all my life. And I settled. And it was not the right deal to settle on. Its hard because he feels like he wants to be a provider. He is like no Ill take care of her. You can be a housewife. And Im like no. I dont want to be a housewife. Ive never been a housewife. I am not gonna be a housewife. Rashema told me she was packing up her things and getting ready to move back to Washington D.C.  Ive been in contact with Georgetown so I do not know if Im going to go back there or not.  Tell me about that. How do you feel about Georgetown and the prospect of and going back?  I feel like when we talked and I was talking about how I feel about when people call me the homeless valedictorian and just a lot of the expectations people put over my head -  Yeah.  I think with leaving Georgetown I was leaving that life behind. But then it occurred to me like you know why run away from what I want to do what Im destined to do just because people are showing me that theyre on my side? All my life my mom was not the kind of parent that was like oh you got straight As? Good job. Keep it up. Make sure - you know. It was always me on my own telling me I need to do this or this is the best thing for me. So when I had all those people in my corner I did not know how to receive that. Um -  Huh. Thats interesting Rashema. All - that you didnt know how to receive having all these people in your corner. Thats an interesting way to put it.  Yeah cause I am not used to that much support. I have so many people who I can call now whether it is advice or whether it is school. I never had that growing up. And I think I was just upset because I felt like like if would have failed - it just became a lot of pressure. Like if I would have failed then the whole world would have known. But right now I feel like it doesnt bother me any more. I know that when most people even when theyre just super excited to share my story I know its all about they are proud. You know its just like the whole Britney Spears having a meltdown. You know 'ecause shes like a public figure. Stuff happens. Some people cant handle all that pressure at once. And I feel like thats what I had like a little meltdown.  A little Britney Spears moment.  Yeah. Or like a Kanye moment.   Yeah.  That was Rashema back in 2017. Coming up I talk with Rashema now about how she got to graduation and about the person who gave her a place to land after her divorce.  I dont know if theres anything I could do to ever repay her or show her thank you so much except going forth and and succeeding and doing what I said that I was gonna do.  Every week in the Death Sex  Money newsletter we include emails from all of you. And last weeks note from a woman named Kay sparked a lot of conversation in our inbox. Kays a single mom in her late 40s and she reached out because her daughter is heading off to college next fall. And Kay. Is. Pumped.  The prevailing attitude that I think people have is that they want mothers and especially mothers to fall apart and curl up in a fetal position at the thought that their child is growing up and leaving the nest when they cross that graduation stage. And I just dont feel that way. Ive always thought that my child is a part of my world but not my entire world and I just dont think people are ready to hear that. DeeDee in Texas read Kays note in our newsletter. And she says she can relate. Shes a single mom who will be an empty nester after this upcoming school year and says shes happy to watch her kids move on with their lives. She wrote I too have given so much to my kids and am looking forward to the flexibility and freedom that will come when my nest is empty. We also heard from Maya a single mom in California who is having the opposite experience.  For the past few months Ive had all the feelings youd imagine of sadnessbut all that is also mixed with knowing what the late teens and early 20s were like for me. During those years I felt like I had no safety net. And I know that she has a different mom than I had and so her experiences will be different but Im still sad. You kind of cant help it. Get in on this conversation! Sign up for our newsletter its a really special place you guys. Go to deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. On the next episode Its gotten to the point where I cant function without it. Your stories about drinking. And its scary. Im scared. And I dont feel like I can talk to anyone about it.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After Rashema Melson got back to Washington D.C. two years ago she felt a little lost. For awhile she was managing a KFC to make some money. But she didnt really have anywhere to stay.  After my divorce I was facing a little bit of homelessness. And it was nothing new to me. It was just like okay so where we go from here? Rashema reached out to her network of mentors and she got connected with the chief medical examiner of Fulton County Georgia Dr. Jan Gorniack who lives in Atlanta.  And she said hey I have an extra bedroom and if you you know can get yourself together you can you can stay here. I was like really? She is like yeah you know it is a new experience and fresh air. I think it would be great for you. And I got in my little car I drove down there. And being down there I really had time to think I really had time for myself. Because she was always in and out flying out the city you know doing big you know chief medical examiner things  but I - I really had time to really think and ask myself like you are divorced now you are headed back to school. What is your new plan? What do you want to execute? What do you want to put in motion? I do not like waking up and not having a mission.  Huh what a gift that she gave you have just time not needing to worry about where you were going to stay and that allowed you to have a - take a breath.  I always tell herjust like as an African-American womanI always tell her like I look up to you that you are phenomenal. And I do not think that - I do not think people understand how they touch me. I think people just see themselves like oh you know yeah this is like the right thing to do or no I want to do this. But no matter however they see it the way it reaches me is just like thank you so much. You do not even understand how much you have helped me and how much you have changed my life. How much stress that you taken off my shoulders. The fact that you helped me to alleviate the struggle a little bit and that you put me in a position to be able to think a little clearer before I go back out there into the storm. Whether you think it was small or whetherhowever you perceive itthank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. And so yeah just her giving me that time to really recoup and rejuvenate myself. It was it was amazing. And it was much needed. After a few months in Atlanta Rashema went back to Georgetown to start her junior year. She got her financial aid and her work-study job back. And things were different when she returned to campus. She was different.  I stepped out of my comfort zone. And maybe went to a couple of parties um maybe like three. And I was like uh yeah I cant do this anymore.   This isnt your scene.  It wasnt me.  Mmhmm.  And then eventually academically everything was better in the sense that I didnt have impostor syndrome I didnt doubt myself. I was just way more active. I joined the rugby team.  You did?  Um I did and it was amazing. And I was just so happy that I got to go back to sports because I was you know doing sports in high school. Everything just seemed better. It was just better than the first two years.  Yeah. So what are you up to - what are you doing right now?  Ah! I cannot wait to tell you what Im doing.  Oh!  So right now I actually work for a non-profit called Bright Beginnings Inc. So basically what we do is we use the two-generational approach to help the homeless population in the sense that we want to assist the parent as well as the child. So with the child we bring them in and have them do free daycare and we use curriculum to educate them and get them kindergarten ready. And then for the parent if they dont have their GED we have workforce development that works with them to get their GED if they need a job housing any assistance that they may need.  Id never heard of it put the two generation approach.  Yeah.  Because like if a parent is dropping off a kid for for daycare like offering other services that that parent might need is huge.  Yeah people have always focused on the one-way approach. Oh let us just give a lot of stuff to the child. Oh let us just give a house to the parent. And I think the thing that I love about us is that not - like we are not just working on stability in a housing sense. It is about even if we did give you a house a lot of people do not know how to manage a household. What does that come with? And so we are really educating people in that sense.  And when you are like trying to find families that - parents who could use help with daycare and parents who could use some support with GED - like where are you going to find people?  I just I go out into the community and I really talk to my people. You know what I mean? It is more of a conversation instead of a pitch. Because I relate to them more than the other people at my job do. Who is better to go in the community and talk with them than me? You know what I mean? So like I said I love my job. Its amazing.  Now that you are out of school and you are - you are working and thinking about what is next. How much are you thinking about money?  I am always thinking about money to be honest with you. I go to work and I try to eat out once a week because most of my co-workers eat out every day when they are at work or at least three to five times a week. And so basically I am trying to cut down on costs because I have a long way to go before I will be at a place where I do not have to check my bank account every day.  Mmhm. Did you have a graduation party?  No. I literally went back to my friend's dorm room and I went to sleep for seven hours. That was me celebrating because I was so tired. I was like I really just want to sleep. I do not care about none of this other stuff. I have a diploma. Let us get out of here. I want to go to sleep. So I just feel like - I do not I am not able to accept any congratulations just due to the fact that I am not where I want to be and I say that not even at a success standpoint but at... a mental standpoint. And I feel like until I am fully where I want to be then I will not be able to receive that.  I hear you Rashema but I also think there is value in celebrating incremental victories. You know?   People tell me that yeah that is true. I just - I do not know how to do it. And I understand the concept of it. We are working on it. That is what I will say. It is a work in progress. Thats Rashema Melson. Shes taking the LSATs this fall. And she hopes to head to law school in the fall of 2020. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Emily Nadal. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Thanks to the Buffalo Bill Center of the West in Cody Wyoming for sharing their studio with me. You can find the show on Twitter Facebook and Instagram deathsexmoney and you can follow me on Twitter annasale. Sign up for our weekly newsletter at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. And as if having a full time job and applying for law school isnt enough Rashema told me she also plans to run for the D.C. State Board of Education.  I hope my people receive me and see that I can implement a positive change.  I dont know much about D.C. politics do those get dirty? Is it gonna be a tough fight?  Um you know Im hoping to win so we shall see. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. 