 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Tim LaHaye who was a prominent figure in the Christian fundamentalist movement died Monday at the age of 90. We are going to listen back to an excerpt of our interview with him. Lahaye cowrote the bestselling Left Behind series 16 novels published between 1997 and 2007. When I spoke with him in 2002 after the publication of the ninth novel 50 million copies of these novels had already been sold. The stories are about the apocalypse and the second coming of Jesus. The series imagines what would happen during the rapture. Millions of born again Christians are instantly raised into heaven. The nonbelievers are left behind on earth to face seven years of tribulation wars plagues and other catastrophes until the final battle between Jesus and the antiChrist. In these books the antiChrist is the former head of the United Nations. LaHaye was a longtime leader of the Christian right. He cofounded the Moral Majority. In 1987 he briefly served as cochair of Republican Jack Kemp's presidential campaign. LaHaye also cofounded the Council for National Policy a secretive group whose members were described by abcnews.com as among the brightest lights of the hard right. Here's an excerpt of our interview.   Tim LaHaye I am going to ask you to describe your understanding of the end of days. What happens at the end?  Well the Bible is very clear. If you take it literally it is very clear about the events in the last days. The next major event on the prophetic calendar is what we call the rapture of the church when Christ shouts from heaven and all the dead in Christ  for 2000 years there would be billions of people who have called on the name of the Lord as their Lord and Savior. They will be resurrected. And then we which are alive all believers on the earth today  and only God knows how many I hope it is maybe 1 or 2 billion people that have received Christ while they are alive  and they will be transformed. And we meet in the air. Then we meet the Lord who we meet in the clouds. And then we meet the Lord in the air. And then we will ever be with the Lord. But then and this is what the Book of Revelation covers and what we cover mostly in our fiction series Left Behind is the events that will happen here on earth. And they are detailed in the Book of Revelation. And you will find the time of wrath the wrath of God on those who reject him and follow the forces of evil.  So first comes the rapture in which the believers rise to heaven. And then comes the sevenyear period of the tribulation which is filled with war and plague and famine and all that stuff. And the people experiencing that are the nonbelievers the people who have been left behind on earth. And how does that end?  Well that ends by Christ finishing his coming. In the rapture he comes in the air. But in the seven years later he comes to the earth. And he conquers the antiChrist armies as they are gathered in Armageddon. And then he sets up his kingdom. And then you have what everybody craves for peace on earth goodwill toward men. And you have the government of Christ. It is a time of righteousness a time of justice and a time of blessing. And it lasts for a thousand years.  So the creation of Israel is in your mind a sign that the end is near. Now what happens to the Jewish people in your vision of the end of days?  Oh they are going to go back into the promised land and they are going to rebuild their temple. And they are going to set up their temple worship. You know it is been 2000 years almost that they have had no worship. Ever since 70 A.D. when the temple was destroyed they have had no sacrifice. And so they will return to that.  So although the establishment of Israel is important in your vision of the second coming Jews themselves will have to convert to Christianity in order to be saved and those who do not will be condemned to suffer here on Earth during the tribulations and then basically to go to hell if they have not converted after that?  That is a good summary of what is going to happen. Just because you are a Jew does not mean that you do not have to make the same decision that everyone else does. The Bible refers to men allencompassing in the words whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. And so he does not discriminate between Jews or Gentiles. It is God's will that all men be saved and receive Jesus as their Messiah.  You believe that the only true faith is born again Christianity and that only born again Christians will be redeemed and go to heaven. During this time on earth what is your feelings toward people of other faiths or your feelings about people who are Christian but not born again Christians? Do you have respect for their faiths? Do you respect them as Catholics or Jews or Muslims?  Well I respect them for what they believe. In fact I try to be respectful toward all people and yet disagree with what they believe. That should be my right in a free society. But it is my responsibility before God to confront other people with the truth as it is in Christ. A lot of people say that you should know the truth and the truth will make you free. But they take it out of context. The truth there is Jesus. Jesus is the truth. He is the way that God has prescribed to come. And he says no man comes to the Father but by him. I will tell you a little secret. I was in the Holy Land when they were having a religious conclave. And who should be walking down the hall toward me with an entourage but the Dalai Lama. And I did not know  here I am a minister from America visiting. And I just stuck out my hand and shook hands with him and said sir has anyone ever explained to you who Jesus Christ really is? If they have not I would be glad to spend an hour with you and just share with you the truth about him. And his aide of course brushed me off and told me that he was busy. He did not have time. But that was just an involuntary response to a man who is very religious and very pious and probably very sincere. But he does not know the truth of the way to God. And I think we Christians have to be ready at any moment to share that truth with them.  The rapture takes place during your series of novels. And that is when people who are believers get just instantaneously lifted into heaven. And in your novel suddenly their kind of personal effects are left behind. But the people have disappeared you know leaving behind like earrings or clothing or other personal effects. Would you like to be alive during the rapture? Do you think that it makes a difference to your soul whether you die before the rapture or whether you are here for the actual rapture itself?  No it does not make any difference for your soul. But I will be honest with you my wife and I have kiddingly said you know we have been married for 55 years. We would love to be part of the rapture instead of either one of us having to face death of the person we love to go together in the rapture. And it is a comfort to us to know that in the twinkling of an eye in a moment Jesus could shout and we could be translated into heaven forever and ever and ever and ever.  Well Tim LaHaye thank you very much for talking with us.  It is been my privilege. God bless you.  Tim LaHaye recorded in 2002. He cowrote the Left Behind series and cofounded the Moral Majority. He died Monday at the age of 90. After a short break we will listen back to an interview with singer Marni Nixon who also died this week. She dubbed the singing for Natalie Wood in West Side Story and Audrey Hepburn in My Fair Lady. This is FRESH AIR. 