 I want people to walk into a place where I am working at or where I live and just feel really warm and I think that is a therapy for me. Maybe because of the stuff I went through with my you know my family and I do not need anything just dark. I really love the light. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot. .and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Raphael Saadiq grew up in Oakland California. He was just out of high school and hanging around a studio with friends when they got a call. It was a guy who was lining up musicians for Sheila Es band for her world tour with Prince.  He said is there anyone up there that can sing and dance and play bass. And that was a quote from Purple Rain. Can anybody sing and dance?  Uh huh.  I went next day. I went to the audition. There was maybe 20 to 30 people outside like bass players sort of dressed like Prince. Um I had like 501s on like a derby jacket and had. And then I I just remember somebody else had already got the gig and when I start playing they gave me the gig.  Wow.  And and next thing you know we are in Tokyo opening up for Prince you know singing Erotic City.   When you were on your way home from that audition did you know that your life had changed?  I just remember uh I did not need an unemployment check anymore. In the 35 years since Raphael Saadiq has become an institution in American RB music as a bass player singer songwriter and producer. He co-produced the song Cranes in the Sky with Solange  ...and he won a Grammy for Love of My Life with Erykah Badu and Common  He was nominated for an Oscar last year for co-writing Mighty River with Mary J Blige...  ...and he changed sex forever when he made this song...with DAngelo.  I have loved Raphael Saadiq since the late '80s when he his brother and his cousin burst on the scene with their band Tony! Toni! Ton!  By then he was already going by Raphael. Hed changed his name during that world tour with Prince and Shelia E. Raphael was born Charles Ray Wiggins. His family called him Ray. Hes his mom and dads only child together. His mom had three children before him his dad had eight.  So I was the mistake child. They called me the mistake child.  A surprise.  No my dad said I was a mistake. 100. He says it and laughs just like that. He like you were mistake boy. He said you are a good one but you were definitely a mistake.  So when you are six years old and you start playing bass why why the bass?  Well at at six I was not really playing the bass at that time. I think I was playing a I I was playing a broom. I was -  I was thinking a six year old boy trying to hold a bass is -  No. No I was definitely scraping a broom and and broomsticks all over the floor. And my sister Janice used to hold like the the lamp over my head and give me a spotlight and I think what started me playing bass was a Motown record by Marvin Gaye. Um How Sweet it is to be Loved By You.  Uh huh.  That is when I identified it. I did not know what the name of the instrument was called but I kept hearing this instrument and then my brother Dwayne at his house he was playing guitar. So I saw I just saw the bass like that was the instrument I could play if I want to hang around Dwayne.  How many years older than you is Dwayne?  I think Dwayne is five years older than me.  So you are like little brother trying to hang out with -  Oh yeah I was they used to call me they called me little old man because I was always hanging around older guys. Some guys I was in a couple gospel quartet groups too. Maybe it when I really started playing around you know fourth fifth grade I was in I was in bands with guys that were already 60 years old.  What would you wear when you were performing with these older men? Were you were you wearing clothes that were similar to what the older men were wearing?  Yeah I was I I was wearing exact same suits they were wearing except I could never uh get my suits from the same place. You know.  Yeah you had to go to the boys department.  I had go to the boys departments to try to find a suit to match their suits.   As a buck fifteen kid I looked like a little little punk. But when I pick up the bass youd be like who is that man? Who is that bad boy playing the bass? Bass is my heart. Im I am I am a bad ass bass player if I have to say. And so I carried it with me all the time so I know with the bass I can move the world.  When you were a little boy when you were going to church was it um were you excited to go because of the music or did you get something else out of it?  I was only going for the music. I did not I did not get anything else out of church. Uh I did like the pastor. The pastor the pastor name was Reverend Ed Nation. He looked exactly like Martin Luther King. And um he was really nice. He would always ask me if I loved the Lord. It was funny. Like that I think that was his thing. When you walk out the church he would stand by the door and he would go like Do you still love the Lord? You know if he did not see you in a while you know what I mean you come back you are like do you still love the Lord?  How do you answer that question?  You have gotta say yes.  Yes.  You know what I mean? That is what you are taught to say and do. Um yeah I mean I guess it was his way of saying you know you know Stay focused out there cause you you know you have for me for me church was um it it it replaced the idle time that you would have as a kid in a neighborhood like Oakland. In our neighborhood we had to create stuff. So it was mainly trouble. It was like my friends were like Leave it to Beaver. Like the the bad guy like you know it itd be always one deep.  Eddie?  Yeah Eddie. We had a bunch of Eddies. Not not too many not too many Beavers.  You were a you were a young kid when you experienced loss for the first time. Um you lost your first sibling when you were seven?  Yeah. Yeah I lost Alvie. Alvie was um he was one of my brothers I looked up to even though I was seven you know you just you know I really looked up to him.  How old was Alvie?  Alvie was 27. I remember my dad telling him that his friends were not his really were not his friends. And and my brother looked at my dad and said Ma they look alike and he just said what you are talking about old man and with a smile and my dad's like I am telling you they are not your friends. Theyre gonna kill you. The next weekend he they killed him. Rumor has it it was over like 12000 dollars. He had 12000 dollars in his pocket. I am sure the story is a little different from that. Um they shot him like twice in the chest and one in the heart. And I remember my dad we drove to the place where my brother's body was at and when we got there um the gurney had came downstairs and they and they pulled back the sheets so we can see his face. I do not remember looking but my dad did. And my dad is hard you know he is from Texas. He looked at my he looked at my brother like yeah that is him. And he looked at me said Let us go. And we got in the car and and I am sitting in the back seat and I am looking because I want to I I want in my mind I want to kill this guy. You know this all I could think of I am gonna kill this guy when I was see him. You know seven I am thinking Im gonna kill this guy. Always had that memory. I always always um see my story like the the movie City of Gods the the the kid with the camera.  Yeah.  I feel like I always documented everything and nobody nobody in my family ever talks about it. I was always in these spots where I seen a lot of things in the family that nobody ever talks about.  And you are just recording it as a kid?  Everything.  Was there a funeral?  Yes there was a funeral and I remember them calling names and it was the worst thing ever man. They they were like they were like Charlie Wiggins and that is me. Car two. And -  To line up in the funeral procession?  To get inside of one of the cars.  Yeah.  The limos.  Yeah.  I have never liked limousines after that. Never never liked limousines after that. Later on when I became an entertainer and they would go do you guys want a limo or van? I was like a van for sure. Coming upRaphael talks about substance abuse and its role in the deaths of two of his other brothers including one who died of a heroin overdose.  I just always thought about did he know before he approached this chemical that that was going to be the determining factor for his life that he was never going to be able to get out of it. And I do not and I always wonder that wonder that about a lot of people. When youve seen so many people you know walk into rapid fire and but they see everybody else falling down just doing it why why would you do it? -- In last weeks episode we shared our listener Krystals story about going through her sons stillbirth. We also created a spreadsheet where you can share the things youve watched read done or listened to if youve been through pregnancy loss. And its been amazing watching it get filled in in the week since. Several of you have recommended the book Its OK That Youre Not OK by Megan Devine. Krystal suggested the documentary Dont Talk About the Baby. Another listener said planting a tree or flower as a type of memorial helped her. We also got several emails from listeners. One listener named Lyndsay emailed about choosing to have an abortion at 23 weeks because her child had been diagnosed with severe brain abnormalities. This kind of loss is grossly misunderstood she wrote and added We make the choice to protect our children to take their future pain on as our own. If youve been through any kind of pregnancy or infant loss share whats helped you on our spreadsheet. You can find it at deathsexmoney.orgpregnancyloss. On the next episode I talk with a husband and wife who have been married for more than 50 years about falling in love parenting together and cross dressing.  That was probably the roughest time in our marriage when I came out publicly.  I felt like it was a choice and I did not I did not really understand it and I did not understand why he could not you know just act normal you know. -- Hey I want to let you know that Raphael and I talk next about a suicide in his family which includes some graphic content. Fast-forward 2 minutes if you want to skip it. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale.  Raphael Saadiqs latest record is called Jimmy Lee. Its named for his brother who died of a heroin overdose when Raphael was in his mid-30s. By the time his brother Jimmy died Raphael had long been careful about alcohol and drugs. Hed watched another older brother Desmond get addicted in the 80s and then die by suicide.  He found himself smoking drugs and like maybe putting it inside of a joint and he and he killed himself because he could not he could not stop and he was embarrassed. And I do not think the family made him feel that good about it. They were trying to you know give him this come to Jesus thing but it did not work and he he uh had an argument with someone in our family about it and he went home to my dad's house and he took my dad's double barrel shotgun. He shot his head off completely off and me and my dad and my brother cleaned it up. They took the body but being the type of person my dad is he was a janitor. He was the person who cleans. So he did not call the chemical people. We actually cleaned it up.  I am sorry.  Yeah.  When that that cleaning cleaning the room sounds like another moment where you were  Yeah.  filming it like watching it and observing it. Um how do you how did you grieve as a as a young man what do you remember? Did you cry?  No I did not cry I just do not I I think I never dealt with it. You know we do not you know black people do not go get therapy. They just do not. They just think that they just think they can deal with everything or you do not know to even ask you know. But I just dealt with it. We I just cleaned it up and the weird part I could smell it for months and months and months because we did not wear any face mask you know and when you drink water and the the glass covers your nose you could just smell blood you know for months and months and months and -  Still no therapy for you?  No I think my therapy was probably all this music I have been doing. Ive been thinking about it lately but I think it music was my therapy. It was it had to be.   Can you describe for me the space where you make music most? What is it look like?  It is a huge live room that you could record a 40 40 piece orchestra in. There is a uh Yamaha grand piano sitting there. I will start a song from sitting on the grand piano. I love piano because the notes ring so long that you can try and figure out where you should go next and if it makes you feel good. Um there is uh a rack to your left that has over 35 snare drums um mood lights in the air in a circle look like Star Wars at the top. 30 40 guitars and basses sitting around. And um and a huge glass window that looks out into the studio. Like it would be like going to like uh one of the most beautiful places you can ever record in. I am I I had a chance to have Stevie Wonder in my studio a few times and Stevie says to me he said How does it feel to have your own beautiful studio away from all that bullshit out there? Thats the first time I heard Stevie Wonder curse. Like whoa. Im like did he just curse? I heard Stevie curse? Yeah but yeah but then but -  How does it feel?  Great.  Do you have a name for your studio?  Blakeslee.  What is that name mean?  Blakeslee is the name of the street my studio is on. So when I bought the building I think my mortgage was like 10000 dollars a month. So I did not have any time to be all cute and be trying to name it Paisley Park. I was I dropped the drum machine on the desk got the key and started making music. They was like what is the name of the studio? I was like what is the name of the street? Blakeslee Recording Studio. Bam. That was it.  Are you still paying on it?  It is paid for.  Congratulations.  Thank you.   I feel like you are um in my life your music was very uh important to me in figuring out like sexiness. Like like I can picture being in my bedroom in West Virginia when I am 12 listening to your music um I want to ask about romance for you.  Ok.  Youre 53? What how how big a role does like a romantic life play in your life right now?  Huge. Very like because I was I was I figured out I was I dated someone for I dated I will say her name her name is Carolyn Christiano. She deserves that. Um I think I dated Carolyn for 12 years. She likes to say 15. Yeah but she did not really want to be married she was not a a pressure type of girl. She just she is like Marvin Gaye said the vows should not read we should stay together till death do us part. We should they said be rewrote. They should be we should try. So she was not into marriage and I was like cool. So -  Works.  It works um perfect. So yeah I think it I think I was married in my mind I was married to music because I found music in my room in East Oakland on 94th and the girls in my life were mistresses at the time you know they were they were second even though I would never say that. I I never liked when guys would say you know Music is first in my life and my girl is second. My music is everything. I never wanted to sound like that. I never told anybody that even though I guess it was you know it is the only thing that I never broke up with. I broke up with a ton of girls. I have never broke up with music.   Are you a single man now?  Yeah I am single now but I do not want to be. And I do want something somebody I could just kind of just come home to talk to laugh with you know talk to somebody that does not want something from you for material a material thing. It is kind of hard now because everybody can you know every you do not want somebody that has my mom always told me she said you know Ray make sure you get you a girl that just you know they have something. My mom used to always want me to date Janet Jackson or Whitney or Whitney Houston. Do not do not be dating them girls that like you know if you get sick or something they are going through your pocket looking for you know 5 cents cause they cannot even afford to buy butter you know.  Thats good advice.  Yeah its really good advice. My mom is no joke. She had it down.  How much do you get to see your mother now?  Shes just in Sacramento. I just have to jump on a flight and go see her. But now I I see her like at least once every two weeks and she is 87. And she Facetimes me all the time. And she has this fish fry she does on Friday and I do not even I do not eat fried food unless I go home because that would upset her if I did not eat her fish her catfish on Friday which is so good. Then I am Im like Okay can we do it on Saturday too? Raphaels father Charles whom he was named for died a few years ago. He had heart failure and dementia and Raphael was right by his side when he went.  The funny thing about him he loved to hear us play music and play guitar but when he was about to go and he could not remember anything I tried to play this blues song for him and he looked at me like he wanted to kill me. He did not want to hear Hoochie Coochie Man on the way out. He looked at me and frowned. He remembered like Nah this is not a good record to be listening to right now. You turn that one off. No he was just uh he was just great all the way. He did such a great job with me and it was almost like he never died.  You feel like that?  Thats how I feel. So I I felt I was not really sad. I did not wanna see him. I did not look at him in his coffin. Because I did not want to remember him like that.  He wasnt really about funerals anything like that. He did not like them. So I did I did not go up to the front. I left I left I actually left a little early. I spoke. I had something to say then I I went to get something to eat and then I went to the studio.  It is interesting to me that after seeing your brother up close after he would been shot and your other brother after hed shot himself like you you chose to to control what visuals you had when your father passed.  Yeah. I just I just never like. I am not scared of death or anything like that. I just do not like the ceremony of a a funeral. It is just I like the New Orleans type funerals you know when they just march down the second line band and every boom boom boom. I like that. I just feel like American funeral is just its out of style to me. You know my dad was had way more style than that and I am like you know but I could not be the the brother that is Okay we are gonna freak this funeral out. Were gonna fly this one out. Dads gonna be like it is going to be no coffin. Were gonna have a 8 by 10. Dad's guitar and his fender tweed amp in there. They would have lost it but that is the way he he would have wanted to rock. But I could not you know I am Im the baby boy. I could not go in there suggesting all these different things. So I just I just made my own visual. Thats Raphael Saadiq. His new album Jimmy Lee is out now.and Ive created a Spotify playlist of my favorite Raphael Saadiq songs and collaborations. It includes all the songs in this episode plus some other really great ones. Theres a link on our website or just search for us on Spotify. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Xandra Ellin Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern Emily Nadal worked on this episode too. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. And we talked about suicide in this episode. If you need to talk to someone about suicidal thoughts or how to help someone you love who you believe may be in danger please call the National Suicide Hotline at 1-800-273-8255. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney onTwitter Instagram and Facebook. So Raphael said hes ready for a steady romance. But he told me hes realistic about what his 53-year-old body is up for.  I seen Chris Tucker one day. And the first joke he told he said you know that is how you know you are getting older when a girl calls and shes like can I come over? And you are like well look you can come over but we as not having sex. And I am like that is the difference now. I got important things to do tomorrow. I am not just you know just not about to just kill my back for you. I gotta love you to be doing this exercise. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.