Katie Heaney Being away from home and just experiencing new things and making myself do things I was uncomfortable with I would have to believe made it easier to come to these realizations about myself. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. When I first met Katie Heaney she was 27 years old and totally freaked out about dating.  The points that stress me out are everything up to the date. And then like towards the end where I start worrying about like Are we going to kiss each other? I cannot tell what this guy thinks. You know How are we going to decide whether we want to do this again? This was exhausting I want to go home.  This was two years ago. Shed just published a memoir called Never Have I Ever My Life  Without a Date. And shed recently left her hometown to work for BuzzFeed in New York City.  So you move from Minnesota to New York City   Yes.   and whats  what is different?  Can I  can I say a swear word?  Yeah.  So people do not say  people dont say fucking for sex at home. People do not do that. And so the first time that I heard someone be like Yeah this guy Im fucking I was like Oh my god! Like I had this  and I am not religious. Im not conservative. Like I swear all the time. But it just - I just was a little bit - you know that little knee-jerk former Catholic schoolgirl thing where I was like Oh my goodness!  I am just from the Midwest! I do not talk like this!  And now you have a book out. And now you are having to talk to strangers about it face to face.  Mm-hmm.  So you dont  you dont talk about sex very much.  Mm-mm. Well it has not  it was not really applicable.   In your life.  Yeah.  Uh are you still a virgin?  Yes.  How  how does it feel to talk about that publicly at 27?  I do not  I do not like it.  I really do not like it. Um and I also hate that I dont like it. Because that feels like conceding that it bothers me and that I am susceptible to the opinions of others. But I am. I try not to be. And I think in a lot of areas I succeed. But I also feel like since the time frame of the book has ended I have you know dated a little bit more where I feel like well I am not so inept as maybe I worried. I still worry...  What taught you that? Talk more  walk me through that.  You know hanging out with people and realizing that I can spend a pretty substantial chunk of time with them and be able to just have it be normal. Just being like I can make myself stand still at the end of the date and kiss this person and not accidentally run away because I am worried about what might happen like I might have done in the past. Like when I want it badly enough I can - you know like really steel myself and just be like Do not freak out just stay still kiss them. Just do it! And   I love that being aggressive is I can stand still.   Well you know baby steps.   That is so weird.  This is Katie more than two years later.  Like as I hear it. Its very weird because it feels like me but also like someone I used to know. She came in to give me an update.  Now I hear that and I hear myself talk about all the fear and like the dread and making myself and I am just like Ugh you do not have to feel that way. Katie's lived in New York three years now. Shes become a senior editor at BuzzFeed and her hair that was dark brown is now platinum blonde.  When you think back to when we talked before it was January of 2014 what do you remember about what was going on in your life and how you were feeling?  Um I feel like I was a little bit miserable. I was still adjusting to living in New York and did not realize that I had at least a year of adjusting to New York left to do. So I think it was - that was a hard winter.  What happened in that year that made you feel that sadness?  I think that I just wore myself out worrying in a way. I had a hard time with anxiety that year. I think I dated very like briefly in the beginning of that year and it ended in a way that was like completely out of my hands where I just felt abandoned and just really pissed. Like I was so so angry. I just felt so confused about what I was doing quote-unquote wrong or why - I - I dont know. I just felt like I was really desperate for advice that year and like kind of turning to all these friends and you know horoscopes bullshit like that and being like What am I supposed to be doing? Like I - I wrote this book where I say You should be yourself you shouldnt feel bad about being single and I felt bad about being single and I felt bad about being myself.  Its funny that you mention horoscopes because when I think about my first year and a half in New York I think of all of the psychics and all of the like horoscopes and all of the grasping at straws to find groundedness. Because my life was going - undergoing a lot of change too. Do you still read horoscopes?  No I gave them up. I had to give them up. I eventually realized that looking up my horoscope gave me more anxiety than it erased. Like it just because it you know itll be like well These are your most romantic days all month these are your luckiest days all month youre gonna have this great career thing. And its like well none of that happened. Pretty much everything is the same. So I just dont need that on me. Like I would rather just take personal responsibility. Coming up Katie describes her dating life...now.  I feel like I end up saying queer more than most things - or like gay. I dont know. Like my girlfriend does not say lesbian that much. Or we only say lesbian when we are like walking down the street and we see other lesbians and were like lesbians!   Hey this is Death Sex  Money producer Katie Bishop...  And this is producer Chester Jesus Soria. And Anna's still out on leave but we wanted to catch you up on a story that you might have heard earlier this year.  This spring we talked with people about their near death experiences for an episode that we called When I Almost Died.  One of those people that we spoke to was a 32-year-old Australian woman named Elizabeth Caplice. Elizabeth wrote about life with Stage 4 cancer on her blog called Sky Between Branches.  Yeah and when Anna talked with Elizabeth this spring she would just recently been told by her doctors that she only had a few months to live. In July Elizabeth entered hospice. And two weeks ago on July 12th Elizabeth died.  But back when Anna spoke with Elizabeth she asked her what she wanted to have happen...after her death.  I want to donate my body to science or have an eco-burial. Which means I dont want my body in front of a room of people. That grosses me out. Im comfortable with memorial services.  Have you picked out music or readings for a memorial service?  Um I have picked out some music. Im a bit of a terrible person. I really like the idea of starting with Madonnas Like a Prayer. Because Im really fond of the line Life is a mystery. I use it a lot in like whatever ridiculous new thing happens with my cancer like Well that was not supposed to happen but life is a mystery. And then I break into singing Like a Prayer.  Were planning on sharing more of Elizabeths conversation with Anna in the coming weeks. So look out for it in your podcast feed.  And on the next episode Anna Chlumsky...  ...the actress.  Everybody knew that I was the girl from My Girl and stuff but the nice thing was that he didnt care. Hear how the Veep co-star met her husband in college after leaving child stardom behind...and how he helped convince her to try acting again.  And Im like I dont know maybe I need to go to therapy cause I obviously am so desperate for answers. And hes like Well what would a therapist ask you that you dont already have the answer to?  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Katie Heaney published her second book this year. It is called Dear Emma and it is about a dating advice columnist in the Midwest. For this one Katie didnt have to confess the details of her dating life like in her memoir. This one's fiction.  Yeah. I needed a break from myself.  When did you realize that you might be interested in dating a woman?  I think - I mean the truth is that I had curiosity about it for a while. But it was always in like waves. I am so neurotic that I would sort of like get in these mental tailspins where I would be like obsessed with the idea for like a week and then something would happen and I would just kind of give it up entirely. Like I would be like oh well yes I do think  I dont know like Zac Efron or somebody  I do think he is hot. So I guess that that means theres nothing else going on. Or I would think well I do not wanna act on this unless I am a hundred percent sure because I dont want to hurt anybody else or I do not  I do not want to claim something that is not mine to claim. So I think that that kept me from doing anything for a long time. And then I do not know something last year just I feel like there was this sort of like... you know those um meters like when you are doing a strength test at a carnival?  Uh-huh.  I felt like it was like inching up towards the top and then finally it just kind of like hit the full other side.  Hit the bell.  Yeah. I remember being on the subway and looking around at all the guys. And being like I do not want to date any of you. Like I just do not - I do not want this. And I felt like my the attraction like fell out of my body. And it sounds like so dramatic. But I think it was enough of a sense that I just thought I should finally actually commit to the idea and like put myself out there in a real way.  What did it mean to decide to put yourself out there?  Oh go on stupid OkCupid. I messaged my girlfriend like four days after being on it. So.  Really?  Yeah.  Was she the first woman you dated?  Mhm. Yeah. So that is a whole other thing to like worry about.    No it is beginner's luck.  Um yeah.  Did you feel clumsy on your first date with your girlfriend?  No. Um. I was nervous. But. I was excited. And I was excited in a way that I had not ever been for a first date with a guy.  Hm.  And I had a feeling beforehand that I was gonna like her. She had a really good profile. And she texted me back so quickly.    And I really liked that. So yeah we - no it was pretty easy. I mean there was still like the thing of when she came in like do we you know shake hands or  like I think she would have - she - I went in to hug her and later she told me that was like awful because she hates hugging someone she doesnt know. And I am you know like five inches taller than she is. So it is - it was a little tricky. But besides just the general sort of like awkwardness or nervousness I just was not  I did not feel uncomfortable to my core in a way that I had in the past.  What did you notice about her profile that you liked?  She talked about having written Harry Potter fan fiction in which all the girls were gay.  And I thought that was funny.  Was she more practiced in dating women than you?  Yeah she is been out since she was 14. So. I you know I think early on that made me nervous but she never made me feel you know weird or wrong or too late or anything like that. It never has really been  I mean it is only been an issue in the sense that I you know I envy in some ways her past. Just - just in the sense of I think having the experience to know what she wants or does not want through relationships. But also you know she envies me my history of no terrible shitty exes. So I think it is a little bit of a grass is greener situation.  Was there anything that you felt like you had to be taught?  Not really no. I mean I  well not taught. I think that I  and I am still learning this. But I - I have to learn how to not catastrophize every disagreement or every feeling that comes to me that is not a 100 percent joyous one. You know I always thought that I was above the sort of white knight narrative and thinking that a relationship was going to improve my life. I do not think I thought it was going to improve my life but I thought that I had struggled so long to find it that once I did it would just be perfect or easy. And you know I just I was naive about what it really means to spend that much time with someone and still be happy but still have days where youre just like Uh like I just I do not feel good today. This is not my favorite thing thats going on today. And I think early on I would really get very nervous about that because I was putting a lot of pressure on both of us.  Ive never heard the word catastrophe turned into a verb.  I dont know if its real. I feel like it is.  I feel like its very descriptive. I understand.  I feel like my mom accuses me of it. So maybe thats where I got it from.  Your mom coined the term.  Yeah. Katie didnt immediately plan on telling her mom that she was dating a woman. She started by telling her coworkers over Gchat and her brothers. But then she got a text from her mother.  I think after I had had two dates with my girlfriend she texted me to say that she had a dream that I met this guy named like Jamie or something And she never really  like she or my dad never really put pressure on me about dating they never have been like When are you gonna get married or anything like that. And this text was not even that sort of thing but it was just so eerie to me that I called her right away and was like I just wanna let you know I did meet someone that I like. And it is a girl. And my mom was like Oh.  And it was a pretty short phone conversation I think. And then I had to call back separately later that day to tell my dad um.  Did your mom tell you that you needed to tell your father?  Yeah. Yeah. Cause a lot of times with most things the way it works is it is like telephone tree. I will tell my mom she will tell my dad. But obviously this is like a little different than describing like a day at work or something so. Um. I was - I was more nervous to call him. Just because I do not - I never talk about like dating or anything with my dad. Like the last time I remember my dad being aware of who I had a crush on it was Jonathan Taylor Thomas. And he would always be like - he would always give him other fake names he would be like Jonathan Diller Dollar. Id be like Dad!  You know it was - it went well. I - I didnt have anyone react...I almost was a little annoyed that people werent more surprised. It felt a little anti-climactic.  Do you think that you were uncomfortable with men because you were gay?  Uh yeah I mean I feel like that has to be part of it. And instead now I feel like I can be like well I was not pleased with the offerings you know like I was not into what was - what I thought was available to me.  Are you glad you didnt have sex with men?  I mean...I  that is the thing. It is like - can I even say that? I - I - its one of those - it is just another dumb classification thing. Because my girlfriend's like Well technically that makes you a gold star. Which is like a lesbian whos never had sex with men. And I am like alright. But what is the line? Like I did stuff. That is what I...I still cant talk about it. So theres the Midwestern still there I am like I did stuff. Um.  You did stuff and you get to be a gold star.  Yeah I guess that is   That is pretty good.  I guess.  You feel happy now?  Yeah. I do. I still get stressed a lot. But I - I feel at ease in a way that I have not felt in a really long time. I just spent so long feeling like there was something wrong or missing or something that I had to get done in order to move forward with my life and now I sort of just feel more content to live in the present.  Yeah or a little less um feeling of gripping with all of your might to try to figure out something that you havent sorted through.  Yeah. I dont feel so compelled to ask everyone else whats gonna happen to me because I will - Ill find out whats gonna happen to me. Thats Katie Heaney. Her novel Dear Emma came out earlier this spring. And her memoir of not dating  at least up until she was 25  is called Never Have I Ever. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein Andrew Dunn and Rick Kwan. Our interns are Carson Frame and Brandy Gonzalez. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And if you like the show please go to iTunes and leave us a review. It helps other people find the show. Katie Heaney has figured out a lot of things in the last few years but that has not made the prospect of turning 30 any easier.  Its scary in a way that I did not really anticipate. Like I thought that I would be very cool about turning 30 because I am a feminist and I dont care about aging or wrinkles. And then of course it happens. Like this year I was compelled to buy eye cream. And that upset me. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.