 This is FRESH AIR. In her second feature film The Farewell the Chinese American writerdirector Lulu Wang tells a story drawn from her own family's experience. The movie stars Awkwafina from Crazy Rich Asians as a young woman who travels to China to pay a final visit to her grandmother who has no idea she has only a few months to live. Film critic Justin Chang has this review.  The Farewell opens with five cheeky words  based on an actual lie. This funny melancholy ensemble drama was inspired by an experience that the writerdirector Lulu Wang and her family went through years ago when they were told that Wang's grandmother was terminally ill. They decided to keep her in the dark about her diagnosis hoping to spare her unnecessary fear and anxiety  an extreme decision perhaps but one that the movie suggests is hardly unheard of among Chinese families. Wang's onscreen alter ego is Billi a broke unemployed New Yorker in her early 30s played superbly by the actress Awkwafina. Billi moved to the U.S. with her parents when she was 6 but she has fond memories of her early years in the northern Chinese city of Changchun. And she retains a close bond with her paternal grandmother  that is Nai Nai in Chinese. One day she is visiting her parents  played by Tzi Ma and Diana Lin  and they tell her that Nai Nai has only a few months to live.    Nai Nai is dying. She has stage 4 lung cancer. The doctor says she has three months  could be faster. You never know.   I need to call her.   You cannot do that.   I need to go see her.   You cannot do that. She does not know. The family thinks it is better not to tell her. So you cannot say anything.   I do not understand. She does not have a lot of time left. She should know right?   There is nothing they can do so everyone decided it is better not to tell her.   Why is that better?   Chinese people have saying  when people get cancer they die. It is not the cancer that kills them. It is the fear.  Billi's parents explain that a phony wedding is being thrown for her cousin in China as a hasty excuse for a family reunion. Billi is urged not to come as everyone fears that she will spill the beans. But she buys a plane ticket anyway catching her parents and other relatives off guard. Billi disapproves of the family's dishonesty. And although she goes along with it she tries to persuade them to tell Nai Nai the truth. But they dismiss her attitude as typical of her youthful naivete and her selfcentered American upbringing. Westerners may grieve with hugs and tears but in their view the most profound expressions of love and devotion are the ones that remain unspoken. Wang has a thing for stories about death and deception. She made her feature directing debut with Posthumous a 2014 comedy about an artist who fakes his own suicide. In The Farewell she mines a lot of humor from the family's scheme from the lastminute wedding preparations to the manipulation of Nai Nai's medical test results. Wang and her actors capture the anxiety of a celebration where no one is really in a celebratory mood and one false word or move could spell disaster. But The Farewell does not need a lot of farcical complications to pull us in. Wang knows that it is fascinating enough to be a fly on the wall at this family gathering. I was reminded of the dim sum lunches and lavish dinner banquets that took up a good chunk of my Chinese American youth. And yes I was reminded of my own indomitable grandmother who just like Billi's Nai Nai knows that the truest way to say I love you is to keep food onto your plate whether you asked for it or not. Billi's grandmother is played in a pitchperfect performance by Zhao Shuzhen who all but glows with stubbornness exasperation and pride. The bond between grandmother and granddaughter is lovely to behold. And Awkwafina such a memorable scene stealer in last year's Crazy Rich Asians is a marvel in her first dramatic starring role. Speaking mostly in fluent but slightly faltering Mandarin she plays Billi as a young woman trapped between two worlds having never fully recovered from the loneliness of leaving China as a young girl. Billi is not the only character wrestling with her cultural identity. The strongest scene is a verbal sparring match involving her parents aunts and uncles. Some of them cling proudly to their Chinese identity while others acknowledge the better opportunities they found in America and elsewhere abroad. Wang leaves these arguments unresolved which is not to say she is wholly ambivalent. She drops in small isolated moments of social critique glimpses of a modern China whose muchtouted prosperity has come at an undeniable human cost. As personal as this material must be for Wang it is her emotional restraint that paradoxically makes the film so moving. Occasionally she will go in for a closeup but most of the time she likes to frame her characters in group shots as though asserting the importance of everyone's point of view. The Farewell left me thinking about the beautiful imperfection of every family and the importance of treating our loved ones with decency and humility every chance we get. Our time together is too short whether we know it or not.  Justin Chang is a film critic for the LA Times. If you would like to catch up on FRESH AIR interviews you missed  like our interview with Travis Rieder a bioethicist and advocate for opioid use reform who struggled with opioid withdrawal after a traumatic injury or with Joel Grey and Steven Skybell director and star of the Yiddishlanguage version of Fiddler On The Roof now appearing offBroadway  check out our podcast. You will find lots of FRESH AIR interviews.   FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Our interviews and reviews are produced and edited by Amy Salit Phyllis Myers Sam Briger Lauren Krenzel Heidi Saman Therese Madden Mooj Zadie Thea Chaloner and Seth Kelley. For Terry Gross I am Dave Davies. 