 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Michael Arceneaux has written a new book whose title will give you an idea of his sense of humor. It is called I Cannot Date Jesus Love Sex Family Race And Other Reasons I have Put My Faith In Beyonce. It is a collection of personal essays about his early years growing up in Houston black Catholic and gay. Arceneaux abandoned the Catholic Church about 16 years ago in what he describes as an act of selfpreservation after deciding he was no longer willing to be part of an institution that condemned him for who he was. Over time he says he is tried to unlearn every damaging thing he is seen and heard about his identity. He writes for The Root and Essence and has an advice column on Into which describes itself as a digital magazine for the modern queer world. Michael Arceneaux welcome to FRESH AIR. So you were raised Catholic and you say the traditions associated with the black church were different from the church traditions you grew up with. What were some of the differences?  One thing I will say about the Catholic Church that I actually enjoyed was kind of the pageantry of it. It is a beautiful service. But you know it can be boring when most of your friends  well I am black. I am around black people. They go to Baptist churches. They have gospel choir. They have the singing and they have the praise dancing. They have all this celebration which I was not really familiar with. It is just different dynamics because the Catholic Church to me is far more formal than any other kind of Christian sect there is. And yeah it was boring .  Do you feel like you were left out of what is often considered to be a key part of the black experience in America?  I actually do not. I understand why a lot of people who kind of maybe miss certain parts maybe have that  they feel like they do not get all the blackness. But I have never struggled with being black. I come from a very black family  a very southern black family. I just think that strain that my family is from  like French Creole like the Louisianatype stuff. Like a lot of them were traditionally raised Catholic. I think that was the only difference that I really had from most people. But you know my dad is very black. My mom is very black. I grew up working class to say the least. My high schools were predominantly black  very sometimes schooltoprisonpipelinetype black. So I did not feel foreign to blackness. I just think that was just one aspect that I could not really relate to. And it was fine. That actually did not bother me as much. I think some people  the only thing I have had to sometimes convince people that I do not worship the Virgin Mary or something  like some stereotype associated with Catholic. But other than that it was fine. I have never questioned my blackness.  So you write that you know you struggle with what it is that you do believe in but you know you are not an atheist. Why  if you have given up basically on your religion what is the difference between that and being an atheist?  If I ever reached what I think my lowest point with religion  at least struggling with organized religion it was probably maybe an embracement of being agnostic. But I do believe there is something. And I personally call it God. And one thing I wanted to do with the book was kind of allow sometimes grayness and to not have a definitive answer because frankly I still do not know. You know I write about the first time I had been to church in all those years  well over a decade. And I like the idea of Christianity. But I do not frankly believe in it. So that is actually a very good question Terry Gross. I am trying to  I am clearly still wrestling with it. But I would not call myself an atheist because I do believe in something. I still actively pray. I believe in a god. And I just do not think I believe in maybe necessarily the Christian God I was raised to believe in. But I do like the idea of Christians who actually practice the teachings of Christ. I think Jesus is like a swell guy. I would love to be friends with him. But the rest I am a little bit distant from. But yes you are going to have  I do not want to call myself an atheist though. I think my mom would hit me with a Bible. But yeah I believe in something. I am still wrestling with that Terry Gross.   So when you realized you were gay which was like really early on even though you did not have the language for it did you know early on like OK that means you would be considered an outcast in the Catholic Church? Like how old were you when you realized that your sexual orientation would not be accepted in your church?  Oh I picked it up very early from my mom. Again I love my mom so much. But she  I remember the Catholic Leaven  I believe those newsletters that would come to our house. So I would see the language about gay people then. Or they were more blunt. I think it was just like homosexual. It was very communicated very early  like being gay is wrong. I knew very quickly. When I write about the issue with my uncle dying of AIDS  but on the religious front it was just very clear through the literature my mom had around the house the things that she watched or even just casual comments made by the people around me  it was very clear that all around be it my community nonreligious community religious community people felt that way about you being gay particularly at that time.  Your first exposure to what it meant to be a gay man was when your uncle died of AIDS. You were still very young. And your father told you he died of AIDS because he was gay. Your mother told you he died of AIDS because he shot heroin. Who did you believe?  So my dad did not necessarily directly tell me. He just yelled a slur. And it is interesting. Thankfully while I was writing I had a very honest conversation with my sister. I later learned that that was particularly just my dad's way of communicating his hurt and that my dad actually probably did not have as big an issue maybe as I thought. But at the time all I heard was the word faggot. That is all I heard repeatedly so  and a lot of gay bashing. So in the heat of the moment his anger however he chose to handle it  I believed him. I just believed him because he was so angry. And one thing that I will say about my parents particularly my father is I found so much about them largely through their fights. When my dad is his angriest and when he would drink that is when the truth would come out about a lot of things  and not to say that my mom is a liar. She is usually very direct and blunt. But she was always more protective. So like it was not that difficult a decision to figure out who is telling the truth. I am like when he is mad he is going off. That is what he does. And so I believed him. And that is when my paranoia about AIDS started and being gay.  Yeah. Oh one more thing about your mother  when she told you that your uncle actually died because he shot heroin do you think she already knew that you were gay and wanted to protect you from the fear of AIDS? Or do you think that she thought like being gay was worse than shooting heroin and she wanted to protect you from the fact that your uncle was gay?  Well it is interesting about my mom. I do not think she did the false equivalence. But I do think her belief in her religion steers so much of her thought process on things like this. So I think she let that drive her. As far as my mom knowing in hindsight  actually not in hindsight  I knew as a child. My mom clocked me. I remember one time we were driving home from school. And out of nowhere my mom just in her gray Impala was like yeah Michael I know some people probably make fun of the way you walk and talk. And I am in the back of a car like girl no they do not. I mean maybe a few people but it is not like a thing  not like you seem to think. But you know as I got older I am like oh she probably saw very early  like oh here we go. I got a gay child. Like she is been around a lot of gay people in spite of all this. Like I am sure she clocked me very early. But we did not  we never talked about it. It was not until I brought it to her attention that she addressed it directly. But there were little hints along the way that I think she put  she picked up what I was putting down.  But the thing is she picked up really early that you were probably gay. But when you actually came out to her  and you did this after writing you know an article that you were pretty sure she would see  she did not accept it. So how do you kind of reconcile that she knew and was able to articulate it  although she withheld it from you she knew really early on that you were gay that that was just your nature. At the same time she could not accept it.  That initial revelation and her reaction was very painful to me. As to why she did not bring it up sooner I think  my mom comes from  it is a very kind of very older black particularly Southern kind of way where you do not really dive into the personal like that. You keep your business to yourself. You particularly keep your business if you think it is something like being gay which she thinks is an affliction of God or whatever. So I do not think she wanted to tackle it directly because it was not something that she wanted to address. And I do not think it is something that she wanted to address particularly because if I run my mouth about it then that might be a reflection of her. And maybe that makes her feel a way. I do know she loves me. I do know she does not approve. And to be honest I am not sure how this book will go over.  I have been wondering that too.  Yeah so...  How your parents will deal with your book.  My dad is not going to read it. I know that he is not going to read it. He might hear something. And at best he will go through my sister to maybe communicate a concern. For me and my dad now we have kind of reached a peace accord as much as humanly possible. I have learned to forgive him for things. I reach out to him when I can. On that front I have done the best that I can do. My mother is a bit trickier. I actually did not tell her the title of the book until I turned in the first draft. And she did not react that well. I just need to like  it is not  I am not making fun of Jesus. And she is like OK. And she said well you know how I feel. And I just  I could not do it. And then there was something earlier in the year where I was really excited about something like that is related to the book  like another dream that I have a part of this. And her response was well if that is how you want to live your life. And after that I just decided that I am not talking to her about this anymore. And it is not like I am afraid of her. I am just  I have been wanting to have a conversation with her for years. I have wanted to have like a theological conversation. I have wanted to like maybe have people come in and maybe talk to us. Like I have really tried to make some real efforts in trying to find some kind of resolution. But I do not think one is available. And I think with her I am worried how she will react but I knew I needed to write this. And I knew I needed to do this because one thing I wanted to do was kind of like break the cycle of silence that both my parents have perpetuated. And it is not something I wanted to continue because it brought us all so much pain. So why would I continue to be silent? Why would I allow you to let me feel like something is wrong with me?  So you mentioned your mother really hates the title of your book. The title of your book is I Cannot Date Jesus. Why did you give it that title? What does that title mean to you?  The title's about her . So that is the thing. Like despite my own kind of misgivings or concerns like doubts about religion I really do respect the role that faith plays in people. I think that is one reason why so many Christians still like me. I really  like for my mom my mom is the strongest person I know. Her faith is what has kept her alive. And I respect that and I admire that. But what she does not seem to understand is that the faith that she was raising may keep her alive but it makes me want to die or at the very least not lead a full life. And what point is living if you cannot lead a complete full life? And so the chapter is named after an exchange that we had. So I had already told her previously that I was gay. And then we left it alone and then it came up again. And we had this conversation where she says I know that you are born gay. I know that you cannot help it. But if you have sex and get hit by a bus I do not know where you are going to go. My mom can be morbid. Bless her heart. And my mom  when I was going on I was like well girl I cannot date Jesus. And so that is when the title happened. Like I think the thing about religion sometimes that does bother me is that I find my mom to be such a smart person such a very thoughtful person. Like I would not be as analytical as I tend to be and critical if not for her. But I think in order for her and for her faith to keep her going she has to kind of suppress maybe her better urges. I mean like it is like you know that I am gay. You know that I cannot help it. But you do not want me to act on my natural urges on the basis of a maybe  that if  I do not know  a bus hits me or some  I do not know. A bike might take me out in New York...  .  ...That I might die and maybe go to hell which is just  I mean I am sure that makes all the sense in the world to her and quite a few people. But it just sounds so ridiculous to me. So I am like so I should just let all of that area down there just turn into like I do not know the cold whatever and not have a full life? Like why would I do that? What sense does that make to me? And so yeah I cannot date Jesus. I would love to kick it with him maybe at a bar. But other than that we are good.  If you are just joining us my guest is Michael Arceneaux and he is a writer and advice columnist. And now he has a new memoir called I Cannot Date Jesus Love Sex Family Race And Other Reasons I have Put My Faith In Beyonce. We are going to take a short break and we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Michael Arceneaux. He is a writer who contributes to The Root and Essence. He is an advice columnist for the site Into. And he has a new memoir called I Cannot Date Jesus Love Sex Family Race And Other Reasons I have Put My Faith In Beyonce. Beyonce means a lot to you...  Yes she does.  ...And you know kind of always has since the Destiny's Child era. So you know at the risk of stating the obvious what does she mean to you? And what did she mean to you when you were young and trying to figure out who you were and to understand your own sexuality?  Oh Terry I am about to testify. Beyonce is as I write in the book my lord and gyrator  the end the beginning the body roll. She is everything to me. Initially what I just loved about Beyonce was that in Destiny's Child  but specifically Beyonce. Like for me it was like love at first south side. And that is the dance that they were doing at the beginning at the No No No video. They were from Houston Texas. And they looked like people that I knew. I had just missed Beyonce. We went to the same middle school. But she was like one grade out. And then they got that label deal. So you know that was my chance to be her bestie and it did not happen. But one thing I initially just loved about them is that they were from Houston. So we did not have groups like that blow up from Houston Texas. And then now  I got to make sure I do not sound like Yolanda Saldivar. But there is just always been something about Beyonce that I have been drawn to. I love the way she talks. And also I love the fact that you know she and her family is from Louisiana moved to Houston. So we have that shared thing. Just the way she sounds makes me happy. But specifically with my sexuality and me being at most comfortable myself there was this album  the B'Day album. And one thing about Beyonce now is that in recent years everyone talks about how problack she is and what that means. And I think that is more so because it was I guess outwardly intellectual. But what problack often means to me too is that this is a Southern black girl who was very country  like country as hell. And she owns every bit of that. She is very much from Houston Texas. Like even if you do not necessarily get the references as someone from Houston I do. So to me she is always been subversively sneaking a lot of subcultures into the mainstream. Like for B'Day for example those are queer black men who are choreographing the stuff. There is like slang in there. Like there is a New Orleans bounce record that she made into an RB song. One thing that I have always wanted to do  and even actually in the journey in trying to get this book sold that there was this idea that because I was both black and gay that I was niche that I was very limited that I did not have as much appeal as someone else and that I often would have to dilute myself to be able to reach the masses. When the biggest pop star in the world is a country black girl named Beyonce from Houston Texas who outside of maybe the first half of the I Am... Sasha Fierce album where she did that kind of like Sarah McLaughlin thing which is fine just not my  you know I want to bop to Beyonce usually  but she is pulled the masses to her being exactly who she is this entire time. And for me that has just been so inspirational. And again with the B'Day album  you know this is around the time that I came out and I was starting to go to clubs. I felt a little out of place 'ecause people were clearly more advanced than me more comfortable with their bodies. But that album was a very big hit in the gay black clubs. And I remember actually going to the bar and I was like just have another drink and chill out and have fun. Stop worrying so much about how you dance how you look how you talk your mannerisms. Just enjoy the moment. And through that album and just dancing to it particularly like the bonus tracks that they kept playing at the gay club specifically I just felt freer. And so for so many reasons but I feel like connection to her. Like she makes me feel really good about myself. And I know that might sound whatever to certain people but you know there is always someone in your life that is influencing you. And even if I do not know her she is been very impactful in my life. She let me know that I could be myself and she let me know that being myself could reach as many people as possible that you do not have to dilute again who you are to reach everyone that you can just be yourself and be very good at what you do and then the people will come to you. And that is a lesson I am going to carry with me for the rest of my life.  Well I think you have not only testified to the importance of Beyonce in your life but also to the importance of popular culture in the lives of a lot of us in helping us understand ourselves and the world we live in. So thanks for that.  Thank you.  My guest is Michael Arceneaux author of the new memoir I Cannot Date Jesus Love Sex Family Race And Other Reasons I have Put My Faith In Beyonce. After a break we will talk about how coming of age during the AIDS epidemic left him afraid of sex and why it took him a long time to get over that fear. And we will listen back to an interview with Adrian Cronauer who Robin Williams portrayed in the film Good Morning Vietnam. Cronauer died last week. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Let us get back to my interview with Michael Arceneaux author of the new book I Cannot Date Jesus Love Sex Family Race And Other Reasons I have Put My Faith In Beyonce. It is a collection of personal essays about his early years growing up in Houston black Catholic and gay. He left the church about 16 years ago unwilling to remain in an institution that did not accept him for who he was. He writes for The Root and Essence and has an advice column on the site INTO which describes itself as a digital magazine for the modern queer world. So we have talked about how when you were young realizing you were gay not having people you could really talk to about it you turned to popular culture for you know images of gay men and for a better understanding of that and for  just for things you could really just connect to on some deep level. You came of age during the era of HIV. Your uncle the first person who you knew of who was gay died of AIDS so you just grew up naturally scared of what consequences sex could have for you. You had an article a few years ago from like 2014 that you have incorporated into your book that was headlined then At 30 I am Finally Tackling My Intense Fear Of Sex. Can you talk a little bit about what it was like to grow up with the specter of AIDS as you were coming of age sexually and wanting to connect with people?  I just immediately saw sex as something that could kill you. And the inconvenient truth is if  as a queer black male there is still very much an HIV/AIDS crisis for people who look like me. So it is something I have had to really wrestle with. I think  I just think there came a point that I could not deny myself pleasure anymore. And there were always methods of safe sex. I think I just kind of develop some early trauma and never really tackled it. And it controlled my life far longer than it should have because the reality is it has not changed as a queer black man. Like there is still a problem but now I am just safer and less afraid or at least I really really try Terry.  So did you have anybody to tell you about safe sex when you were coming of age sexually?  My mom at 12 as I was casually walking into the kitchen to grab something to eat and I think  was it  it was not Donahue  Oprah  one of those  she is just like yeah you know she was explaining how to put on a condom on a banana. And I was like girl I am 12 and I just started getting breasts and I am chubby. Who am I having sex with?  .  But yes she definitely let me know how to have sex. I just  I think we just both knew it was not with the person she wanted me to have sex with eventually.  Was she telling you about condoms for safety or for birth control?  My mom is not...  Well she is Catholic. Maybe that was not for birth control.  Well my mom is also an RN who takes care of new mothers so she sees plenty of moms of all ages so that is always on her mind  no grandbabies around her house at least not from a teenage boy.  So what do you think her motives were in showing you the condom?  I think she just wanted me to be safe. My mom told me about sex when I was like 3. I remember  she had to remind me of that because I was like  because I just always knew. I was like oh I knew where babies came from and I was like why do I know this? And she was like oh because I told you at 3. Then I reminded you again at some other age and I was like OK girl yes .  So coming of age and being scared to engage in sex initially because of your fear  your understandable fear  of AIDS did that also prevent you from being intimate with people you wanted to be intimate with emotionally?  Yes. So one thing I have really realized like particularly around the age of 30 31 is that I kept attracting unattainable people because I myself was unattainable. I was saying that I wanted to be with someone  I was verbalizing it but I was not doing the work and I was not truly allowing people in to allow myself that level of intimacy which actually if I had attained it sooner would have helped me kind of get over my fears about physical intimacy. But I have had to take responsibility for what I was not doing or not allowing and how that impacted my lack of relationships.  So when you did start having intimate relationships with other gay men you write that you lost your virginity after drinking a lot.  Yes.  And you lost it in a way that you felt you were you know manipulated or forced into. I am not sure which word to use. And I think it is fair to say you felt a little violated. Correct me if I am wrong.  I definitely felt violated. I think that is an accurate description. I have actually seen the guy in New York and I am pleasant but I will say about two years ago there was a moment where he touched me and I like immediately balled my fists up. And I had like a flashback to like what it  like I  like the immediate feeling I felt like kind of like later like wait this was not how it was supposed to be. I did not enjoy it for many reasons but for the  because I felt in hindsight a bit coerced and I was not really of the right mind. And that just was not how I wanted to lose my virginity.  But you know it is just so sad you know that you were so afraid of sex and then you lose your virginity after  you know OK you did some drinking but this man was not sensitive to what you wanted. And so this was your first time and you felt violated and you felt like it was not safe either.  Yeah. It was very anticlimactic to say the least. And it actually kind of delayed my journey into kind of fully embracing pleasure and sex and  for at least a couple more years. It kind of mangled what was already there. It is unfortunate that it happened but it did happen and I have learned what I could from it.  In June of 2015 you wrote an essay that was titled I am A Black Gay Man Learning To Be Okay With Dating People Who Do not Look Like Me. And you write about that as well in your new memoir I Cannot Date Jesus. Can you elaborate on what you mean when you say dating people who do not look like me?  I am very adamant about improving the image of queer black men and probably to a fault in that  well for the most part I was only social  I was really around black people so that is all I saw. That is all that I was around so that is all that typically attracted. And then when I moved to New York five years ago something different happened where I was not really  because I will usually have to approach people. Everyone says I have resting bitch face so I usually do the approaching. And the only people that really were receptive to me were not black men not necessarily white men because white men typically do not go for me either. Maybe like European white men you might hit on me but for the most part literally my demo has been mostly like just black guys. And then Latinx men were kind of more responsive; Asian men were. And so I was thinking in my mind like let us say you know God willing Beyonce willing I make it make it big and I finally get me a boo thang and he not black and then people are going to like oh here we go. Another black man that as not got  as not with a black man. So I am kind of put that pressure on myself. And you know there was this part of me that kind of just wanted to date someone that  I find every type of man attractive so I just like attractive men. But in terms of you know  sometimes I thought you know especially in this period that we are living in you want someone that understands your experiences and that you do not have to overly explain yourself because particularly a lot of my work is having to explain my perspective and sometimes having to defend it. So I did not want to have to have like in my personal life deal with that. But at the same time you know what I want is a connection. And whatever you know package the bae comes in I am fine with it. But it did take me a second to be like it will be OK if you do not date a black guy all the time. Like allow yourself to just be open you know? Do not worry about what people think. And that was actually one thing I picked up from my mom caring too much about what people think in that respect. So yeah I am over it now. If you fine and you single you will not give me no problems I am very single so what is up?  If you are just joining us my guest is writer Michael Arceneaux. He has a new memoir called I Cannot Date Jesus Love Sex Family Race And Other Reasons I have Put My Faith In Beyonce. We will be right back after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is writer Michael Arceneaux. His new memoir is called I Cannot Date Jesus Love Sex Family Race And Other Reasons I have Put My Faith In Beyonce. You know you write in your book that when you were young you were  what?  overweight a little chubby. I am not sure what word to use.  Yes. No I was fat. Yeah I was fat. It is fine.  OK. You are not now. I have seen you on TV recently.  No. I try to work out. I have to always do pushups because the sins of my chubbiness  still there. Like I used to literally look like I used to need a bra. But keep going. I am sorry.   OK.  My body dysmorphia took over. Sorry.  How  so how did body image affect you when you were you know first starting to be with other men  or wanting to but reluctant to?  Oh I did not want to take my shirt off which is like not how you are supposed to do it. A lot of gay men are really fit and not  and I know not all gay men but a lot of us are not kind to each other particularly in terms of our body. And so I joke like when my friends compliment me I am like yeah but I am still gay fat. And by that I mean like if I am not perfect then I am fat which is not the healthiest thing to say and I need to not even joke that way. But realistically you know a lot of gay men are very fit. And again we are not always that great to each other so you can be insecure and triggered that your body is like not what you want it to be like. I would still talk about I might need some CoolSculpting on Groupon to like get rid of like these little slight love handles. Like I cannot have this. I do not want nobody tugging on this and being like oh I cannot date you now because this is there. So that is another thing I am like really trying to let go of. I have conquered most of the like other stuff in the book but the body thing  I am better but yeah no I feel the pressure. I worked out before I came to see you talk to you.  I cannot even see you.   ...Because we are in separate studios. But I am sure you were not working out to impress me. You were just doing your vigilant workout.  No. You never know.   Do you find it validating to be a writer and frame your experiences in the way you want to as opposed to having other people frame your life in the way that they see you? It just  is it empowering?  I will say part of the journey in getting this book to be a real thing was that I was having many meetings with lovely people who would say all these nice things and then tell my agent I like everything about him; he needs to change this this this and that. I think typically the way you consume otherness particularly black people is largely pathological. And one person that I really love is David Sedaris and I like when he is able to take  mix humor and pathos. I think for some people it was a little bit harder to wrap their heads around the idea of consuming someone like me in that way. But it is very validating that I wrote the book that I wanted exactly how I wanted to do it and that so many different types of people are reading it and enjoying it. It proved me right. And actually it proved me and Beyonce right because again she is my center and I took that from her. This is like my Formation basically.   OK. You went to Howard University a historically black college. So how did that work for you you know being in a historically black college?  I love Howard University now. I did not