 Watching television between June and August according to our TV critic David Bianculli used to be a real chore and a real bore. These days he says it is anything but if you know where and when to look.  For the most part the story of broadcast television has gone like this Just as bears hibernate in the winter overtheair TV networks hibernate in the summer  from the end of May when the official TV season is over until midSeptember when it begins again. Oh every 10 years or so the broadcast networks will wake up and try something new and interesting  Survivor and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? a decade ago Northern Exposure a decade before that. But most of the time what CBS and the other broadcast networks give us is not much. This summer is not any different. Oh we have a fabulous summer run of Friday Night Lights on NBC but to those of us who saw these episodes already when they premiered on satellite television's DirecTV they are just another type of summer rerun. And some broadcast shows like Glee on Fox are worth watching more than once so that is something I guess. But where is the new stuff? Broadcast TV offers us plenty of firstrun shows this summer  more than in the past few years  but they are mostly realityshow or competitionshow junk like Downfall and Big Brother or subpar dramas like The Gates and The Bridge. The bright spots are few if you do not have cable or satellite TV but they are there. Fox has given us Bradley Whitford and Colin Hanks in the enjoyable cop comedy The Good Guys on Mondays. ABC has given us a thoughtful engrossing documentary series in Boston Med on Thursdays. And that is about it. Ah but on cable TV summer is the season when quality TV really ripens. I hate to toss out a long list but it is the quantity as well as the quality of summertime cable shows that counts. Instead of taking the summer off my TiVo is working harder than ever; trying to keep up with shows I watch and enjoy each and every week. On HBO just as Treme ended True Blood came back on Sundays  gorier sexier and funnier than ever. Showtime ended its seasons of Nurse Jackie and Secret Diary of a Call Girl but has not taken the rest of the summer off; its talkshow featuring comedianstalkingcomedy The Green Room with Paul Provenza was a delightful surprise  and in August Weeds returns paired with a new show starring Laura Linney On Tuesdays FX followed its new cop show Justified with the newest season of Rescue Me which is terrific  and with an ambitious new comedy from Louis C.K. called Louie which I really like. The Syfy channel has a bunch of fun shows that either returned or premiered this month Warehouse 13 on Tuesdays Eureka and Haven on Fridays. And BBC America has been active too. For genre fans it has the newest episodes of Doctor Who on Saturdays followed by a new season of Being Human which is an alternately goofy and dark series about a werewolf a vampire and a ghost all trying to just get along. BBC America also has what may be the sleeper hit of the summer in The Choir man in England building choirs from scratch and preparing them for international competition  and I absolutely adore it. That is a long list but hardly a complete one. I have not mentioned USA Network's Burn Notice which is back on Thursdays or the same network's new  Covert Affairs which just started on Tuesdays. Or TNT's Leverage which airs Sundays or Futurama which Comedy Central just resurrected on Thursdays. And intentionally I have saved the best for last because a show is returning that could save the summer all by itself. On Sunday July 25 AMC's Mad Men returns for its fourth season. Last season ended with Don Draper played by Jon Hamm quitting his job gathering some colleagues and planning to start a new renegade ad agency. That is where this new season begins  and all I will say about this opening hour of Matthew Weiner's fascinating drama series is that the dominant themes  from the very first moments  are about identity and reinvention. In fact here are the very first moments as Don is interviewed by a reporter from Advertising Age.  Unidentified Actor  Who is Don Draper? Mr.   Excuse me? Unidentified Actor  Who is Don Draper? Mr.   What do men say when you ask that? Unidentified Actor  Well they usually take a minute to think about it and then they do something cute. One creative director said he was a lion tamer. Mr.   I do not want to do that. In the third person? Unidentified Actor  I do not know. Knockout wife two kids house in Westchester take the train; maybe take your car  now that you can afford it? Mr.   Who told you that? Unidentified Actor  Anything? I mean now's your chance. Mr.   Well as I said before I am from the Midwest. We were taught that it is not polite to talk about yourself.  This is the Don Draper we have come to know and love  enigmatic softspoken preferring to let his ad campaigns and their successes speak for themselves. But in this new season as one of the partners in this new ad agency that Don Draper will not do. He has to sell himself as well as the products of his clients if his new agency is to make it. And he is not alone. Everyone around him in this period drama is struggling to navigate and survive the '60s. And as they all fight to do so they help make it easier for us to survive the summer of 2010.  David Bianculli is TV critic for TVWorthWatching.com and teaches television and film at Rowan University in New Jersey. For Terry Gross I am Dave Davies. 