Hey its Anna. A few weeks ago we got an email from Johnny Solomon. Johnny was the frontman of the indie band Communist Daughter until fairly recently. And he was a guest on our show back in 2018... along with his wife Molly and his mom Nancy. A lot has happened in our life since we spoke Johnny wrote to us but here I am beside my moms bed writing her obituary as she is ending life in hospice at home. I met Johnny and his family at his moms home in southern California. They were all living together at the time. Theirs is a story about family that I think about a lot. About Johnny and Molly becoming caregivers for his mom after his mom stepped up for him when he needed help because of his struggles with mental illness and substance abuse. Johnnys mother Nancy died on June 18th from pancreatic cancer. So were going to share their story with you again today. Rest in peace Nancy.  When I asked for help my mom dropped everything. And so when my mom had said that they were having trouble and they needed help I figured it would be better for us to just be here and make a life here. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. Just a year ago the Minnesota-based band Communist Daughter was on the road. They were promoting their second full-length album stopping at clubs radio stations and festivals across the country. But driving from gig to gig their lead singer Johnny Solomon was worried. A few months earlier he would gone to visit his mom and her husband outside San Diego. His wife Molly came too. She also sings in the band.  It was just... it became more and more evident that they really did need somebody close by.  She said like half crying that uh yeah that they needed help.  Did your mom specifically say what do you think about spending more time out here being here full-time for a period?  It did not it did not come off that nicely...  Yeah she is like It is time.   Do you guys want some coffee? Do you want some donuts? We met Johnny and Molly not on the road but at the two-bedroom bungalow in California that they now share with Johnny's mom Nancy and her husband Hugh. Hugh has dementia and Nancy has a degenerative nerve disease that is similar to multiple sclerosis. Johnny and Molly have become their live-in caregivers.  Like we are living in a guest room out of suitcases still.  So your clothes are not in drawers?  No. Well we have created um  We have done what we could out of you know.  We have taken like my dresser right now is I took out all of Nancy's files in her  So a file cabinet.  It is like a file cabinet made out of like wicker though. And so yeah that is my ...  It does not feel like...  Dresser.  We tour so much or we did tour so much that you know we are used to living out of small spaces and suitcases. Johnny sent us an email shortly after they moved to California last summer. He wrote It put our career our music my whole existence into a no man's land. My wife and I made our money touring but now we cannot really tour. My band and manager are all trying to figure out how the music goes on or if it does.  And I recognize this CD.  Yeah!  Mom has to have CDs!  We sat in their open living room where Johnny's mom Nancy has a big recliner that rotates around so she can keep watch on what is going on throughout the house. Molly and Johnny and I squeezed in around her.  I feel like we are like having a huddle right here. Because we are all gathered around...  I know just act natural!  Now we should all put our arms around... Nancy told me her illness makes it hard for her to move around much.  It takes all my energy. So I do not... I cannot do as much. So. It is beenit is been a very difficult... because I was a very active person.  Growing up she was the alpha female. You know I mean she is still the boss. She just now sits in her throne the whole time.    Well I kind of manipulate them.   That is something that Molly had to get used to. Mom has this way of like um bossing you around. But in a way that you can tell that she cares but it will be like Move that box sit right there move that chair over here. You know and it is like she cares. But it comes out as Mom is in charge.  Having four kids did it.  Having four kids did it Nancy said. Nancy is tall and broad-shouldered like her son. She is a psychiatrist one of the only women in her medical school class. She still works part-time at a local mental health clinic where she used to work full-time before her symptoms got worse. She was getting ready for a shift when I visited but generally her schedule is less busy these days.  Like Fridays she has her hair appointment. And and uh but then you know we come back and she is mostly here in this chair. Um so we are kind of running around and when she needs something fetching something. Uh  And we keep one person in the house. Yeah because I have fallen before. If I fall I cannot get up. Johnny told me that of all his siblings he was in the best position to come out to help. But he was not always someone that Nancy could rely on.  I think Mom has seen a huge change in me as a person in the last few years.  There has been a change. A very comfortable change. Throughout his 20s and early 30sas Johnny's music career was taking off and he was running a promising new restaurant near Minneapolishe struggled with substance abuse and undiagnosed mental illness. It tested his relationships with everyone in his life including his mom.  She was always stilllike loved me no matter what I did. And um 'ecause I was a meth addict I wasalcohol and meth. And you know people see... they see it from the outside but it is it is impossible to explain it from the inside of what it does to your soul what it does to every part of you. Where I mean I could lie all the time I could dojust this this dark part of me was just all of me. And and I did really terrible things to the people I loved.  And one time when he was here  I had a moment  He had... he was on and you had a moment and um he was yelling at me and disrespectful.  Yeah I was cussing at everybody. And yeah Molly was here for that too.  And when you when you say you were using meth like were youis it something you would buy? Were you ever making it?  Um I I always bought it. Um... there was a period for about two years I was using it every day. And um I would buy it and smoke it or eat it or snort it but then uh yeah I was spending I do not know six seven hundred dollars a week maybe on it? Um...  Did you have that money?   I found that money. I mean. I uh at the time I had a restaurant um which probably would have done really well 'ecause it was good food.  You got top 10 best new restaurants  Best new restaurants Midwest Living Magazine!  Midwest Magazine.  So when you say you found that money was it money that should have gone to other things? Or money that you got from other people?  Money that should have gone for other things. It was like in the budget of the restaurant to make sure I had you know about six hundred bucks a week that I would take out in cash. Yeah I mean. Yeah it is very unpleasant to think about. This was in 2010 when the band was promoting their first record and starting to have a lot of success. Johnny was falling apart. That became clear one night when the band was playing a big show in Minneapolis.  I got on stage and I was a disaster. I wasI mean it was it was rough.  It was embarrassing.  It was embarrassing. I mean and I was I was high and drunk and I mean I was heavy. I was  We started singing the song  sores on my face. Yeah. And to the point where like you know I think most people knew there was something wrong with me um and I ended up I would called my mom. And I was like I cannot wait any longer. You know this is I am like I am at the bottom and if it gets any lower it is going to get way worse.  Why was it your mom that you called?  Um I do not know. Maybe 'ecause that is the last person that would take my call. Um and I would asked her for help so many times and she would never said no. Um... even though so many people in my life had started saying no. And I just knew that and I knew whatwhen I called her I knew what I was asking for. And I knew she was the one who was you know she would know when I was serious. And and so she knew that I was asking for help for real.  If he did not get help it was over. That was in his voice.  Yeah I had nothing left. And I suddenly could not write songs anymore. And that is when I realized like oh like God's gonna take everything away from me unless I do something. So that is when I called my mom.  As a physician we always sent our physicians when they got into trouble to Hazelden. It was just something we did. And we were very we were we thought they did a good job. So I insisted that he had to go to Hazelden. And he did.  Did you help him pay for that did you pay for the treatment?   Yes.  Yes.  It is Death Sex  Money mom. So we gotta talk about all of them.  Oh yes. It took most of my retirement. It wasnot all of it but it took a big  It was an investment.  Yes it was a wonderful investment. Johnny went to rehab at a Hazelden Betty Ford treatment center in Minnesota for 45 days. Coming up I talk with Johnny and Molly about how his sobriety changed the dynamics of their band and made him surprisingly suited for caregiving.  People who know me know that I love things that only old people should love.  I am a big fan of The Golden Girls and Murder She Wrote and going to bed early.  Every week the Death Sex  Money team shouts out a couple of our favorite recent podcast episodes in our email newsletter which you can subscribe to right at our website deathsexmoney.org. And because it is prime road trip season we decided to make a playlist for you all of some of those audio recommendations. Our intern Mardy put it togetherthank you Mardyand it is filled with some really excellent podcast episodes from shows including the LA Times Asian Enough the New Yorker Radio Hour and NPRs Rough Translation whose recent episodes about a couple straddling the civilian-military divide are completely engrossing. And on the playlist weve included some of our top picks from Death Sex  Money as well. So when youre on your next road trip or wherever really and youre wracking your brain for what to listen to weve got you covered! You can text the word playlist to 70101 and well send you a link or you can find the link in the show notes for this episode.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. While Johnny Solomon was in rehab seven years ago his band Communist Daughter got their first major nationwide exposure. Grey's Anatomy used some of their music in an episode including this song Soundtrack to the End.   So did you you actually saw Grey's Anatomy and heard your song playing  In treatment.  In treatment were you in like a group room?  That was exactly what...  Yeah you have to ask to use the TV or to have um the room basically.  I am like we have to watch Grey's Anatomy and everyone gets to vote on what they are gonna watch and it was neat too because when you are in treatment you are with all these different people from all these different walks of life and there is a little bit of like... it is like I am a musician! Oh who are you? And it is like You have probably never heard of me... but now you have heard of me! Look I am on Grey's Anatomy! While he was in rehab Johnny was also diagnosed as bipolar. His mom Nancya psychiatristknew that was in their family history but she did not think Johnny was affected.  I did not think it was in my genes or did not think about it. So you know this is sad. But if they are on medication they are just as normal as everybody else.  Do you find yourself like doing clinical check-ins of Johnny? Do you sort of like  Yes she does.  I try not to. I think it always because of my training I cannot say I do not.  She asks me a lot about how much I sleep.  That that is probably true. I have to say uh...  It is totally fine.  I have all through my training when I am meeting with couples and things like that a lot of times I have told them okay 18. Your children are their own. They are no longer yours and you have to let them go. And you do kind of cry about it because you have spent all this time. But they have to have that choice. So I was so fortunate when one decided that I was a close part of his life. It was time for Nancy to leave to see patients at the clinic. Johnny helped her out the door.  Are you going to your room?  Oh my cane.  I have got your cane.  Ok. Johnny is 39 now. Molly his wife is 32. It is not clear how long they will have to live out here in southern California and that is caused a lot of uncertainty at a time when they really want to be planning for the future.  I mean it could be like a year of our life it could be ten years of our life.  What was the conversation like between you two when you were when it was first brought up about the possibility of moving out here full time?  Um honestly I wasI was pretty hesitant to get on the bandwagon there um 'ecause all my you know my. my whole family lives in Minnesota and we are pretty close and all my friends. And also it was... coming up on the time where we were starting to talk about kids and my whole thing was like I cannot be away from my mom when I you know that was something that was like really important to me. I do not know. Also my parents they are a lot younger um than John's. Um so I just was not really thinking about that yet. Johnny though has been looking for a change for a while. Since getting sober life as a touring musician has been harder.  I start getting really I get really angry I get really short. Um I get I feel really lonely even though like we are... you know I am surrounded by people the whole time. It is really hard to describe and you know sometimes the thing that is tough is that I am sober and I am bipolar and I have to be surrounded by drunk you know fun-loving party you know rolling through every town and it is like the last thing I wanna do uh and the last thing that is good for me.  Well it sounds like such a contrast to your routine now.  Yes! I love routine I love it 'ecause when things get out of control then I start to really lose control. And we had alwayswhen we were on tour we would always stop and stay in San Diego and it felt like this realit felt like this magical place where for two weeks out of our... very hectic and sometimes very stressful life we got to spend two weeks in San Diego having you know like eating oranges off the tree.  It was like a vacation yeah.  And so like to me it was always like would not this be great if we just moved to San Diego for a little bit? It would be this huge life shift where we would have to decide what we were doing with our life.  You know it strikes me that like figuring out different ways to make money at you know sort of an earlierlike having a kind of like in your thirties is this music thing gonna work out do I need to make money in another way you all have an extreme version of that? Um but I guess I imagine you have peers who have gone through similar sort of like is this gonna happen or is this not do we need to come up with a different plan?  Yeah and you know I think you know our idea of successwhen you are in your twenties you just think things will figure themselves out. If I do what I love things will figure themselves out and and now in my thirties my late thirties it is like oh well... yeah. Everyone knew you cannot make money in music like everyone knows that you know? And so I am at this age now where it is like if I do not figure something else out what else am I gonna do? You know like am I gonna be the guy who learned to play you know Irish folk tunes so I could you know do it Wednesdays at the local Irish pub or something? You know like but I do not know so like I luckily I have started to like what I thought would feel like kind of soul-sucking by looking somewhere else starts to feel actually kind of freeing. Molly and Johnny are living rent free now as they figure out what is next. Johnny's started taking online grad school classes to become a substance abuse counselor. Molly told me she was applying for pharmacy tech jobs. Their band Communist Daughter is still officially together. But they told me it feels like it is on hiatus. Most of their time is spent taking care of Johnny's mom and her husband. And they know that will only escalate especially as Nancy's illness progresses.  It is the thing with my mom where it is funny how like 90 percent of the time like when I wake up in the morning and I look at my day it looks like I do not have anything to do but as soon as you step out of that door it could be like oh you know mom has to go to a doctor now or you know like suddenly something happened with the bank and I have gotta run there and so you even though you have all this like you think you are gonna have free time you know you kind of have to be your schedule has to be kinda open.  Is she able to move in and out of the bathroom on her own?  It is hard it is really hard. It like wears her out so much um... so it is... probably gonna get to that point pretty soon and we are not sure um...  We have talked about maybe having somebody come in you know once a week or for bathing.  Yeah. But I do you know sometimes I have to help her put on articles of clothing or you know put on well pretty much every you know her jewelry I have to put that on. She cannot reach up high and her hands shake so...  And then there is you know just the things of like 'Mom you cannot walk around you cannot! You know you are going to fall over you are going to knock things over.' So you end up having these conversations where it is like 'You cannot no! Like I am going to pour your soy sauce.' And she is like you know a very smart very  Right. Right.  You know she was the boss for so long and now I am telling her she cannot pour her own soy sauce because...  It is funny how those roles get reversed and it is been a learning experience getting older.  I think being out here is interesting because it forces Molly's had to you know be vocal about certain things especially with my mom's way of dealing with things.  Yeah it actually has been good. 'ecause it is like making me a stronger person making me more  Give me an example. Can you think of something?  Um I am a very like I... I will go out of my way to do something nice kind of a person which I do not know that sounds so weird saying that out loud. But there have been times when you know I do not finish my breakfast or it gets cold 'ecause I have to you know help her do something that actually is not very important and it can totally wait. Like I have learned to be like 'Actually I am eating my breakfast right now so is it okay if I throw away the newspaper for you later?'  She is so bossy about the way she says things.  'Would you mind setting that on the counter next to you?' Or you know.  I love that thinking about that being like I get to say 'Can I please finish my breakfast?'  Yeah.  Like talking yourself into that?  Yeah. She is gotten a lot better though because you have pointed out those things to her so often.  It is weird now because it is becoming more of like... uh I feel more like a parent where I catch myself being I do not know well I know what kind of parent maybe I will be? I will be the like  Really. It is like a little glimpse into that?  Yeah and it is like not the good things. It is the things that are like oh this is going to really fluster me.  Do you feel like you have found a community at all here Molly yet?  Hm not no I have not but I kind of um...I am kind of enjoying it in a way like just having a lot of free time or at least like John says you expect to have free time. Um it is funny how that changes throughout the day. But um I do not know it is just such a different it is such a difference out here. You know you do not have a community and you do not have friends and you do not have  We have some friends that we have met through being on tour that like the musicians and some people came to some shows. Ms Yeah but we have not hung out with them still. Well once.  Yeah but they are in we are up here like in this kind of retirement little area and you know so it is like a 40 minute drive to go hang out with them. And we would but it is also I gotta be back here every night to make dinner and you know you cannot miss your shows.  We watch a lot of TV right now.  What have been your strategies to have privacy as a couple?   Well we have decided that once a month we will have like a date night where we  Once a month.  Once a month and we will go away to like a hotel or something.  And then every once in a while they will go out to eat dinner I think even if they do not want to they will go out you know once every couple weeks. Which is still then like we are looking at once every two weeks. But you know we talked about like this is a time in our life where we wanna talk about starting a family and so it becomes like how are we going to do that here? You know you do not wanna be changing diapers on both sides of things.  Hm.  It is this weird kind of morbid conversation that you have to have where you have to be like well will they die before we you know get pregnant so then we could go back to Minnesota? And that is like such a weird thing to like  Yeah.  To be like well we do not hope that.  No. Not at all.  But it is like could we make it work if you know if Molly gets pregnant out here? Would she resent me and you know like uh I do not know. It is just a lot of conversations where when it came down to it it was just like this is what felt like we had to do. Because if we did not do it what is the other option? That is Johnny and Molly Solomon and the Communist Daughter song Speed of Sound. After this conversation Nancys health continued to decline. She had a stroke and wasnt able to work anymore. Johnny and Molly lived with her for two years and when her health stabilized Johnny decided to take a job in Alaska working as a mental health and addiction counselor flying into remote Alaskan villages. Thats where he and Molly have been living ever since. They recently bought a house there and are preparing to become foster parents. The band Communist Daughter put out their farewell album called Unknown Caller last March. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. I produced this episode back in 2018. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Yasmeen Khan Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Will Huntsberry for his help on this episode. Our interns are Mardy Harding and Kristie Song. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram annasalepics thats P-I-C-S and you can find the show on Facebook Twitter and Instagram deathsexmoney. Sign up for our weekly newsletter on our website that is deathsexmoney.org. Thanks to Marcia Lovett in Fitchburg Wisconsin for being a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Marcia and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.