 This is FRESH AIR. Paul Simon has a new solo album his 13th called Stranger To Stranger. Our rock critic Ken Tucker says you will find Simon exercising his trademark wordplay while emphasizing rhythms created by exotic instruments to create what Simon has referred to as music with a sense of mystery.    My heart goes out to the street angels working their way down. My heart goes out to the street angels. I save my change for a street angel working his way down. I had this exchange with a street angel. Nobody talks to me much. I said nobody talks to me much  nobody.  Now in his mid70s Paul Simon keeps awfully active and adventuresome. He began working on the music that forms his new album Stranger To Stranger soon after the release of his last album 2011's So Beautiful Or So What. Simon recently wrote and sang the theme song to Louis C.K.'s daring online TV show Horace And Pete. Stranger To Stranger is equally daring an effort to compose Paul Simon music that sounds simultaneously like the Simon we have known for more than half a century and a Simon we have never heard before.    Milwaukee man led a fairly decent life made a fairly decent living had a fairly decent wife. She killed him  sushi knife. Now they are shopping for a fairly decent afterlife. The werewolf is coming. The fact is most obits are mixed reviews. Life is a lottery a lot of people lose. And the winners the grinners with moneycolored eyes eat all the nuggets then they order extra fries.  That song The Werewolf uses rhythms similar to the ones to be heard on the song that opened this review Street Angel. They were created by the Italian dance music producer who uses the name Clap! Clap! Simon has been interested in rhythms outside the confines of American folk music for a long time most notably on his greatest solo success Graceland in 1986. In notes he is written for Stranger To Stranger Simon talks about utilizing Spanish flamenco and some of the unique instruments created by the avantgarde composer Harry Partch. He is in short a synthesizer of sounds. But to his credit here he has not created songs that exist as mere experiments. They are very much rooted in the ongoing concerns of Paul Simon.    Frightened by the tone of a phone in the dead of night. Then staring into darkness and praying to the morning light. Price already paid I saw him go up to the grave. Now the sorrowful parade to the river.  That is The Riverbank a song Simon says was partly inspired by the experience of playing at the funeral of one of the teachers killed during the Newtown Conn. school massacre. It scrupulously avoids melodrama or moralizing. Indeed it is on a song about a much lighter topic that Simon becomes more overtly political. It is called Wristband about a musician who is prevented by a security guard from entering the hall where he is giving a concert because he is not wearing the proper wristband.    I stepped outside the backstage door to breathe some nicotine. And maybe check my mailbox see if I can read the screen. Then I heard a click the stage door lock. I knew just what that meant. I am going to have to walk around the block if I want to get it. Wristband my man. You have got to have a wristband. If you do not have a wristband my man you do not get through the door. Wristband my man. You have got to have a wristband. If you do not have a wristband my man you do not get through the door.  As snappy as the elastic band he is singing about Wristband could have been just the whine of a famous person complaining about not being recognized as the star he is. But in the final verse of Wristband Simon opens up the scope of the song turning the possession of a wristband into a metaphor for entitlement for the way most people are never issued the kind of opportunity or blessing to achieve what an exalted few in power are given. It is a funny song but also a humane one. In a similar way Simon picks up a character he describes in the song Street Angel and fills out the story of a homeless person in this propulsive composition.    Some nights the ER is quiet as an EKG. But tonight it feels like every broken bone tonight it feels like every wounded soul is filling out a form or on the phone. I cannot talk now I am in a parade. I cannot talk now I am in a parade. Cannot talk to you now I am in a parade. I cannot talk now I am in a parade. Diagnosis Schizophrenic. Prognosis guarded medication Seroquel. Occupation street angel.  It is entirely possible to listen to all of this album and never trouble your mind with the concern Paul Simon scatters throughout various lyrics. And that possibility is definitely something Simon has striven hard to achieve here. He is created music that can be heard on a number of levels as pure pleasure first and foremost but also as more anxious or ambivalent or angry or puzzled if you choose to delve deeper. He succeeded in both of these goals with the tidy precision he shares with the artisan and the poet.  Ken Tucker is critic at large for Yahoo TV. He reviewed Paul Simon's new album Stranger To Stranger. If you would like to hear FRESH AIR interviews you missed check out our podcast where you will find lots of interviews including this week's with Andy Samberg Jorma Taccone and Akiva Schaffer who made the new film comedy Popstar about a hiphop boy band. I am Terry Gross.    Oh Lord do not keep me up all night sidebyside with the moon. With its desolate eyes miles from the sunrise the darkness inviting to me. The insomniac's lullaby. A siren is playing its song in the distance. 