 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. The apocalypse has arrived in the new movie comedy This Is the End starring my guest Seth Rogen who cowrote and codirected it with my other guest Evan Goldberg. They also cowrote the movie Superbad. This Is the End is set in L.A. and features Rogen James Franco Jonah Hill Craig Robinson Danny McBride and Jay Baruchel playing themselves. Rogen and his friends have been at a party at James Franco's house when what they think is an earthquake turns out to be the Rapture the end of days. Several of their friends fall into the pits of hell and then these remaining six friends barricade themselves into Franco's home and struggle to survive. This Is the End is filled with references to endoftheworld and disaster films zombie movies and The Exorcist. One standard scene in endoftheworld films is the survivors taking stock of their remaining provisions arguing over how to divide them fairly. In This Is the End the provisions they have left are 12 bottles of water 56 beers two vodkas four whiskeys six bottles of wine tequila Nutella cheese steaks and a Milky Way which is where this clip picks up.    How are we going to deal with this?   Um can I have that Milky Way?   No you cannot have the Milky Way. That is my Milky Way. I went out this morning specifically bought this Milky Way to eat after my party.  That is weird.  It is not weird. It is my special food. I like it. Back me up on that Seth.  I do not think you should get the whole Milky Way. I want some of the Milky Way.   I will be pretty bummed if I do not at least a bite of the Milky Way.  Oh now Craig wants a bite of the Milky Way.  Yeah I want a bite of the Milky Way.  Everyone gets a fifth of everything.  I want onefifth of your Tshirt. I want the bottom part the belly.  I am not sporting a croptop in your house.  I will cut that off and make a headband.  You could not handle my midriff.  Guys the only issue is I kind of need the Milky Way. No for real I have low blood sugar and if my endorphins drop too low I am going to be a nightmare to be around.  What?  Your LBS starts acting up you can have a finger scoop of Nutella OK?  One finger scoop of Nutella.  Fair.  Seth Rogen Evan Goldberg welcome to FRESH AIR. So you have decided in your new movie that the world would end with the Rapture as loosely based on the Book of Revelation from the New Testament. So in your version like the good people are raptured to heaven and the bad people kind of drop into deep pits into hell or are forced to face catastrophes on Earth similar to  similar to what happens in zombie movies.  Yeah yeah we are kind of holed up in a house yeah.  Right that you board up like in the zombie films and...   Exactly yeah.  So why did you decide to choose that as your end of the world to choose the Rapture and the Book of Revelation as the jumpingoff point?  Well as two young Jewish gentlemen...  Exactly.   We always thought it was really funny that...  Evan I try to hide that I am Jewish. Please do not bring that up on NPR.  We always found it funny that people genuinely think we are going to hell.  Yeah we had a friend in high school actually who was like really into the Christian stuff and like he was a good friend of ours and he went to like Christian like day camp and stuff and got like kind of more into these like Christian kind of youth groups.  Yeah and he never treated us poorly; he was never unkind to us.  No he was supercool to us but one day it came up conversationally kind of we were talking about heaven and hell and all that stuff and then we were like Do you think we are going to hell? He was like Yeah I do unfortunately.   Yeah he was like I am super bummed about it but you are going to hell.  Yeah he is like it sucks but you guys are probably going to go to hell. And it was kind of just always like a funny concept to us that like I mean not every Christian believes it obviously that literally I think. But a lot of people I would say like a vast majority of people in this country at least are taught that like you know if you are good you go to heaven and if you are bad you do not you know?   And as...  And if you are Jewish you need to convert.  And if you are Jewish you are definitely going to hell.  And even then.  Exactly if you convert you have still got a rough road ahead. So it was to us  I mean that was actually one of the most entertaining concepts of it and that is really why we gravitated towards it because it is such like a popular thought you know so many people have that notion.  You quote from the Book of Revelation in the movie. Did you actually go and read it?  We did but we actually kind of changed it to be a little more like concise at times.  It is all up to interpretation.  Exactly. We unabashedly changed the Bible in a few parts here and there.  Yeah we used to have on the script Based on the book by God. But we changed that.   But it is very  all the ideas like the smoke like the sinkholes and the smoke and...  The imagery is in there.  The imagery the hills on fire. Like all those ideas are stuff from the actual Bible which we did read. And reading it it was like crazy. We were just like this is unbelievable.  Yeah I thought it would be wild but it is like  like Lord of the Rings got nothing on this.  Yeah and it is like what is in the movie like it is really like we  we do not take that many liberties with what happens you know.  So in the movie at first people think well you and Jay Baruchel who you are with think it is an earthquake and the deep pits are being formed by the earthquake although there is all kinds of other inexplicable phenomenon happening. But the earth is opening up and swallowing people. And watching that scene I was reminded that Seth when you and I recorded our first interview back in 2008 you were at NPR West in L.A. as you are right now and I was in Philadelphia in our studio as I am now. And there was an earthquake in the middle of the interview.  Yeah.  And we never broadcast the part where you realized that the earth is shaking but...  Really?  But we still have that as an outtake and I want  you to hear it and I want our listeners to hear it.  Oh that I always wondered what happened.  Yeah I was just going to say you better play it for us right now.  We are going to. So you and I had been talking about how a lot of like young comic actors got their start on Saturday Night Live and then ended up in movies but you are not one of them you never did the Saturday Night Live thing. So we will pick up right there.   It is true you know that never  whoa there is an earthquake happening right now in L.A.  Seriously?  Yeah I think so.  Is the studio shaking?  Yeah.  Do you need to evacuate?  No I do not think so.  Well if you do just say the word.  Either that or I am completely losing my mind.  It is not that the interview is shaking you up.  Yeah exactly.  Yeah hang on one sec.  I could be completely wrong. Maybe my chair's just messed up.  Is it still shaking?  No not at all.  OK OK so can I ask you...  Yeah keep going.  So we resumed...  That is crazy.  Is not that crazy? So we resumed the interview and then...  I remember thinking I assume someone would have come in and got me if there was an earthquake.  I like how you did nothing you are supposed to during an earthquake.   I just sat there.   I was hoping it was going to be like oh God we are all going to die oh no.  I dealt with it in a pretty mellow way it seems like.  Very mellow very mellow.  That is how you might die one day Is this an earthquake? No crush.  I think there is an earthquake happening boom the ceiling collapses on me.   Wait but we are not done yet we are not done yet. So you and I we continued doing the interview and then at the end of the interview one of our producers walks into the studio and talks to me and I am going to pick up with my reaction.  OK.   Oh my God wow. Seth?  Yeah?  You just survived a 5.8 magnitude earthquake. Our producer just said they heard it on CNN.  I told you. I am so glad that there was an earthquake and I am not  losing my mind. Honestly for the last 10 minutes I am like I just I lost my . There was no earthquake.  Wow. Well  well gee I hope you are nowhere near the epicenter of that. I guess you would have felt it a little more strongly.  I hope my toy collection at home is OK. I have got to call my girlfriend.  Yeah well let me let you go. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  OK be well. OK.  OK byebye.  Byebye. OK so...  My toys were OK for the record.  Thank goodness thank goodness.  But a tree fell over outside my house actually.  And none of your toys fell?  Yeah.  Do you stick them to the shelf?  No no it was shocking. But it fell the next day the tree is what was weird. Like that day it was fine. I remember because it was during The Pineapple Express premiere all our friends were here for Pineapple Express.  Exactly exactly.  And yeah that was crazy. I remember I was a little hungover I think because the premiere was the night before and I probably did not want to say so but I am like Am I just like really messed up?   Is that what I am experiencing right now? But thank God. I remember being so relieved when I heard there was an earthquake.  So but this of course made me wonder like How afraid are both of you of the big one? You live in L.A. you are from Canada. I do not think Canada faces a lot of like earthquakes.  No no.  When the big one happens Vancouver gets it worse than L.A.  Yeah Vancouver actually it is funny like you are always taught that the big one is coming.  Yeah we did earthquake drills every single year every semester all of our schooling.  And there was actually a joke in the movie that we did not use that much but where I kept saying it is the big one. Like that was my theory like guys I think this could just be the big one. Like we have all heard about the big one. It happened that was the big one you know. But I think we realized that not many people are as familiar with the big one as us West Coast Pacific Rimmers.  So in the movie James Franco has  playing himself  has built his own house which is earthquakeproof. And so he is convinced that he is kind of famous enough wealthy enough and he built his own earthquakeproof home so like he is safe. Is that a joke about some of the people who you have met in Hollywood who feel quite immune to it because they are privileged?  It was kind of the idea that we were tapping into I guess is that you meet people who kind of like do seem like they have forgotten that they are vulnerable to the regular things that normal people in the world are vulnerable towards you know. And actually they probably are not in a lot of the same ways. You know it is probably not a complete misconception on their behalf. Like a lot of rich people just do not have to deal with a lot of the stuff that you know that people who do not have money do have to deal with. But an earthquake does affect everyone.  If there is an earthquake Franco will be in an airplane somewhere and safe flying to another location.   John Hurt in Contact yeah.  You have gotten your friends to play themselves in the movie. Seth Rogen you play yourself Jonah Hill plays himself James Franco Danny McBride Craig Robinson Michael Cera Jay Baruchel. Evan you do not act as far as I know so you are not in the movie playing yourself. Can you talk about  both of you talk about writing Seth's character?  I am sure Evan that you had some input into that as well as Seth.  Well we always screw up writing Seth's character because we always want to not be putting all the attention on him you know because like he is usually the star in the movies we make and we write it together and now we are directing it. So we always leave his character to last. He is always the worst character and then in the 11th hour we put a lot of work into fixing his character and we did it again on this one.  It is true. Like we always do not want to be accused of having spent too much time on my character. And actually going into the movie you know Franco's directed himself in some movies and I was like do you have any advice for me as someone who is about to be you know directing myself in a movie. And he actually said like I do actually. It is going to be your instinct to spend less time on you than everybody else. It just will that will happen. And he is like you have to fight that instinct because like you are just one of  also just one of the actors in the movie and you have to make sure that like you get as much you know time as everyone else does which I think we still did not. But I mean we knew  in the writing of it we knew like in real life in a lot of ways like I am kind of the common thread between all these guys. Like it is not  that part of it is kind of real. And so that element we really wanted to kind of monopolize on and maximize and that kind of became where the idea of the movie came from just emotionally is that like I am kind of stuck in the middle of this old group of friends and this new group of friends which I kind of you know was at times right Evan?  You were. You were torn.  It is kind of like you honestly. Like when you...  People were threatened by me when I showed up.  And you did not like a lot of my friends that I had at the time.  Yeah yeah it is true.  It is. It actually is more representative of how it was when I was working in L.A. for a little while and Evan came down to visit.  I never thought of that.  I actually never thought about that either until right now.   Yeah I came down and I said Who are these schmucks?  Exactly and they said Who is this schmuck?  Seth one of the things your character says is I am a victim I have had a victim's mentality my whole life. True?  A little bit. For a while when I was young I was an inherently kind of soft child.  Well who was  there was a guy who picked on you at Talmud Torah.  Yeah I got picked on by a couple guys at my Jewish school incessantly. Like it really drove me crazy. Like it was so brutal. And it did not last like  it lasted like a year maybe something like that but long enough that it really sucked. And then I started taking karate though and then nobody picked with me much after that.   Evan did you have to...  Essentially the story of The Karate Kid.  Exactly.  But just Seth.  I am Jaden Smith or Ralph Macchio in The Karate Kid.  My guests are Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg. They cowrote and codirected the new endoftheworld comedy This Is the End. More after a break this is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guests are Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg. They are writing directing and producing partners and they wrote and directed the new film This Is the End which is an endoftheworld comedy and Seth Rogen is one of the stars along with several of their friends including Jonah Hill James Franco Danny McBride Michael Cera and others.  Yes.  When you were making This Is the End did you go back and watch a lot of you know zombie films and you know endoftheworld films? And there is a funny exorcism Exorcist sequence in there.  Yeah tons.  Almost nothing we do is original.  Yeah exactly. I mean it is heavily  you know I think we really come from like the film fan school of moviemaking in a lot of ways and we do not pretend that like you know imagerywise and just like conceptwise there is a lot of original ideas out there. So what we do is just kind of try to you know repackage them in the most original way we can think of you know.  And with this movie in particular with it being an apocalyptic situation which is...  There is so many of these types of movies that like...  But it is just we wanted people to relate to it. We did not want to reinvent the wheel and make something look like something you have never seen. We wanted people to see it and say like I know what that means.  It is true. Like to us it was almost funny that we had taken this like very simple concept that was almost like too familiar and applied this like kind of weird meta you know humorous twist on it you know. So yeah we watched like Dawn of the Dead obviously I mean the original one and the  I mean those are movies about like people kind of stuck in places as there is like a force outside kind of trying to get them. Like that was...  Yeah like Apocalypse Now was a big one first. You have got five or six guys stuck on a boat in the craziest situation ever. It is not necessarily an actual apocalypse film but pretty close.  Yeah it kind of is and like they are just kind of floating through this hellish landscape in this kind of insulated environment.  And some of them deal well and some of them really do not.  Yeah Apocalypse Now we really watched a lot. And then like obviously The Exorcist we watched and Rosemary's Baby is a movie that we looked at.  And another big one was John Carpenter's The Thing.  Yeah The Thing...  Oh yes. Yeah yeah.  I thought so.   Yeah we have a match sequence where people are choosing a match to see who goes outside to get water.  I mean there is so many of these movie. So I mean yeah we really tried to draw off of the best ones and just kind of do our own ridiculous mostly stupid twist on how these movies you know execute these things.   One of my favorite moments is you know is early in the movie and the pits of hell have opened and many of your friends are like falling into it and some of them are hanging on by their fingernails over the edge of the pit. And Jay Baruchel who plays himself is hanging on at the edge of the pit and one of your friends is next to him. I am not sure who that person is.  David Krumholtz.  David Krumholtz yeah.  Oh OK and he is hanging on like by one hand or something. And then why do not you repeat what Jay Baruchel says to him.  Well it is just like it is out of like Cliffhanger almost that moment. It is like the classic guy falling off the ledge and Dave is like can you hold me and he is like yeah I will grab you and I will swing you up over the edge.  And the whole twist with this is it is physically impossible.  It is literally impossible.  There is no version of him swinging unless he is like triplejointed.  Exactly he is like you can do it I can do it give me your hand I can do it. You promise? Yeah I can do it. And then he does it and he just instantly drops into the hole.   I have grown  I grew up with so many versions of that scene where one guy is hanging on by his fingernails and somebody else says grab my arm or grab my hand and just kind of lifts him to safety. And I always thought like how can you do that?  It would be impossible.   I feel like if I tried I could do it with like a 110pound girl and that is it.  Maybe.  Any bigger and there is no chance.  But even still...  Oh yeah I could not reach down pick up a 100pound weight and pull it up.  You get like a fulcrum and like swing them across. It would be impossible.  So one of the scenes is a satire of The Exorcist or one of the exorcism sequels one of The Exorcist sequels. So Jonah Hill is possessed by the devil in this scene and he is in bed you know tied down but possessed by the devil. And then Jay Baruchel walks in with a cross made out of kitchen utensils a spatula and something else because they do not have crosses in James Franco's home where they are holed up.  No he is not  he is halfJewish.  He is halfJewish.  Yes so here's an excerpt of that scene  again Jonah Hill is tied onto the bed possessed by the devil and Jay Baruchel is approaching him with a cross made out of kitchen utensils.    Jonah Hill? Jonah? Jonah Hill?   Jonah Hill is no more.  Demon?  Yes.  That is not good. That is not good.  Jay you fool.  I say unto thee The power of Christ compels you.  Oh does it? Does it compel me?  The power of Christ compels you.  Does it Jay?  The power of Christ compels you.  Is the power of Christ compelling me? Is that what is happening?  The power of Christ compels you.  Guess what? It is not that compelling.   That is a good radio choice.  Yeah it plays well over the radio.  I like the way you know it is like the demon's making like really cheap jokes.  Exactly. It is still Jonah.   So when you were watching all the exorcism movies and deciding like what do we want out of it what were you thinking?  At first actually we had it be  we kind of had it be more traditionally like what  like from The Exorcist Jonah was kind of spewing this like biblical you will go to hell and do all this stuff I literally cannot repeat the stuff they say in The Exorcist. But actually well then what happened is we wrote what we thought was like crazy stuff for Jonah to be saying and then we watched the original Exorcist. And what she says in that movie is like the craziest stuff you could ever possibly say. And it is coming out of like a 10yearold girl. So it was like so much edgier than what we had written that we realized with Jonah actually kind of in the moment he was like we have to go the other way. We are not going to top  like what they say in the actual Exorcist is so dirty and disgusting that like that joke will not be funny. What is funny is I am just talking exactly how a jerk would be talking to Jay in that situation basically and because you will affect my voice it is almost like the more normal I am talking the kind of funnier it will be. And...  And it sets up well the first two  you know like Jonah Hill is no more. You think that the normal stuff is going to come your way that he is going to say the biblical torture stuff. And then it just goes a hard turn in the other direction.  Later on like when it starts working he is like seriously stop. Like seriously seriously stop. Like that was just cracking us up because it is like it is exactly what just a regular guy would say in that situation.   Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg will be back in the second half of the show. They cowrote and codirected the new film comedy This Is the End. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg. They cowrote and codirected the new endoftheworld comedy This Is the End. Rogen James Franco Jonah Hill Craig Robinson Jay Baruchel and Danny McBride play themselves. Rogen and Goldberg also cowrote the film Superbad and were executive producers of the films Knocked Up and Pineapple Express. You both met when you were young like 13.  Bar mitzvah class.  Bar mitzvah class.  Bar mitzvah class. We were 12 years old I think.  Uhhuh. What were bar mitzvah classes like?  Well Seth went to a Jewish day school and I went to a public school but I had to go to afterschool Hebrew school and so we would cross paths every day...  Yeah.  ...because my synagogue where I went to the afterschool was beside him.  He got dropped off at the parking lot I got picked up in.  So we always had like 30second interactions...  Yeah.  ...but then both our schools merge in grade seven so you can learn your Haftorah portion for your bar mitzvah.  Yeah. Tallits and Tefillin it was called T and T.  And the real reason you went is because they gave you chocolate milk and delicious bagels.  They did give you chocolate milk and bagels. It was fantastic.  And Seth was the very loud guy from the day school. And I was the very loud guy from the afterschool.  But really what it is  and I was thinking about this  because we were in the bar mitzvah class you have to invite all the people in your bar mitzvah class to your bar mitzvah. So suddenly me and Evan went to like dozens of bar mitzvahs together all the time. Basically like every weekend of grade seven me and Evan were at a bar or bat mitzvah together and that is I think when we really started becoming friends.  And the other big thing is Sammy Fogle who the character McLovin is farsely based upon...  In Superbad.  From Superbad...  Yeah.  Yeah. He was...  Was our third friend.  Yeah. He was our third friend and he was my good friend and he was Seth's good friend and we did not really know each other as well so he kind of merged us together.  He was like the common  and we all knew we were going to the same high school together so...  And we all knew we were going to be nerds there.  Yeah. We all knew we would probably be losers so we should stick together.   So describe your bar mitzvahs.  My bar mitzvah  both of our bar mitzvah parties were at the same place. It was in...  Yours was  I do not remember yours.  Richmond Country Club.  All I remember about mine is my mother the cantor at the synagogue retired. The cantor if you do not know like kind of sings the  he is the best singer.   Ya da dee...  So he retired so mine was musically themed because my...  He is a singer at the religious ceremonies...  Yeah. He sings the prayers.  Yeah. And my mother bought the decorations from his retirement party so I also had a musically themed bar mitzvah even though I am not musical.   That is really funny. I remember my mom got like a squaredancing teacher or something to come to my bar mitzvah...  Yeah.  ...which was very lame.  I was the  my trendsetting moment was my bar mitzvah had the first like temporary tattoo guy.  Oh yeah I remember that actually.  It was big stuff back in that time and day.  That was big stuff.  So in Superbad which is based on your friendship in high school and the characters are named Evan and Seth.  Yeah.  Evan is played by Michael Cera and Seth by Jonah Hill. When you were actually in high school were you as obsessed with sex as the character Evan and the character Seth in the movie?  I think I speak for every young boy on Earth when I say yes.  Yeah.   Definitely. And it really seemed like it was maybe never going to happen like that was really like the overwhelming thought that we talked about.  Yeah. The general consensus amongst the dudes was if this does not happen by like 18 I am going to kill myself.  Yeah. And it just...  And thank goodness we all got there at 18.  I might have been 19 I do not even know. But still in that vicinity. But...  But you are just you are ready to rock when you are 14 and it is not happening.  Yeah. And some people you know you hear oh that guy had this happen and this guy and this girl did this to that guy and you are just like oh my god. It is just like yeah it was all we thought about. It was crazy.  Were you insecure about your looks like your characters in the film?  Yeah.  I would say I do not think...  We were pretty goofy looking. We had every right to be insecure.  Yeah. Insecure is the wrong word. We were realistic.  We were aware of our looks.   There were some like really handsome dudes and there were track dudes.  Yeah.  And then there was us.  Not to say we could not have gotten more girls than we did and I suppose...  Oh we definitely could have.  ...we definitely could have looking back but we just did not. But like yeah we were insecure but we were not greatlooking guys. I had dreadlocks for some of high school. I had colored hair...  I mean there is not like calendars of hot Jews.   It is almost like I made a list of like what can I do...  Yeah James Franco the exception...  Exactly.  Usually the Jew gene brings you down a notch.  Not a lot of hot Jews.   Is Ewan McGregor Jewish? I do not think so.  Of course...   This is a fairly personal question or a very personal question. How worried were you the first time that it would not...  I was pretty worried. I think the first time I was so nervous that I definitely it was not like the most graceful experience.   No mine was like the  mine was like like I felt the miracle of Hanukkah was happening to me.   Like someone up there was looking down saying you know what Evan deserves this.  Here you go pal.  Let us give him a good first go.   There is a scene in Superbad where the Evan character is at a party and the girl who he has a crush on  who has a crush on him too  is at the party and she gets really drunk. And when she is drunk her personality kind of changes you know she becomes she becomes the girl she thinks she should be in order to be pleasing and seductive. Because she is seen a lot of movies and she knows according to the movies this is how it is supposed to be. So you know they go up to a bedroom and then she starts like dancing and stripping...   ...because that is what you see in the movies. And the Evan character is looking kind of baffled and thinking why is she doing this? That is like not like her. What is going on? I like that scene and I think it is an interesting scene for you guys to have written for a teenage girl. And I am interested in hearing how you wrote that scene.  Well it is largely based on some on two disastrous hookup sessions I had that...   I think it is based on the general idea that like you think alcohol is going to make things better and it generally does not. That is like the...  Yeah. Yeah.  That is like the general seed of the idea I think which is like they spend their whole the whole movie trying to get alcohol and it is what essentially ruins the experience for them you know?  Because that was our thought as kids  like we get a girl drunk we are drunk appropriately everything's cool and that is when it happens.  And then you start to hook up with girls when you are both actually really drunk and you realize like it is a disaster like it never is how it should be or  and now you know you know that. So I think that is where like the kernel of the idea came from...  But I would also say like...  Yeah.  ...you just looked into it deeper than I think we ever did. And I think the actress Martha MacIsaac who played that role kind of go