 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in today for Terry Gross. When police used smoke flash grenades and chemical spray to clear protesters from Lafayette Square near the White House Monday night for a photo op of President Trump holding a Bible in front of a historic church the action drew heated criticism. But not much of it came from congressional Republicans who were mostly silent or supportive. Our guest journalist and historian Anne Applebaum has a new piece in The Atlantic examining the motives and behavior of Republican leaders who she says have abandoned their principles to support a president who is built a protoauthoritarian cult in the White House. In the article and a forthcoming book Applebaum draws on her years of experience writing about Eastern Europe for many publications. She is also the author of several books including Gulag A History which won the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction in 2004. Anne Applebaum is a staff writer for The Atlantic. Her forthcoming book is Twilight Of Democracy The Seductive Lure Of Authoritarianism. Her piece in The Atlantic is titled History Will Judge The Complicit. I spoke to her from my home in Philadelphia. She was at her home in Chobielin Poland. We spoke yesterday morning. Later that day former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis issued an extraordinary blistering critique of the Trump presidency writing Donald Trump is the first president in my lifetime who does not try to unite the American people does not even pretend to try; instead he tries to divide us. Well Anne Applebaum welcome back to FRESH AIR. I want to begin a bit by talking about the events of last week. You have spent a lot of time thinking and writing about authoritarian regimes and the drift to authoritarianism. Give me your take on the president's handling of the protests sparked by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis.  So I think all of us could see that this is a president whose instincts are profoundly authoritarian that his first reaction to the combination of events that happened  there were legitimate protests; there were riots; there was some infiltration of protests by other groups  his first reaction was shut it all down. You know he got on the phone with America's governors. He told them they needed to dominate the situation. They need to have everyone be quiet everyone stop talking. And his instinct his personal instinct as we saw was to tear gas protesters in Lafayette Square walk through the  you know walk through the cleared space stand in front of a boarded up church where he would been neither invited nor had he warned that he was coming hold up a Bible as a kind of totem as a sort of symbol of his identity as a message to his followers and walk away. What is important is that his instincts were not those of what  that previous presidents would have had which was  would have been to find words that unite the nation to find words that heal people to find the language that brings the extremes together and reminds people of what our core values are and our belief in democracy and freedom and the right to speak and the right to gather and the right to  and freedom of the press and so on. No his instincts were not that. His instincts were to message his followers and his groups and to shut down the conversation. And that is a profoundly antidemocratic and profoundly authoritarian instinct.  Right. Now he has said that the death of George Floyd was a terrible tragedy and that peaceful protest is to be respected and that it is the violence it is the vandalism and the looting that is the problem  that that is why you need a more forceful response.  He is made those pro forma statements. You know he has people around him who are pushing him to say things like that. But he has not made an appeal to our sense of oneness as a nation. He has not made an appeal to America's multiethnic identity. He has not sought to bring people together. And he has not used the language of democracy  the language which by the way was used in the last couple of days by President George W. Bush which has been used by Barack Obama which has been used by you know a plethora of other leaders from other major institutions. He has not sought that language because he sees that kind of language as a threat to him. In other words he wants to position himself on one side of the political spectrum. You know I am with the people who want all of this shut down. And he wants the rest of the political spectrum to be seen as his enemies and traitors and people who are not really American. So his  he has not been able to heal the nation because he instinctively cannot do it. He cannot bring himself to use that traditional language of the Constitution and of democracy.  There is also the issue of the use of the military in civilian conflict. Now we have not seen tanks in the streets a la Tiananmen Square. There were reports that military helicopters were hovering over protesters in Washington so that they would be blown away by the winds of the rotor wash of those helicopters. And he is certainly of course talked about getting the military directly into this. What does all that tell you?  He wants the military involved because he wants the military to be seen as a kind of partisan tool that is on his side. You know he wants  again he wants this show of force and violence. And again this is not to say that there could not be legitimate use of police that you know it is not important to protect the White House or that it is not important to stop looting in  not just in Washington but all over the country. But using the military against civilians is a way of telling people these civilians are not real Americans; they are enemies. And remember that he is using the military not against people who are rioting and looting; he is using the military against people who are protesting peacefully. And by sending that message that these protesters are not legitimate that we are using you know the nation's force against them he is deepening national polarization and he is again sending a message to his followers that he is speaking for them. You know he is not trying to speak for the nation or for the country; he is speaking for his tribe.  Does this moment remind you of developments you have seen in other countries that have drifted towards authoritarianism?  I mean look  absolutely. The use of the military the use of language to incite violence  you know all these are  you know these are not just random things that Trump is doing; these are known tactics. You know this is how Chavez took over in Venezuela. You know this is the kind of language that Erdogan uses in Turkey. This is the kind  these are the tactics that Putin uses in Russia. I mean these are  you know it is not coming out of the blue. These are methods that have been used in the past in other places. I mean Americans like to think of themselves as exceptional. And actually I believe in many ways we are. You know we are a uniquely lucky. We are uniquely gifted. We have been a very fortunate nation. We have had  you know we have achieved many wonderful things. But we are not exempt from the lure of authoritarianism. We are not exempt from people trying to create authoritarianism. There is nothing about our democracy that is magic. You know a person who is determined to destroy it can destroy it unless people can fight back.  There were a couple of Republicans in Congress who did offer some criticism of President Trump's action on Monday. Does this represent a departure?  I mean look  I welcome criticism. I noticed that Senator Ben Sasse seemed particularly disturbed by Trump's use of the Bible you know as a kind of political prop. You know a number of others were also disturbed by the use of the military in Washington D.C. And it is nice to hear some of them say so. And we have heard statements like this in the past. But at the moment when they could have actually stopped him you know at the moment when they could have said no this is enough this presidency is violating too many rules this is  he is destroying our Constitution that was the moment of impeachment. At that moment the only Republican senator who voted for impeachment  there was only one and that was Mitt Romney who agreed  who voted to impeach the president. And that was the moment when they actually could have achieved change as opposed to making statements for the press.  We are going to take a break here. Let me reintroduce you. Anne Applebaum is a staff writer for The Atlantic. She has a new article examining the actions of Washington Republicans who support President Trump. It is called History Will Judge The Complicit. We will be back after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And we are speaking with Anne Applebaum. She is a staff writer for The Atlantic. She has a new article examining the motives and behavior of Washington Republicans supporting President Trump. It is called History Will Judge The Complicit. You also write about collaborators with the Nazi regime in France during World War II the Vichy regime where a lot of people accommodated the occupying German army and the Nazis there. And you write here in the piece that comparing Republicans to those who collaborated with Nazis or fascists may seem over the top but that your point is not to compare Trump to Hitler or Stalin. But these references certainly imply some commonality. What exactly are you saying about Donald Trump and his relationship to democratic institutions and the threat of dictatorship?  It is actually more to do with the relationship of the Republican Party to Donald Trump. In other words it might have been possible in the initial days of the administration to convince yourself that OK Donald Trump was a little eccentric. He was a little unusual. But he was going to be a normal president like other presidents. He was going to strive to  you know to expand American influence in the world and to make life better for most Americans. As his presidency moved on it became clear that he was bringing a very different ideology to the White House a completely different set of values which bore no relation to anything that we have known in American history for the last hundred years. He was seeking to use the presidency for his own personal and political gain for his own psychological gain. He was seeking to game the system. He was seeking to go around bureaucracies to have secret policies to deploy people throughout the system you know in order to undermine it. He was not interested in running the American government you know in any recognizable way. That meant that senior figures in his administration had to make a decision at some point how they were going to cope with this new ideology. It was radically different from what they believed in. It was different from anything they have grown up with or ever known. So how would they accommodate themselves to it. And in that sense they were acting very much like people behave in an occupied country like occupied East Germany like occupied France. They began to make excuses. They began to explain themselves. They began to accommodate themselves to Trump in a way that when you look at history  and I use a lot of examples to show why this is the case  sounds very much like people who we have heard describing their behavior in occupied countries in the past.  You know you say  write in here that the experiences of the early Trump days are worth examining and in particular one of the first controversies of the administration and that was the president's claim that the crowd at his inauguration was bigger than President Obama's  I believe the biggest ever. And you say this is a petty lie even ridiculous. But that was partly why it was so dangerous.  So sometimes the point of a lie is not to get people to believe it you know? The point of a lie is rather to make people afraid of the person who is so powerful that they can lie. I mean remember the nature of this lie. It was not just that he said my crowds are big. He got the National Park Service to alter photographs. He got his press spokesman to say  to show the photographs and also to say that it was the biggest crowd ever even though the press spokesman knew and all the journalists in the room knew that this was a lie. In other words he was forcing people to conform to an alternate version of truth that everyone knew was wrong. And this was again not about belief. It was about power. It was about showing I can force people to conform to my will.  You know I think a lot of people would say that is maybe attributing a little more planning and motive to Trump than he often shows. I mean he is an impulsive guy. And you know was this not just a case where as is so often the case he has to be right he has to be the biggest the best the one who is always right?  Oh I mean that is not incompatible with what I am saying you know? That is his motive for being president you know? His motive for being president is I have to be the biggest and the best. And the tactics that I am going to use in order to make myself feel that way are the ones that authoritarians use have used many times in the past. I mean again I use the example of you know in Eastern Europe after the war there was an infestation of something called the Colorado beetle. And the regime blamed this beetle on the United States. They said American pilots have been dropping this beetle on our fields. And they put up these posters with redwhiteandblue evil beetles invading the fields. Everybody knew this was not true including as it is turned out  thanks to archives  the people who were commanding the posters to be painted. But again the point was partly  you know when you are Donald Trump or when you are the leader of an authoritarian country part of you know your effort is to force people to echo your words even if the words are false. You are not interested in truth or falsehood. You are interested in making people agree with you. And that is  you can call it a narcissistic instinct. You can call it an authoritarian instinct. But you know this is what Donald Trump you know has done since he first got to Washington.  Well let us talk about some of the reasons that you list some of the common justifications for collaborating with the regime that people find that violates their principles. One is we can use this moment to achieve great things. What does this mean? Who uses that justification?  So in the article I use an example of somebody who I met randomly who is a kind of friend of a friend who works in the Trump administration and who is somebody who I think is probably very aware of the problems with Trump  and who understands for example how damaging his foreign policy has been how damaging it is to U.S. alliances and to U.S. interests around the world but who wants to stay in his job and wants to  you know wants to justify to himself you know as  not just to me but to himself  as to why he should be there. And the excuse that he used was look at what we have done for the Uighurs. And I was very flummoxed by this. What do you mean the Uighurs? The Uighurs are of course the Muslims in Xinjiang China who have been very badly oppressed by the regime who live in  many hundreds of thousands are in concentration camps. You know I was unaware of anything the Trump administration had done for the Uighurs. But this person who I have called Mark said well look; the president made a statement. And we have said important things at the U.N. And the argument was because we are  I have been able to do these useful things and we have been able to do these useful things it is worth it. In other words OK. We have to collaborate. We have to go along with some things that we do not like. But we are nevertheless able to use this moment to achieve something. And this is a story that people tell themselves. In other words most people want to think of themselves as good people. They want to think of themselves as patriots. You know I am working in the White House. Or I am working in the Department of the Treasury in order to achieve good things for the country. And therefore you know they reach for straws. They reach for examples of things that they have done that are useful as a kind of excuse.  A similar kind of justification you write about is someone thinking that they can protect the country from the president.  This of course was the argument used by Anonymous. If you remember that was the author of an unsigned New York Times oped that was published in September 2018. And you know if you remember that article described the president's erratic behavior his inability to concentrate his ignorance and above all his lack of affinity for ideals long espoused by conservatives  this is a quote  free minds free markets and free people. And so the root of the problem Anonymous said was the president's amorality. Nevertheless Anonymous said he was remaining in his job to protect the country from the president. You know he would stay in place to make sure that you know  to literally remove papers from the president's desk if need be to make sure that the institutions of the state were somehow protected from the president of the United States.  You know as I read about this it struck me that the decision of Republican senators who are independently elected officials to work with the Trump administration is a different kind of decision than someone in the government  say a deputy attorney general or a ranking official in the Department of Human Services. And I could imagine a reasonable argument that one of those people might say  look; I can quit. I do not share the values of this White House. But if I stay I can limit damage. I can slow down the implementation of bad ideas. I can make things better than they might be. And if I leave they are going to get somebody who will salute and do exactly what they want  such a bad idea?  My point was that it is not necessarily a bad idea. It is a legitimate idea. But it is  we need to acknowledge that it is the kind of language and the kind of conversation that we hear in occupied countries. You know this is the  these are the Vichy arguments you know? These are the East German Communist Party arguments you know that you are not working as a normal bureaucrat or as a normal functionary. You are in a job to protect somehow your institution from the people who are running it. And you know it may be that for a lot of people this is a legitimate thing to do for some period of time at least up until the point when you are no longer effective. James Mattis decided he could no longer be effective. And he quit. And Gary Cohn decided he could no longer be effective. And he quit. They reached the limit of what they felt able to do. And look; I know anecdotally and I know personally a lot of other people who have or are working inside the administration who are using that same kind of logic. And this is the logic of collaboration of life in an occupied country. This is not how bureaucrats and politicians and political appointees have behaved in American governments in the past.  Anne Applebaum is a historian and staff writer for The Atlantic. Her new article is History Will Judge The Complicit. She will be back to talk some more after a short break. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. We are speaking with journalist historian and Atlantic staff writer Anne Applebaum. In a new article she writes about the behavior and motives of Republicans in Washington who she believes have abandoned their principles to support President Trump whose administration she describes as corrupt and hostile to the rule of law. Her article is titled History Will Judge The Complicit. She also has a forthcoming book Twilight Of Democracy The Seductive Lure Of Authoritarianism. We spoke yesterday morning. Later that day former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis issued an extraordinary blistering critique of the Trump presidency writing Donald Trump is the first president in my lifetime who does not try to unite the American people does not even pretend to try; instead he tries to divide us. So Anne Applebaum let us talk about another reason that people give for collaborating with a regime that violates their principles. Another justification you say is my side might be flawed  that is to say the people I am working for  but the political opposition in this case the Democrats are so much worse. I think this is pretty common is not it?  This is very common. And this of course is famously  this is the Vichy argument. So when you know Marshal Petain  the leader of collaborationist France  took over the Vichy government he did so in the name of the restoration of a France that had been lost. He was arguing that he was collaborating with the Germans you know for good reasons because you know that was going to enable him to fight the real enemy which was the French parliamentarians and socialists and anarchists and Jews and other leftists who he thought were undermining the nation. You know there was this phrase  you know rather Hitler than Blum you know Bum having been France's socialist and actually Jewish prime minister in the late 1930s. So this is very much how many Republicans particularly in the Senate but also elsewhere now talk. You know OK Trump is in many ways an existential you know danger. He is a threat to democracy. He is undermining our Constitution. He is wrecking America's position in the world. Nevertheless these terrible  you know the  whatever corrupt deals he is doing all of this shrinks in comparison  you know by comparison to the horrific alternative which is you know the liberalism and socialism and decadence and demographic change that would have been the inevitable result of Hillary Clinton's presidency or another leftwing leader. So in other words they can justify anything that Trump does on the grounds that the opposition is worse.  Another reason that is cited for people working with the Trump administration is I am afraid to speak out. And you write that in the case of people in truly dictatorial regimes such as that of Stalin or the Nazis there were  the cost of speaking out was very high. You are puzzled as to why they would be so afraid of speaking out in this circumstance.  Yes it is extraordinary. And we do live in a country where there is no political oppression. There is no mass arrests. There is no concentration camps of the kind they had in the Soviet Union or in Nazi Germany. And yet people clearly are scared. There are people who are scared of being attacked by Trump of being made a fool of in his tweets. There are people who are afraid of losing their Senate seats you know being challenged by proTrump alternatives. There  and if you think about it there is a social aspect to it. There are people who are scared of losing their donors or losing their friends or being you know invited to the same parties they would been invited to before. So there is a kind of peer pressure and a fear of speaking out. And again we have seen it in some of our most prominent and you would think most confident political leaders.  You know I would say in terms of members of Congress and the Senate  I have covered politicians for a lot of my life  and elected officials it seems to me their first priority is selfpreservation. And while Trump may not be a popular president from his approval ratings he is very popular among Republican primary voters. And someone who challenges him you know in a red state can buy a whole lot of trouble and maybe lose their office right?  Sure. I mean and this is obviously another thing they are afraid of. They are afraid of losing. And then you know they would have the terrible fate of having to teach at the Harvard Kennedy school or work as a lobbyist on K Street you know some really awful you know professional fate like that. You know but you still have to ask yourself  again we are talking about people who can see that everything they have ever said that they stood for every set of values  whether it is the belief in the Constitution whether it is you know America's role in the world whether it is you know an American government that is good for all Americans  you know whatever it is they said they believe in the past Trump is violating that. So at what point does the fear of losing office or the fear of losing power you know succumb to the evidence in front of their eyes that their  that he is destroying the thing they say that they are serving? I mean what is the point of being in the Senate why be a member of Congress if you are simply going to collude you are going to collaborate with someone who is destroying the institutions that you say you love? And again some of the article  you know the point is not necessarily  I am not making judgments. I am saying that these are the kind of arguments this is the language that people use in occupied countries. These are the arguments and the dilemmas that people have and we now have those dilemmas in the United States.  You know when you say that these Republicans it is clear as crystal to them that he is violating all the norms of democracy and all the principles that they hold dear I wonder if that is true. You know I sometimes will  in the evening will spend 45 minutes watching MSNBC and then turn it over and watch Fox for 45 minutes. And what is fascinating is that the horrific things that MSNBC talks about are not refuted on Fox; they are just ignored and they have their own set of horrific stories to tell about the Democrats. And just to briefly belabor this point you know during the Senate impeachment trial when Republicans had to sit through the arguments of the House prosecutors we had some senators saying they had not heard some of these things before about actions that president  the president had taken in Ukraine. I am wondering if we live in such completely different information ecosystems in such a way that a lot of these Republicans truly believe that he is better.  So I think that is a legitimate argument that you can make about many Trump voters and many other Republicans that they do not know or that they are living in again as you say the Fox information bubble. It is not really an argument that you can make about senior White House officials or about members of the Senate. Senior White House officials and members of the Senate know. You know they work alongside Trump. They see him. They understand the effects of his actions. Many many of them are willing to say things off the record about him that they do not say in public you know up to and including Lindsey Graham who I talk about in the article and many other of Trump defenders. And they will tell their Democratic colleagues in the Senate of their disgust. They will express themselves in many different ways. So they are  the articles about that group of people  so we are not talking about people who do not pay much attention to politics or people who are legitimately distracted by other things and who do not bother to follow events in Washington; I am talking about insiders and people who know and they do not have the excuse of being unaware of what is going on.  We are speaking with Anne Applebaum. She is a staff writer for The Atlantic. Her new article assessing the behavior and motives of Republicans who cooperate with the Trump administration is called History Will Judge The Complicit. We will be back in just a moment. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And we are speaking with Anne Applebaum. She is a staff writer for The Atlantic. She has a new article examining the actions of Washington Republicans who support President Trump. It is called History Will Judge The Complicit. I will just add I am speaking to Anne Applebaum from my home in Philadelphia where a church nearby is ringing a bell. But that is part of what happens when broadcasting in the current pandemic crisis. You know when you write about the fear that keeps some people from speaking out fear of risking their political office or their social relationships or their donors you write  they do not know that similar waves of fear have helped transform other democracies into dictatorships. They do not seem to realize that the American Senate really could become the Russian Duma or the Hungarian Parliament a group of exalted men and women who sit in an elegant building with no influence and no power. Indeed we are already closer to that than many could ever have imagined. I think a lot of people would find that surprising. How are we getting closer to that kind of an emasculated Legislature?  So we already have a Senate that is no longer willing to hold the president to the law to hold him to account. We have a Senate that allowed him to get away with  you know during the impeachment trial allowed him to get away with you know the manipulation of U.S. institutions the use of taxpayers' money as a kind of inducement bribe in order to persuade a foreign government to  you know to launch an unjust investigation of his opponent. So we have already had the Senate take steps to allow the president to do things that are unconstitutional and in any previous era would have been considered unthinkable. How far are we then to  you know to further  so what else will they allow the president to do? What are the other ways in which he will be allowed to overstep the boundaries? You know as we discussed at the beginning of the program you know he is already used the U.S. military in a highly inappropriate way on the streets of Washington D.C. using helicopters to buzz American protesters you know the way that you know helicopters are used in Afghanistan or Iraq. You know this kind of behavior is you know  you know this is the kind of behavior that would have been censured and condemned you know in any previous era in any previous administration. So why is the Senate why are the upper levels of the Republican Party allowing this to happen now? And that is because they are slowly abdicating their constitutional role. They have refused to hold the president to account. They have allowed him to bend the rules and to do things that would normally not be allowed. And this is the first step towards the end of democracy.  This may be too subtle a distinction but it strikes me that it is one thing to say that American senators have abdicated their role of holding the administration accountable; another thing to say that they like the Russian Duma or the Hungarian Parliament are really no longer in a position to even exercise such authority. I mean it seems to me that Republican senators are still independent elected officials and that any of those who sit on relevant committees could vote tomorrow or next week to support subpoenas and investigations and steps towards accountability.  I mean the Hungarian Parliament could do that too but it does not. The  you know the pressure of conformism the way money is structured the various loyalties they owe one another prevents them from doing it. That is the point. And theoretically the Hungarian Parliament is a real parliament; in practice its majority does what the Hungarian prime minister tells it to do. We are beginning to see signs of that  I am not saying that we are there yet; I am just saying this is a possibility  in the U.S. Senate. We see senators not playing their constitutional role not doing what they are supposed to be doing because of the long list of things we have been discussing  because they are afraid of losing their donors because they are afraid of censure because they think that by staying close to power they can do something useful. They are all  you know my article goes through the many different kinds of reasons that that people have to do this. So you know the point is that it is a slippery slope