Hi this is Anna. And here at WNYC the Death Sex  Money team is celebrating June as Podcast Appreciation Month or PAM for short. It is the time of year when we ask you to think about what you love and appreciate about podcasts and what it takes to make them here at WNYC. So I am asking you to make a donation. And I asked for help from some of your fellow listeners who have already donated to Death Sex  Money. Hi my name is Ellen and I live in Mount Kisco New York. This is Clyde from the world's most livable city Melbourne Australia. This is Rachel from middle of nowhere China. Hey my name is John and I am from Oakland California. I am halfway through a bike ride and listened to your latest episode. Any time I listen to one I write an email to somebody saying you have to listen to this! The first episode I heard was Chaz Ebert talking about her relationship with Roger. I guess my favorite episode I would have to go back to Diane late last year as a parent of three sons the oldest of which has severe autism. It made me feel like maybe it is safe to accept what comes and that life is giving us what we need in every moment if we are willing to accept it. That is why I decided to support the show because of interviews like that. And you have got a bad-ass name and logo. To you and the team Anna keep up the great work. I cannot wait for the next notification of a new episode to pop up in my stream. Help us keep popping up in your podcast stream. Visit deathsexmoney.orgdonate or you can just text the letters DSM to 69866. It is easy it is really quick and it really does make a difference for us. Thanks so much and happy PAM you all! --  Before I didnt really care about giving my number to someone. Id actually probably rather give my number in hopes of getting a job or like making a new friend. But now I have to kind of close myself off. That was really really hard for me. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. When actor Danielle Brooks graduated from Juilliard she was anxious to start auditioning.  When I got out of school all my agent is sending me in for is like funny black woman or the angry black woman. And that is like not what I am interested in at all. Shes now 26 years old. Within a year of finishing college Danielle was working on the hit series Orange is the New Black. She plays an inmate everybody knows as Taystee...  ...'ecause my pussy be delicious like an apple is nutritious like a Clinton it is ambitious. You wanna mess with all that? Bitch please  And even Taystee first thing I notice of course is that shes in prison. Black woman. Im like Oh lord. I dont want to do this. Do I want to do this? I need the money. Okay let me try to see if I can do this. But then I read the script and thats when I realized thats the kind of projects I want to be a part of. Cause theyre willing to make real human beings. So for me its not even about playing a stereotype because if youre a good actor I think you can go further than that. As a kid in Greenville South Carolina Danielle says she wasnt really aware of those stereotypes.  It was very diverse. What I loved about being in elementary school was not even thinking about color and race. And all of that kind of stuff didnt even cross my mind. I do remember liking this boy when I was like five in like pre-K. And telling my mom how I liked him and stuff. And the boy told me that he couldnt date me. And later on come to find out my mother saw the little boy and then she realized why he was saying Yeah I cant date you. And it was because he was white! And I was likeI didnt think anything of it! But I that was the first - and I even remembernow its funny how all these memories come back when you start talking about thingsbut I even remember being in elementary school and a boy called me the N-word. A white boy called me the N-word. And I remember being crushed by it and going - finding the first black teacher I could find and be like He called me the N-word! And she like - he got suspended for two days and I was like Yes! Justice has been served in third grade!  But you knew you had to find the black teacher?  Yeah I did. I did. I do remember that. When Danielle was growing up her mom ran an after school program from their house then became a full-time school teacher. Her dad served in the military...and eventually took a job at a BMW manufacturing plant. Money was tight but Danielle says her parents never let it show.  My parents are - were middle class um very much trying to get on their feet. Trying to build themselves up. But struggling. Like my moms car would break down all the time on the side of the road. And I remember her just praying for it to start. You know? And my dad had a truck that he likeyou didnt have to have a key to start it. You know what I mean? But they were so striving to make it. And they did. You know? They definitely did at the end of the day. They raised their kids in a Christian household Danielles mother is also a minister. Her fathers a deacon.  My mom still has videos. My dad just sent me videos of me when I was in the church choir and I was a hot mess.  Because you were so moved by the music?  Nomoved by the music and just a 5-year-old that was rambunctious and had no spacial awareness at all. The videos are quite hilarious. But I loved it. I loved going. They taught me how to sing. They taught me how to speak. I didnt know what a monologue was. We had oratorical contests and they would give us a scripture or something and you would have to kind of build your own mini-sermon and give it to the congregation. They really taught me the basics of what I now do. Danielles parents noticed how much their daughter enjoyed performing. Her mom enrolled her in middle and high schools for the performing arts. And when she was 15 Danielle won a free trip to New York City.  Because Bravo the TV network they were looking for young kids to promote diversity. And they like taught us how to make these one-minute videos. Her dad went with her to New York and he took Danielle to her first Broadway show. He picked The Color Purple a musical based on the Alice Walker book about black women in the 1930s South.  Cause to him thats the only one that was relatable at the time. Hes like Yes black people you gotta see this. And I remember sitting there in the mezzanine and just with my hands on my chin and being so incredibly moved by it. Just like Wow theres people that look like me on this stage.  Do you remember how your dad responded to seeing you see The Color Purple?  Yes. He didnt care. My dad hes a big man. And the seats in the theater are very small. And he was so uncomfortable. So uncomfortable to the point that he actually during intermission stood in the back cause he was like I cant do this. My knees hurt. And I was like Well you go do you and Im gonna stay right here and have this extra space because you decided to leave and enjoy myself. Danielle returned to Greenville and her arts high school with a clear goal to get back to New York.  And a year later I auditioned for Juilliard not knowing anything about it. The only thing I knew was all of the black girls that were in the classes above me they were all getting into Juilliard. So I was like I dont know what this is but all the chocolate girls are getting into this place and everybodys saying its the best spot so Imma just try it. And thats how it happened. I ended up just trying it out. And I made it. Coming up how success has forced Danielle to rethink her relationships including dating in her 20s.  Im in a position where people want something from me. And having to put a guard up especially being this chick from South Carolina who really enjoys being hospitable.   Hey everyone this is Death Sex  Money producer Katie Bishop. I know normally you do not hear my voice during this part of the show. But Anna has a pretty good excuse for why she is not here today. Let us get her on the line.   Hello!  How are you?  Good!  Are you four days into motherhood now?  I am four days into motherhood and I just came into this room to talk to you on the phone and saw a mosquito flying around and my mama bear instincts just like totally -- I was like you will not bite my child! And I just like swatted and killed it in the middle of the air. I felt very effective.  Wow. You are superhuman now. So you are in your house in Wyoming...  Mhm. With this brand new baby girl.  And she is awake and looking around? What is she doing right now?  She is having her mid-morning snack.  Uh huh great.  This little girl June likes to eat.  I love that you picked out the name June.  It makes me really happy. My mom is out here and her name is June and so it is been really cool to see the two Junes together.  Yeah. Were you surprised that it was a little girl and not a little boy? After the entire office was convinced it was a boy?  Yeah we were... the thing that is so bizarre about a C-section is you are behind this drape and I can feel tugging but I do not really know what is going on. And then all of a sudden they just drop the drape and there is this child after what felt like two minutes.  It is like a magic show!  Yeah! It was so fast. And so Arthur said It is a girl! Oh my WORD!  And then we just sort of like took a few minutes to get used to the idea and they brought her over to us. Yeah.  Well we have some business to take care of on this phone call too.  Okay let us do it.  Well I figured we should tell people how this summer is gonna work.  Yes.  The plan is we have been working really hard all spring and we recorded a lot of interviews and for the next couple of months we are gonna be airing those episodes. And then toward the end of the summer we are gonna have some guest hosted episodes. And we will tell people more about those as we get closer.  I am so excited for those.  And people will keep hearing from you one in awhile too because we will be checking in with you throughout the summer.  Yeah. I am on maternity leave which is very important work but I also you know want to keep in touch.  Good. Well tell June I say hi.  I will!  Do you mind if I tell people what is coming up on the next episode of Death Sex  Money?  Please!  On the next episode we go inside a Planned Parenthood clinic in New York City. I have been coming here basically my whole adult sexual life.  And talk with the patients who rely on their services from STD tests to abortions. You know people are like what are you in for?  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After Danielle Brooks graduated from Juilliard in 2011 she moved in with another Juilliard graduate. They shared the rent and the bills.  And we actually auditioned for a lot of the same things. When Danielle didnt land a role she had to find other ways to make money including braiding her roommates hair...for a part Danielle didnt get.  Because they didnt have someone who knew how to cornrow. So I would cornrow her hair for 20 or 25 every time. I was like trying to make this money.  So you didnt - you didnt get cast in the play and then you had to ask your roommate to give you cash to do her hair.  Yeah. Well she asked them was it okay if I did her hair. So she kind of looked out for me was like Hey look theyre not doing my hair well. I know you can braid my hair. Why not lets make a deal?  Did you have student loans when you finished school?  Yes I did. I had a lot of student loans. Its funny. The only reason I was able to attend Juilliard was at the time my godmother had passed away and she ended up leaving me 20000 for my education. And so that was just enough for us to start paying for the first year because my parents at the time werent able to save money for me to go. And so when I came out of school it was very stressful because I was now 21 and did not have a job nor did I have any jobs before to say Hey Ive had experience. So it was a struggle to figure that out. But Im a hustler and so I found ways to hustle. I was a dog walker. I babysat. I ended up getting a job at Freds Restaurant which I was horrible at. I couldnt even open a bottle of wine. It was bad. But they hired me and kept me 'ecause I was chocolate and they needed the diversity.  I love you Freds Restaurant but it is true. But thats okay cause it kept me working. To me actor's years is just like dog years. It can feel like forever like when you dont have a job. It can feel like forever. But its really not. In Danielles case success came fast. When she auditioned for Orange Is the New Black she was initially hired for just two episodes but producers took notice of her. So did the audience.  Thirteen hours after it had aired my life had changed. Because in the course of 13 hours people consumed these characters and the minute I stepped on the street it was Oh my god! I think thats the girl! That is her! And it got intense. It was very intense on both ends. Where it was pretty cool you go to a restaurant and someones like Hey I got your drink or Ill take care of the meal. And youre like Okay this is kind of cool. And then its hard cause you also arent making enough money to get a car every day so youre riding the train and these girlsteenage girlsare like Oh my god its Taystee! And they leave you on the train as they exit and youre left for four stops with people staring at you. Like its like not cool! Not long after the first season of Orange came out Danielle started getting a few more calls. She was the first black actress to appear in the show Girls.  I am a lesbian. I think. She also played Asiz Ansaris foul-mouthed manager on Master of None.  Im trying to get this money. Im trying to get this 'Friends' money. And you fucking it up.  Im not trying to fuck up your 'Friends' money.  You better not fuck up my Friends money! And Danielles currently starring on Broadway in the revival of The Color Purple. She plays Sofia a role originated in the movie version by Oprah Winfrey. When Danielle was nominated for a Tony this year Oprah sent her a congratulatory tweet.  I feel like sometimes it sounds like this fake fairy tale or like Oh how convenient is that The Color Purple happened to be the first play yeah yeah. But no it legit was! Danielle performs in eight shows a week on Broadway.  And Ive been shooting Orange too. So some days Danielle works a double shift to do both. On set in the morning on stage at night.  Do you expect to make more money this year or last year?  Oh this year definitely. We bout to roll. We bout to be rolling dirty! Noevery year we going up up up up in every way.  Have you paid off your student loans now?  Yes I have! Yes yes yes!  When did you write your last check?  I wrote my last check this year actually. I want to say it was in February. I wrote off a check for about 19000. And I was like I am done with you!  Thats likethat is paying your student loans off with a bang. To write a 19000 check.  And its kinda crazy. And to think - when you look back when I first told you like even for me to go to Juilliard my godmother gave me 20000. And to now pay that last bit and it be close to the same number is pretty cool. It feels amazing.  What do you enjoy spending money on now?  Oh man. Im very much about saving. My dad has done an incredible job of teaching me how to save my money and be wise with my money. So when I do spend its more so like on vacations and stuff. I invest a lot in my career honestly. Publicists and like stylists and agents and managersthey cost you know. So I do put a lot into my career.  As far as the choices you make in terms of your career are you aware that your parents are observing the roles and the things that youre willing to do.  Yes. Yes girl yes. Like I said my background is in the church but that doesnt mean that I cant have my own opinions about certain subjects and things. Im just now starting to be okay with that. For the first time in an interview I talked about what it was like to have sex and just saying that is weird to me but even in the conversation I was like Oh my gosh my moms gonna hear this.  What did you say in that interview?  Well I did this thing for Ebony Magazine talking about body image. And they were wanting to know how we related to our bodies in the way of sex. And my parents know that I have been sexually active but thats something they definitely dont want to hear or let the church hear whatever. But lets be real. All of us have. I remember I had this Bible study teacher who like scared the bejesus out of us about having sex because she was like Anyone that enters you they become a part of you! And I was like Im just not ready for this. So I didnt lose my virginity until college. But like I just remember like being there and the lights dim or whatever and saying to him like with just my underwear on I was like Just be gentle.  And then once we got into it you would have thought Id had sex for years the way I was talking!  Forget gentle!  I know but it started out like very Lets be gentle. Oh no forget that. And basically like the month after college I was like Lets get it on.  Whats it been like to try to figure out how to date and be in relationships when you are a public figure?  Lordy its been hard. Like my last relationship felt so like me being used in a lot of ways. Like they just wanted to be a part of that fame. That was really challenging. So I was not looking for love. And then it kind of found me. And thats been a beautiful thing. I am with someone who definitely does not make me feel that way that I did before and really is there for me. Were taking it very slow which I think is good. And hes a man so I dont have toyou know its not dealing with a child.  What are you learning about sex at this point in your life?  This thing that Im in now that its more to it. Like I always - Ive made love before but I think where I was before getting into this relationship was I really just wanted to have sex. I didnt want to be in love. But he wanted that. And it was - Im like realizing its okay to allow yourself love even when you are scared of it. And that sex can be more than just physical or love can definitely be more than physical. We do just enjoy like talking to each other. And to me that makes me orgasm sometimes. Not physically of course but I have a mental orgasm when we spend hours in bed just talking like is amazing to me. Especially to find that in a man. Because women we just do that. You know? It is pretty awesome. Danielle Brooks. Shes in the latest season of Orange is the New Black. You can also still catch her on Broadway in The Color Purple through November. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein Hannah McCarthy and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. You can see a video of little Danielle in her church choir on our website at deathsexmoney.org. We think she has much more spatial awareness than she gives herself credit for. And definitely check out Danielle on Instagram where she is documented her workout sessions photoshoots and her fashion runway debut...with the hashtag voice of the curves.  Its really challenging being in a business where its hard to fucking findcan I cuss on this show?fucking find clothes! Its hard! And its getting easier but like we are just now getting fatkinis. Okay? Like like that is just now trending. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.