 A quick word before the show - news is happening fast. But it does not take a lot of time to keep up. The NPR podcast Up First is the best way to get 10 minutes of the day's top news every weekday morning. Check out Up First on the NPR One app and wherever you listen to podcasts.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. Today's guests - from The Washington Post columnist Alexandra Petri and from NPR's Code Switch team Gene Demby. All right. Let us start the show.  That is Aunt Betty.  Hey Aunt Betty.   She is going to dog-sit my dog for a few days over the weekend.  That is what is up.  She is very excited about it.  Oh but she is not a real relative though I hear according...  Oh she is actually my Aunt.  But like according to the travel ban...   ...aunts are not real relatives. So...  Hey you all. Sam Sanders here It is Been A Minute. That was Aunt Betty. She sends her regards. Welcome to the show. We do not do theme music on Fridays. Each week we start with a different song. I will explain this song in a second but it is really fun right? It is a fun song.  Wait why did not we get theme music? I feel left out.  Because I want to pick a song that matches a mood of the week every week.  All right. I want you to explain this.  Yeah yeah yeah.  Yeah yeah. Justify this choice.  Yes yes yes. But first we have two very special people in the booth. You heard right. Alexandra Petri from The Washington Post. She writes their Compost blog - best name for a blog ever.   And NPR's Gene Demby in the booth here in D.C. from NPR's Code Switch.  What is good man?  So Code Switch is our team at NPR that covers race ethnicity and culture. Also Gene congrats on your Code Switch podcast turning a year old.  This week? It is like CP time because it was actually like a year a month ago.   But you know how it goes. You know how that goes.  So we are here to talk about what happened this week in the news - the culture everything. We will share some stories that stuck with us throughout the week a big new survey about how Americans view discrimination minimum wage in Seattle and some tweets and stuff from our president. We will also call up a listener from outside of Washington D.C. and ask them what is going on in their neck of the woods - plus a game or two. And we will end the show as we always do with listeners describing the best thing that happened to them all week.  Yes.  Yay.  We have got a lot for you. Have you guessed this song yet?  No.  It is really good.  It is delightful.  It is from a movie that came out this week.  Baby Driver.  Yeah.  Oh this is...  I knew it.  ...so this is the original version.  This was like the first song in Baby Driver.  It sounds like Baby Driver the song which apparently is a song.  That is also a song. This one is called Bellbottoms. It is by The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion. It is the first song you hear in this movie Baby Driver starring - I can never say his name.  Ansel Elgort.  Ansel Elgort.  Ansel Elgort. Anyways this song is like from 1994. And I thought I knew all the '90s music. I would never heard of this song before.  Yeah.  I have never heard of this band before but I like it.  It sounds like classic rock though.  And so in the middle of the song they do this. It is so crazy.    Bell bottoms.  Oh that is great.    Bell bottoms. Yeah.  So OK. OK.  .  No go ahead.  No no I was just curious. What - why bell bottoms? I mean just...  Why not Gene?  Wait...   Bell bottoms. They just say bell bottoms.  That - OK this - they should have led with this because this is the part of the song I am most...   ...shouting Bell bottoms.  Bell bottoms. OK. Even though this is our second Friday wrap for the podcast there'ill be some folks that have not heard us before. I will take a little bit of...  Shame.  ...time to explain the show to them. You guys bear with me OK?  OK. Let us do it.  First the show is called It is Been A Minute. That is another way of saying let us catch up. We do that every Friday with these episodes. We talk about the week of news and everything - the highs the lows the fun the serious. We also have Tuesday episodes. We call those deep dives. We catch up with one person or talk about a single topic. This upcoming Tuesday I got a special guest in honor of America Day July 4 from HBO's Veep Timothy Simons who plays...  What?  ...Jonah. He was much nicer than Jonah.  I was about to say...  Yeah.  ...that is not like like a very high bar to clear though.  Yeah.  You know what I mean?  No he was great. Also we have some really great Tuesday shows lined up for you in the future filmmaker and actress Zoe Lister-Jones Jeff Bhasker who is produced for everyone - Kanye Mark Ronson Bruno Mars and Harry Styles - also one of my favorite writers the author Anne Helen Petersen of Buzzfeed.  Ooh.  Buzzfeed yeah.  She was delightful. Her new book is out. We talked about that. So those will be coming up on Tuesdays.  Nice.  All right. We are done with the explainers. Shall we?  Let us do it.  All right.  Yes.  Start the show as...  Sam.  ...we always do. I asked my panelists to describe the week of news and culture and everything in three words. Who wants to go first?  I will go first.  OK what are your three words?  My words are no more tweets.   It is not a descriptive statement so much as it is a prescriptive statement.   But it is definitely what I wish for this week.  I agree. And we will talk more about all of those tweets. That is your story for the week.  Yeah.  It is like a roller coaster. Like just in the last few hours the plot has twisted again. It is insane. But we will get to it.  Yeah. No it is like there is too much news this week. And all of it is bad which I realize is just 2017 in a nutshell.  .  There is not been a week that I could not say you know everything has happened and all of it has been negative.  Yes.  But...  Even like things that should be happy bummed me out. Like the new Jay-Z album's out today. I do not like it.  Oh no.  I was trying to play it this morning...  I could not even...  ...During my run.  OK.  I will give you my Tidal login. No I will not. I actually do not cheat the system. That is not going to stay on tape.   I tried to run to it this morning. I was just like no.  It is not even enough to have Tidal though. You need to have Tidal and a Sprint - Sprint needs to be your wireless carrier.  Oh no.  No no no it does not. I have Verizon and I was able to listen to it.  I could not listen to it this morning. They were like...  Wait you...  Maybe the reason it was bad...  You have Tidal?  I have Tidal.  Do you have free Tidal or paid Tidal?  I actually did not know that I had free Tidal. Apparently - I signed up for Tidal when Rihanna's album came out. And I forgot...  We all did yeah.  ...I had signed up for it which is how they get you. That is how they get you.  I pay for it.  Oh.  And I was able to listen to it.  I forgot that I was paying for it.  But you do not need to listen to it. Pro tip - it is not great.  Maybe the reason it was bad was because you did not have the right carrier.  Exactly.   And so they gave you an inferior version of the album to sabotage.  They gave us the bad version. I love it. Anyway what are your three words Gene?  Why are juries?   Why are juries?  Why are juries?  Oh.  Explain yes.  This is actually sort of a cheat 'ecause it was last week. But there were a bunch of big cases that we were covering last week or that we were paying attention to last week on Code Switch. There were three cases in which police officers were not convicted for shooting people - shooting unarmed black men. All of those incidents were caught on camera.  Yeah.  None of those people were convicted. There was a mistrial in one. There were two just straight-up acquittals.  Yeah.  And then there was the Cosby case which was a mistrial.  Yeah.  And the through line for both the police cases and the Cosby case seems to be like what the juries find is like - does not line up with what they see. In the cases of the police - in the police cases - right?  'ecause there is tape.  There is tape right? And remember a few years ago everyone was like oh we need in these instances - we need body cameras. We need this footage.  And as soon as we have footage and everyone can see it things will change but they have not really in terms of convictions.  So yeah.  You see like the bar has moved.  The bar has moved right. Now you need like - I mean it is just - I will not take a position on whether or not it was unsatisfying or not these outcomes. But I will say that like it was remarkable listening to the jurors attempt to explain why they arrived at where they arrived.  I would never want to be on a jury now because it seems as if like the stakes seem to be higher because there is more press coverage of these things. There is video. And like a lot of times you end up knowing who these jurors are.  Right. They blow up your spot.  It is a lot. It is a lot.  Have you ever been on a jury? Either of you?  No.  No.  Yeah neither have I.  I got called for jury duty during college but then I - then they uncalled me I think. I hope that is what happened otherwise I might like be on the lam from the law...  There is actually a mark on your permanent record for missing jury duty. So my three words are they are still here.  Who? Who is they?  A lot of people. Jay-Z - still here dropping albums that we do not really need. Mitch McConnell...  So much hate.  I love Jay-Z. I love him but not this - not - I miss the old Jay-Z.  But he is - I mean he is the old Jay-Z now.   You miss the young Jay-Z.  I miss the young Jay-Z.  He is a middle-aged man rapping about marriage and therapy now.  Have you seen the photos of him at SoulCycle?  No - what?  Yes. At your leisure Google...  Yes.  ...Jay-Z SoulCycle  I want a thousand words on this. I do not want to see the picture. I just want...  You need to write that.  Yeah.  So Jay-Z is still here. Mitch McConnell in spite of all these low numbers for the GOP is this close to pushing through a health care bill in the Senate. Donald Trump is still here tweeting crazy stuff. Like I have been not surprised but reaffirmed in my belief that old men going to old men. And they do the things have always done and that is it.  You said after Donald Trump was elected that he was probably going to still be tweeting.  Yeah.  You were like his tweet behavior probably will not change.  Yeah. I mean like Jay-Z has been making albums for - what? - 30 years now.  This is his 13th album.  This is his 13th album.  Wow.  He is going to keep doing it. Donald Trump has been saying weird stuff about women since women.   This is not a surprise. So my three words are they are still here.  What will be that weird thing you are doing as an old man when you are like 55? No - no shade to 55-year-olds. Let us say...  Yeah.  ...65.  Talking to myself. It is really bad.  Oh man.  I talk to myself so much.  I feel like I talk to myself less than I used to and I wonder why that is.  You need to get back to the old you.  Yeah no.  Are you bored by yourself now?  Yeah I have said all that I had to say.   All right time for a quick break. We will be right back with the new game and long distance where we call a listener and see what is up in their neck of the woods. BRB.   We are back with Gene Demby and Alex Petri. All right it is time for a segment we call Scary Or Nah.    Do your thing. Do not be scared.  . Yes.  Brent made that.   That was a bit extra Brent. We are going to tone that down for the next time . So the game is very - that was some Mystikal. Shout out Mystikal - or Mysti-cal .  Mystikal. It looks like it is Mysti-cal but it is Mystikal.  OK Mystikal. Anyway Alex here is an envelope. Inside is a color photograph because we have color printers on the fifth floor.  Woah.  Are you serious? You all ballin' up here.  You did not know that?  No not at all.  What do you all have typewriters?  I have to highlight things you know what I mean?  A man with a quill pen who writes really fast.  Smack him on the back of the head - faster.  . So basically open that envelope. There is going to be a color photograph. Both of you look at it and tell me if it is scary or nah.  I am trying to open it near the microphone so we have like verisimilitude.  Woah word choice - love it.  . What are these?  . Can you describe what you are seeing for the listeners please?  Some like sticky oblongs. We got like brown jellies. They are all really tiny. I bet they are like ticks or leeches or something.  The thing that makes it scary is that we do not know what it is like. So I feel like what you are about to say is going to be like disgusting. So...  These are sea pickles.  Wait so there are flat?  They are like tubes. Their scientific name is pyrosomes. They are actually organisms that live in the ocean.  Do they start as sea cucumbers?   I do not know the history but basically because the water is getting warmer on the West Coast they have been washing up on shores from NorCal to Alaska. They clog up fish nets. They wash up on beaches. They also look really weird and they can light up. They are really creepy.  Wait wait wait. Light up like bioluminescence?  Look at you fancy words.   They can light up yeah. And so everyone is thinking that it is tied to unusually warm ocean conditions along the coast. But these are colloquially called sea pickles.  Do they - like can they move? Or do they just like move with the current? Or do they like...  I am going to look up a sea pickle video. But first before that are they scary or nah?  Well now that I know they glow no. I think that sounds awesome.  But before you knew were they scary?  I feel like if you were on a beach and saw one of these you would be shook.   When I thought it was something that could like sneak into your body I was more scared of it.  Oh no.  Oh my. OK so scary-ish.  Scary-ish.  OK so it is almost time for us to each share our stories of the week. But first time for a segment we call Long Distance.   Little bit of Drake. We call a listener somewhere outside of Washington and ask them what is happening in their neck of the woods. Today on the line from Green Bay Wis. we have Chris . Chris hi.  Hey Sam. How is it going?  Good how are you?  Good good.  Happy Friday.  Oh I know.  How is the weather out there?  It is been raining a lot. It is almost like spring up here for the past week. It is been kind of crazy.  In my head it is always snowing in Green Bay - like all year round.  Yeah. So you are hearing the voice of Gene Demby my friend and colleague. Also have Alex Petri here in the booth from The Washington Post. Say hi guys.  Hello.  Hey how is it going man?  Hey. Good good.  Are you a shareholder in the Packers?  No I am anti-sport.  Woah.  Terrible - I live in a terrible city to...  Yeah I was about to say you have moved into...  Enemy territory yeah. I know. In the grocery lines people do not ask about the weather. They talk about the Packers. And I am just like I do not know.  Brett Favre man - we miss him.  There you go.  No that is some dangerous conversation depending on who you talk to.  Oh that is true actually. He is very polarizing...  Yeah.  ...Because of the betrayal.  Exactly. When you are not watching the rain what you do there in Wisconsin?  I work for a trucking company. I am basically a load planner for a fleet of about 100 trucks that service the Wisconsin and Illinois area.  Cool.  And we mostly move - in the Green Bay area a lot of what we move freight-wise is paper and specifically toilet paper which is...  Woah.  It is a nice - it is a nice business because it is not very seasonal.   It would be frightening if it were seasonal.  Very frightening.  Well yeah. That is right. Well for the most part it is pretty consistent. So it works out.  So is your job kind of like air traffic control like scheduling logistics - like that stuff?  Yeah. It is - it is a lot like Oregon Trail actually I would say.  Love it.  Yeah less dysentery but only just.   But yeah yeah. It is planning the trucks to move around make sure that we are servicing customers and moving freight from A to B in a timely and efficient manner and all that.  So what story shall we discuss this a week from your neck of the woods?  Well I think there is - there is a lot of interesting things going on in trucking generally that most people do not really spend a lot of time thinking about. But like trucking is the foundation of the entire consumer economy in the United States...  I believe it.  ...Yeah like everything in every store - it had to get there on a truck. And at the end of 2017 there is a new DOT to regulation going into effect...  DOT meaning...  ...Department of Transportation...  Gotcha...  ...And it is going to reshape the entire trucking industry essentially or start to. In December of 2017 this was a regulation that actually was proposed under the Obama administration that is just going into effect at that time. Every truck on the road will be required to have an electronic log of their drive hours. Right - right now companies can use paper logs and drivers can fudge those logs to just kind of keep driving and drive too long...  Why would drivers fudge it just to be able to drive more?  Yeah - drivers are paid by the amount of production that they do not by the time that they are in the truck. So the more miles that they drive in a given day or week means more money for them in the end.  So you are incentivizing people to...  Right.  Yeah yeah and the DOT puts limits on how long drivers can be on the road how long they can work in a day - stuff like that. And there is incentive to kind of go around that. But in December there will be electronic logs and there is no way to screw around with those. So a lot of companies are going to be consolidating. They are going to be kind of absorbing some of the smaller companies that either cannot afford the technology upgrade or cannot afford to run kind of above board full time...  Is this...  Do drivers...  Go ahead Gene.  How do the drivers feel about - about the e-log regulations. Like I mean if they are going to be driving less - and that means they potentially make less money - right?  Well for the most part it I think the frustration for a big part of it is actually just adapting to the new technology and learning the new computer system.  So it is like every work place .  Yeah - yeah sure I mean - and I mean it is - there is some special unique problems when you come - when it comes to truckers because the demographics of what a truck driver looks like in America these days. But...  What do you mean?  Generally - well the truck drivers skew older. They - our average age is I think probably above 50 years old. There is definitely a lot of truck drivers who have issues with things like diabetes sleep apnea medical issues - because doing the job is really hard. It is very physically demanding and it is hard on the body to just - I mean you think well they are just sitting in the truck for 10 hours a day.  That is rough.  Oh that is exhausting.  That is rough.  It is rough. And there is no good food. There is no healthy food. It is hard to get exercise. It is long days long weeks. And so it really is hard to get actually kind of young experienced or educated people into truck driving even though it is a decent job pay-wise. But there is - there is this thing in the industry that is called the driver shortage. It is a thing everybody's really worried about. And some people think that you know self-driving trucks is eventually going to be the answer for it. But like there is - there is probably like 20000 30000 truck driving jobs that need to be filled that just cannot be.  Listeners out there...  Yeah...  Do you hear that?  You can listen. To NPR as you are driving along...  That is right...  Absolutely.  Exactly exactly so Chris what is on your schedule this weekend for fun?  Well I am in Wisconsin. So for the first time - I actually moved here a couple of years ago. So I finally live in a state where I have easy access to fireworks which...  Woo .  Hey hey turn up...  I have got a 3-year-old daughter. So I bought like 20 bucks' worth of fountains and pop rocks and things like that...  Be safe with those fireworks. I have seen too many videos of fireworks gone wrong.  ...Oh I know - I know. It is going to be like smokes. And you know I light a fountain and we run away. And yeah...  Oh yeah...  I am not doing like firecrackers and sparklers or anything so...  All right...  ...We are going to be careful about it. But yeah just you know fireworks go to the pool hang out...  Hey well Chris I hope you have a great weekend. Enjoy the fireworks. Hope your 3-year-old daughter has a wonderful Fourth of July.  All right thanks. You guys have a good one too.  Take care man.  Take care.  Thank you.  Bye-bye...  All right bye.  Thank you Chris. And listeners we want to talk to you for this segment. We would love to hear about what is going on where you live. Drop us a note and tell us what is going on in your neck of the woods at samsandersnpr.org.   OK you guys it is time for our story swap when we each share a story from the week that was sort of - we worked on that we are obsessed with whatever. Alex you are going to go first.  Oh I am?  What is your story?  Well I have just been fascinated not only by this sort of tweet kerfuffle which has happened with...  For those that have not heard. Everyone's already heard but...  .  Just catch us up...  ...Oh yeah - no I am gonna. The tweet kerfuffle where basically Donald Trump as is his wont - Thursday morning he unleashed a barrage of tweets against Mika Brzezinski saying...  Of MSNBC...  ...Of MSNBC - a Morning Joe co-host saying that - challenging her mental health and saying that she would come to Mar-a-Lago bleeding badly from a facelift and he said no around New Year's Eve. So of course huge outrage immediately followed. We got some ringing denunciations from both sides of the aisle. Whether those will translate into any sort of activity...  Also there were lots of Republicans that like denounced it but in really weird tones. No one said you must apologize. I regret his statements.  Right.  That was not a good thing to say.  I agree I do not think that was appropriate.  Every so often you get a dipsy doodle...   ...Which is my favorite.  Wait who said that?  Orrin Hatch was like in the midst of - he said admittedly many other things.  Orrin Hatch is still there?  Yeah.  I always forget about that.  .  No he is there. He is...  Oh. What did Orrin say?  batten down the hatches. No he said many things denouncing it. But then he also said - you know every once in a while you get a dipsy doodle...   ...Which apparently was a phrase you could not print in The New York Times back in - like a few decades ago.  Wait...  Are you serious?  ...did you - you researched dipsy doodle?  Somebody was tweeting about it...  OK.  ...so I will pretend that I did research . But really I just...  I feel like there was a cheese snack that we used to eat called Dipsy Doodles. And I could not...  Yeah.  ...that is - but at all the time it was...  Cheese dipsy...  It was profane...  .  ...All the time. I was just cursing all the time.  No but my favorite thing though I think of all the responses was Sarah Huckabee Sanders who instead of saying you know regrettable...  White House spokesperson.  ...Just doubled down defending it. She went full - you knew he was a scorpion when you tried to bring him across the river.   Like literally they asked how do you feel? Did he go too far? And she goes I do not think so.  And then she was like well everyone else attacks him.  Yeah. No he will fight back ten times as hard as he is always said. Then she says - they said is he a good role model? And she said only God can be a good role model which - that is a bold statement.  Absolutely.  Yeah. But like I am kind of like OK you are right .  I mean...  I mean...  But like which God? Like are we talking Zeus here?  .  Are we talking you know...  Not Old Testament God right? He is a little temperamental. You know what I mean?  Exactly. Until he had kids he was sort of not very mellow.   Kids mellow you out man.  But what I love about this tweet story - so there was the initial day of coverage of the tweet and Mika's response. Because she tweeted back a Cheerio box saying...  Yeah fort made for little hands.  ...what? - made for tiny hands - little hands. But then today the plot thickens some more.  What did something else happen?  Apparently today on Morning Joe Mika and Joe Scarborough were talking more about this. And they said a while back The National Enquirer was digging into Mika's personal life and her family trying to write kind of a hit piece on her.  Right because they and Trump go way back.  Exactly. And so over the course of the Enquirer's research for the piece the White House called Joe and Mika and said - if you all call Donald Trump he can get the Enquirer off you all's backs. But you got to apologize for what you said about him...  Wow.  ...on your air.  Whoa.  They said no. And then Trump tweeted again this morning about the Enquirer piece. It is crazy.  This is - yeah wheels...  It is crazy.  ...within wheels. Opening the...  Yes.  ..nesting doll and continuing to go...  Yes.  ...deeper.  What is the moral  of this story Alex? If there is one.  There is no moral . There is only darkness.   I do not know - part of it makes me think this is exactly the sort of thing that people in my bubble love to get excited about.  Oh journal Twitter was turning cartwheels yesterday.  Yeah but I also feel like this is also exactly the sort of thing where if I were not constantly glued to the screen I would be like - oh Donald Trump insulted a morning television personality. And this is the least thing that I could possibly care about in the world other than insofar as you want the president to be somebody who is not spending his time tweeting...  Being nasty on the internet.  ...Angrily at the television.  Yeah.  But of all the sort of fights for everyone to be like this is where we are staking our claim I can also see how it would appear to be a big sort of teapot tempest. So it has that dimension to it as well.  Yeah. Tweet show.  Yeah.  Gene what is your story?  So my story is this humongous survey that came out from the Public Religion Research Institute. So there is this nonprofit nonpartisan think tank here in D.C. They basically do polling on the way Americans feel about other Americans. They did this huge huge huge huge survey. When I say huge I mean like a typical survey's like a thousand people in the sample.  Yeah.  This survey had 40000 people on the sample.  Oh wow.  Holy cow.  So like you know if there were 4 percent of respondents that were queer that is like 1600 people in the sample so...  Yeah.  ...you can be like oh how do white gay men in the South feel about - you could like break it down.  Oh wow. Yeah.  Very kind of...  And so what you get is this huge sample size right? This huge poll - you can get this very pointillist-like picture of American like attitudes about discrimination which is what they are asking about.  OK.  And so some of the findings were just really interesting.  What one was the wackiest?  So the thing that jumped out to me the most - African-Americans were the group least likely to support same-sex marriage - right? - with a plurality now to like 48 percent. So it was basically...  A racial group.  A racial group. That is right.  I am guessing like Southern Baptists are even higher.  Well - so this is where it gets interesting.  Oh.  So 48 percent of African-Americans support same-sex marriage which is lower than other groups. But it is basically a plurality now. But African-Americans are also the group most likely to see that gay people face discrimination. And they are opposed...  Oh yeah.  Oh.  ...to things like religious-based refusal of service - like things like that.  Yeah. Also like per capita in polls a higher percentage of black respondents ID as LGBTQ than the percentage of white respondents.  That is interesting.  Yeah.  That is interesting.  Anyway...  But I mean so - but you find similar responses in their sample too. Like Mormons - obviously not huge fans of same-sex marriage but also...  But they support it more than black people?  But they were big opponents of religious-based refusal of service right?  Ah.  Ah.  And it is because they have these...  Because they have a history.  ...Histories of discrimination right? Like they are marginalized groups right?  Uh-huh.  But the big thing that sort of was fascinating in all these details was like it is hard to untangle the way - like the gravitational pull of the political parties from the way people think about things right? So like black people on same-sex marriage - there is been a lot of movement in the direction of support of same-sex marriage since Obama's statement in 2012 coming out in support of it right? Part of that is obviously like he is the first black president. He is enormously influential. But part of that is he is the head of the party that 95 percent of black voters belong to right? And so like party ID matters a great deal in how you...  Especially nowadays.  If it is an issue you do not care a whole lot about or issues - it is like not a top-tier issue. If your - whatever your party position is that is the position you belong to right?  Yeah you just check that box.  So Americans were more likely in 2015 than in 2016 to say that they felt that black people face a lot of discrimination. It did not drop a lot in 2016. It dropped like three or four percentage points. But all of that drop occurred among conservatives and Republicans - white conservatives and Republicans. And the only thing that happened between the two years was that the campaign happened - right? - and like - and you have the Republican Party sort of...  Well also - but there is more factors than that. I mean there was increased visibility of movements like Black Lives Matter and protests across the country.  But...  Those have influenced things.  Last year was more of the campaign though right? I mean like...  Totally. Totally.  ...BLM has been around since - what? - 20 - since...  Since Trayvon - '14.  Well since Michael Brown really.  Oh yeah yeah yeah.  And so that is 2015 14 - 15 right? But once these issues become partisan issues - right? - like once they become partisan issues then people sort of go to their sides right? So once...  Yeah.  Yeah. It was not partisan until the election.  It was not a partisan issue. Like it was - I think it was implicitly partisan before the election.  Yeah.  But then...  Explicitly.  ...At the RNC - right? - you see like you know you see Sheriff Clarke and those people like that. It becomes an explicitly partisan issue.  So how should this or how can this study and these findings kind of like inform our political discourse? I mean it seems like what you are saying is the rhetoric of parties and political leaders might not actually perfectly match how people are actually feeling. So where do we go from there?  I do not know I mean because so much of this is this weird structure right? I mean you look at an issue like immigration. Apparently you know most Americans are in support of a pathway to citizenship. Then there is another big chunk of Americans who are in support of some sort of legalization of like permanent residency. Only like 3 in 10 Americans apparently are in support of just deportation right? But it does not look like that right? And a lot of that - Robert P. Jones from PRRI was saying like a lot of is because of like what districts looks like right? The House members are responsive to a much more homogenous...  To a base...  Like to a base - right? - in a way that senators are not.  Yeah.  And so like part of this - the intractability of this issue is not - it is not even about like public opinion. It is about...  What your district looks like.  ...Political structure. Right.  Which all comes down to housing...  All comes down to housing.  ...Which is the root of everything.  Everything - housing segregation and everything. Yes.  Yeah. All right.  Sorry.  I learned some stuff from both you guys.  Yeah.  This is fun.  My story is not nearly as seductive. That was not seductive...  It was an old story. My story was not seductive.  Yeah .  I have been obsessed this week with a couple of dueling studies out of Seattle. That city is gradually raising its minimum wage...  Right.  ...To 15 an hour. They are almost there. I think they are at 13 right now. But there were two stud