I didnt do it to tarnish the badge or make cops look bad. It was just the constant talk of money money money and then seeing it it was just a greed factor. I was greedy. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot. and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. When Ken Eurell was 20 years old he was a rookie cop in New York City.  Almost immediately because there was so in demand I was put in a patrol car. It was a midnight tour I was put in with a senior man. He probably had ten years on the job. And we drove down to a bodega he came out with a six pack of beer. We drove up to Highland Park put his foot out the window leaned back had his beer and told me Okay kid listen to the radio. Im going to take a nap.  Was there anybody who you sort of looked at and said are we supposed to be doing this?  We didnt really say Are we supposed to be doing this? We just thought Thats how things are done. Thats what the veteran officers are showing us. I was I guess this is what its like to be a real cop. Drinking on the job...was just the start of it for Ken Eurell. He was learning how to be a cop in the 75th Precinct in East New York a poor neighborhood in Brooklyn in the 1980s. A new documentary called The Seven Five is about that time of escalating crime and drug violence.  Crack is now sweeping New York. Justice Department officials now say there is a direct link between crime and cocaine. Evidence of heavy money and heavy violent drug traffic is all around. The documentary shows how Ken became a corrupt cop in the midst of this. It all started in 1987 when he became partners with Michael Dowd. Well being good is a cop that would never give up another cop. Michael Dowd had a clear definition of what made a good cop as he later told a city hearing after he and Ken were busted. ...if he witnesses something go down he is 100 behind anything a cop does no matter what it is. Ken initially didnt want to share a squad car with Michael Dowd. Hed been warned.  Dont work with Dowd. Hes going to get you in trouble. Do not do it. Give up the squad car if you have to. Go walk a foot post. Dont work with Dowd hes going to end up getting you in trouble. And I felt I had never done anything corrupt before I not gonna do it. But once he was in the car with me he talked night and day 99 percent about money the other one percent he was talking about women. All he discussed was money money money money. And it just drills in your head.  How much money were you making as a police officer in 1987?  It was not much. Paycheck was maybe 6-700 dollars and it was a biweekly paycheck.  When was the first time that you took some money that wasnt yours?  The first time was...He had been attempting to what he called show me he was a good cop but what I call turn me to be like him which was to be a corrupt cop. So it was a call for a burglary. And there was a young teenage girl out front. And her front door was broken in and she was afraid to go inside. Rightfully so. So she called 911. We showed up. We went inside we check the house make sure there was nobody inside no perpetrators inside. And there wasnt. We came back outside and said Okay its safe. Theres nobody inside. you know Call your mother. Get on the phone call your mother. And while shes on the phone with her mother Mike says Ask your mother if there were any valuables. That way we can tell if it was missing so they could take a report. The mother tell her Yeah. We had money and valuables up in the master bedroom closet. So we go upstairs and Mike opens the closet door sticks his hand around up top and goes Nope. Theres nothing here they must have got it. And Im not thinking nothing of it at all because it wasnt the way I thought. And we drive maybe 3-4 blocks away and he reaches into his pocket pulls out a 100 dollar bill. He goes Here this is for you. I am like What the hell is that? What is that for? He goes You didnt even see -- he was like proud -- you didnt even see me take it did you? So I take it and my thought process was I could either not take it and be just as guilty because now Im aware he took it. I could turn him in for 100 dollars ruin his career and cut my own throat in the department cause no one is ever gonna work with me or trust me again. Or take it and go along with him. So I took the money and it sat on top of my locker for a long time thinking like if i didnt spend it I could go back to being a regular cop but that didnt work out.  Did you spend it?  Eventually it spent. Yeah. Eventually it spent.  Do you remember what you bought?  I have no idea. I bought bad karma with it.  By the time Ken was partners with Dowd he was married to his wife Dorie and living on Long Island in Suffolk County but he grew up in Queens.  My parents for the longest time were pushing take a civil servants job. His dad worked construction and wanted his son to have more reliable work and steady pay.  Theres a pension in 20 years. You get paid unlimited sick days.  Did you think you deserved a little extra cash for what you were doing?  Did I think I deserved it? Absolutely not. It was pure greed. Once I got into it it was pure greed. Its almost like sharks in a feeding frenzy. You walk into a room with 10 kilos of cocaine and 300-thousand in cash you either turn it all in and the department gets to use it it goes to the city coffers or you know you are takin' it for yourself. Mike just rewired my brain. He taught me a completely different way to think about the job to approach the job.  Its interesting because the way  you tell the story its that you knew the entire time that Mike your partner was setting a trap for you and you knew you were walking right into it.  Basically I had no choice. I mean I guess I did have a choice. I couldve gave up the car like my buddy suggested and let him you know do his thing with somebody else. He would have corrupted somebody else. But I didnt think I would be able to be turned I guess. And you know from there you graduate to worse and you know worse and worse crimes. And that happened quickly. Within about two months of taking that first hundred dollars Ken starting taking big weekly payouts from a local drug dealer in exchange for any information about police drug investigations.  Here I am making a couple of hundred a week and I have this guy offering us 8000 a week.  And where would you put that cash?  Into everything. It went into everything. It went to new cars jewelry furniture appliances...you know.  How would you carry it around?  To transport it home?  Yeah.  Throw it in a bag in the backseat of the car and we drove home.  Because you didnt deposit it into a bank.  No. The way I handled it was I took my NYPD paycheck I put that in the bank. That paid all my bills it paid my mortgage paid my utilities and anything outside of whats being documented by statements like just food or furniture or anything like that I would pay with the cash.  Do you think your wife knew that there was more cash coming into the household than before?  Oh yeah she knew. She definitely knew there was cash coming in. She really didnt know the extent I guess I could say but she knew there was money. That first payoff that we got and we picked her up after we did a day tour and I tell my wife to reach into the bag to get us a few beers that were in the bag. Were going to have a beer while we drive home. And she reached into the bag and it was filled with cash. And she let out a scream like Oh my god. What is all this money doing here? So she was aware of it. Yes.  Were you kind of showing off for her?  I dont know if I was showing off. I was letting her know whats going on. There is gonna to be cash coming into the house. And she begged me Stop doing what youre doing. Stop doing what youre doing. Stop doing what youre doing.  She did.  Yeah. Over and over.  So she wasnt just not asking questions. She knew you were in danger of being arrested.  Yeah. She knew the threat was there. Especially later on when we started dealing the cocaine on our own. There was no way for her not to know. Coming up how Ken went from taking payoffs from drug dealers to selling cocaine himself.  What happened is...another whole story. Kens story is part of the documentary The Seven Five. Its in select theaters across the country this summer and and streaming on Amazon iTunes and GooglePlay. But since its getting to be that time when we all need a few hours sitting in an air conditioned room...I want to get more recommendations of documentaries to watch this summer. Were starting a Google spreadsheet that we can all add toyou can find the link at deathsexmoney.org our Facebook page and on twitter deathsexmoney. Weve already filled in some slots for you. Emily Botein recommends Time Indefinite a film by Ross McElwee about love death adulthood and parents. Katie Bishops pick is Muscle Shoals about the legendary recording studio. I love Stranger with a Camera which explores the line between storytelling and exploitation. It comes from Appalshop the great documentary house based in eastern Kentucky. And the favorite for Benjamin Franklin one of our new interns? Madonna Truth or Dare. So were looking for new documentaries and classics. And tell us why. Again find the link to the Google spreadsheet doc wherever you find us on the internet. Together well help each other avoid that half hour of browsing Netflix or Amazon. Weve got better things to do with our time. On the next episode your stories about your siblings and how your relationships have changed as youve gotten older. Definitely there have been times when it is like we are strangers. You know is it okay to have some distance from your siblings as you grow? I would love to have a relationship with my sister. I really would. There is a little bit of sorrow. It is like you have lost them. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. So Ken Eurell first started stealing money and taking payoffs in 1987 with his partner Michael Dowd. But then Dowd was transferred to another precinct.  We did not see each other for almost a year. He was gone. I went back on being a regular cop. Then in 1989 Ken was trying to make a routine arrest. He says there was a tussle.  This kids high on angel dust. Hes a white kid from the suburbs and he was coming back to buy yet more drugs. And he lunges for my gun. Ken says he fell back hard on his wrist. It was the last in a series of on-the-job injuries to Kens hand. He was 28 years old. He retired from the police department...and he became a drug dealer himself. It started when two of Kens buddies who were also cops asked him for a hook-up to sell cocaine. He did have a hook-up his former partner Michael Dowd.  On the way home to Long Island he would drop it off at my house. The next day I would give it to these other two cops who would go and sell and the profit would come back to me.  How much money would you make?  At first it wasnt a lot. And then I learned ways to...I dont want to say cheat the two guys that originally came to me but I learned ways to make money off of them.   Wait. What does that mean? You were not cheating them you were just making more money off of them.  Yeah because the drugs that were coming from Dowd theyre coming straight off the kilo. So Im realizing Im getting all this pure cocaine. Why am I giving these guys pure cocaine to sell on Long Island? So I went out to the nutrition store and I bought inositol which is basically what is in energy drinks now. And I would cut the cocaine with inositol. I would take 14 grams of pure cocaine. Keep that for myself. And I would take 14 grams that Im giving to these other guys and cut it with 14 grams of inositol.  And I would get two ounces out of the one ounce that were paid for. Thats how I got into selling cocaine on my own.  That sounds like you were cheating them.   I was making a side deal without including them.  Yeah.  Did you use?  I did not use. I tried it once and I did not like the effects and that was that.  What was motivating you at that point?  I didnt need the money. I was well off. I mean my wife had gone back to work because I retired so I was watching the kids playing Mr. Mom. I had a pension. I had a rental income. It was I dont know opportunity and motive I guess. And once I was selling the cocaine you know you walk into a bar youre a cocaine dealer everybody you know wants to be your best friend. Everybody wants to know you. So yeah you feel like a big shot.  So you had two kids?  Correct. A son and a daughter.  A son and a daughter. And you were the primary stay-at-home parent?  Yes.  While you were dealing cocaine?   Yes. My wife would work during the day and I would make drug transactions at night. Shed be yelling at me Why are you going out again? Why are you going out again? Ill be back in a half hour.  How did you make yourself feel okay about this arrangement?  I dont know. There was no justification for it. This is what I am doing. And Im gonna do it. The money just keeps flowing in.  Where were you when you were arrested?  I was actually in one of my dealer's house. He had owed me money and it was a long day. I went out it was probably 30 10 oclock at night. I had an argument with my wife. She is Dont go out again! Dont go out! Ill be out for 10 minutes. This guy owes me money. Went to the house and Im in there maybe two minutes. Suffolk County hits the front door. They slam the door. And I now revert to thinking like a cop. Im thinking Well were getting robbed. So I look down the hallway and I see police shields and their riot helmets and all of that and Im like Fuck. And I just went back in the bedroom. I put my hands on the wall before they were even there. And they came in you know start patting us down. They pulled my gun out and got all excited. Oh we got a gun! We got a gun! And thats it. We were arrested. Game was over. Michael Dowd was also busted. Separately. He was arrested in his police uniform and had cocaine in his pocket. Both he and Ken got out on bail.  The federal governments calling me in. But the investigation expanded.  I know people were already cooperating. Ken didnt know if he could trust Michael Dowd.  Im thinking...maybe hes gonna flip on me. But Dowd told Ken he wanted to jump bail and leave the country with his family.  He kept pushing and calling me. Here was the plan and get readyit sounds crazy. They needed money to flee so Mike and Ken were going to kidnap the widow of a drug lord for rival dealers. Then the rival dealers were going to kill her for unpaid debts.  So I go to my lawyer and I tell him about this kidnapping and execution plan. And he looks at me like are you a fucking idiot? You cant ignore this the way you tried to ignore when he was first turning you and just go along with it. They kidnap and execute someone without you youre going to go down because you know about it. Ken went back to the federal government and told them everything going back to when he and Michael Dowd were partners.  It almost becomes like a chess game who makes the first move. Kens move was to tell Dowd he would help with the kidnapping. He wore a wire the whole time. Hours before it was supposed to go down federal agents rescued the woman. Then they arrested Michael Dowd.  Yes I flipped on him. I didnt set him up.  Did you go into any witness protection?  It was offered to me. We discussed it. And I did not want to have my children go through changing their names and you know not being able to see their grandparents again and their uncles and their aunts. So they just let us move out of state. That was to Florida.  Did you feel safe?  I looked over my shoulder for a long time. Eventually your guard lets down.  Did you serve any time?  When we were first arrested it took me two months to make bail. So I guess I was in Suffolk County lock-up for two months. After that I did not do no prison time. When I went in front of the judge the judge said the reason why she was giving me no time is to hopefully encourage other officers to come forward in the future if they see crime. Michael Dowd Ken's former partner pled guilty to drug trafficking and racketeering. He served 11  years in prison. Ken didnt see him again until the making of the documentary The Seven Five.  And Im walking up the side block to the seven-five precinct theres Mike standing at the front door. And we sortafrom my perspective I didnt know if we were going to hit each other or hug each other. But when I got close enough and saw his eyes and sort of the smirk on his face we just grabbed each other gave each other a big hug. And that was it.  Why do you think you hugged each other?  We were best friends. God we were like brothers. You know. And I guess time heals all wounds? From what I could see hes still a little bitter somewhat but for the most part were all good.  When you think about your time as a police officer with Dowd...when you think about your time as a cocaine dealer what are you most ashamed of?  Absolutely everything I did with Dowd while I was a cop. You know cops have a hard enough time with the public eye and how theyre perceived. I could have not done any of it. I was greedy. You know. When that money comes into the car I couldve said All right. Im gonna turn him in. I didnt do that. I didnt do the right thing. So theres no justification for it. Its thats Im just really stating the facts of how it is and what went down. Hopefully for me I would love some young cop to come across that and say holy shit I really do not want to go down that path. They see how it screwed up our lives and they will not make that decision.  Do you feel ashamed about dealing coke after you were a police officer?  At that time? No. Everyone...Everyone...mailmen...all types of people were doing drugs. Everyone did cocaine back in the '80s.  Are you still receiving money from your time as a police officer? Are you still receiving your pension?  A pension is for life.  So despite having told the federal government that you were stealing money protecting drug dealers as a police officer you still received  During my time on the job. Yes. There was a big discussion about that when we were first arrested.  Does that...Does it feel at all shameful to cash those checks knowing what you did on the job?  Uh...what I did I feel more shame over. You know...I was legitimately injured so no. It doesnt feel shameful to cash the checks for which Im receiving.  How much is your pension check?  Id rather not get into that.  Okay. And howyoure working now right?  I was working up until this past summer. In the automotive field.  Doing what kind of work?  Auto parts. Selling auto parts.  What was it like to go from making a lot of money selling cocaine and then not having that extra cash as a family?  I lived an average life again. You know. Moved to Florida where thankfully the cost of living is a lot less than New York. And you just go back to leading a very average life. More than 25 years after he left the police department Ken still thinks of himself as a cop.  You always think of yourself as a cop. Always.  Tell me how you  Its a conflict. Because everything that happens in the news now thats going on now with Ferguson and you know all these recent cops that were shot and killed in New York you want to mourn for them but you feel like you cant because you betrayed the badge. Its very conflicted feeling very conflicted thoughts.  So you mention Ferguson and Baltimore of course and Eric Garner on Staten Island in New York here. And theres been an outcry about police-community relations. Do you feel protective of police officers when people criticize?  Absolutely. Im almost 100 percent on the side of the cops every time.  Im interested in that because your own life story shows that there are cops who do not follow the rules and think theyre above the law.  Right. The situations that have been in the paper I dont see...No cop goes out at the beginning of the tour saying Im going to go out and hurt somebody. No. Even you know even the most corrupt cop who is out there grabbing money and working with drug dealers I neverwe never said we are going to go out there and hurt somebody. I neverwe never intended to go out and physically harm somebody. We didnt. Nobody sees that. You go out and you see crime. You dont see black you do not see Hispanic you dont see Oriental. You go out and you see crime. And you react to the crime at hand.  Do you think that being a white cop in a primarily Hispanic and black precinct made you more bold in breaking the rules?  No I dont think that had anything to do with it. I would havewe would have broke the rules in a white neighborhood just as much. I mean if a bag of money is being offered to me back at that time Im taking it. It was just pure greed. Once it was drilled into my head and my brain was rewired to do my job in a search for padding my paycheck I guess you could say thats all I saw. I saw green. I saw money. And it was definitely a character flaw. Ken Eurell. He lives in Florida with his wife Dorie. His kids are now grown. And we followed up on that pension question. According to a Newsday article from 1993 Ken receives more than 35000 a year. Death Sex and Money is a production of WNYC.  The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Rachel Aronoff Benjamin Franklin and Joe Plourde. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Go there or go to our Facebook page to get the link to the Google spreadsheet to add your recommendation for documentaries we should watch this summer. And if you like Death Sex  Money subscribe to us on iTunesand leave us a review there. That helps other people find the show on the iTunes charts. So Ken Eurell doesnt have many regrets about selling cocaine in the '80s...but stealing money? He says hed never do that again.  Would I ever be tempted again? No. No. No. I could be driving behind a Brinks truck and five bags of money fall off Im turning that in. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.