Lawrence Bartley I remember I used to always tell Ronnine that when when I could not see when I when I was incarcerated I could not see the outside world at all. All I could do is hear it from the phone conversation. And it felt like my sense of hearing would heighten because I could tell what room she was in based upon the the kind of ear I hear. I can tell when she is in the car I could tell when she is outside when she is walking I could tell by her breath that she is doing something different and and I still have that extra sense like that heightened sense of hearing. So now that we are we are sheltering in place everyone is forced to pick up uh uh another sense or enhance what other senses they have. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. In many communities in the country right now people are having to decide how close they feel comfortable being with people they live near as rules keeping us apart have started to shift. But some people have not had the option of distance including the 2.3 million people in Americas jails and prisons and coronavirus is inside those walls with them. More than 46000 inmates have tested positive for coronavirus and at least 548 have died from it according to The Marshall Project and the Associated Press. Lawrence Bartley They say that you know listen I have my bunk is three feet away from someone else's bunk and and you know I am afraid I cannot social distance in a time like this. You know I need help. Thats Lawrence Bartley. Hes been on the show several times before starting in 2014 when I interviewed him at Sing Sing prison in Ossining New York. In 2018 he was released on parole after 27 years. Lawrence now works for the Marshall Project a news organization that covers criminal justice. Hes started a print publication for them called News Inside whose readers are incarcerated people around the country.  I get the most mail out of everyone. Anna Sale Oh really?  You know they... Absolutely.  Huh! Cause they you know you know. That is interesting huh?  Exactly. They know I know. And their letters their letters tell me that they know. And just saying it to me they know it is not falling on deaf ears. Lawrence is now working from home but prior to the pandemic he commuted to the office in New York City from Connecticut where he lives now with his wife Ronnine and their two boys. They bought a house there last year.  It is uh the kind of place that Ronnine and I have always wanted with uh uh a decent sized backyard or front yard and space between ourselves and our neighbors so the kids can run play ride their bikes. We have been here for about nine months. Uh the wife and I are blessed to be working remotely. And my wife is a teacher and she can home school the kids without without it um taking her out of her comfort zone.  Um I want to ask you about an essay you wrote about this time of isolation and quarantine about how your time in prison prepared you for this. Um and I want to ask you when was that when in the process of everything shutting down and you beginning to shelter in place with your family when did you have that first  sense of oh this feels familiar?  During the initial two weeks I was adjusting so I did not I did not really think about my own personal space and how it made me feel and how it was reminiscent of of being incarcerated until that first two weeks kind of went by. But then as we began to settle in a bit and I started realizing that I could not go anywhere I remember looking through my window and I would see the occasional car pass by. And um it remind me of being on keep lock which is being locked in in a cell 23 hours a day but you would have your personal property like your underwear your clothing the radio you had your books. You had those things but you could not go out. And I will look out my window and here and I would have that feeling like wow there is so many places I cannot go.  What were the circumstances when would you be on keep lock?  Well I remember one time in particular I was I um I used to you know being incarcerated you could make it as little as 10 cents an hour in New York State. You know I had a family that would send me money now now again but I did not like to be a burden on them nonetheless they have bills to pay. Now I could purchase like seasoning you know it costs a couple of uh say 60 something cents but someone in the mess hall black market would steal some seasoning and they would sell it to me in bulk at a cheaper cost. So that is what I did. I I purchased it and so I I had it in my cell. I would take a little bit out I would use it to flavor my food and my food would taste pretty decent. And um until one day an officer searched my cell and he found the seasoning. And um he  Seasoning. Was it like salt and pepper or or what kind of seasoning was it?  This particularly this was garlic powder.  Oh yeah.  This was garlic powder and when he found it I mean he treated me like it was a big drug bust. I was like come on man I am seasoning my food. But he looked at me like he looked at me like I had three heads. Like what do you mean you are seasoning your food? Get on the wall! What are you doing? Like he is going crazy. I am like I guess I am keep locked and I am in my cell. I am like aw man! So um then I had to deal with those feelings of uh being isolated you know? And and when your first time being keep locked is it begins to weigh on your mental health. You cannot see anybody touch anybody you cannot go out. And and that was heavy on me and it really hurt and I learned how to survive and adapt under those conditions. So these conditions seemed like not much to me.  So tell me how you learned to adapt. Like what were the things that you learned you had to do when you were physically isolated in order to move through those feelings of anxiety.  One thing I would mention like um like right now... like sometimes I have meetings I have meeting on Zoom maybe an interview or something on behalf the Marshall Project I would do it people would have to see me. And I am cutting my hair every day with clippers I am cutting it you know I make sure I look presentable on my Zoom meetings whatever presentations I have to give. You know I am putting on a shirt you know uh button down shirts. I am looking presentable. And it reminds me of I learned how to do all these things like when I was in in solitary confinement and you do not have anything. You do not have any you do not have any of your hygiene products. You only have two pairs of shirts and pants that they give you so it was really a headache and it is super stressful. You know at this time I had long hair. And for for for Black Americans like we like to braid our hair sometimes. We braid our hair in cornrows you know to look presentable. And when Ronnine would come visit me on the weekends I like to I had long hair if I did not braid it... so so so what I did was I would um I would I had to learn how to braid my own hair which is super difficult. And usually you know we will put like like hair grease in order to make our hair look look look nice and and and you know so it will not look dry while you braid your hair. I did not have hair grease but I had butter I had little pieces of butter. So I would use butter to put it in my hair and I smelled like Jiffy Pop popcorn every time I went on a visit. Ronnine would say your hair looks nice but you smell like popcorn!  So I hear you saying like doing your hair when you were when you were alone it both like gave you something to do and to focus on and also was a way for you to take care of yourself so you did not feel like you were like falling apart um while you were on your own.  Absolutely. Thats another skill gaining another skill.  You know something that I wonder that if it feels unfamiliar to you like when you were dealing with isolation before it was you. It was you and and you had this this time to go inward and to work on how you managed your thoughts and took care of yourself. I mean now you are in a household with your wife and with your two boys who want your attention. Um I know as a parent right now with kids at home trying to work like you do not have a lot of time to go inward and I wonder if that feels really different. Like do you know how to take care of yourself when it is when it is isolation but you you are constantly distracted by other people?  Well this is a dream come true!  Yeah.  I mean I used to be in solitary I used to fantasize about like having my family with me. You know I many times throughout the week I find myself looking at my family and saying how thankful I am that they are here with me. You know this is like I get a chance to know them better. I am I am watching my six year old grow. My um my 12 year old he is doing his music now. He is playing music writing music composing music I am watching him grow as an artist. You know I am I am here with Ronnine you know so I have... my mental health is super stable. It is being fed with love every day. And and I am growing myself in that way because I have been deprived of it for 27 years.  Mmm. I wonder like have you been either through work or just by reaching out in your personal time have you been in touch with inmates at Sing Sing right now and what are you hearing from them about how they are experiencing the pandemic?  Well yeah I get letters from them all the time. The letters are are desperate. And you know I would get letters before but these letters are more frantic. You do not have to they do not have to um present themselves because I understand a lot of things they do not have to explain. And a lot of them they say things like yo listen man you know they do not care about us. You know they want to leave us to die. You know I gotta get out of here man! I got a daughter I gotta get to. My granddaughter was just born I am 60 years old. I got hypertension you know can I get out of here and all I got us a drug crime you know drugs messed me up but I have been off the drugs for 16 years. Can I have the chance to live? I mean what is going to be happening? You know? It is just it is crazy. You know? Some of them say things like um you know there is an order for officers to wear masks but some officers are not wearing masks they are gonna give it to me. I mean what is going on man?  I am struck by that word frantic that you said there the letters you are getting are more frantic than you are used to.  Especially when you get it from someone that you knew for years and that person is always in control. But just to to hear like a frantic letter or a call from his family or email from his grandmother. It is just so desperate and I feel sad that I cannot help people like I wish I could. Coming up a story from one of the people who reached out to Lawrence a woman worried about her husbands safety in Sing Sing. Dana I feel like this is a death sentence for him. I feel like... what if he dies in there? We have waited so long and have gone through so much. -- Many of our colleagues here at WNYC have been doing some excellent reporting in the last few months about prisons in America during this pandemic. The podcasts The United States of Anxiety and The New Yorker Radio Hour have worked on a few episodes together about early releases from jails and prisons because of COVID-19 including about how some people are being let out without much reentry assistance. Like a man named Jermaine who was recently released from jail in Cleveland. He has schizoaffective disorder. Jermaine I was supposed to go to the treatment center but they just let me out. They just scrapped all that and this it was just me. The United States of Anxiety also looked at COVID-19 in ICE detention centers in New York and New Jersey. We have links to that reporting in our show notes. And theres one more podcast I think you should check out if you have not Ear Hustle from Radiotopia which is stories all about people in prison and post-incarceration. They just wrapped their fifth season which was produced almost entirely during shelter-in-place and its phenomenal. I especially recommend the episode called Hold that Space about four women in relationships with men in prison. On our next episode the first of our collaboration with the podcast Love  Radio about touch and what youve been missing during this time of isolation. Billy Flood Good God. The other day at CVS the cashier their finger brushed my hand and I thought I was going to pass out. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Lawrence Bartley spent his last years in prison at Sing Sing where as of last weekend 43 people have tested positive for coronavirus and 4 people have died. Lawrence connected me with a woman were calling Dana who lives in Queens New York. Her husband is currently at Sing Sing. Were calling him John and hes been incarcerated for more than 18 years. He was convicted of burglary in the second degree and robbery in the third degree and wont be eligible for parole for another seven years. Since Sing Sing is closed to visitors Dana told me she and John talk on the phone almost every day. During one of their calls back in late March John told Dana that he wasnt feeling well. Dana He he said he was feverish and he was tired. That the headaches were you know like he never had a headache like this before. Um at night he would feel worse during the day he will feel a little better and this is still going on. He does not have a fever anymore but um he still feels ill. He knows something is wrong but he cannot really tell if it is the coronavirus. So he feels like it is because of the symptoms that he is having.  Yeah. Dana He gasps when he talks he I feel like he is winded and he he runs out of air and then he takes a breath and I am like were you rushing? And he goes no I am here I have been waiting for the phone.  He has not been tested. Dana No he has not been tested.  Is that alarming to you? Dana It is because he is sick for such a long time and it is scary. After putting in all this time my husband is can have the coronavirus and it could be life threatening and there is no medical attention.  Do you have someone at the prison that you can call or talk to that is not your husband to understand what is happening there? Dana Uh no. Not really. When um when I have reached out to the facility they usually ask for the inmate's number ID number and that is all they are concerned about. Who are you talking about instead of trying to give information of what is happening at the prison. And I try never to identify my husband because there is retaliation when a phone call does not go right or you want too much information. Um so I try to be vague and general.  So you are afraid to express specific concern about your husband because you are afraid then that he will he will face some kind of consequence inside. Dana Absolutely.  How do you know to be afraid of that? Dana Um in the past when I have called and I did freely give my husband's ID then he could not get on the phone. Um he was running into problems. Even when I go there to visit I walk in with absolutely hardly any jewelry just my wedding bands. Um I follow the rules to the T because if you are flagged for anything um other than following the rules they the process is delayed. Um they kind of bully you around if you you are too loud if you are too noticed if you are you know I I kind of wear the same outfit all the time. Because I know that there is no buttons that ring I know that uh the shirt is not revealing and... it is best it is best to do it that way because it is a smoother process when your head is down.  Before coronavirus how often would you see each other? Dana I would go every week or every other week because I work so I would go on the days that I could visit him.  When did those visits stop? Dana They stopped in late February.  Hmm. Is this the longest you have gone without seeing him in 18 and a half years? Dana Absolutely. But now it is just words words words words. Um so I try to express as much as I can to him. Good positive everything's gonna be okay kind of wording. And um even though we do not know we we are there for each other and we try to support each other and try to lift I try to lift him up and um do the best I can that way.  Yeah. Dana He served so much time for the crime and it was because he had no representation but we have no money. And it is just the anxiety level Anna that I have reached has me physically ill because I do not know if he is really okay.  How do you get phone calls from John? Do you know when they are coming or do you just hold your phone close because it could be at any moment. Dana Oh I do not let go of my phone. It could be at any moment. There is no set time. There are no rules. There are no uh the set times are actually in the morning afternoon and evening those are when they are allowed to call but anywhere in those three times of the day I do not know when he is gonna call.  I see. Dana So I live for I live with my phone. Everywhere I go.  Have you talked to yet today? Dana No not today. Not yet.  What'd you talk about yesterday? Dana Um we talked about how it was raining and there was sort of a storm. And we spoke about TV shows and the kids. We spoke about what he is eaten. Um this is our daily conversations just what has gone on the day before what is coming how I am working still from home. He tells me to try to be careful to exercise as much as I could to stay active even inside. Um he asked me you know what I cook and things of that sort. Just we try to be as normal as possible.  I see I see. And what'd you tell him you were cooking? Dana Um I made chicken and rice and beans. And I try to diffuse the the meal conversation Anna because he loves to eat. And he loves my cooking! So I feel sad because if I say something that is too yummy that sounds too good I feel like he he is wishing and wanting to have that.  Yeah. Dana And it makes me sad.  Yeah. You said you have noticed some physical some physical anxiety coming up. What have you noticed in how you are you are carrying this worry? Dana I feel like a weight in my chest. And sometimes I think well maybe I have the coronavirus but I am not sick. I do not have a fever and I am not symptomatic. So I do not think I have the coronavirus. I have been in place for a long time. If I have been out of my house five times for food since March 25th was which was the last time I worked um I had hardly have been out of the house. And um. I do not feel like I am I have the Coronavirus but I do feel a weight on my chest I cannot sleep. And it is a combination of everything that is going on around us and a combination of worrying about John who did feel sick and who has not had a lot of help there.  Yeah. Dana So the anxiety level is real.  Mhmm. And Dana I am wondering do you have any do you have any friends  who also have incarcerated spouses? Do you have anybody to talk to about what this is like? Dana No. I do not.  That is a lot for you to hold all by yourself. Dana It is. It is and I try not to talk too much here at home. My daughter is a college student who is studying pharmacy and she is very busy and her work is very intense very hard. It is not an easy career so I try not to worry her or his mother she is sick and old. Um so I I take in a lot. You have to be strong.  What are you going to do this afternoon? Dana Work. I still have to work. And wait for his call!  Yeah. Dana Wait for John to call and... and work. Thats a woman were calling Dana in Queens New York. Since we talked shes started back at the office where she works. Her husband still has not been tested for coronavirus and she still doesnt know when shell be able to visit him again. Theres a link in our show notes to Lawrence Bartleys essay How 27 Years In Prison Prepared Me For Coronavirus along with links to my previous interviews with him and his wife Ronnine. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im usually based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And thanks to Joanna Goldman in Montreal whos a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Joanna to support what we do here at deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.