Esther Perel People come to me for a lot of advice and Im generally quite honored. But on occasion I kind of just say okay I dont needcan I have a day without somebody coming  another breakup . This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Alia Shawkat in for Anna Sale. The first time I was on Death Sex  Money I was 28 years old. It was a live show with Anna in Los Angeles and the conversation was about what its like to be in your twenties. But I recently turned 30 and now Im looking for some different kind of advice about the next chapter of my life. So when I was asked back to be a guest host on this episode I knew exactly who I wanted to get it from.  Esther  hello!  Hello Hello! Esther Perel. Therapist author and host of her own podcast Where Should We Begin. She studies intimacy and monogamy and sexuality. Things I think about all the time.  Thank you so much for putting the time aside to do this. It means so much to me.  My pleasure. I think I was like 26 or 27 when I discovered her work. So really from that point on I kind of just got obsessed with her. Like my dream was just to have like have a session with her just to like pull her aside and be like Okay this is my stuff I want to talk about but this interview is about as close as I could get to a counseling session. So I really wanted to ask her about her life. How she navigated the period of adulthood that Im just entering and where she learned to think about relationships in the ways she does. Weve got some things in common. My dads an immigrant and so were both of her parents. They were Polish the only people in their families to survive the Holocaust. And after World War II they raised Esther and her brother in Belgium. But whereas I grew up talking about sex a lot at home Esther did not.  I grew upwith regards to sexuality in two very different cultures. The culture of my family was a culture where the subject was basically inexistent um never talked about I grew up in utter ignorance actually. The culture around me particularly the Francophone culture of the '70s was a culture that was in full effervescence and openness and those two worlds literally lived side by side um inside of me for that matter too. I very quickly understood that my influence was going to be the world of the outside as much as I could. Um and so I watched a lot of movies and I read a lot of literature and Madame Bovary and all of those stuff  was um it was all about these topics. Do you know where I learned the most about these things? My mother she would stand behind the counter in the store and she when there was no customers she would be reading these photo-romance. Do you know what that is?  No is that kind of like gossip magazines? Or  No no it is these magazines that were filmed like as if its a film but cut by picture picture picture picture. I dont know how you call them in English but they were very very popular. In French it was called Nous Deux us two you know and  it was massive harlequin literature for women but with pictures. Im very pleased that its part of my repertoire. I dont mind it Im just Im very happy I got some other ideas since.  When she was a teenager Esthers parents bought an apartment in Tel Aviv and the family started splitting their time between Belgium and Israel. After going to college in Jerusalem she moved to Boston for graduate school. And then when she was in her mid twenties she moved to New York.  My husband and I we kind of arrived to New York with love and fresh water. We had no jobs I had no papers we had no place to stay. I mean we just arrived here at the time you could still do this. And you know we didnt think about I want to be successful or I want to make it we just thought How much do I need to survive and then to buy my next ticket so that I can fly to some place Id like to go to?  And as long as you can pay your rent and um you know and do the basics youll figure it out. And um so we did. You know when we had a dinner for 10 it was considered were going out tonight!  Yeah. Um so your parents at this time they were in - in Belgium or in Tel Aviv?   They would go back and forth.  They would go back and forth. Was there any like kind of dynamic where your parents were like Let me make sure youre okay heres some money or were they very strict about being like You just gonna have to make it on your own.  Like -  No there was never any of that. My parents - my parents basically I knew that if ever I need help I can reach out. I wanted to make it myself. Um but you know for a few months they would help me with rent. If I needed to put a deposit they would help me with deposit whatever I needed there was never an issue. But um but I also had the pleasure and the pride of uh being able to develop these things on my own. And once  - I was hustling as they say. And um there was no rope or string as like that of um you have to do ityou know we will help you but in return for the help you get you have to do these things that we expect from you or we will not help you and you should really prove that you can do ityou know there is a mentality in America by which you leave home at 18. That was not necessarily a mentality I grew up with. And its not the main mentality in most of the world for that matter. So today if you dont leave home you know theres - it is considered arrested development. It is in the nature of the sequencing of your growing up that this is what youre going to do at 18. But it is not a universal norm.  Yeah. Other cultures too it is more of like focus on on families being really close instead of this like urge to be like Youre 18 get out! Like Figure it out.   But what norm did you grow up with?  I mean I - I grew up with where its like the family takes - we stay together and take care of each other as long as possible.  Um Im the child of an immigrant and um Ive been pretty much um financially independent since I was young 'ecause I started acting when I was young. But um I find it more my siblings this kind of - they both react differently to taking my parents' money. And I think I have more of a judgment on it like We gotta be independent we gotta be free! Even though Im very close with my parents it is this feeling of like I found strength almost and I think it was because I got the kind of validation from my parents that I was like the only way to be validated by them is to be financially independent.   And we internalize it. So a society judgment becomes a family judgment becomes our individual judgment. Or at least questioning you know whats wrong with me why am I not doing what everybodybasically Im not doing what everybody else is doing therefore there must be something missing in my system. And you know my parents they knew that I was doing my best they knew I am really trying very hard and they wanted me to be comfortable so if I needed something you know if I went to Belgium thats where I bought my clothes. I didnt have health insurance I had travel insurance and for 15 years or so when I would go home I would go to do the round of the doctors because we have socialized medicine and then if I needed to buy things I would buy everything in Europe which of course was paid by my parents.   Right. You were saying you were already married at that time.  I married after two years of being in New York.  And how old were you at thatwhen you got married?  27.  27. Do you remember like its kind of a broad question but what your belief system of relationships were like at that age?  Huh. Oh Ive had all kinds of philosophies about relationships certainly  all the time Ive always been thinking about it you know. I think - I mean definitely if you ask around marriage I definitely as a child of the '70s was raised with the idea that one does not necessarily need to marry anymore. The contract shouldnt have to be so important. I had a lot of that for a while um and maybe if I was in Belgium I would have not married because thats what a lot of people were doing around me. Um but it was time to get a Green Card so  so that that really was the determining factor on the timing. Then I definitely I definitely had the idea that I would work um and so did my mother but I came from a traditional framework that probably um you know uh the primary provider is the man I mean I had that system still very much ingrained in me that totally did not become our reality. Um and at first that was not so obvious it was um I needed to adapt to this idea. I had all kind of ideas about children and education of children because I came out of a very rigid educational system which I disliked profoundly and found massively oppressive. So I had all kinds of ideas of how I would want to raise children. I was filled with ideologies about  stuff like this. Some of them I think were sound and some of them I think were just very young.  I just turned 30  in my life  and um in some ways you know I was at least personally I was never someone who is like fearful of aging or how Id look different or anything. But even just turning 30 Ive started to just notice the difference between the way Im getting attention. Um I think its a combination of how I present myself now more differently but I have a question -  yes definitely.  And where you live. I mean you live in a city that is so you know focused on youth and um  Obsessed with that yeah. And then you start noticing people who are younger and I was like oh gosh! That seems so much farther away. I thought that was yesterday . Do you remember having this shift as you got older? Of um the transition of kind oflike noticing different kinds of attention um from men whether it was in a sexual way or even professionally just like noticing that kind of shift as you were processing your own perception of yourself?  I think New York gives you a few more years than LA.  But I will put it to you like this. I actually I know it is not exactly the answer toto what youre asking me but you become invisible here but the moment you go on a plane to Brussels it changes completely because it - it you not just seen because of a certain kind of a standard look. You become seen because you are able to draw someone in because there is a certain kind of seduction dance that takes place by which people elicit attention and interest from the other onto themselves and vice versa. On the other end you develop a different - you know experience of the attention itself. So um you know its a little bit like when you - when you start to need glasses and you dont have them you dont see everything  it doesnt really matter.  Its a little bliss. Right.  I think what comes out with 30 really it is not so much the focus on the on the external gaze the male gaze or the female gaze whatever the erotic gaze on you that affirms you and that you start to feel oh at 23 everybody looked at me. 'ecause at 23 you are obsessed with Did they look at me? Did they not look at me? Did the person that I want look at me? Is the one that looked at me is the not the person I really want? Because if thats the only person that looks at me what does that say about me? Its the other one that I want to be looked from. I means its just it is endless right?  So at 30 I really to me what starts to happen is you begin to enter into your skin with a greater degree of self acceptance and - and therefore confidence. And with that confidence you begin to select whos attention actually matters and not that everybodys attention is equally important to convey your sense of self worth. And all of that creates a much greater I think degree of joy and um satisfaction period.  And it gets even more so afterwards. Thats the - the - but its very hard to say that to someone who starts at 30 because because you -  you have to have gone through it sometimes to really know what people are talking about atwhich is what life is about! The experience of life is something that you cannot predict in advance. You can describe it 10 times the only time you know is when you actually are going through it. Coming up Esther on what aging has been like for her. Especially when it comes to friends.  I think one of the great things about living in the U.S. and in New York especially is that you can continuously make new friends which is something that I would not have done in the same way in Europe. New York City in that sense is an absolute gift of extraordinary people. --  Hey its Anabel Bacon one of the producers here at the show. And this past week we got an email in our inbox asking When is Anna coming back??? And we are happy to report really soon! Shell be back from maternity leave at the end of this month and you will hear new episodes that she is hosting in July. I called her up to ask how shes feeling about coming back.  Anabel I will confess about a week ago I was like I dont think Ill ever feel like going back to work.  Im like this is the diff - for my first maternity leave I was like definitely ready around the four month mark. This time its taken me a little longer. But just this week Ive started to get that itchiness of like Oh I have some ideas I want to get back to brainstorming with the team and doing interviews. So thats good.  Well were really excited that youre coming back. And that first week when youre back youre going to be here in New York  with us. And is there anything you want to do together as a team?  Well I was actually thinking about how I would really like to go line up in chairs next to each other and go get foot massages?  Oh yeah. Im on board. Im on board. We are probably gonna need that after our exercise class which is that same week.  I gotta admit Im pretty stressed out about my outfit. I just got bangs thats a new thing. So Im like whats my workout hairdo? Do I wear a sweatband? Under the bangs? Over the bangs?  Thats a really thats an existential question. I never thought about what you do with a sweatband when you have bangs. I feel like people in the NBA never have to think about this where do the bangs go?  They dont.  Well we are really excited for you to be here were excited for the workout class I am now excited for the foot massages. So we will see you in about three weeks.  Im excited. Thanks Anabel! One MORE thing to be excited aboutwe have a few spots left in that exercise class. Its on Thursday June 27 here in New York from 7-8 pm. And its totally free. There will be dancing there will be a little bit of sweating and it will be extremely fun. Grab a spot before theyre gone at deathsexmoney.orgworkout. Again thats deathsexmoney.orgworkout. Sweatbands are not required but they are heavily encouraged. And if you are not in New York we are going to be streaming the entire thing online. Subscribe to our newsletter to find out how you can join in at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. On the next episode actor Mahershala Ali sits down with writer actor rapper and poet Rafael Casal. He co-wrote and co-starred in one of Mahershalas favorite movies last year Blindspotting. But he quickly found out that being a movie star does not guarantee a big paycheck.  we put a movie out and everyone back home thinks I am on.  Yeah yeah.  And I am like that was an indie movie.  Right.  I lost money.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Alia Shawkat in for Anna Sale.  I wanted to ask you about friends.  Um and about kind of like who you surround yourself with now and who is important to you?  Im glad you ask me the question because to me first of all friends are an enormously important part of my life um and also because I work with so many people that often feel way too lonely and way too isolated. So um I had an incredible event last year I turned sixty and I invited people from all the decades of my life.  and it was an amazing experience of integration to have all the worlds of my decades come together in one place and meet.  um I have many long standing friends its not just one or two I have friends from every place where Ive lived um and every decade--  So you still find yourself making new friends?  Oh yes and younger people. Now I have a wholefor the last 5 years or so uhuh because of different events that I was part of I made new friendships with people who are your age basically. Um and its not talked about like that its notbut I know Im the age of their mothers sometimes. And its a thrill on both sides I always remember when I came to New York I had people that we were close to who were my age and they serve the role like that in our lives they were more established they were further along they you know theythey could cook for us et cetera et cetera and now Im that person and its a blessing of my life. And I work and encourage people to make friends I teach them how to make friends. What it means? What are different degrees of friendships? What kind of friendships? How do you talk to your friends? How do you fight with your friends? How do you make up with your friends? I think those lessons are um maybe not present enough at this moment and I think they are the balms of peoples lives.  Ive been making friends with people who are younger than me too and I learn so much and as you said I have a lot to teach them and so its a very nurturing kind of friendship as well as my friends who are older than me and yeah we dont process it that way were not like  But you have older friends as well?  Lots yeah. If anything when I was younger I was only friends with people who were older than me. And now its uh yeah a little more mixed. That birthday party sounds like such a fun time.  Did you find yourself transitioning not in any like hard way but transitioning through parts of yourself? Were you like oh when I was with this person I was kind of like this or when I was with this person I was like that or is that something  No but you know what friends do. When friends meet from different parts of the world Was she always like this?  How was she when she was 15? I mean it is just really interesting to have that perspective like that and um I think we move so much these days you know we sometimes move so fast and we dont necessarily have the - the long history the continuity the longform narrative of people who remember you decades before and kind of give you markers you know signposts for your life. But - and I like that I dont think its a necessity but I think its a beautiful thing.  Are you ever uh lonely? And if you are when - when do you feel it?  I am not feeling that anymore. I havent felt that in quite a few years. But it is a feeling that that I remember vividly from before at 30  at 20 you know um I did I did feel very lonely. When I was mad at myself when I felt like I didnt fit or like - like living was too complicated for me. Or like nobody can understand that you know thats what made me feel lonely. Like - and that is gone. Its really a pleasure to not be plagued by some of those feelings anymore. Sometimes I turn around and I say wow I havent had that feeling! I remem - like yeah just with you now it is like I remember it I remember especially when I would have a big fight with my mother or something like that. That was a big time as well when I would feel very very lonely is when I would have arguments with particularly with my mom. But um its gone. I dont have those feelings. I have other issues but not that.    I did see in an interview once that you described yourself as counterphobic.  Yes.  Um  yes. And then I have I have a quote here not to quote you but just Im very fearful but I live as if um I am fearless. Um can you talk about maybe when you first noticed that in yourself or was able to identify it?  I think its my husband who must have said that to me once.  He said Youre counterphobic. And I said What is that?  you know. And um because I think that um I did uh - I did absorb a kind of a sense of dread in myabout life you know? At the same time as I can be uh a completely engaged and excited about things there is kind of a little hum in the background that I often live with that everything can turn off on the spot. And that does come from a legacy ofto me anywayuh Ive always associated it with my background as a child of Holocaust survivors. That idea that everything can just turn on itself on - overnight and your whole world could disappear. I did not grow up with a sense of you know the world is a perfect beautiful place and I am innocent. But it didnt cripple me completely but it is there. So counterphobic is the idea that in fact I have actually taken many many risks exactly when we began the conversation like how I arrived here you know the things that you would think a person who is actually anxious or fearful would never do these kind of things. I did them um because the fear of not doing them was bigger than the fear of doing them.  Right and almost maybe a feeling of like what - what else is there to lose?  Exactly. So thats the counterphobic for me is that I - I sometimes act as if I have zero fears when in fact Im doing the thing that is probably the most scary. And you wouldnt know it. Thats Esther Perel. Season three of her podcast Where Should We Begin? launches on Apple podcasts later this summer. Dont miss it its one of my favorite shows. Seasons one and two are also available to listen to now. You can learn more about Esther and her work at estherperel.com. And I am Alia Shawkat. I want to thank Death Sex  Money for having me. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote the theme music. And if this is your first time listening to Death Sex  Money hit the subscribe button so it wont be your last. Its a really great show with listeners all over the worldsomeone actually came up to me when I was in Iceland to tell me they heard the episode I was on. So if you want to hear that one just text my nameA-L-I-Ato the number 70101 and youll get a link. And you can find all their past episodes at deathsexmoney.org.  This is kind of like a simple question but I was asked once and I kind of thought it was funny. Um what gets you out of bed in the morning?   Hmm. You know what? This probably is different from where I thought at 30. If I wake up and I realize theres no pain in the body this body is going to carry me for another day very faithfully that makes me very happy and when you take it for granted you dont appreciate it nearly enough. Im Alia Shawkat and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.