Hey its Anna. I remember exactly where I was standing in my kitchen when I heard the episode we are going to share with you today. It was my first time hearing it because I was on maternity leave. It was 2019 and actor Mahershala Ali was one of our guest hosts while I was out. Hed been a guest on the show before and then he went on to win two Oscars. And we we thrilled when he agreed to do an interview for Death Sex  Money. Mahershala is from Oakland and he asked to interview another actor from the Bay Area Rafael Casal.  I will be honest. The conversation is such a blur because I was sitting across from somebody I deeply admire who was asking me questions about me which was wildly uncomfortable because I was like I want to ask you everything but I am going to try to resist. 'ecause that is not the prompt. I called up Rafael in California where hes preparing for the premiere of his new TV show Blindspotting which is based on an indie movie he made with Daveed Diggs by the same name. I asked Rafael what he remembered about his conversation with Mahershala.  I think mostly what I remember is that Mahershala is a very generous conversationalist. Um and he um he is one of the more active listeners I have ever encountered. Um and so it felt like he very safe conversation um not in terms of subject matter but in terms of um the the care that every moment was um was handled with. That spirit of generosity and listening really came through for me when I heard this episode. And Im excited for you all to hear it todayespecially if youre new to our show and havent heard this one before. And by the way if you want to hear any of our older shows including with other guest hosts like Jason Isbell Ellen Burstyn and Tressie McMillian Cottom... you can find them by clicking on Archives at deathsexmoney.org. Theres more from my recent phone chat with Rafael Casal at the end of the show but for now here he is in conversation with Mahershala Ali from back in 2019.   I think for so long I was just so happy that I did not end up in prison which like I do not think I was aware then was so close.  Hm.  You know now I am like oh man. There was like a few moments where I remember just kind of sitting there going like the shit thats in this room right now is twenty to life. I need to get out of here.  This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot And need to talk about more. Im Mahershala Ali in for Anna Sale. And last year I saw a movie that I loved. I loved it so much Ive watched it like three times and its called Blindspotting. Its set in Oakland California. I am originally from the Bay Area and I think Blindspotting captures the Bay Area so well. The film is all about the messy intersection of race and class and rapid gentrification that is happening there right now.  What the fuck is this green juice shit doing up in here?  Its good for you.  How much?  10. MILES WHAT?  What is this the blood of fucking Jesus? The fuck is in it that it costs 10?  Let me get one.  Im sorry what? These are the two best friends at the center of this movie. Colin is the one who just bought the juice. Hes a young black guy who recently got out of prison and absolutely does not want to go back. Miles is the one with the attitude. Hes white likes to wear a gold grill and is always always stirring up trouble. Their friendship is complicated. And I think it represents something I havent really seen before on screen.  The way in which races and people culture really naturally mixes and melds together in the Bay Area.  To me that is a that is a result of because the Bay is so eclectic  Yeah.  both in like the melting pot that it is but also like the diff - there is really sort of obscure backgrounds that people come from. This is Rafael Casal. He plays Milesthe white guyin Blindspotting and he co-wrote the movie too. Like me he was also born and raised in the Bay Area.  I think there we have developed this muscle to sort of really like take how somebody has given themselves to you  Yeah.  and read that as fact.  Right.  Because we really cherish authenticity in the Bay right?  Yes.  So everyone really guards their authenticity with everything which means it is out front which also means that that authenticity out front maybe is not packaged for easy consumption.  Hm.  So we are all so good at going Oh you are a white dude. But you got that kind of southern drawl and that hard R and you are like holding your jeans and you have got you know and you are tatted up  Yes.  but you are not hipster tatted up.  Right.  I know who you are.  Yes.  You are like my boy Paco.  Yeah.  He is like that too.  Yes.  He is from East 14th you know. That cultural meld is fascinating to watch. Rafael knows firsthand about that particular cultural meld. The actor writer poet and rapper grew up in Berkeley in the '80s and '90s in a working-class neighborhood with parents of Irish and Spanish-Cuban heritage. He drew on that childhood of growing up white in a diverse neighborhood when writing his character Miles in Blindspotting.  We always described him as a minority among minorities. Like that is that is how he feels. He feels like he is the minority.  Right right right. Yeah.  You know which is which is at times how I felt growing up around my friends was like  Right.  But I am the only dude who looks like me at this sideshow.  Right.  Like I am the odd man out.  Yes.  You know like I am the - I am scared out of my fucking mind right now. We are doing doughnuts in cars and everybody is looking at me to make sure I am here with some people.  Right.  You know that is my entire upbringing.  Um let us talk a little bit about about you know growing up. You described yourself as as this sort of rebellious kind of knucklehead to some degree like growing up who was sort of inclined to to a certain type of trouble. So you had - have that aspect to you. But then on the other side you are this poet lyricist thinker with a real activist vein to you. Like how do those two personalities exist in one person and when did they sort of converge?  Yeah still converging.  Yeah. A lot of the the sort of younger years with being a just like a little street kid was I mean it was uh self defense entirely right? It is like offense is the best defense. I think I was small like super small kid and so I think you start you start puffing up and doing stuff  Yeah.  to just like send out a warning call to everybody. Like you know you might whoop my ass but but I ama get a hit in  Right.  or or I am not you know I am not a pushover.  So you were trying to preempt anything that you could  Yeah I think probably had a -  deal with as a result of what you were seeing happen in the -  Yeah and little things that had happened to me that I was like oh we are not gonna let that we cannot let that keep going. Like if that happens twice people see you get pushed around that way you got to you know push back. And Berkeley High at the time was was like violent and scary for like an eighth grade little kid going in. You know I remember when you got to Berk- the like my first day of Berkeley High I remember like walking in back from lunch or something just saw like twenty Bloods beat the shit out of some kids from another school who came there to jump somebody. And I just watched this and was like This is where I go to school. You know?  Yeah.  And I am tiny.  Yeah.  And I am looking at my old skater friends who are like just folding over and living in fear. And so I really found this misfit group of people throughout high school that were like we just kept each other safe and part of that safety was you know just doing what what like young rebellious people do when they get a group of friends that make them feel powerful for the first time. You know? Try to sort of find camaraderie in your shared discomfort  Yeah.  or or you know or or whatever that is that sort of derails teenagers. And for me I was also dropping out of high school. Like I was failing in class. I would always had an attention problem. I am sure I have chronic ADD as they have tried to prescribe me many times. But like I just my parents are Berkeley parents they are not putting me on pills. So -  And how were they reacting and responding to the trouble you were finding yourself in  Yeah.  how were they trying to to sort of course-correct you?  It was I mean it got it got real bad in high school. I think that was like my pops was sort of a - like a thug growing up in in Logan Heights in San Diego right? Like he is sort of from Barrio Logan. So he gets like you ride for your homies you do your thing. This is a period that you go through in your life. So he was more concerned about like the extreme parts of the danger. He was more just like am I just making sure that my kid is not going so  Right.  so hard that he cannot come back from hes not gonna end up in prison. And so that was the that was the line I felt like he was guarding more. I think my mother was like you are creative and smart and you have always had like an overactive imagination. You can do anything if you can just kind of figure out your way through this. Around that time in his early teen years Rafael saw the movie Slamthe Saul Williams film about a young man who ends up in the prison system but has a real talent for poetry.  I remember sitting there just going like I could do that. Like I I want to do that. I want to I want to be able to say what I mean like that. And my sister was pushing me to go to these poetry slams and I went and did that for the first time I did terribly. But it was this acknowledgement of intelligence and creativity. You know and in class I would see the kids who were good at math and history and science and all that you know they they had had so much help and so much  Support.  they were so far ahead of everyone else and all my friends were kind of like We are lucky if we can get outta here you know let us just try to get through this shit. But over here in this poetry slam I can excel because it is new for everybody. And suddenly like we are sitting around at home writing and sharing each other's stuff and I was just so happy that there was a thing that I was good at um that pulled me out of the obscurity of just kind of feeling totally lost.  Yeah.  And the the the sort of lost space was just me and friends sitting around like drinking and smoking and not going to class and whatever. The drinking and smoking and not going to class led to Rafael getting expelled from high school as a sophomore. But his interest in poetry had sparked and he started competing in the local slam scene. He got really good. And at 18 years old alongside people like Talib Kweli and Kanye West he was invited to perform on HBOs Def Poetry Jam in New York City.  You did a you did a piece on on uh on abortion.  Yeah.  Extraordinary piece. Share with us a little bit about the the the story behind that poem. What it was about.  Yeah. I I never watched that one. I do not know why. It might just be too close to home. I wrote it because maybe a week before I got on the plane to go out there my girlfriend at the time was like I am pregnant and I am gonna while you are gone I am going to get this taken care of with my mother. I do not want you to come. I do not like I want you to go do that. So it is just the only thing I could think about I think as a I am like a kid you know.  How conflicted were you about about the choice she was making?  I think it was just the absence of choice. I - I think it was presented to me as a done deal.  Hm.  And so then I was just sort of forced to just decide how I feel about it even though it is inconsequential how I feel. Um I had nev- I - I think at the time I was trying to write things that I had never heard out of someone like mes mouth before. So I was like well what do I sort of what do I have to offer in this moment? And I think I just ranted and was like this is you know this is how I feel about fatherhood and this is how I feel about where my life is.   Then I came back I for uh maybe I was just trying to be dramatic but I like I did not tell my parents what the poem was about.  Wow.  So they they found out about it on TV. That was probably like we were probably still like navigating our distance too you know.  You and your parents?  Me and my parents were probably still navigating our -  Okay. So you guys were not close at that time?  We were close. But like in in a I I mean I guess we were not. I guess high school had really pulled us apart in a lot of ways and we were really just trying not to be angry uh because you know they they did not understand a lot of my choices of like well I am just not going to fucking go to school anymore  Right.  and now I am going go I am gonna go get my car and I am going to do poetry and like  Yeah.  and I am going to do rap music and that is going to be my life. But after a few years that life started to lose its appeal.  God this cannot be it. I do not want to be this like 40-year-old traveling poet person. This is not this was a stepping stone to something else. What is it? Coming up Rafael finds a creative partner who helps him figure out what that it could be.  What Rafael just said about navigating our distanceman when I was listening to this episode for the first time it just hit me. I thought it was such a beautiful way to describe family from the perspective of a teenage boy. And those words stayed with me so much that I quoted Rafael in my new book Lets Talk About Hard Things in the chapter about family. I told Rafael that I really liked the line when we talked recently. And it turns out he already knew.  My mother saw that um sentence I think maybe you had posted about it or you mentioned it in an article that was sent to her. I think one of her friends read it and she just sent me that quote like in a text. That just said navigating our distance. Um and I think she just wrote like Great or That perfectly sums it up. Like that also landed really well with her which - I do not think she had heard that interview. Um and that I think that was a very rough time for my relationship with them. I think sometimes like moments of clarity like that get a little bit of like loving closure to something that we just sort of - you know suddenly we were we worked hard to be friends again as adults. And you sort of do not want to talk about it later because it feels like well what if we stir something up again? Or what if we do not agree on how it went? And so to a certain degree like we we joke about it but we do not talk about it. So I think that whatever came out of my mouth in that moment in that interview gave some peace I think to my mother about it? Uh which was beautiful to get to say that sort of indirectly to her through through the interview.  Wow. I love knowing that postscript! Thats so cool. On the next episode I talk with writer and musician Michelle Zauner. In her new memoir Crying in H-Mart she explored her relationship with her late mother Chongmi who died of cancer in 2014. She told me about their conversations in her moms final days. Michelle Zauner She said to me um when you were younger like you always you always were - used to like cling to me. And like here you are now still clinging to me.  This is Death Sex  Money. Im Mahershala Ali in for Anna Sale. Rafael Casal co-wrote the movie Blindspotting with his creative partner Daveed Diggs. Well get to the story of how they connected in just a minute. But by 2014a decade into their creative partnershiptheyd done a lot together. Music plays YouTube series. Theyd left the Bay and moved to Los Angeles. And theyd started co-writing the movie script that would go on to become Blindspotting.  We kept almost making it and then money would fall through and wed get a director attached and they would have to split off to make something else and you know you you just get that that rollercoaster  Yeah.  is exhausting of sort of the universe dangling your dream in front of you. And then Daveed got cast in a show called Hamilton went to New York.  Wait first of all first of all I gotta say a quick little story. Um I was in like I was living in New York and I was there right before Hamilton came out. And I remember I was in like a Starbucks and there was this girl in front of me who looked like a theater girl like a musical theater girl  Yeah yeah yeah.  you know and she was describing this musical or workshop she had just come back from and she was like Yeah it is all like you know historically accurate but it is like they are rapping and like she is going on about it. And I thought to myself I was like that sounds terrible!  Yeah.  Like what is she talking about?  Yeah yeah.  And then a few months later this play hit.  Yeah.  I went to see it and I was like this is genius.  Yeah.  But uh  But also -  what was your reaction when Daveed explained it to you?  But also - same reaction he had. He was like that sounds like a terrible idea but I will do it 'ecause Lin and those guys were all his friends.  Daveed went on to win a Tony and a Grammy for his roles in Hamilton. He also got cast in the ABC series Black-ish. Basically his career blew up. But that didnt mean the end of his partnership with Rafael. Okay lets rewind for a second. Ten years earlier back to 2004. Rafael was 19 years old running a music studio in Oakland. Daveed had just recently gotten back to the Bay Area after graduating from Brown University. And one night he stopped by the studio.  One of his friends was the older brother of one of my friends and was like hey Rafas got a studio. They are looking for artists. You should go over there and it was like he sat down we had a bunch of like goony motherfuckers in the studio. They all left. My guard came down his guard came down and we stayed there until eight in the morning. We made like I do not know six seven songs. Then it was just like oh me and Daveed do everything together now.  But you would met before that though. You met in high school right?  I met him in high school. Yeah.  You just crossed paths a bit.  So he is four years older than me  Yeah.  so he was a senior and I was a freshman so like I knew him and he was in the poetry scene.  Yeah.  But he was like a very free spirit dude. Like wore pajama pants every day you know like he was like the the like cool artsy kid.  Okay.  You know and I think I was like the goony kid who like secretly was an artsy kid.  Yeah. What did once you and and and Daveed sorta clicked up what did you find that you gave each other?  I think then it was just like a lot of a lot of co-validation. Diggs was not only doing music but he was in plays. I knew he came from poetry he wanted to make weird music and I was around some real just like hood dudes who wanted to make like trap hood Bay shit.  Right.  And he was like let us stray over here. And two months later we are like writing a play together. And uh I think we just realized that someone who can jump between mediums with you but knows you and all the other mediums knows what you can do  Right.  and can help you find the throughline between them.  Which is and also it is a rare gift to have that kind of friend that could sort of be a mirror and and  Oh yeah.  and validate you in in so many different mediums where it is hard to find people that you just connect with on one of those things that you may do well let alone being somebody who has has -  Do you have anybody like that?  Um you know uh I have found for myself I have had to I - I - I did not - ... no not really. My father was in musical theater and and he died before I started acting but I was doing poetry at that time and performing my poetry and and -  Did he get to see you do that?  Yes. He did which which for me told me I was not crazy and and really helped me locate something in myself. But to like come across someone who who one perhaps gets what you do but also does what you do. Those are different things.  Yeah.  I have all my friends get what I do but none of them necessarily do what I do. So to see what you and Daveed as together and individually have have accomplished is is really inspiring for me and just so timely and something that I have needed to see as I - I have opportunity to move into doing doing branching out in a real way that reflects old talents or things that have that have have not been nurtured right  Yeah.  in a long time. But so Im Im just actually just speaking to uh how amazing that is that you two have found each other.  We we talk about that shit all the time.  Yeah.  Were just like this is were we got so lucky.  Yeah.  Um but the constant now is like we remember being in a warehouse trying to record on a shitty mic in a shitty computer just to get an idea out. So when now we are sitting there going like do we want to do this movie? We just step back and we are like this is ridiculous. Rafael and Daveed are now working on a second movie together after the success of Blindspotting. It even made Obama's list of best movies of the year. But Blindspotting wasnt a Hollywood blockbuster.  We put a movie out and everyone back home thinks I am on.  Yeah yeah.  And I am like that was an indie movie.  Right.  I lost money.  Right.  You know what I mean like -  No and thats really hard to explain to people. Like when I am like I basically paid to do Moonlight essentially like -  I paid to yeah.  Yeah. Like between PR what you get paid  I knew that.  and what PR like bro I it was like a college project. You pay to do it in order for for that to put you in a different place once you are done with that right?  Yeah. But economically you are still poor.  Yeah. You and Daveed go back many years and what is hard for you for the two of you to talk about? Is there there a space or or subject matter anything that is that is challenging for you two to get get into?  I think we are both so hypersensitive to the others comfort that we found really good communication language to bring up things that are just super uncomfortable. Like when we get an offer and my number is so much lower than his how do we negotiate that? And we have what we have created is -  Knowing how you both individually in a room contribute to something. Is that what part of it is?  Well yeah like something that we are going to evenly work on.  Yes.  But the offer came in huge for him  Right.  and nominal for me.  Right.  We just sort of discussed early on like hey for stuff we are going to do together let us just make it even.  Yeah. We got this other project we are working on and I was like hey man I I really just want my name first on this one cause I I did not get it on the last one  Yeah.  and I just think a lot of people think like Blindspotting was like you and then a little bit of me  Yeah.  and he was like yeah yeah I did feel that people thought that. So we will just switch it. Like its just we just fix it.  Do you ever have a moment or any kind of fear of of not having your own identity? Because of working so closely with Daveed  Yeah.  who has a certain type of shine and attention on him as a result of a lot of work that he is put in. You know but -  Yeah. Yeah absolutely. And I think that was a thing that I think I prepped for hard when we were going to make the movie. But also we have this phrase that we say together we say energy up expectations down. That is been sort of the model of our whole career. It is like we are doing this out of sheer enthusiasm but we do not really expect to get much.  Yeah.  Um and I think envy is a is a hell of a drug and it is very very easy to get caught up in it.  Yeah.  I would hate it if somebody I was less close to but partnered with had an explosion and like made money and got all this fame that might stir me differently. I do not know that I can withstand that with everyone.  Yeah.  But I think what people miss are all the years that Diggs propped me up  Hm.  you know as the front man.  Yeah.  And was just there. And they do not know that but I do. That was Rafael Casal in conversation with Mahershala Ali in 2019. Rafael is starring in the TV adaptation of Blindspotting which premieres on Starz on June 13. And he and Daveed Diggs both produced it.  The fascinating thing about television in 2020 2021 is that the only way to do it is to do it in a pandemic so you really have to love the story or its just not worth it. Youre asking 270 people to risk their health and safety every day to come in and tell a story that you dreamed up with your friend and a couple other writers so I think it made us even more eager to do the work to really love the show itself so it felt like it was worth asking people to take that risk.  Did making a TV show mean that you have a little extra padding where you have been able to buy something nice for yourself that you would not otherwise been able to?  I - what a cool question. I you know independent what I think we me and Mahershala talked about this on the interview that like making a small film is not profitable at all. Um television does pay better. You know like I feel really good about what what I what I made and television definitely - you know if you do it for a long time you can be a rich person. Um but I think I am still in this like man the last 15 years we are just scraping by and then you have a and then you have a great year. And you are like oh that is fantastic. But I still have a poor man's mentality about money. Like I I do not spend a dime. Um 'ecause I do not have any faith that more is coming. Uh and so I have been getting pressure from my folks and from um you know my girl to like you know get a nice car! You know like the whole time we were doing the show I was driving like my 2008 bucket like Honda Civic with peeling paint that like smells funny. And my you know and like my - people that work for me are pulling up and like Benzs and Audis a d Lexuses and shit. And I am like I am the showrunner. You know but I I have very like clear goals for myself for the show. I was like I am trying I am trying to buy a house. I just want to own a house.  Do you want to buy a house in LA or in the Bay?  I would love to buy a house in the Bay. Um I my folks are there and they are getting older and my my niece is two and a half and my sister is there. And um I feel more grounded when I am there. Um but a lot of my friends are here in LA too. So I think there is a lot of desire to kind of be in two places at once. And so I anytime I look at houses just to like dream - we are all like addicted to Redfin and Zillow and shit. 'ecause that is how you know you are in your thirties. And I am like Oh my God. Look at these high ceilings! It is just like - Who am I? You were a rapper! You remember? What happened? Uh but I think the the fun of like living at home would be to be around the folks that I grew up around. But I I also um you know I I I sometimes just think about like weird sometimes when you move home out of the desire to like be closer to those things you also wonder like have I become a different person? And will that make me revert back in a way that maybe looks good on paper but is not actually good for my humanity. And so I I I wrestle with that. I wrestle with going go back to the Bay or sort of continuing on and seeing where life takes me.  Rafael you are navigating your distance with the Bay.   I am navigating my distance with with all things um from my younger times. You know the expectations of a younger you loom big. Where you need to be at this point in life. And what your friends thought of you when you were a teenager and what you said you were going to do and what you actually did or did not do. Those things really stay with other people sometimes more than they stay with you.  Yeah.  And um and they are powerful. They are powerful forces. They are omnipresent all the time. So I I I like to go home most often in small doses and then get back to the bird's eye view of myself. Thanks again to Rafael Casal and Mahershala Ali. Mahershala has also been busy. He filmed a movie called Swan Song with Glenn Close and Awkwafina during the pandemic. And hes been cast as Blade in the upcoming Marvel movie. Wed have him back as a guest host any time. For now Ill let him wrap things up.  Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Emily Nadal. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. And listen Im not big into podcasts. But this one of the good ones. Make sure you subscribe. You can follow me Mahershala Ali on Instagram. If you are bored.  What scares you about the next three to five years?  I just do not know what I am doing. I say this thing all the time that I keep getting through another door and I keep thinking that the adults are in that room. And then I get in there and it is just me and my friends.   Yeah yeah.  Were like oh it is the next door.  Right.  All the grownups who know what they are doing are in that room. Im Mahershala Ali and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.