 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Tony Hale has won two Emmy awards for his performance on HBO's comedy series Veep. He plays Gary Walsh the personal aide to Selina Meyer the vice president who last season inherited the White House after the president resigned. Hale also costarred in Arrested Development as Buster the youngest of the Bluth siblings. Veep is about political rivalries power plays and gaffes and there is plenty of gaffes since Selina and much of her staff are pretty inept. Last season Selina Meyer ran for president hoping to stay in the White House but the election ended in an Electoral College tie. This season her attention turned to the recount and to the House of Representatives which is supposed to decide the outcome in the event of a tie. Meanwhile Gary who is been with Selina for years remains loyal to her. He worships her and he fawns over her. He carries her oversized handbag nicknamed the Leviathan which now holds the nuclear code. He is always standing right behind her reminding her of the names of the people she is greeting and suggesting things she might say to them. He even chooses clothes for her. In this scene from earlier this season Selina's mother is in the hospital and critically ill but all Selina can think about is the recount. In order to have a quiet space Selina played by Julia LouisDreyfus and Gary go to the hospital chapel.    Do you pray?   A lot.   What do you pray for?   You  you know. Do you want  do you maybe want to try it?   Sure. You know what the hell? We are here right?   OK. All right.   Yeah.   OK.   God I  I just  I am...   God it is me Selina.   Oh Lord God. It is me Selina.   Wisdom and strength.   Grant me wisdom and strength.   Give us your comforting presence.   Give us your comforting  I have got it now. I have got it. Lord God please ease my mother's pain and suffering.   Yes Lord. Yes Lord.   Ease her passing. Ease it all. Ease it down the  the  Lord let her daughter thy humble servant be the first woman elected president of the United States. Please. This is so much to bear.   It is Lord it is.   Hear my prayer.   Hear her prayer.   Lift me up.   Lift her Lord.   No I mean actually lift me up 'ecause my heel is stuck in this.   OK.   Yeah I got it.   Tony Hale welcome to FRESH AIR. Let me ask you to describe your character of Gary.  Oh sweet Gary.  .  Gary has been with the president for many many years and he is what is called a body man. It is  and he what he does is he pretty much carries around a bag and anything she needs like it could be Purell or pens or her speech or other things is in this bag. And so he is always by her side. And typically when we  before we started the  shooting the pilot we were able to meet people who had done this role just to kind of find out about their life. And I met a guy who was a body man and he did it his 20s and he did it for a couple years and then burned out and moved on to other stuff. My character has done into his 40s because he has no identity outside of Selina Meyer and he worships her. She is so verbally abusive to him  but he does not hear it. He just bounces back like you know some kind of domestic abuse situation. And he is perfectly content where he is.  So I never heard the expression body man until I started watching Veep. Is that the word that is actually used in Washington for people who follow around? Is it only  do only women in politics have a body man?  No both men and women do. It is either called  there are two ways of saying  there is either a body man or a bag man. And  but typically body man is the term used like Reggie Love was Obama's at a time  and so the  each famous politician will have one.  But Obama does not have a giant handbag like President Meyer does .   Yeah. Well they typically carry around some kind of bag to kind of  if they  whatever they need.  An attache or something...  Yes exactly.  ...Briefcase.  And my character there is a  it is  the horror is if he runs out of anything in his bag that is just an absolute nightmare. So he is got like Costco versions at home of what is in his bag because God forbid he runs out...  .  ...And gets abused again .  So the handbag which has been nicknamed The Leviathan now has the nuclear code in it as well as things like tampons.   So do you have...  Very important.  Have you met like the person who is done this for President Obama? Did you meet him or did you  did you meet the equivalent for Hillary Clinton or...  Yeah we...  ...Does Donald Trump have a body man?  Yeah I am sure  yeah I am sure he does.  He has a very small staff I do not know .  Yeah  I know. I did  well we  I actually did meet Reggie. We did this panel together and he kind of talked about his experience and I talked about my experience. And I pretty much just apologized because I brought shame to the position because what my character does and is is no representation of what actually happens. He is kind of a mess. But yeah as  you know as  we did  I did get a chance to meet that guy before we shot the pilot. And it was fun to kind of hear of his experiences. And he really did not have for two years of his life any life. He never saw his family. He never saw his friends anybody because he was so connected to his politician. And my character obviously has continued it for several years beyond that. And he is happy to not have any life outside of Selina . He loves his identity being wrapped around her.  So one of the things your character has to do is whisper in Selina's ear what she needs to know about each person that she is meeting and what she needs to say. So like when she says to a congressman oh and this must be your wife. You whisper...  Yeah.  ...In her ear that is not his wife. It is a prostitute.  Yeah.   Yeah. That is not his wife. And there was another time when she said  she was talking to somebody and she said oh how  right before she said to another guy  how is your wife? And I said he is divorced. And so she has to quickly turn it into some other topic. So I think Gary is very important but he  the thing about Gary that is  is fun to play is he knows nothing about politics  does not care to know about politics does not know  but he knows these random factoids about people. And so he will just whisper in her ear just like you know I do not know  his daughter's in rehab or he likes eclairs or he is a fan of Britney Spears or something just random so that she can have these conversation pieces which are probably not good conversation pieces to have but he thinks so.  So your character hardly talks. He is usually just like whispering lines to...  Yeah.  ...Selina. So what does your script look like? When you get your script does it say Gary parentheses looks pained Gary parentheses winces...  .  ...Gary parentheses looks confused? Like what  because you do not always have lines but you are on camera...  Yeah.  ...A lot and you are conveying a lot through your facial expressions and your body posture.  Yeah. I mean they definitely  they give me kind of a lot of fun lines and tidbits to play with and to kind of react off of her. However there is times  because in the  which is very special to this show that I have never experienced before  they do give us these two weeks of rehearsal time before we shoot. And so in that time since I am always standing behind her I can kind of play with you know how would I react to that or you know make odd noises. I mean Gary's like big on like  all of a sudden he will just go . He just makes these really awkward noises behind her which I am sure is so annoying. But  so it is fun to kind of play with that and just to kind of have that life behind her. But I mean what is crazy is you know she is in the public eye and there is stuff that she  you know she cannot react a certain way or say certain things in public. But it is wild that I am standing behind her and I have got the worst poker face. Like I am having the most  I am  my reactions are kind of saying what she wants to say sometimes like I am just looking at somebody deadpan or thinking they are an idiot or  and I just freely react. And it is  amazed that I still have this job because anybody else would be fired.  So although your character does not have much dialogue because he is mostly just like reacting and giving her little verbal cues there is a very famous scene  in which you and Selina have a big fight. And this is...  Oh yeah.  ...Soon after the president resigns and Selina becomes president. You start to assert your new power by doing things you believe are right but probably are not. For instance there is a painting she does not like so you have it removed from the White House but it turns out to be the only painting in the White House by a Native American.  Yeah .  And that becomes this like huge issue and a big PR crisis. Then you also spend way too much money on the first state dinner which also becomes a big PR crisis because she is accused of overspending. When Selina finds out that you are the person behind these disasters she is furious with you. And she goes to find you and you are kind of trying to hide from her.    Come out of there.   Madam if you will just let me explain.   Come out here now. Who do you think you are Gary Antoinette? Did somebody make you first lady 'ecause I do not remember marrying you Gary. I do not remember expletive you in Niagara Falls. I think I would remember that.   Madam I am really sorry for the painting and I am really sorry for the spending but you have to understand...   Oh shut up. Just shut up. You are unimportant OK? And you have suckered on to me like some sort of a car window Garfield.   That is not true madam.   You think you are some sort of a big shot here?  Oh my God. You are not a big shot Gary. You are a middleaged man who sanitizes my tweezers  God.   You are wrong.   Excuse me?   When Catherine's birthday?   June 8.   Ninth.   Ninth.   Which senator's daughter's in rehab?   You are out of line missy.   Gildrey . What are you wearing tomorrow?   I do not know.   I do. I am your calendar. I am your google. I am your Wilson the volleyball.   No you are not.   Yes I am.   No you are not.   I have broken my body for you.   Oh come on.   I have let myself be laughed at. I have let myself be humiliated. Now I am happy to do it. Most of the time you do not even know that I exist. But I am expletive everything to you.   Oh well I am so happy to get somebody else to give me my hand cream.   OK go.   Yeah.   Can you find somebody else who did what I did?   You mean on Labor Day.   I did not say that.   Yeah you did. You just did  you  you just said Labor Day.   I said I would never mention that ever.   Oh God. OK look I am  I am sorry if I lost my temper a little bit.   I am so sorry for the words that I just spoke.   You know in a relationship  you know it is just good to clear the air is what I mean to say.   Yeah I think any relationship...   Yeah should do that you know from time to time.   Yeah yeah yeah.   That looks good.   Do you  it is light sponge. Would you like a piece?   OK I will have one piece I guess.   Yes madam. It is light sponge.   You just told me that. Gildrey's daughter is in rehab?   Yes.   That explains all that energy.   A lot of energy.   Right. Wow this is a light sponge.   And the sponge is sponge cake . That'll give a nice sense of the dynamic between you and Selina Meyer on Veep. My guest is Tony Hale who plays Gary the president's personal aide body man  on the HBO series Veep. So what happened on Labor Day? Do you know?  Oh man I do not know. But I am dying to find out man.  Do you think you are going to find out?  Something dark.  Do you think there is going to be a thing about that?  That is a good question. I  I hope we do. I mean there is something fun to not knowing just because it is got to be something really dark...  Yeah.  ...'ecause I have done some dark things for her. I have dug out the  I have dug out stuff in the trash for her. I have broken up with boyfriends for her. She told me  I think it was season one where she is like I need you to break up with this guy for me and I was like I am on it.  .  So I mean I have done a lot of weird stuff but something happened on Labor Day man that takes it  like that is  it is got to be really dark.  Hey you have walked in on the president and the vice president having sex right? I do not know what you are going to be doing with that information.  Which was like walking in on Mom and Dad having sex. That was a rough day for Gary.  .  That was a rough one.  So there is times when you seem to be improvising. Do you do a lot of improv and do you have any favorite improv lines?  Oh man. I remember there was one time in this season where John Slattery came in to play Julia LouisDreyfus' love interest. And he is such a nice guy. And we were rehearsing and he was the  he is the first person in Gary's career that has known Selina that has been kind and genuine to Gary 'ecause Gary's never  Gary's never really noticed. And he started asking Gary questions about where he is from and what his family's like and Gary just started getting obsessed with with this character. And I remember one time he says Gary do you come from a big family? And I said I do come from a big family. I do. And then I said I am actually an only child. I do not know why I said that.   'ecause he so desperately wanted to agree with whatever this man said to him and he so desperately wanted his affection. That kind of came out at rehearsals and that was fun.  If you are just joining us my guest is Tony Hale and he is one of the costars of Veep. He plays the vice president now president Selina Meyer's personal aide. So we are going to take a short break and then we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.  This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Tony Hale. He costars on Veep as the vice president  now President Selina Meyer's personal aide or body man as it is called in the biz. He carries around her oversized handbag and whispers in her ear reminders about things she is supposed to say and the names of people that she is meeting. Tony Hale also costarred in Arrested Development as Buster the youngest of the Bluth siblings. So on Arrested Development you played a character who has similarities to your character on Veep in the sense that they are both kind of under the spell of a very dominant woman. In the case of Veep it is Selina Meyer the vice president now president. But in the case of Arrested Development it was his mother who  she was not president but she was a kind of very snobbish controlling socialite who told him what to do and when to do it. And he was  you know it was hard for him to develop  to leave the house  to leave home and to develop any kind of personality of his own. So how did you get that part?  Wow I was  and yes there definitely are. There definitely are similarities. I always think like Gary would  with Selina Gary would definitely defend his Selina whereas I do not know if Buster would defend his mother. I think Barry  Buster's kind of in a state of constant paralysis. But I was living in New York. I had moved to New York in '95 and was there until 2003. And then towards the end of my time there  I had been doing commercials and theater. And this audition came my way. And I was a big fan of Christopher Guest movies  Waiting For Guffman and Best In Show and stuff. And this script reminded me of that. But again I had just been doing commercials and had not done  very little television. So I was thinking oh this is such a long shot. But I will go in and put myself on tape. And they  you know they called me out to L.A. for a callback which was crazy. That is crazy. And I was  just remember telling my thenfiance just like what is happening? And so I flew out to L.A. And you know I was in the audition and got the part which is nuts. And I remember  I just  I think I stayed out there for  my memory is kind of bad. But I think I had to stay out there to  we were going to go right into shooting. Yeah we were going right into shooting. I remember I did not have any underwear. So I had to like go to Old Navy to get underwear. And I was just like I was just so overwhelmed by the experience. And I loved Mitch Hurwitz. And I loved the writing and the character. And it was just  it was quite crazy. And then I moved back to New York and I was done. And then 10 days before I married my wife the show got picked up. And I was like sweetie we are moving to L.A. And she kindly followed me.  Aww that is great. Let us hear a scene from Arrested Development. And this is a scene from season one. And your character is Buster. And you have gone out with your mom to a fancy event. But she is forced you to leave your eyeglasses at home because she says you look better without them. Meantime during the event a woman writes you a note propositioning you. You do not know who the woman is because you only saw a blurry figure without your glasses. But you are so excited that somebody  oh that a woman is paying attention to you. And so neither you nor your mother realize that this woman who sent you the note is actually your mother's rival. You know she is your mother's age she is her rival. And she is played in the series by Liza Minnelli. So you are so excited that you got this note that you are already in love with her even though you have no idea who she is. And your mother who is played by Jessica Walter is very upset by this. And so in this scene  your mother your brother Michael played by Jason Bateman and you are all talking about this. And your mother speaks first.    Buster's out of control.   What do you mean another panic attack?   Me? No she is just wigged out because I have a girlfriend.   A waiter hands him a note suddenly he is Steve McQueen. He does not even know what she looks like.   I know she has a brownish area with points. And I know I love her.   I am calling Dr. Miller.   OK I do not know I love her. But I cannot tell you how liberating it is to be with someone who is not mom who is nothing like her.   Yeah and you just  you are just jumping right into this huh?   Oh yes yes  that is what you do when life hands you a chance to be with someone special. You just grab that brownish area by its points. And you do not let go no matter what your mom says.  .  Oh my I have not heard that in a while.  Because of the similarities that we have discussed between the two characters do you ever wonder why do I get roles representing a character who cannot differentiate himself from a parental figure?   I guess I just do emasculated and meek very well.  .  Yeah definitely the two characters that have gotten the most I guess attention have  there are some similarities there.  My guest is Tony Hale. He plays Gary the president's personal aide on HBO's comedy series Veep. After a break we will talk about playing characters coping with anxiety and how he deals with his own. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Tony Hale who costars on the HBO comedy series Veep. He plays Gary the personal aide to the vice president who recently became president of the United States. She is played by Julia LouisDreyfus. Hale also costarred in  The personal aide to the vice president who recently became president of the United States. She is played by Julia LouisDreyfus. Hale also costarred in Arrested Development as Buster Bluth. He won two Emmys for his performance on Veep. So your wife won an Emmy Award as a makeup artist. Did she ever do your makeup?  She did not in New York. We did not meet that way in New York. We actually met at church. But she now  in LA if I am doing stuff for where I  where I need makeup for an interview or something like that she will do that and it is great. We love working together.  How did you meet at church?  She  she was a makeup artist on Saturday Night Live! at the time. And we were going to this church called Redeemer Presbyterian in New York. And I actually  it was not at the church. It was this  I had started this kind of  my friend and I actually had started this group called The Haven where we had met a lot of people who are artists whose faith was important to them but they maybe were not necessarily supported by their church back home or they were not maybe supported by the Christian community with what they were doing. And my parents were very  I would like to say that my parents were very supportive. But we just kind of started this group where we kind of went to see each other's work and just hung out. And she had come to that. And we met and just kind of hit it off.  Do you still practice faith the way you were brought up or did you try to redefine what faith meant to you as an adult?  I think  yeah I think any time in someone's faith journey  my faith journey also  you go through doubting. You go through  I think you kind of have to go through that honestly just to ask the tough questions. And so I think yeah there is always been some redefining  I do not know about redefining it is the right word but just making it more mine rather than maybe something I grew up with because I was raised in the South. And I was raised in the Baptist church. And yeah I mean it is everything to me. It is incredibly  to walk through this  I mean life is crazy. And to know that honestly a loving God is walking through it with me is very comforting for me. But yeah I mean it is  I have been through my own times of just like what does this mean? And how can this mean this and asked the questions. And I have thankfully had a lot of people around me who have allowed me to ask those questions. And we have talked about it and walked through it together and struggled through it. And I mean that is very very important. And it is important to have those people around you you can be honest with.  So like a lot of actors you got your start in commercials. And I think the most famous of the ads that you did was a VW ad where you are in your car with the windows rolled up. And you are dancing and singing along but we do not hear you at first with the Styx recording of Mr. Roboto. And I confess I did not know that song. I am not a close follower of Styx' musical output. But did you know the song? Did the song mean anything to you?  I do not know if it meant anything to me. I did know it. And the director just kind of  who was Phil Morrison actually  the director he just you know put me in a car and just said you know just go crazy. Just lose your mind to the song. And I was like all right game on. And it was actually between that song or Rock Me Amadeus was the songs they were they were trying to choose from. But that was just  all I remember is just you know going crazy and having fun and being silly. And you know because I did commercials for like six years. And I will say I loved it. I really had a fun time with it because a lot of the commercials were silly and quirky and fun. And they were really fun to play.  So does it pay well to do commercials?  Yeah. I had a lot of jobs in New York. I caterwaitered and did commercials and temped. And then it got to a place where I was getting enough commercials that I was able to pay my rent through it  from it. So yeah at the time it did. New York is a very very expensive place to live. And it afforded me to live in this little studio I had.  You also got some tiny parts on big shows like for example in The Sopranos you played a medical worker who is giving chemo to Uncle Junior. So I do not think it was a speaking role. But like you are so close yet so far away with a role like that .  But I was so excited to get it. I remember  'ecause I did that and I did this little part on Sex And The City. And I was so ecstatic because I was doing commercials loving doing commercials. But you know the TV roles were not happening. And so getting that I was very nervous. And I played like on Sex And The City I played this photographer's assistant. And I remember I just had to stand  or I was sitting next to the photographer and I just kind of had to look like with these googly eyes on Kim Cattrall who was having photographs taken. And so maybe I gave some kind of a weird look which I guess is my forte.  You have said in the past that you used to be worried at parties that you would be asked so what do you do for a living? And if you did not have a role booked you would not know what to say and you would not know how to present...  I know.  ...Yourself. Can you talk a little bit about the anxieties that that kind of thing creates?  Yeah it is my favorite topic. I mean there is a reason I do anxiety  anxious characters. That comes from a lot of personal anxiety.  Does it?  Oh sure. I mean yeah I remember being in New York and thinking like oh I want to have something in my back pocket to be able to talk about. And if like three or four months had gone by since doing the job I would have been like oh that is too much time to bring that up in conversation. So you wanted to have something relevant. And I just remember doing that a lot which is a bummer  you know which is a bummer because I think in this business you get the question of like what is next for you? What is next for you? What is next for you? And it can get you so focused on that  oh god I have to have something coming up or I have to have something that you can  because you know you do not kind of go up to a dentist and say what is next for you? Oh I am doing this molar and I am  you know I might do a cavity. You know it is like there is  since we are freelancers people are curious which I think is great. But you kind of always maybe want to have something in your arsenal to say oh this is  you do not  I do not think it is right. But in your head actors can be like oh I want to have something coming up or having just done something to have something to talk about which is a really unfortunate way of thinking.  I guess it is the opposite of being in the moment.  It is opposite of being in the moment. And honestly that  when I was on Arrested Development  I really learned a massive lesson from Arrested Development because here's a show that was so wellwritten and so funny and the cast was so great and I really did love being there. But I remember getting it and it is all I ever wanted. And I remember it not satisfying the way I thought it was going to satisfy. And it really freaked me out because it was my dream. It was my dream to be on a sitcom. And I look back and I think even though New York was great and I had a fantastic support system and I did get all these commercial jobs I do not think I was very present. I do not think I was very much  I was very in the moment. And I always looked whatever happened I was always like oh that sitcom's coming. That sitcom's coming. And I was so always far ahead. And then when I got it and I would given that thing so much weight and it did not satisfy it really woke me up that if you are not practicing contentment where you are you are not going to be content when you get what you want. And it really scared me. And it actually really woke me up when my daughter was born right after Arrested Development because if there is anything a baby does is you have to be present 'ecause you have got to keep it alive. And it really gave me an opportunity to kind of assess some things and look back in my life and be like I just have not been very present. And since then you know through just kind of walking through that kind of awareness and therapy just it is  practicing being present  has made things richer for me honestly. I kind of suck at it. I am getting better at it. I am not great at it. But I am trying to work on it.  If you are just joining us my guest is Tony Hale. He costars on Veep as the vice president and now President Selina Meyer's personal aide and he also costarred in Arrested Development as Buster. We will be right back after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. My guest is Tony Hale the costar of the HBO comedy series Veep. He plays Gary the president's personal aide. He also costarred in Arrested Development. Early in his career he founded a group of Christian artists and performers. When we left off we were talking about playing characters who deal with a lot of anxiety. Hale tries to counteract his own anxiety by trying  and trying  to be in the moment. Do you consider prayer a kind of exercise in being present and in kind of focusing your mind on the present and on something outside of yourself?  Yes I do. I think prayerful meditation being still in a space being still with God  I do not do that enough. And I  and it is crazy because when I do do it I always walk away from it going why the hell am I not doing that more? Because it is so centering and it is so  it just it broadens just the picture of life really. I mean you just kind of go we are spinning on a planet here and I am giving a lot of anxiety and a lot of weight to stuff that just does not matter. And it just it is so focusing. And so even having this talk with you it is like man I need to get back to that. I need to do that a lot more than I am doing.  So you talked about having personal anxiety like the characters that you are famous for. What are some of the ways that that anxiety