 This is FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli of tvworthwatching.com in for Terry Gross. Terry's still a little under the weather but yesterday she recorded an interview with Keith Olbermann which we are about to hear.   Mr.  I think the same fantasy has popped into the head of everybody in my business who has ever been told what I have been told that this is going to be the last edition of your show. You go directly to the scene from the movie Network complete with the pajamas and the raincoat...  When Olbermann made that announcement on his show in January that after eight years this would be his final edition of Countdown it came as a shock to viewers. Olbermann's mix of political commentary humor satire and heavy doses of sarcasm translated to good ratings for MSNBC. The network's liberal evening lineup was built around his success. He pushed for Rachel Maddow to get her own show. But Olbermann also is famous for clashing with network executives and his new boss is Al Gore. Shortly after leaving e a deal with Current TV the cable network cofounded by Gore to start a new version of Countdown. It premieres June 20th. Olbermann first became known for his sports commentary. He coanchored ESPN's SportsCenter from 1992 to 1997. Before we hear Terry talk with Olbermann about the old and new countdown here's more of his final exit from MSNBC.  Mr.  Regardless this is the last edition of Countdown. It is just under eight years since I returned to MSNBC. I was supposed to fill in for the late Jerry Nachman for exactly three days. Fortynine days later there was a fouryear contract for me to return to this nightly 8 PM time slot which I had fled four years earlier. The show gradually established its position as antiestablishment. From the stagecraft of Mission Accomplished to the exaggerated rescue of Jessica Lynch in Iraq to the death of Pat Tillman to Hurricane Katrina to the nexus of politics and terror to the first Special Comment the program grew and grew thanks entirely to your support with great rewards for me and I hope for you too. There were many occasions particularly in the last twoandahalf years where all that surrounded the show but never the show itself was just too much for me. But your support and loyalty and if I may use the word insistence ultimately required that I keep going.  Keith Olbermann welcome to ngratulations on your new show that is about to start on Current TV. Now your new show on Current TV will be called Countdown with Keith Olbermann kind of like the old show. How is it going to compare with the MSNBC Countdown? Mr.  It may strike viewers of both as fairly similar if we are successful at it. The one advantage in doing what I have attempted to do in the last couple of months is that I know what the thing should look like and the people who I have hired to help me put the thing together and put it on the air know what it should look like at the end because some of us did that show for about eight years at MSNBC. And we will be trying to in many senses recreate it with some additional bells and whistles and probably a little bit more commentary. But the premise is the audience liked that show so we are going to give them as much of that show as we can.  Will you be able to do or say anything on Current TV that you could not do or say on MSNBC? Mr.  That is an interesting and philosophical question and as you know from your experience on this program it is almost impossible to answer it until you get an exact set of circumstances. You can try to say in the abstract All right well I will be free to say this now and then you cannot really theorize of an exact set of circumstances that will apply while you try to explain it. So the broad answer is yes. The specific answer is I will know it when I see it. But the premise of the change was that what I saw coming for many years in the entirety of television news  this is not specific to NBC or MSNBC  but I just saw an environment growing in which there were more and more conflicts of interest within these large national corporations or even multinational corporations. Where no matter what you said you had the potential to affect some other part of the big company's business. And the more that that is true the less they want you to say. And even if there is no explicit attempt to censor or to proscribe or otherwise to interfere there becomes  the larger the corporation  the more fear in the part of the people involved in its production. So my hope was you know to go and get in an environment where there would not be any of that and I think I have found it.  Is there a specific story or interview you could cite where you felt that executives at NBC were uncomfortable because it put one of the subsidiary corporations owned by the parent company in a bad light? Mr.  No I cannot. I cannot point to a specific example. But I think it is welldocumented that two summers ago  and I am relying mostly on reporting that I read in the New York Times to relate this to you as opposed to anything I knew firsthand  there were negotiations between GE and News Corp about what should and should not be in each of their companies' news networks' content relative to each other's corporations. And if you stop and think about that for a second one of the cardinal tenets of news is that you cannot sign any kind of deal that tells people that you might be covering that you are not going to cover them. I mean obviously there are restrictions like HFRs  hold for release  and there are certain guidelines that might be given in terms of doing an interview as you well know. But on the other hand in a general sense you cannot just sit down and say OK we are not going to cover you guys at all and then in exchange for that you are not going to cover us at all. It sort of defeats the purpose. If you know in advance what the news is not going to be then the next step is you are going to know in advance what the news is going to be and then it is not news anymore.  OK correct me if I am wrong but I think what you are describing here is the fact that on your regular segment on Countdown called Worst Persons in the World Bill O'Reilly who was on opposite you on Fox News he was usually  he was very often the Worst Person. Mr.  It was a strong candidate on all occasions yeah.  Right and often the winner. Mr.  Yes.  In fact let me play an example in which your parents companies actually figured in to your commentary surrounding Bill O'Reilly's winning of Worst Person. So the premise is that you are going to quote things that Bill O'Reilly said but you are going to quote in a kind of Ted Baxterish voice. And then you are going to say what you think he really meant. So this is Keith Olbermann on one of his Worst Persons where the winner was Bill O'Reilly.   Yes I can. Mr.  What I can tell you is that it was widely reported at the time and to some things that I certainly did not know about that Mr. Immelt of GE and Mr. Ailes on behalf of Fox and News Corps. got together at Mr. Immelt's office and just sort of batted back and forth what they could do to stop that. And you know it is one thing if you say we need to tone things down or it just does not make a lot of sense for you to be devoting this much time to covering this story or this enterprise or this political operation which I always viewed Fox News as a political operation and not a journalistic operation. Those things are negotiable and that is part of the give and take I think of commercial broadcasting and commercial journalism. When it gets larger than that it becomes a question of you know where does this proceed? I do not mean to be particularly critical of GE which no longer controls NBC nor of NBC nor of Comcast which now controls NBC but there is a  as a sort of statement relative to the entirety of this process with ABC and Disney and theme parks and CBS and outdoor advertising and a thousand other things and other networks here and there  I just said Look this is the way you want to run things? That is fine by me. And in the back of my mind I thought At some point I need to go to a place where our business  and there would still be business considerations obviously in it  but our business would be one television network that covers the news. And that is why I went to Current.  Did you temporarily stop Worst Persons after you read about those meeting? Mr.  I  no the timing on that is not correct. We stopped Worst Persons more after  almost a year later. Jon Stewart's rally where he talked about some sort of improved tone on both parts of the political spectrum. And I thought it was a bit overblown but it was not an invalid point and I wanted to try to offer some sort of start to this backingdown process and we eliminated Worst Persons for a time and nobody else did anything just to improve the tone whatsoever. So I brought it back and then when Gabby Giffords got shot I began to think What would the effect of a phrase like worst persons in the world have on someone who might be a viewer of mine or read what I have written or anything like that and not be fully in control of their own mind? And I wanted to get away from it and we did in fact stop it at that point and my hope is to refashion it on the Web and plan to bring it back on Current in a form that is just a little milder at least in terms of the name so people do not get the idea that in any stretch of the imagination I mean that those people are the worst persons in the world. Any three child molesters are far ahead on that list any three terrorists any three murderers. So we are going to call it something like Worst Persons of the Day or something milder like that probably.  If you are just joining my guest is Keith Olbermann. He hosted Countdown on MSNBC for eight years. He left MSNBC in January. He begins a new version of Countdown June 20 on Current TV. That is the network that was cofounded by Al Gore. Let us take a short break then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is Keith Olbermann and for eight years he hosted Countdown on w he is about to start a new version of Countdown on Current TV and that begins June 20 at 8 of the clock his old MSNBC time. So in terms of talking about charged language this is a Special Comment that you did that I found incredibly moving. Your father was dying and he was dying during the whole controversy about President Obama's health care plan and people were talking  the opposition to the plan were talking about quote death panels. Mr.  Yes.  And so you talked about the need to confer with your doctors about what the plan should be for your father who seemed to perhaps not really want to live any longer. And I want to play just a brief excerpt of that Special Commentary that you did last year while your father was sick.  Mr.  And as I left the hospital that night the full impact of these last six months washed over me what I had done; conferring with the resident in ICU; the conversation about my father's panicky notincompletecontrolofhisfaculties demand that all treatment now stop; about the options and the consequences and the compromise; the sedation; the help for a brave man who just needed a break. That conversation that one was what these ghouls who are walking into Blair House tomorrow morning decided to call death panels. Your right to have that conversation with a doctor not the government but a doctor; and your right to have insurance pay for his expertise on what your options are when Dad says kill me; or what your options are when Dad is in a coma and cannot tell you a damn thing; or what your options are when everybody is healthy and happy and coherent and you are just planning ahead; your right to have the guidance and the reassurance of a professional who can lay that all out for you that is a quote death panel unquote. That right now is the legacy of the protests of these subhumans who get paid by the insurance companies who say these things for their own political gain. Or like that one fiend  for money. For money Betsy McCaughey told people that this conversation about life and death and relief and release and also about no keep treating him no matter what happens until the nation runs out of medicine she told people that is a death panel and she did that for money. It is a life panel a life panel. It can save the pain of the patient and the family. It is the difference between you guessing what happens next and you being informed about what probably will. And that is the difference between you sleeping at night or secondguessing and thirdguessing and thirtiethguessing yourself. And it can also be the place where the family says We want you to keep him alive no matter what; we believe in miracles. And the doctor says yes. Nobody gets to say no except the patient and the family. It is a life panel and damn those who call it otherwise to hell.  OK that is Keith Olbermann doing a Special Commentary about a year ago when his father was in the hospital dying. So you know I found your comments about your father very moving. At the same time I was wondering like did you really want to use words like ghouls and subhumans to describe the people who were talking about death panels? And did you really want to damn them to hell? Those are all really strong words. Will you just  I would be interested in how you decided to go with those words and whether you would continue using those words on Current TV words as dehumanizing as that to describe people opposed to you. Mr.  Yes and even stepping away a year and two months after my father's death nearly three yes. My situation with my dad was the most traumatic thing I ever went through in my life and yet on the scale of things that were going on just in the hospital in which he died in which he was in a surgical ICU for seven months always on the verge of getting out and never getting out. We had the easiest time of it because he and I had this perpetual dialogue about what was going to happen and what I should do and what he wanted to do. And yet we had it easiest because money was not an issue; and because of my name doctors volunteered information and came in and talked to us very frankly about what this would do and what that would do and what we would do if that failed and what we do if that succeeded. We had a dialogue about this every day and it is still the most traumatic thing I ever went through and I imagine is the most traumatic thing almost anybody could go through under those circumstances  the decision I had to make without him to discontinue his treatment. And as we sat there  I mean the first half of the whole thing was obviously the subject of health care reform and the incredible burden the current system has put on people who are suffering and trying to get well and worry more about their money than their cancer. Separating it even from that this last issue this endoflife issue is I think where people separate themselves from animals. And if you are Betsy McCaughey or if you are Sarah Palin and you actually take this greatest possible comfort the opportunity to get a little insurance money back when you consult the doctor and he spends 45 minutes just talking to the two of you or whoever is involved in the process  you turn that on its head and somehow make that into something to terrorize people  and I use that word decidedly as well  to terrorize people into believing that some doctor is going to decide that they cannot live anymore when in fact you are liberating everybody involved in the process. In retrospect because of the consultation of those doctors and the fact that my father and I started talking about what would happen to him in those circumstances the day my mother died the year before we never stopped talking about it. And we never stopped talking about it with the doctors and my  in those depthsofsoul issues when you have those regrets about did I do this was it wrong could he have gotten better is it what he wanted  my margin of error is a question of about plus or minus six hours as opposed to infinity. I saw people in that hospital and talked to people in that hospital who had no idea what to do and who'd never had that conversation with their loved ones.  So you are still OK with using the word subhuman? Mr.  I think that is subhuman. I think to turn that around not only to  I can understand if you do not get it if you are too foolish to understand what this part of health care reform was intended to be. I can understand that and forgive that and those are not the subhumans those are just people who have not informed themselves or who are scared or just listened to political cliches. But the people pushing this who receive money from insurance companies to try to terrify people into opposing something that will benefit them particularly in this area I cannot say All right we need to tone down politics in this country and our language. I am happy to do it in all circumstances except when it is really true. And in my mind this is really true.  OK so an answer to the question not toning down your political rhetoric. Mr.  That is right. All except in that case because obviously that is very personal and I went through it twice in two years or in a span of actually less than one calendar year with my mom and my dad. And to have that play out while this debate was going on and realize that my consuming issue with this and how much it took over my life was the easy form was the eyeopener. And my father used to talk to about this all  we have it easy. What about those other people out there? Why are they not being served? Is there nothing that you can take out of political pointmaking? And the answer is No there is not. And if it is going to be  if that battle is going to be fought if the up or down on health care reform is going to be fought in this region I think anything is within bounds. Anything that is nonviolent is within bonds to respond to people who would make that process more difficult for the dying and for the people around the dying.  Let me just be blunt and ask you a question here How do you feel about moving to Current TV a network which according to the New York Times as of February had 23000 viewers in primetime each night? You had about a million a night on MSNBC. Mr.  Yes those numbers I  I do not know about the current numbers. I know the MSNBC numbers are correct. The issue in terms of ratings is how many people have access to the program. And so the numbers that apply are MSNBC was and I suppose still is in about 93 million American homes and Current is in 60 million American homes. So we are at a disadvantage. On the other hand the network is five years old and is the fastest to 60 million I believe in cable history in this country. So the idea that I am moving from a giant chateau to some sort of matchbox is a bit of an exaggeration. I am confident that since the major two issues for my viewers to follow me in this task are whether or not they have access to the network. That is the big leap. And for about a third of them they will not. The other twothirds I am asking them simply to learn a new sequence of three digits and find that on their TVs and their cable. So I am not too worried about that. And in addition to be blunt about the history of  started Countdown there in the end of March of 2003 we were in circumstances not unlike what Current is in now. And I think at its beginning we had perhaps 200000 viewers. So I have been through this before and like anything else it will grow based on how good it is and how well people can find it.  Keith Olbermann speaking to Terry Gross in an interview recorded yesterday. We will have more of their conversation in the second half of the show. I am David Bianculli and this is FRESH AIR.   This FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli in for Terry Gross. Let us get back to Terry's interview recorded yesterday with Keith Olbermann former host of Countdown on MSNBC. Beginning June 20th Olbermann and his Countdown show will return to television but on a new network Current TV the network cofounded by Al Gore.  Now I am assuming you consider yourself a journalist but an opinion journalist as opposed to a reporter. Yes? Mr.  I think that is a  I think I can be a reporter. I have not done it in the field for a long time but yes. I think it is a good description.  So do you think the ethics for an opinion journalist should be different than for other journalists? And I guess one of the things I am thinking of is... Mr.  I think I know where you are going with this.  Yes. The whole controversy of you giving money like donations to three Democratic candidates. Mr.  Yes. If you were purporting to do a straight news broadcast if you did the hourly radio newscast on CBS News and you donated money to a campaign that I can see a sincere conflict of interest. If you are doing a political opinion show and your opinions are nearly universally liberal and you have been caught donating to Democratic candidates in three instances I do not think there is a conflict of interest. If the candidates had been donating to you I could see that as a problem. Or if you were say had made a donation while interviewing them or in some period of time other than when you were not covering them it begins to get a little cloudy. But none of those things applied to the instance last year when I donated to Jack Conway in Kentucky and Gabby Giffords and Raul Grijalva in Arizona. We had  I had done my last interview with Grijalva and later that night I made my donations. And my  nobody ever asked me why I made those donations to those...  I am going to ask you. Why did you make those donations? Mr.  Yeah. To those particular candidates I knew people who knew those campaigns very well and it really angered me that so much money had had to have been spent in each of those cases for protection for security against death threats and threats of violence against staffers against people just showing up at events and against the candidates themselves. And I thought that in this case I needed to put my money where my mouth was. And I had no problem with it coming out. There is to me a defeat of democracy if the threat of the gun is always there. And as I think we saw certainly in terms of the symbolism is not the actual as I said before kind of straight line from A to B here. I think what we saw with Gabby Giffords is the kind of chilling thing that has happened in this political dialogue in the last few years and I literally felt angry enough to want to donate to campaigns for the first time in my life.  So you felt a foreshadowing of that. Mr.  Yeah. Well I mean if you hear that you know there in addition to all the publicly reported things they were dozens of other incidences that  incidents that were not made public I  yeah. It just seemed to me to be a very dangerous time in American politics and I think Gabby Giffords could tell you that right now.  So I was reading a feature story about you in New York magazine from a while back and it said that you do not vote. Is that true? Mr.  That is true.  Now Jim Lehrer told me that he does not vote but he does not vote  I mean he does not want to even think about taking a having an opinion or taking sides. He wants to be like do neutral so like... Mr.  Right.  ...immaculately neutral. No one can accuse you of being immaculately neutral. Mr.  No.  Why in the world would not you vote if you have such strong points of view? Mr.  I honor his position and I would like to say that my position is kind of a distant cousin of his which he might recognize. Because I am so intensely identified with opinion and analysis and as I said contextualization and all these other if you want pleasant euphemisms for opinion. I think I just need for my own psychological benefit a small island in which I can stand and say I am going to sit this one out. And there is a specific reason for it that came to pass. It is a sports thing. It is the idea of not betting on a game when you are covering it. Not that you are going to somehow influence the outcome but you can influence the coverage. In 2006 after the Special Comments started one of the first people to rise to my defense and to my support was Bill Clinton and I got very involved in the Clinton group. I am not saying I was advocating for them or anything like that but I got to go to their events and meet their staff and meet the senator and all the rest of this. And as she ran for president in 2007 I felt two things tugging on me at the same time One was a kind of obligation to criticize her for what I saw were transgressions in terms of her campaign against Barack Obama and the other wouldbe nominees. At the same time I knew her and I knew her husband and I knew their staff and they had been great to me and they had been so wonderfully supportive of me and I had gotten too close. And to me I cannot necessarily control every time I get too close personally to any politician or political figure. But this one little psychological island where I can say I do not I will not vote in a primary. I will not vote in a general election. I have to have that for my own sort of sense of reassessing every day whether or not I am being fair if not neutral.  I can completely understand that. Yet it seems frankly to me to be inconsistent with the idea of giving money to candidates for their campaigns. Mr.  Well but I had never done that again. Now again I can foresee a set of circumstances in which I feel so pushed that I might actually pull a lever somewhere. I could see it happening conceivably. I do not know what the circumstances might be. The old joke about well if you are going to leave it up to me then I will vote. But the getting back to the idea of making those campaigns donations those were specific circumstances in which I thought somebody needs to put a little a drop back in the bucket to balance out the premise of democracy rather than banana republic's holding elections based on who can shoot a machine gun the loudest.  So it was only because it was safety that you... Mr.  Yeah.  OK. Mr.  Yeah. I you know I listened to the stories about what had happened in the campaigns of Raul Grijalva who I had never met and Gabby Giffords who I never met...  Wait. Has not he been on your show several times Raul Grijalva? Mr.  Well if you count that as meeting yes. But I never met him in person. And he had had no idea that that was coming. And we had done the last interview on Thursday with Raul about I think about the border fence that he opposed or something else about immigration or the Arizona Papers Please law and then on Tuesday would be the election. And I knew that on Tuesday night we were not covering the congressional elections on MSNBC. So essentially my coverage of Raul Grijalva and my coverage of  certainly of Gabby Giffords  was to end on that day. And therefore I thought ethically there was nothing wrong with it and the slightest. And I you know even if it were not I could make a case for it being legitimate to do that under those circumstances because it was violence.  Well if you are just joining us my guest is Keith Olbermann and he is starting a new version of Countdown on Current TV and that begins on June 20th. And this is after leaving MSNBC early this year. So that new show will be on at 8 of the clock like the old show. Let us take a short break here then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Keith Olbermann. He left MSNBC about well a few months ago in January. And now he is starting a new version of his show Countdown on Current TV. It premiers June 20th. So I think most people got to know you first as like a sports person and then more as a news person. Mr.  Yes.  Had you always been interested in politics? Mr.  Yeah certainly. I started in news in college and covered elections and election nights and such in addition to doing sports. And the first time I was offered the prospect of going into news professionally rather than sports I was 20 years old in 1979 I was getting out of college. And three or four times after that I had been offered jobs and just did not have the courage to leave sports either on a fulltime or a parttime basis. And finally circumstances sort of slid me into it.  Were you an athlete as a kid? Mr.  I was not an athlete as a kid. I was a very bad athlete perhaps you could describe me in those terms. And more importantly I was a far thinking athlete who knew that he would never get over his pronounced fear of getting hit in the head with the ball. So I thought at age eight it would be much safer and productive for to go and pursue talking about it rather than getting hit by it.  That is funny because you hit your head...   ...eventually on the subway. Yeah. Mr.  Leaving a sporting event. Yes. Yes. Yes it was  trust me the first thing just after I came to the first thing I thought of was I got hit in the head anyway.  Right. And it affected your equilibrium when you are in motion so you cannot drive. Mr.  Correct. So this is a good city New York for me to be in...  Great city. Mr.  ...because you do not have to drive. Yes.  Yeah. It is a great city if you do not drive.  Mr.  And I got to meet Dr. Renee Richards who was my ophthalmologist who discovered all this. So I have known her for 30 years. So it had some positive benefits.  So during your Countdown programs on ally went after the Bush administration for starting the war in Iraq for the way they continued the war and for many other things to fiscal and otherwise. Did the Bush administration ever send you emails letters phone calls  phone calls through the network and not directly to you?   Like were... Mr.  Oh yes. There is one wonderful story about this actually preceded things like the Special Comments. But it was a wonderful example of  I have always been convinced that our freedom in this country is largely protected by the stupidity of the people who would take it away from us. I was one of the first people to put Joe Wilson on TV  not the you lie Joe Wilson but the Joe Wilson Ambassador Joe Wilson. And of course exposing that entire attempt to smear him by exposing his wife. I was one of the first people to put him on and we sat down to do a long interview by satellite and we publicized 