 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Roxane Gay has written a new memoir that she describes as quote about living in the world when you are not a few or even 40 pounds overweight. This is a book about living in the world when you are 300 or 400 pounds overweight unquote. But the book is about much more than that. It is about the consequences of being gangraped when she was 12 back when she was thin. She thinks her body size is one of those consequences. It is about being the daughter of middleclass Haitian immigrants and not fitting into the narrative of blackness. It is about being a feminist. It is about starting to identify as lesbian but still being attracted to men. It is about living with contradictions. Roxane Gay is best known for her bestselling collection of essays Bad Feminist. She is also a novelist and shortstory writer and has been a contributing opinion writer to The New York Times. She teaches English at Purdue University. Her new memoir is called Hunger. Roxane Gay welcome to FRESH AIR. I would like to start by having you read from the beginning of your book. Would you read a couple of paragraphs from that for us?  I would be happy to.  The story of my body is not a story of triumph. This is not a weightloss memoir. There will be no picture of a thin version of me my slender body emblazoned across this book's cover with me standing in one leg of my former fatter self's jeans. This is not a book that will offer motivation. I do not have any powerful insight into what it takes to overcome an unruly body and unruly appetites. Mine is not a success story. Mine is simply a true story. I wish so very much that I could write a book about triumphant weight loss and how I learned to live more effectively with my demons. I wish I could write a book about being at peace and loving myself wholly at any size. Instead I have written this book which has been the most difficult writing experience of my life one far more challenging than I could have ever imagined. When I set out to write Hunger I was certain the words would come easily the way they usually do. And what could be easier to write about than the body I have lived in for more than 40 years? But I soon realized I was not only writing a memoir of my body. I was forcing myself to look at what my body has endured the weight I gained and how hard it has been to both live with and lose that weight. I have been forced to look at my guiltiest secrets. I have cut myself wide open. I am exposed. That is not comfortable. That is not easy.  Thanks for reading that. So you write about how difficult it was to write this book. Why did it feel necessary to write?  It felt necessary to write because it is the book I wanted to write the least. When I was thinking about what to do next in terms of nonfiction just before Bad Feminist came out I thought you know I really would never want to write about fatness. And in that moment I knew that is something I have to write about.  So you write that at your heaviest you were 577 pounds. You are 6foot3. Since you are going to be talking in part about your body and your body size I would appreciate it if you would guide me about what language you would like me to use in terms of describing the size of your body. Honestly like I do not  words are so loaded when it comes to body image. And everybody has their own preference for what word they use. So I would like you to guide me on that.  I think fat works well.  Good. I am good with that. OK. So I am sure some people are thinking like if you have weighed that much why did not you have bariatric surgery? And you have a really interesting chapter in your book about how in your late 20s you went to an introductory session with your father. And you both decided you did not want to go through with it. What were some of the risks and the lifechanging differences involved with this kind of procedure?  Well bariatric surgery is dangerous surgery. In many ways you realter your anatomy and have your stomach made smaller. And in certain procedures they take out part of your intestines. It makes you nutrientdeprived for the rest of your life. And the success rate is not great. In the immediate you absolutely do lose a great deal of weight in a short amount of time. But in the long term we are still waiting to see just how successful it is.  You write that you began to  you know you began eating to change your body after you were gangraped when you were 12. I got so angry reading that part of the story. The boy you thought of as kind of your boyfriend set you up for this. You were on a bike ride with him in the woods. You stopped at a cabin where his friends were waiting to attack you. And your  you know you thought boyfriend was part of it. You write you did not know what rape was. So what was your comprehension of what had happened to you?  I had very little comprehension of what happened to me. I was stunned. And I just assumed OK we just had sex. And I did not realize that there was a thing called rape. I did not realize that there was a vocabulary to describe the experience and that it was not my fault. I thought I did not fight enough. I did not get away. And so I was complicit in what happened.  You must have asked yourself why did they choose you? Why did you  what did your 12yearold self think about that?  You know my 12yearold self thought oh I must have asked for this  not in the way you know we say she asked for it. But I just thought I deserved it because I was that weak and that vulnerable  not vulnerable  that gullible and just that easily manipulated by some random boy. I thought I knew.  You went home. You did not tell your parents. You must have been emotionally and physically so deeply wounded. Even your clothes must have been a mess. How were you able to cover up what happened?  I to this day do not know how I was able to cover up what happened. I just remember sneaking up to my room and doing my best to hide my clothes and to hide myself for as long as I could to just try and pull myself together. And I did because you know I was a really good kid. I did what I was supposed to. And I think when you are a really good kid you know how to play that role. And you know how to hide that anything is wrong.  Initially what were your fears about what would happen if you told your parents?  You know I was 12. And so my fears were really that I was going to get in trouble and that I was going to go to hell because I had had premarital sex. You know we were Catholic and very devout Catholics. And though my parents raised us with the understanding that God was a God of love I was really terrified nonetheless.  But the boys who raped you  they did tell. They told their version of the story which was not your version of the story. They told it in school. You had a reputation after that of being a slut. So to what extent were you able to keep a secret when the boys had kind of you know told this version  I do not know where that version of the story was but they told their version of the story. And I guess people in the school you know believed it. So...  Yeah. The other students in school believed it. I walked into class and I think it was French class. And I was sitting in my seat and the kid behind me tapped my shoulder and said you are a slut. And for the rest of the day I realized that pretty much everyone in school knew what had happened. And  well they knew the boys' version of what had happened. And that is when I realized oh now I can really never tell my family because I will bring this much shame into our home.  What was the boys' version of the story?  The boys' version of the story was that it was my choice and that I wanted it and that I initiated it.  And did you speak up for yourself in school or were you too afraid to engage at all with the story?  I did not engage at all. I just shut down completely. And I would go to class and try and hide in class by sitting in the back. And I would just endure the taunts. And then you know eventually as it is in middle school you know the story moved on. But my reputation never changed. I was still an outcast. I was still a loser.  So where does eating come in with the rape story?  You know after I was raped I needed comfort. And I felt so weak. And I felt so powerless. And I wanted to make myself bigger. And so I would overeat. And I would get quite a lot of comfort from that. And you know when you are 12 and 13 and 14 and 15 and you know a sheltered kid from the suburbs you do not really have access to vices other than food. And so I ate.  You write that you thought if your body became repulsive you could keep men away.  I did. I just  you know I grew up in this world where fat phobia is pervasive. And I just thought well boys do not like fat girls. And so if I am fat they will not want me. And they will not hurt me again. But more than that I really wanted to just be bigger so that I could fight harder.  I am thinking about all the changes that must have been going on through your body at this time. Most teenagers have very ambivalent feelings about their body as they go through puberty and then learn to live within their new bodies. You know you have hormonal changes. Your body is going through physical changes. You are becoming more sexual. People start to see you more sexually. And I think there is a lot of confusion that comes along with that. So you are going through all of that. You are also recovering or trying to recover from being raped. And your body is also changing as a result of this excessive eating that you are doing in an attempt to become larger. So your feelings about your own body must have been so complicated during that period.  In some ways they were and in some ways they were not. I feel like I gained so much weight in high school. And everyone in my life was so focused on my weight gain that I did not have a lot of the typical body issues or body concerns that you have as a teenager. I did not even get my period until I was 15. And so I went through you know like the hormonal changes and so on. But I was so afraid of the idea of sex that I pretty much just allowed myself to have this fantasy idea of boyfriends rather than to ever think that I was going to be part of the dating world. You know my body was just expanding. And so that is kind of what I was focused on whether I wanted to be or not.  So you went to Exeter and then you went to Yale. So you were living away from home during your highschool and college years. Did that make it easier to eat without restriction?  Oh yeah. Absolutely. Especially during the first two years of high school I just went crazy with food. And it was amazing to have access to so much food not only on campus but off. And in college of course there were even more opportunities because New Haven is a much bigger town than Exeter. And so it just  you know I lost my mind.  Let us take a short break here. And then we will talk some more. If you are just joining us my guest is Roxane Gay who is probably best known for her book Bad Feminist. She has a new memoir called Hunger A Memoir Of My Body. We will be right back after we take a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is shortstory writer and essayist Roxane Gay. She is the author of the book Bad Feminist. Her new book is a memoir about being fat. It is called Hunger. You know you write that when you came home on breaks from high school and then college you were physically changed. You kept gaining weight. And your parents are both Haitian immigrants who moved to the States when they were in their late teens. And you write  Haitians love the food from our island but they judge gluttony. When you are overweight in a Haitian family your body is a family concern. So how did your parents try to deal with your weight gain?  They panicked. They just could not imagine what was going on because I had been thin and  or you know average. I was not  yeah  thin or average for all of my life. And so this was a completely different person in front of them. And they did not know why. They were savvy enough to know something was wrong but they did not know what that something was. And so they tried to make me lose weight. They put me on a liquid diet which worked. And then I got sick and that worked . And then I went to fat camp and that worked. But each time after I would regain weight.  Because you wanted to?  Yes absolutely.  You write that your father and your mother dealt with you differently when it came to weight. What was the difference between them?  My father is an engineer. And he is incredible and he is very missionoriented. He is very factbased. If you exercise and eat less you will lose weight and that is it. And so he has always been very concerned with just encouraging me to follow the information to do what is necessary and to get the job done so that I can go on to live a better life. And that is all he really wants for me. That is all he is always wanted for me. My mother is more empathetic I think because she understands what it is like to be a woman in this world in a body no matter what size that body is. And so she has always been concerned about my size. And she has always encouraged me to lose weight. But she has allowed for the emotional component.  When you were in school in Exeter and Yale you also felt set apart by race class and geography. You are AfricanAmerican. You are from a middle to uppermiddleclass family depending on the year that we are talking about. And you are  you know you are very educated. And you write you did not fit the narrative that your classmates had about what it means to be AfricanAmerican or HaitianAmerican.  Absolutely because as a Haitian American I did not have a lot of exposure to AfricanAmerican culture at that time. And so the white students did not know what to make of me. And they did not even realize that there were black people in Nebraska  where I am from. And so I think I was a curiosity to them at best. But they just did not know what to do or how to interpret my blackness. And the black students did not quite know what to do with me or how to interpret my blackness either because we did not have the same cultural context. And so I know they thought I was strange. And they teased me quite a lot because of it  deservedly so looking back. But the difference between the white students and the black students was that even though the black students did not quite get me they allowed me to be part of the community anyway.  So when you were in college you fell in love with theater. I guess earlier than that you fell in love with theater. You went to Yale in part because of their theater department. And you worked behind the scenes. Was that a way of being involved with storytelling and with people but also being kind of invisible because you were literally offstage?  Absolutely. It was a way of being a part of something because I am not a joiner. I never was. And so I was never really interested in extracurriculars. I did them because that is what you do to get into a good college. But theater is where I found my passion in being behind the scenes because I did not want to be seen. I just wanted to be useful. And technical theater allowed me that space. It was the  I had  the best memories I have of high school and the first two years of college are connected to theater.  I suppose writing gives you that too  the ability to say what you want and have people look at your work without looking physically at you.  Well that is what I hoped.   You are too famous now. You cannot get away with it.   No.  There is the internet. And you know you travel all over giving speeches. And you are on TV. I mean people know what you look like.  They do. You know one of the many reasons I am a writer is because I did not want to be like an actor on a stage or on the screen.   Too late.  Whoops.   So how is that for you?  Oh it is  you know I am afraid of public speaking so I have had to learn how to do it. And it is gotten much better. And I actually do enjoy doing these events and connecting with audiences because I have a really passionate audience. And it is a privilege to do. I hate doing television not because I am on television but because when I go on TV the amount of hate mail and the amount of trolling I get on social media is unbearable. And so I try not to make myself that kind of a target as often as possible.  So when you are trolled on the internet and social media do you think that has to do at all with describing yourself as a feminist? Because there is so much like antifeminist trolling.  Oh yeah. Like I would say 40 percent of my trolling is because I am a feminist. Thirty percent of my trolling is because I am black. And 30 percent of my trolling is because I am fat.  I love that you have it broken down into percentages.   I do. I have so many trolls.  Is there any percent where it is like all three?  Oh God yes.  They hate you because you are black and feminist and fat?   Yeah. The Venn diagram of my trolls would be a circle.  . My guest is Roxane Gay. Her new memoir is called Hunger. After a break we will talk about sexuality and sexual orientation and the difficulty of travelling in a world not equipped to accommodate her size. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Roxane Gay. Her new memoir Hunger is about what it is like to live in her body hundreds of pounds overweight. She sees her weight gain as a consequence of being gangraped when she was 12. You write in your memoir about sexual orientation and your relationships with men and with women. And you started at some point earlier identifying as a lesbian. But you write you still had crushes on men. Was sexual orientation confusing for you in part because sexual orientation is confusing for a lot of people but also because you were trying so much to hide and to not be sexual in some ways?  I think  it was not confusing to me in the way it typically is where I felt like angst over being attracted to women or worrying about that. I am really lucky. Of all the issues I have had to deal with in my life I have never felt any sort of guilt about being attracted to women. But it was challenging for me in that being sexual was challenging for me. And so the idea of sex with anyone regardless of gender was precarious and kind of terrifying. But men were infinitely more terrifying than women ever could be. So  I mean at least at the time . Yeah. So I did not struggle. But I did not know how to identify. And so I just thought OK I am a lesbian. And that is good and that is safe because women are incredible. And I love women and I am attracted to them. And I will never get hurt by a man again you know?  So I want to quote you here. You write  I performed queerness so I could believe this halftruth that I had told everyone that I had told myself. I marched was here and queer. I wore an excessive number of pride rings and pins and such. I was passionately militant. Can you talk about why?  Yes. When I came out I knew it was not the whole truth. I knew that I was also still attracted to men. But I was so scared of men that I just thought OK I am going to find some safe harbor here. And so I wanted to be the best lesbian I could so that maybe that would make my attraction to men go away and make any of the issues that were surrounding my attraction to men just go away. And so I did a good job of it for a few years. I was really great as a baby dyke.   I was wondering if that kind of passionately militant thing in spite of your  I do not know  bisexuality at the time? I do not know  do you want to correct me on the language or is that OK?  Oh I think it is fine.  OK.  I mean I identified as a lesbian at the time. And it was true but it was also not true .  Right. Right.  So yeah I think either lesbian or bisexual works...  Right. But I was wondering...  ...Even though they are two different things.   OK. Good enough for me.  Just to be clear  not for you for the audience.   So  but I am wondering if part of the like  you know you went so kind of all out in your you know marching and passion and militancy  if it was in part to be part of a community because you felt like such an outsider. And you are such a notjoiner. But this is something you could join with and identify with and feel comfortable in and not be excluded from because of body image.  Absolutely. Absolutely. I have to say no community has been more welcoming to me. And when I needed community the most community was there for me. It was like discovering water for the first time discovering clean air for the first time  to be seen and to be appreciated and to be thought of as sexy and beautiful. It was just invaluable. And I will never ever forget the ways in which I was embraced by my community as I came out.  You write that during this period you naively thought that with women you might be safe. Were you not?  I was  no. I mean I was safe in that I was never assaulted by a woman. But I mean there are different kinds of safety. And it was naive and ignorant of me to assume that women would never hurt me that they would take good care with my heart. But the reality is that you never know until you know how someone is going to treat you in a relationship. And I had a long run of bad relationships.  It sounds like you took a lot of risks in those relationships too putting yourself in situations. And I do not mean this as criticism .  Oh I do not take it as criticism.  But putting yourself in situations like you know traveling to meet somebody who you knew from the internet and kind of not knowing enough about them beforehand.  Yes.  I mean traveling long distances like traveling halfway the country.  No I flew across the country.   Yeah.  Yeah. You know when I look back now knowing what I know about the internet I cannot believe I was not hurt or murdered . But I also have to say the internet was a lot different then. I mean there were creepers. But it was not what it is today. People were like just so thrilled to have this new technology. And it was all textbased. And so it was different. I do not know that it was safer but it felt safer. And it felt like it was OK to meet people this way. And I also had very little selfregard. So I just threw myself in the face of danger nonetheless.  Well the fact that the internet was text based  that gets back to being able to communicate without having to be visible.  Absolutely.  So you could meet somebody and bond with them before physically appearing.  Absolutely. And I am a writer so I am more comfortable with words. I send very romantic emails. Like I am really good...  .  ...When I have a lot of text at my disposal. But you know I was allowed  I was able to meet people and have them feel something for me or be interested in me for me before they saw me and before they might judge me for my body. And so that was really seductive.  But what was it like when you would show up at their door or meet them in a restaurant for the first time and they would see you? They would see your body.  Well I was really careful about who I met. And I was also clear about what I looked like before I ever met anyone because  we did not have this language back then  but I was not going to catfish anyone 'ecause I was not going to put myself through that. So in general it was actually not bad. I actually do not have any horror stories about that.  Good.  Yeah.  . So you write  I let men mostly do terrible things to my body. I let them hurt me because I would already been hurt. How does that fit in with wanting to be large so that you would not  so that you would have more size more power and more protection and that so also men would not find you sexually attractive and would not assault you?  I was a mass of contradictions. But also there is a difference between consensual and nonconsensual encounters. And so I enjoyed being able to consent to doing things with men. I enjoyed being able to say yes and no. That was really important to me when I was younger. It is still important to me but back then it was everything to me. And I loved that sense of control and the way it made me feel alive in my body in a way I did not feel any other time. I was so disconnected from my body throughout my teens and for most of my 20s really. And then I would have these encounters these moments with people where I did feel very connected to my body. And I also felt very in control even if it did not seem that way.  My guest is Roxane Gay. Her new memoir is called Hunger. We will be back after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to my interview with Roxane Gay. Her new memoir Hunger is about being gangraped when she was 12 and how that led to her becoming fat. She kept the rape secret from her parents. When did you actually tell them about being raped when you were 12?  They found out from Time magazine.  Was a feature story about you?  Yes. Right before or right around when Bad Feminist came out Time wrote an article about me. And that is when my father found out. And then he and my mom talked about it. And she acknowledged that she knew that she  I do not know how or when she found out. I think one of my brothers might have told her. And so recently  like 2014.  Oh wow. That is really recent.  Mhmm.  What was it like to have them know and have them find out through a magazine as opposed to you telling them?  Uncomfortable. I feel bad. Certainly like I knew it was going to come up. And I did not know how to talk about it with them. And so I just was passive about it. And in many ways it was good that they knew. And I know that my dad was hurt  rightfully so because he would have  you know he said why did not you tell us? We would have done something. We would have gotten you justice. I mean he really cares about me. My parents both love me and I love them. And so you know it was challenging. But I think it also helped them to understand me more. We do not talk about it a lot. We just  we talk every day but we do not talk about that. And  because I do not want to at this point. It is been 30 years.  Do you think they are going to read your book?  I asked them not to.  To protect them?  To protect them yeah. There is nothing in the book they cannot know. But I would not want to know what my child went through. I mean I would want to know like the broad strokes. But I would not want to know the details.  You face some difficult issues because of your size when you are traveling and when you are on stage. And you write about that a little bit. Can you like describe some of the uncomfortable things you have to deal with when you are for instance traveling?  Well as you know air travel is  you cannot curse on FRESH AIR. Air travel is...  No but I can understand why you would want to at this point in the conversation.   You know air travel is just a nightmare these days. And the seats especially in coach are increasingly smaller and smaller. And so when you are overweight and you fly you always have to deal with the person next to you. And you want to lift up the armrests so that you can sit comfortably. But then you are encroaching on someone else's seat and it becomes a whole thing. And so you have to buy two tickets then. But when you buy two tickets which the airline prefers that you do  and certainly the other people in your row prefer that you do  the airlines are illequipped to even deal with that. And so it is this constant series of frustrations and humiliations.  In what way are they illequipped to deal with it?  So when you are boarding you have two boarding passes. And generally the gate agent is completely mystified as to why you have two boarding passes. I have had 90 percent of the gate agents when I have bought two tickets stare at me and say  why do you have two tickets?  knowing damn well that if I had bought one ticket and someone complained on the flight they would tell me to buy the second seat. And then once your board they do the headcount. But there are  you know there is one empty seat. But it is not empty...  Right.  ...Because I have purchased it. I have purchased it simply so I can raise the armrest without dealing with anyone else's nonsense. And so then there is always this delay as they try to figure out. And they sometimes come and talk to you and say is there another passenger coming? And it is just like you cannot have it both ways. You cannot demand that fat people buy two tickets and then demonstrate absolutely no grace or tact when we do what we are supposed to do according to your rules.  You are a feminist. And you write...  I am.  ... I am a feminist and I believe in doing away with the rigid beauty standards that force women to conform to unrealistic standards. And you also write  I am not comfortable in my body. Nearly everything physical is difficult. So  and you say as a fat woman you are not supposed to take up space. But as a feminist you are encouraged to believe you can take up space  so again more contradictions you have to deal with.  Always. I mean you always want to be the best version of yourself and the best feminist you can be and as inclusive as you can be in your thinking and in your behaviors. At least for me that is something I want. But it is really hard when you are also just human and you are dealing with the world as it is and not as we would like it to be. And so I absolutely believe that people should be able to live in this world free from harassment and cruelty at any size and that people should be allowed to be healthy and happy at any size. But I struggle with it sometimes. I absolutely do.  You have Googled your rapist the boy who took you to the cabin where you were gangraped. You even called him in his office  but not spoken but heard him pick up the phone and say hello hello. Why have you done that and do you have any idea what his life is like now  like if he is married like what he is doing?  I do not know much about what his life is like. I know what he does and I know where he works  where he worked last time I Googled him which was a few years ago. So I do not know what his life is like but I can imagine. And you know one day I just thought where is this man? And I wanted to know. I just all of a sudden wanted to know. And I felt like I needed to know for my safety. And it was like a little weird panic moment. And then I just wanted to know  just out of curiosity like how did your life go on when you tried to end mine? And so I consulted Dr. Google. And...   ...Dr. Google came through.  What'd it feel like to hear his voice and to make this indirect connection with him?  It was creepy and I actually in that moment was like girl what are you doing? And then I almost  like you know part of me wanted to say something and to just scream at him. But I just hung up.  Sounds like the beginning of a thriller.  Does not it?  Yes.   Lifetime movie coming next month .  Do not you want to know what impact it had on his life and if  I am not suggesting you actually call him and ask. But do not you wonder what impact it has on his life and if he thinks about it and if it haunts him and if he feels bad if he has any idea what a horrible thing he did?  Of course. I wonder all the time. And you know what the wondering really is is that I want him to say I am sorry. I want