 Hey. Sam here. Before we get to the show got to ask you all a quick favor. If you have a few moments please fill out a short anonymous survey over at npr.orgpodcastsurvey. You doing that it is really good for us. It helps us figure out what you like and do not like about the show so we can make it better for you all. And if you are a newish listener we really want to hear from you. All this stuff makes a big difference. Trust me. Again the survey it is at npr.orgpodcastsurvey. Thank you.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week why Arizona is still counting votes from the 2020 election. And summer movies are back. All right let us start the show.   So you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. So the last presidential election officially ended back in November of last year. You may recall that very fun time in our lives. And we all know what happened. After a few days of counting votes and watching Steve Kornacki do his thing Joe Biden was officially declared the winner. We know this. He is our president right now. Biden was president-elect during the insurrection on the Capitol in January.   We are going to the Capitol where our problems are.  In February he was for sure the president when Emily In Paris was nominated for a Golden Globe.   ...Comedy Emily In Paris.  He was president when I got my COVID vaccine in April. Thank you science. Biden was president when J.Lo and Ben Affleck decided to get back together this past May.   I am so excited.  A source tells ET...  And in June while me and all my friends were watching Mare Of Easttown yeah Joe Biden was president then too.    And you did not say anything?   It was not my secret to share.   Yes it was Mom. I am your daughter.  Timeline checks out. And yet dear listeners and yet in Arizona...   The Maricopa County Board of Supervisors meeting in executive session today to talk about options - if anything have  - regarding the auditing of 2020 presidential election results.  ...Chose a Florida company Cyber Ninjas to lead the audit.  Now Biden won the state by more than 10000 votes but now a partisan audit of Maricopa County's ballots is underway behind closed doors.  Well I suppose that depends entirely on what your definition of counting is.  OK.   That is Jessica Huseman. She is editorial director at Votebeat. That is a nonprofit newsroom that covers voting and elections. And Jessica has been following the story for the past few months so we called her up to help us break it down.  So the Republicans in Arizona decided that they wanted to re-audit the ballots only in Maricopa County which is where Phoenix is and where about 2.1 million ballots were cast. And it has been a total cluster from the very beginning. They hired a firm called Cyber Ninjas to do that work which...  Stop stop stop. Say it again. What is this group called?  Cyber Ninjas. Does not that just fill you with confidence?  And is there a reason for that name? Is there a backstory or is it - it is just Cyber Ninjas?  Listen I genuinely do not know.  OK OK.  But what I do know is that the CEO of that company is a conspiracy theorist and has given Donald Trump a lot of fun things to think about while he hangs out in Mar-a-Lago claiming to be president of the United States. And you know I mean it is just like - it is absolute calamity. It is a ridiculous audit.  So then you wrote about this and a lot of folks have written about how the count is not following any of the regular protocols of like how you count votes. The venue they are using is an event space. It has to be cleared out for like Phoenix High School graduation.  Congratulations graduates.  So they are grad - they are walking the stage next to the votes in question? What?  I mean I - the ballots are being stored on site...  OK.  ...In like a way that you know - I mean as far as I know unless this has changed recently and I do not think that it has they are being protected by 8-foot-tall chain link fence that does not have a top on it. And then the other thing is that for a quite a while there was a carnival happening in the parking lot of this - like this count which...  Wow.  ...Is just hilarious. But it is called Crazy Times Carnival. And it was like happening in the parking lot. So like this is the sort of like very basic stuff that they are getting wrong.  Wow. Who are these Cyber Ninjas who are going through these votes right now? What is the average Cyber Ninja?  You know they are volunteers. Like the vast majority of people doing this counting are not like trained staff who know how to do this. They are volunteers who have shown up because they believe that there was something wrong with the Arizona audit. And so the people doing the count have already made up their minds.  So it seems as if the hand recount of Maricopa County's ballots should end this week according to azcentral. But the inspection of the paper itself will continue likely until the end of the month this according to a spokesperson for the review. Could this just go on forever?  It is going to go on way longer than the end of the month.  Really?  I mean like they have - by the time that they broke like and took their pause so that thousands of Phoenix High School graduates could walk across the stage they had only counted something like a third of the ballots. And they have been at this for months. So like the concept that they will be done any time soon is not accurate.  OK OK.  Like I - it would shock me if they were done with this by October.  You know a group of folks that I would not expect to give up? A group of folks called Cyber Ninjas. They do not...  You know...  ...Give up . I mean...  I feel like that is inherent in the name right? They are just going to keep kicking...  Keep going.  ...Until they cannot anymore.  Yeah.  So you know I do not think that this is something that is going to go down quietly certainly.  OK. So I think the larger question is how much of this is a direct result of Donald Trump claiming for months - still claiming in fact - that the last election was stolen from him? And how much of this is really just an over-the-top manifestation of some parts of the GOP that were already there before Trump?  So I think that you know the premise of your question needs to change a little bit.  OK.  I think that Donald Trump was an outgrowth of those Republicans and this is an outgrowth of Donald Trump if that makes sense.  Explain. Yeah.  So the answer to your question is both.  All right.  So Donald Trump was repeating things that Republicans had been saying for decades - right? - that the elections were flawed that we must have voter ID that you know any delay on the count of the election regardless of how legitimate was bad and a sign of fraud. I mean by the time 2020 rolled around he had already primed his audience to like believe that whatever count came out of the election was going to be subject to intense scrutiny and accusations of fraud. And so when those came nobody was particularly surprised. And I do not think that there is a - I do not think it is a coincidence that Arizona was the first state to do this because Arizona - we all know - there was like tons of media coverage about this right? Trump was apoplectic when Fox News called Arizona...  I remember that.  ...As early as they did in the night. And he subjected Fox to like a torrent of angry calls and phone calls asking them to redo it and so that the state that he was most angry about - and not even the closest right? Like there were states that were far closer than Arizona. And so that Arizona is the state doing this I do not think is an accident.  So at the same time the 2020 election is being questioned still in Arizona you have got other Republicans across the country passing restrictive voting laws in several state Houses or trying to pass them. Do the bills and this audit do they stem from the same motivation? Are they all part of the same worldview or two different things?  I think it is all part of the same worldview. I mean I think if you are in the camp that believes that our elections are inherently flawed and you believe that the machines are bad and you believe that vote-by-mail is bad then that is kind of all part of the same frame of thinking right? Like well we did not like the results of the election and so there must be something wrong with the system itself and not the candidate - is essentially what they are trying to prove.  Yeah. So on the one hand at the state level we see a lot of action and activity around elections whether it be recounts and audits or passing new laws in state Houses across the country that would in some cases restrict the access to vote. But you juxtapose that with D.C. and Capitol Hill and the federal government and they cannot do anything about voting. You know we see Democrats control both chambers right now and have the White House and they cannot get a voting act through to save their lives. What is up with that? What is going on there? Should we expect any movement on this stuff in D.C.?  I mean I have lost all faith in congressional Democrats to get anything through at this point. I mean it was clear to me and to everyone that H.R.1 was never going to get 50 votes in the Senate.  Let us pause and say what that is.  Yeah. So H.R.1 is a gigantic omnibus bill that the Democrats have put through that deals with everything from D.C. statehood to the types of machines that you cast a vote on. It is a gigantic almost 900-page bill that has something in it for everyone and thus something in it for everyone to hate. And it was never going to be smooth sailing for this bill. It takes so much on that the Republicans have said for years that this bill was never going to go anywhere.  With this whole conversation in action in D.C. lots of action on the ground across multiple states still large pockets of the country believing a lot less in the integrity of our voting systems are you as someone who covers voting and elections worried?  Oh I am very worried. I think that there is only so far that you can push your base before they stop voting entirely. And I think that that is my worry here is that the Republicans have gone so far down this path of convincing their die-hard supporters that the system is flawed that they may choose to just not participate in it at all. And that is a culture that grows right? That is - that is a habit-forming thought process.  You know my thing with all of this is whenever I try to really read into this and dig into this it is like after a certain amount of time dealing with these stories you cannot tell what is real and what is not anymore. Like do Republicans pushing for this perma  recount - do they actually believe there is fraud or do they just see it as a tactic? You know same question for their supporters. And with these bills affecting access to the vote is the real concern fraud? Is it politics? Is it something else? And over time bigger picture does it matter if you mean it or not? If you keep saying it for a lot of people it just becomes real.  Right. You know I think - I have struggled with this for a long time. I think that there are certainly some Republicans who believe this to be true who are true believers that voter fraud is real. And even though there is nothing to support that they really deeply believe it. But I think that more often than not the people who are pushing this narrative who hold state elected office who work for these think tanks know that it is not real.  Wow.  But it is an easy thing to wrap your base around right? You know voting has improbably become a huge base issue for the Republican Party. I mean like something as arcane and bureaucratic as like what voting machines we buy or what grade of paper we are using for our ballots has become this massive political issue. And I think that it is because there is a portion of the Republican Party that deeply believes that Democrats are trying to disenfranchise white people and enfranchise undocumented immigrants. And that is very politically powerful. I mean that is wrapped up in racism. That is wrapped up in classism and wrapped up in mistrust of the government. And these for a certain part of Trump's base are pretty important areas for their lives. Whether they have kind of tipped that scale too much and now their voters are not turning out to vote at all because they trust the system that little I think is an open question right? Like there is a fine line between saying I am going to turn up to vote because Democrats are ruining the system and I need to save it and the system is already ruined.   Thanks again to Jessica Huseman of Votebeat.   All right stay with us. Coming up the movies are back baby. We preview what you should keep an eye out for this summer and what you can watch in a real theater not just on your couch at home. It is June which means summer movie season is upon us. And as it turns out one of my guests - he has been living through somewhat of a cinematic situation himself. Bob how are the cicadas? Are you surviving?   It is - you go outside the house and it sounds like you are in a science fiction movie. It is really strange-sounding. It is weird - the crunch under your shoes. But it is quite an experience  If there is a thriller to be made about cicada season - and this is to both of you - who should direct it?  Bong Joon-ho maybe.  Yeah.   I would love to see him take that on.  I like that a lot. I have been thinking a lot about Spike Jonze lately. So I think I would like to see the Being John Malkovich take on this. Yes.  Wow. OK Hollywood listen up. Listen up. Take notes.   My guests for this segment - they are two colleagues I could talk to literally all day about movies and pop culture. Guests tell folks who you are.  Hi. I am Aisha Harris and I am one of the co-hosts of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour.  And I am Bob Mondello. And I am the movie critic for All Things Considered.  I love it. We are going to talk about summer movies blockbuster season movies being back. I am going to have you both offer some movie picks for the summer. But first I got to ask you both. Have you all gone back to the movies yet?  I have.  Yeah.  Did you attend a regular screening or a special critic screening Aisha?  I was at a special critic screening. I saw A Quiet Place Part II. That was my first foray into the theater in over a year. I got a little bit emotional because you know I have been waiting for this for so long. And it was a great experience. It is the perfect movie to see on a big screen. I do not think I would have had the same experience had I seen it on the TV.  No I agree.  Yeah.  It is terrifying in a theater. And I tell you the one that I was glad I saw with an audience was In The Heights because that one has a real fellow feeling right? Whereas in A Quiet Place you want it to be quiet.   Yeah. And I also have been pleasantly surprised by these first trickling-ins of box office figures. You know A Quiet Place Part II made 50 million this past holiday weekend.  Right.  That is a good sign for the movie industry period right?  It sure is. And films overseas in places where the pandemic has sort of receded somewhat are doing much much better. I mean China has been setting all-time box office records for some of its films.  Everyone is ready to get back out the house.  Yeah I think so.  Yup.  Well with that I want you both to offer up some movies that folks should get out of their houses to go see this summer. You each have a pick. Aisha go first.  Well my pick is a movie that I was lucky enough to see at its premiere at Sundance back in 2020 right before...  Wow.  ...Everything shut down. And that would be Zola which is based off of the infamous bonkers Twitter thread by a woman whose alias is Zola.    You want to hear a story about how me and this  fell out? It is kind of long but it is full of suspense.  This Twitter thread is from a few years back. She basically talked about how she met this exotic dancer became really fast friends with her. And this exotic dancer invited her to go on a road trip to Florida from Detroit.    We just met yesterday and you already trying to take ho trips together?   Be ready by 2.  And that is when you know things get weird. And this film is an adaptation of that story. It stars Taylour Paige as Zola Riley Keough as Stefani who is the exotic dancer who brings her on this journey. You also have Nicholas Braun who you might be familiar with as cousin Greg on Succession Colman Domingo. Jeremy O. Harris who wrote the Broadway play Slave Play is one of the co-writers of the screenplay and Janicza Bravo directs. The talent in this is wild. The movie is wild. It is visually stunning. It had me on the edge of my seat throughout the entire...  Really?  ...Experience of watching it. And so I am excited for people to see it. It will be in theaters on June 30 and I think a lot of people are going to be talking about this. It feels like a really great perfect summer movie in part because so much of it takes place like as a road trip and in Florida. And it just has these like really beautiful beautiful visuals.  It sounds great. And it is also already so zeitgeist-y. The day that they announced that they were going to turn this tweet thread into a movie it was a trending topic for like a day or two.  .  The day they dropped the trailer for Zola that was a trending topic for a day or two. This might be the first - and correct me if I am wrong - the first blockbuster or movie hit that came directly from Twitter a tweet thread...  Yeah.  ...Becomes a film.  There is been a couple of stories about Zola and the fact that this was new for Hollywood. Like no one had ever adapted - you know they have adapted things from articles and from you know YouTube videos and short films but like never anything directly from Twitter so this does seem to be a first for the industry.  Yeah. Bob which movie did you pick?  I loved a picture from the previous Sundance. It is called Nine Days which is how long you have if you are a soul in training to get your act together before you are sent to Earth.    Am I dead?   I would not say you are alive or dead.    Are you the boss?   I would say a cog in the wheel.  It is a really really compelling film by a new writerdirector - it is his first feature - named Edson Oda. I do not even know where to begin on how brilliant I think this movie is. It is really fascinating.  Wow.  I started watching it. If you watch the trailer - and it is a lovely trailer - it will lead you to believe that it is going to be an amusing little trifle and it is not at all. It is this - it is this very deep profound look at character. These folks are sort of auditioning to be sent to Earth. And if they do not make it then they do not make it to life.  You know as soon as you mentioned the premise I was thinking of Pixar's Soul.  Exactly.  Which is also about...  Yeah. Me too .  OK.  And I - that is kind of what I expected this to be like. It is really not like that. It is a much more profound and much more sort of engaging and interesting and...  No shade on Soul.  Which is actually - that is fair. That is fair. Let me take it back. It is not more engaging. Nothing could be more engaging than Soul. But it is...  No some things could yeah.   But I thought it was really terrific. And you know it is one of a whole bunch of pictures this summer that are going to come out over the next like 12 weeks. And there is some really interesting stuff.  You know I think the question for so many people as they decide what movies to watch this summer is do I watch them at home or in the theaters? 'ecause it seems as if now we have the option to do both.  I am sorry. That should not now or ever be a question you want to...  .  There is no question. I am sorry. There is no question. Movie theaters theater in general Broadway all of that kind of thing - those - this is a different art form and it is - their films are put together to be seen by an audience which means a number of people not a person. And you know watching them at home is not the same. And the ones they are releasing first are the ones that they think are going to just wow audiences. So you are going to get things like F9 which you know I am sure it is a brilliant piece of cinema. But as a practical matter it is the kind of thing that you want to see on a big screen with a crowd of people right? The same is true of Black Widow.  Yeah.  The same is true of a lot of the movies coming out - and In The Heights. These are movies that make a lot of sense if you are seeing them on a big screen and make a lot less sense if you are seeing them on a television.  Yeah. Look I am always going to second Bob on that point. But I also want to take into account the fact that there are people who have children. And I am lucky enough to not have children so I do not have to worry about that.  She said lucky.   Yes I am lucky enough to not have children although for everyone who does I am happy for you. But I realize how that makes...  .  I realize how that makes going to a theater that much more complicated. So I can appreciate...  And expensive right.  And expensive. And so I can understand why Disney is deciding to release Luca the newest Pixar movie that is coming later this month on On Demand because I think there are a lot of families who instead of having to you know schlep all the kids and pay you know - who knows? - drop 100 to go to the movies you can pay 30 instead.  Yeah.  And I also understand that there are people who might not feel comfortable yet going back to theaters. And I want to you know give them those people the grace and the space to feel that way. But everyone else go get your butts in the theaters because...  Yeah yeah.  ...I have missed it. You have missed it. We have all missed it I think.  All right on that note we are going to take a break. When we come back we are going to play my favorite game Who Said That - no movie trivia though.  Aw.  I know. It is OK. It will still be fun. For this next segment I am bringing on two colleagues. They are two of the folks I most love to talk with about all things movies TV and pop culture. Tell folks who you are.   I am Aisha Harris one of the co-hosts of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour.  And I am Bob Mondello movie critic for All Things Considered.  All right. Right now we are going to have you apply your pop culture knowledge and your general knowledge of all things to my favorite game Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  I believe at this point both of you have played right?  Yeah.  Have you?  I do not remember. I feel like maybe with Linda once - Linda Holmes - but I cannot recall.  Yeah. Yeah. Either way it does not matter if you have or have not or can remember or not remember it.  It is burned in my memory. I definitely did not get any right .  It is OK. The game is quite simple. I share three quotes from the week of news and you got to guess who said it or what story I am talking about. I will give you a bunch of hints and I will be bad at keeping score because it does not matter who wins 'ecause it is fun all around.  That is perfect.  Shall we?  Yes.  All right here's the first quote. Tell me who said this. During Pride Month even on Sundays your chicken sandwich craving can do good. We are making a donation to HRC for every Ch'King sandwich sold. What corporation said that - fast-food chain said that?  Chick-fil-A.   No.  I was just going to say it was not Chick-fil-A.  'ecause they are closed on Sundays.  Right.  Oh that is right.  Well also they were - they had a real thing going about sort of anti-Pride for...  Well yeah. I thought it might be ironic.  And this is about that. This is a fast-food chain's response to basically Chick-fil-A's chicken sandwich monopoly.  Popeyes.   Keep going. Keep going. Other fast-food chains.  Kentucky Fried.   No.  .  The name of their sandwich is Ch'King - King.  Oh wait.  Say it.  Burger King.  Yes.  Burger King.   OK you all will share that point.   Wow.  So...  Oh my God. See why I am not good at this? Oh my God. OK.  Yeah sorry .  It is OK. So that tweet came from the official Burger King Twitter account. They were announcing the release of their new fried chicken sandwich. It is called the Ch'King - C-H' K-I-N-G. As you know for gosh a year or two now we have been involved in the fast-food fried chicken sandwich wars. Chick-fil-A had the classic but then Popeyes had one and it always sold out for like months. And then it is - others et cetera. Burger King is entering the fray now with their fried chicken sandwich but they are doing it in a new kind of way. They are subtly - well not so subtly throwing shade at Chick-fil-A.  Yeah.  You know Chick-fil-A has gotten in trouble for donating to anti-queer causes. And Burger King says if you all buy our fried chicken sandwich we will literally give money to the Human Rights Campaign. So take that Chick-fil-A. It is a lot.  It is.  Yeah.  Yeah.  The back-and-forth - it continues. I do not know who got that first point.  I think Aisha did.  We will let the refs...  I sure was slow on the uptake.  That is OK. It is OK.  I mean we both are .  You all do not cover fried chicken for a living. It is fine. Here's the next quote which I think will also give you all some trouble. Sorry in advance.  Oh God .  Here's the quote. It is about a recent TikTok beef. Thank you to the mass of experienced beekeepers leaders of the beekeeping community and all of the beekeeping associations who were quick to come to my defense.  Oh shoot. I saw this on Twitter but it was one of those things where I was like I do not want to know about this so I did not click on it . Shoot. Was not this involving a popstar - or no?   Am I making that up?  Not quite. Keep going though. I feel like you are in the area.  Some kind of celebrity?  Bob any thoughts?  No I do not. This is somebody eating honey who should not have?   I do not know.  I do not want to just tell you but I might just tell you.  As soon as you say the name it is going to be - is it a reality show star or no?   No it is another - just give me the type of person and the title of person...  It is an...  Yes. Say it.  I am assuming it is an influencer and...  Say it. Say it. Yes. That is - I will give you the point. That is good.    Thank you.  Also twice now I have yelled at you both say it say it say it. I am sorry. Do not ever let me host Jeopardy! Jesus.  So who is this influencer?  All right so that Instagram post comes from a very popular beekeeping influencer. Her name is Erika Thompson. She has a bunch of videos on TikTok and Instagram that show her handling bees. And she is a big deal. She has like more than 6 million followers just from showing her kind of unorthodox beekeeping strategies.   So we started scooping bees off the umbrella and putting them into a hive. When bees are in swarms like this it means they are looking for a new place to live.  She is most known for dealing with bees without any protective gear.  Oh my God.  She is got her long blond hair just out and about. She will stick her hand with nothing on it into these hives.   So with every handful of bees I scooped I spent time searching for the queen. I repeated this process over and over again. By the time I removed most of the bees I still had not seen the queen.  But after she blew up for like handling bees in the wild with no protection another beekeeper from this LA honeybee rescue - they accused Erika Thompson who is also known as Texas Beeworks - they said she is fake.  What?  And there is like this response video saying no real beekeeper handles bees in that way.   I see you. We all see you. All of us female removal specialists we see you. We know you are faking.  So are they CGI bees? I am confused. Like...  Who knows? They claimed that like Erika Thompson's husband helps her stage these fake bee interactions.   Like I do not see her using power tools. I do not see her using ladders. Her husband goes and cuts everything up for her. She lifts it up.  It is a mess...  That is really...  ...Which neither of you have heard of.  No not even a...  You are probably better off not hearing about it.  .  On the other hand I - that is a really curious - I mean I am trying to think what would protect your arm if you were reaching into bees? I cannot think what would do it.  This is just silly - so silly.  Maybe Novocain .  Yes Novocain.  This last quote - I think you will get it.  He is now jinxed us.  It is a daytime television icon. Here's the quote. You disrespected my creation and you were wrong not only in disrespecting my creation but your gamble in what you put in its place. She also said we had a nice marriage. It is going to be a Bill and Melinda Gates divorce.  Oh.  Someone's leaving daytime TV one of the most popular figures in daytime TV.  Oh Ellen?  Ellen.  Ellen?   No. Nope. Keep going. Even bigger than Ellen.  Oh I mean...  Bigger than - Oprah? Oprah's already left.   No.  Oprah already left.  Currently on TV.  Oh oh wait.  Currently on daytime TV.  Shoot. It is not...  You got this. Yes it is. Say it.  Dr. Phil.  Meghan McCain?   It is just...  Dude . Daytime TV.  Our current version of People's Court. Who hosts that show?  Oh Judge Judy.  Judge Judy.   Yes. Bob you almost said it...  She is leaving?  ...And then you let Aisha say it. It is Judge Judy.  Oh my goodness. I love Judge Judy. I watch her every day . And how did I not know this?  Every day?  Well I DVR it and I have like lots of old episodes that I play.  Stop.  I love Judge Judy and People's Court.  Wow.  Not only is Aisha a better person than me but she has a lot more time than I do.   Look it is always in the background when I am doing other things. But I do DVR it.  Sure sure sure. So that quote comes from Judge Judy aka Judy Sheindlin. She is leaving CBS after 25 years of having her show Judge Judy on that network. She is leaving syndication and daytime television to go to a streaming platform. She is going to make a new show called Judy Justice for the Amazon-owned streaming service IMDb TV. And on her way out she said I do not like you all. She told CBS and all of them you disrespected my creation. And also for her to say it is going to be a Bill and Melinda Gates divorce wow. Judge Judy is ready.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Dropping those bombs. So that is - that is what she does every day .   You have to be a nice person in addition to be nice-looking Mr. Price  because if you are not a nice person like Byrd  is like I am you end up being a loser.  So apparently the reason she left now finally - she was mad that CBS was moving her show and her programs to make room for Drew Barrymore's much less successful daytime talk show. It is all about Drew Barrymore.  .  That is hilarious.  I love Drew Barrymore too though.  Have you watched the show? Have you watched her show?  No I have not.  .  I guess I do not love her enough - not as much as Judge Judy I guess.  No one puts Judge Judy in a corner.  Judy Judy Judy.  .   Goodbye. We are done.  On that note...  .  ...Bob Mondello NPR film critic Aisha Harris one of the hosts of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour podcast thank you both for being here for being such good sports. I look forward to talking with you both soon about movies and stuff again. Oh wait. But before I go I have to say officially - it has been tabulated - Aisha you won.  .  Yay .  Yay.  You do not sound so excited.  Well you know I had some help from Sam.   It is OK. It is all good. Next time you guys will do even better. Thank you both for being here. And happy movie summer.  This was a joy. Thank you.  Thank you.   Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.  Hi Sam. This is Aaron  in Alexandria Va. And the best thing that happened to me this week was the last day of school. I am an elementary school teacher and I have been teaching in person since last August. I will have to admit this has probably been the hardest year of my professional life but this has also been the most rewarding year of my professional life.  Hi Sam. This is Jess  from Madison Wis. The best part of my week was signing a contract for my first academic position as a lecturer of music education at Penn State University.  I am Sasha . And the best part of my week was having my first beach day of the summer with some friends.  Hi Sam. This is Debra  from San Francisco. And the best part of my week was walking into a bookstore 