Jane Fonda I come from a long line of depressive people on both sides of my family. My father had low grade undiagnosed depression and it went way back in his family. And who knew. You know little Prozac back in the Fonda clan couldve changed all of our lives. This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. We have these words to signify the American moment that shaped you millennials Gen X boomer Greatest Generation. Theyre not always so precise though. Ask any millennial. Maybe a better question is what do you think about when you think about Jane Fonda? My name isnt Pretty Pretty. Its Barbarella. The universes sexiest space traveler? Or the divisive activist during the Vietnam war. We as political people have to be sure that we dont ever stop until the people in this country understand that its been an American defeat. Or maybe the elegant powerhouse in The Newsroom? You wanna play golf or you want to fuck around? But this is MY Jane Fonda.  Fitness goddess  seamlessly transitioning between sit-ups and marching in place and lifting weights  all while wearing that belted leotard. My sister and I clumsily improvised along in front of the TV. I was about ten years old using towels as mats on the carpet wearing bathing suits over pantyhose and lifting cans of stewed tomatoes instead of hand weights. THAT Jane Fonda was graceful. Better coordinated than the rest of us. And so assured. But thats not how Jane Fonda saw herself. You know I was in my 60s before I realized I that could just be who I was and that was okay. Good enough is good enough. And thats what Jane Fonda and I talk about in this episode  what changed for her. It was after her third divorce from cable executive Ted Turner and decades of being haunted by death and confused about sex and intimacy. She says that sense of searching looking for reassurance started around puberty. It was not good! That was a very confusing scary time for me. And I well I just had a lot of questions and fears and I didnt know where to go for answers. And its why at age 76 Jane Fonda published a guidebook for teenagers called Being a Teen. Its about love anatomy and relationships...during those awkward years. It follows her last two books her tell-all memoir and a self-help-y book called Prime Time about living it up after 60. But shes gone back to those early years when that feeling of isolation started. Like a lot of girls up until puberty I was a tomboy. I climbed trees and I wrestled and I said Oh yeah who says? When I hit puberty my voice went underground it was Whatever you say. I kind of went along and tried to fit in which meant doing things that I shouldnt have done. And that became a pattern. Through three marriages two Oscars countless public identitiesa pattern of always trying to fit in despite her familys wealth and pedigree. Her father Henry Fonda was a star from the time Jane was born. Her mother was a socialite with royal roots. Jane Fonda is named after Henry VIIIs third wife a distant relative. When Jane Fonda was a girl her family moved from California to the East Coast and within a few years her father announced plans to get a divorce. Her mother was committed to an asylum where she killed herself by slitting her throat with a razor. Jane was 12. Her brother Peter was 10. We found out through magazines how she killed herself and we never were told by anybody in our family that she did. And nobody ever mentioned her name again. So it was like a huge emptiness. On top of that emptiness came the alienation of adolescence which every teenager goes through in some ways but that doesnt make it less painful. Nothing seemed normal I didnt get my period until I was 17. I was at boarding school and I would buy Kotex every month and pretend. I pretended a lot of things because I wanted to fit in. But I didnt fit in. First of all my father was famous. And second of all I thought maybeI mean I actually did think that maybe I was supposed to be a boy. Youre probably too young to remember this but the very first transgendered person to come into public notice was Christine Jorgensen who became a woman and I was utterly riveted to this. And was convinced that I was supposed to be a boy. Can you tell me more about that? I used to get a mirror and sit in such a way that I could look at my vagina and try figure out if maybe it wasnt supposed to be a penis. I just I didnt know what I was looking for I didnt know what was supposed to be there. I didnt know what was normal. I didnt feel any of the things that my girlfriends seemed to be feeling. It was scary it really was. You were twelve when your mother killed herself. Who took care of you after that? Well my mothers mother my grandmother was the person who lived with us. Eventually my father married a woman who I very much. She was only 7 years older than I but she was capable ofbless her soul shes still alive. Susan. She was an extremely beautiful woman who brought laughter into our family and that was wonderful. And she didnt stay married to my father very long but she meant a great deal to me and my brother. We called her Mom 2. How old were you when she became your step mother? 13. And it was she that when I finally did get my period at 17 she took me to a gynecologist who could answer my questions. The first thing I did when I was alone with him was burst into tears. I started asking questions and just burst into tears. And he said you know something this is absolutely normal. How do you think  you describe your teenage years as a time of just confusion. Confusion yeah. How do you think that affected your relationships with men over your life? It took a long time. And its notits not just a question of sex. I wasnt dealt a good hand when it came to understanding what intimate relationships are supposed to be like. I did a lot of work on myself while I was married to Ted Turner so when the time came for us to no longer be together all the work that I had put into myself I finally could apply. When you say work what does that mean? Well it includes therapy. I guess I started in therapy when I was after Id been married to Ted for about 3 years. Was that the first time youd been in therapy? Yes. Wow. It was not freudian lying on the couch with some guy sitting behind you. It was feminist therapy it was relational therapy it was a woman sitting and looking me right in the eye and crying with me and it made me understand everything about me and my life and my family. And it really saved me and Im so grateful. Jane Fonda first got married at age 27 to the French filmmaker Roger Vadim. He directed her in Barbarella and she would later say in the bedroom too. They had a daughter and divorced. Then in 1972 Jane Fonda married Tom Hayden a prominent anti-war activist. He was a co-founder of SDS the Students for a Democratic Society. They had a son and divorced in 1990. The next year is when Jane Fonda married Ted Turner the billionaire cable executive. You have talked after  at the end of your second marriage your divorce from Tom Hayden that you had a breakdown. Yes. I didnt even realize it at the time it was only looking back on itwell I guess I did. It wasnt even that it was that good a marriage but sometimes a divorce or a crisis can pull the scab off a very very very early wound. And thats what this did to me. I couldnt speak above a whisper. I couldnt eat. I could only walk very very slowly. It was all the cliches. Heavy heart my heart weighed 20 pounds. And that wasnt long  the end of your second marriage and the beginning of your third marriage were pretty close in time. When you started therapy was it in part to deal with some of the emotional residue from that second divorce and understanding that breakdown? Okay since Ive written about it I will say what it is. A month after Ted and I were married I discovered he was having an affair. And so I left him. And then I decided that I needed to go into therapy and I went to a couples therapists. And in talking to him about the marriage I realized that part of the problem was mine. And that maybe I should give Ted a second chance and that the two of us should go into therapy together which we did. Then I unlike him I continued on my own with therapy. So thats how I got into it. And its how I got out of it eventually. It was a very scary thing. I was 62 years old. And it was a very safe thing being married to Ted. I didnt have to work. He was funny he was handsome and fun and all those things. But I knew that if I stayed with him I could never be a fully realized person and I had to make a decision and it was really scary. I felt like Virginia Woolf only I had two angels in the house. One on one shoulder saying oh come on Fonda lighten up! The guys got two million acres of the most gorgeous land in the world and hes funny and he keeps you laughing. And on the other shoulder there was an angel with a very soft whisper saying Jane you can stay with him and die married but youll die not being whole. And so I opted for the whisper. Jane Fonda separated from Ted Turner in 2000 and filed for divorce a year later. Shed left acting during their marriage. In 2005 she took her first film role in 15 years  opposite Jennifer Lopez. From Monster in Law Call me old-fashionedmarriage is a sacred union that should only be entered into with the utmost care. -Werent you married four times? -Yes dear. I never could have done Monster In Law if I hadnt been married to Ted for 10 years. Ted taught me that over-the-top can be okay. Hes completely outrageous and very loveable at the same time. And Ted gave me courage. Ted gave me the courage to be funny Ted taught me how to laugh. Jane Fonda and Ted Turner are still close as they told Oprah years after their divorce. From Oprah i do not regret a moment of the 10 years that we had together best time I ever had really best time? Mm-hm. That is not the kind of relationship Jane Fonda had with her father Henry Fonda. This is a famous scene between father and daughter acting together in the 1982 film On Golden Pond.  From On Golden Pond It seems like weve been mad at each other for so long. I didnt think we were mad. i thought we just didnt like each other. I want to be your friend. Henry Fonda won the Best Actor Oscar for his role. Daughter Jane accepted it on his behalf because he was too sick to attend the ceremony. He died a few months later. Coming up the way Jane Fonda made peace with her father.  But first -- a quick question for you. I want to know how youve dealt with about money in your relationshipshow youve splitting the bills and protecting your savingsor not...while loving each other. Tell me your decisions about joint checking accounts. Separate credit cards. Prenups. Student loans payments. and the stories of how your different backgrounds with money have shown up in these conversations that are about a whole lot than dollars and cents. Write to us with your stories at deathsexmoneywnyc.org -- and tell us if you and your partner  would be willing to talk about it with me for the show. In the next episode of Death Sex  Money a look at what happens when you have four kids...and are sure you dont want anymore...and its time for dad to take over the burden of birth control. I mean the two biggest things I was worried aboutwas all the inspections that had to go on with my genitals in front of other people and the second thing was actually having my genitals pierced by sharp objects. Clint Greagan Australias Reservoir Dad reports back from his appointment with Dr. Snip.   This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After a breakup theres that moment when you look around and notice how much of the stuff youre used to isnt there anymore. That even happens to Jane Fonda when your ex-husband is Ted Turner. I moved into my daughters house in Atlanta. I was all by myself which after Ted the silence was deafening. And I remember standing in the middle of this little bedroom that didnt even have a closet. Id been living in 23 kingdom-sized estates flying in private jets now I had a rented car and a room with no closet. And I stood in the middle of the room in tremendous pain with sadness that the marriage hadnt worked and yet there was also this voice that said Im okay. For the first time in my life I do not need a man to be whole. And thats what our life is supposed to be about and man it takes work. It doesnt just happen. And given the title of this radio showwhat is it Death Sex and Money? Haha. Living it intentionally means living it with the constant awareness of death. You know Im 76 I have a lot more time behind me than I have ahead of me and living with the awareness of that helps me make decisions in life. It helps me not squander time. Do you feel afraid about death? No. I dont think Im fooling myself but no Im not afraid of death. You know I watched my dad die. He took a long time to die so I had a long time to watch. And he was never a talkative person he didnt talk to me. I mean I never got brave enough to ask him if he was scared or anything. But what it taught me was that Im not afraid of dying. What Im really scared of is dying with regrets which I feel that he did. So the minute I realized that I was in my mid 40s then that I realized okay then you have to live your life especially as you get older so that when you come to the end you wont have regrets. Not that Jane Fonda thinks shes done everything right. Shes apologized repeatedly for that famous picture of her where shes sitting on top of that anti-aircraft gun in North Vietnam smiling and clapping along with soldiers who are at that moment fighting the United States. Shes called that an unforgivable mistake that shell take to her grave. Your father died in 1982. What was your relationship like with your father when he passed? Well I got a chance before he died to tell him that I loved him and that I was sorryits hard to saythat I had hurt him. And that I loved him and I knew that hed done the best he could. And he never said anything he just sat in a wheelchair with tears rivering down his face and I knew he didnt like to cry and I was afraid that he was embarrassed so I just left. But we had that exchange. What were you apologizing for? Well when I became famous I would sometimes say things about him that hurt him. And I knew it. He came to me once and told me that I was hurting him and asked me not to and I never did again but I had hurt him and thats what Im referring to. But he knew I loved him. Do you have a relationship with your moms family? Theres no one alive in my mothers family. But I just got together with my brother three days ago and he and I made a pact that were going to go to Ogdensberg New York where she is buried and we are going to kneel at her tombstone and were going to plant things and clean it up and pray for her and to her. And were going to do it together. Isnt that nice? Thats wonderful. Theres never been closure so. Have you been to that grave before? No weve never been there. Never been. So we both feel we owe it to her. When she died I was 12 he was 10. No one ever mentioned her again. So we want to make up for that. What do you remember about your mother? Well the mother that I remember is very different than the mother I researched. I remember her as a hypochondriac febrile nervous scared insecure person. And she was all of those things. But then I also discovered that other peoples impressions of her were vibrant like men were attracted to her like moths to a flame. She was very social. I have her and my father in me Im like a bear. I hibernate and like to be alone and that is my father. Thats the bigger part of me. But then when I come out of hibernation I like to party real hard and thats my mother. You know Jane Fonda looking at your life and all that youve done I would not think that you would describe yourself as someone who likes to hibernate youve been so present in American culture. Oh. I die if I cant be alone. I feel like when I was married to Ted it was like in Montana he has 3 or 4 different ranches they are all two hours one from other. Wed have breakfast in one lunch in another dinner at another so we spent a lot of time driving so hed be in the front with some business colleague or something like that and Id be in the back and Id fall asleep to the sound of his voice. Two hours later Id wake up to the sound of his voice. And I always had the feeling doesnt his brain empty out? Because I always have the feeling that my brain runs out and that I have to do things like be alone and read and pray and meditate to fill it back up again. If I could choose only one way to be from now until I die it would be alone in nature. Preferably at 14000 feet above the timberline. I could spend the rest of my life that way. But the way she is living right now is with her boyfriend Richard Perry a music producer famous for his work with Barbra Streisand Harryl Nilson and The Pointer Sisters. Theyve been together four and a half years. So being alone I want to ask you about that because the way you talked about your divorce from Ted Turner in your memoirs and what it was to finally be single at that stage in your lifenow youre in a relationship again you live with your partner. Tell me about that decision to recommit to somebody. Well I went 7 years celibate and I thought that was it. But then I metwell Id already met Richard but I reconnected with Richard. And I like men who can bring me into a world thats foreign to me and his is the world of music and hes something new for me. Hes kind. And hes very very easy to live with. Like living with a girlfriend who likes sex. Hes just real easygoing and I travel a lot. Im alone a lot and Im writing a novel and I hole up in my office and days go by and we dont see each other except maybe at night. Also Im working more so Im away a lot. Also he has Parkinson's and I sort of feel like Im supposed to learn to be more empathic and to kind of slow down. So Im just learning stuff. Does it feel at all uncomfortable to know that with his Parkinsons diagnosis that you will be in a care-taking role with him? Very uncomfortable yeah. Its not easy Im not a caretaker by nature. I have no idea what the future has in store. Im trying to do it one day at a time. But I get sick all the time and he never does and he takes such good care of me brings me food in bed when Im sick. I have a shot immune system. The least I can do is try to give back a little of that care-taking. But its not my nature. My friends tell me Im wrong but I know. Do you say that self-critically do you think that youre selfish? No I dont think Im selfish but Im just theres so much that I want to do in life including being alone including going into the mountains and forests and writing and acting and Im not someone who can give that up for someone else. Maybe thats selfish. It could also be called self-actualized. Theres two spins to it. Maybe a little bit of both. Yeah. When you reemerged from your celibacy was sex different? Yeah. I think sex  thats true death sex and money. I think that when a woman is older sex is better. Partly because she doesnt give a fuzzy rats ass anymore you know? Shes not out there on the marketplace anymore she knows her body she knows what she wants shes less afraid to ask for it. If it doesnt work out so what? Do you think you might marry again? Oh gosh no! No no no. The very thought of it makes me feel like somebodys got their hands around my neck. Really? Claustrophobia. Just the idea of the institution? Yeah. Im a believer in it I went to Jane Goodalls 80th birthday last night at the home of friends of mine whove been married for 50 years and I said oh Im so jealous. That will never be mine to have. And people who I know whove been married long like that tell me that its so beautiful. And I can kinda smell how beautiful it must be. But I will never know it. No no. I can more envision myself disappearing into a monastery than getting married again. I have one more question. Okay. When you described moving into your daughters house in Atlanta that feeling of quiet and aloneness it made me wonder whats been the role of friendship in your life? Youve been famous your entire life has it been difficult to have friendships? No I didnt use to have friendships I only started having friendships late-ish. I mean real friendships. I would say in my 50s. And theyre all women. My women friends are all younger than I am. I give regular dance parties now and its a way young crowd. And I sort of take on the mother figure. In fact I sign my emails to some of them Ma. Thats Jane Fonda. She says her favorite things to dance to these days are swing big band  and the Pointer Sisters. Jane Fonda...split from her boyfriend Richard Perry in 2017...after eight years together. The new HBO documentary Jane Fonda in Five Acts premieres Monday September 24. Death Sex and Money is a production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative news podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Stephanie Joyce and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to James Ramsay Jessica Miller Henry Molofsky Chris Bannon Bill ONeill Jim Briggs and Avishay Artsy for their help on the original episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale and the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And every week the Death Sex  Money team puts together a really great email newsletter --- with other podcast recommendations reactions and stories we hear from you and behind the scenes updates about the show and me. I know you get a lot of email...but we put in a lot of effort to make this one special. Sign up to get it at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter . But for right now head up...WHOO! you did good work. Thank you its all over for today. Ill see you next time. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.