 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week - cops kink and Pride. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am Sam Sanders. And this is our first new episode of the show in June. And June is Pride Month so happy Pride. We are going to talk about Pride in the first segment of the show this weekend. You know Pride's going to be different this year like it was last year because of the pandemic. But as always there are already so many debates about how to do Pride right. So this year Pride organizers in New York City they announced a ban on uniformed police officers and correction officers marching in groups at NYC Pride. And they want to keep this ban in place through 2025. And New York is just one of several cities that is been pushing for a while for a smaller police presence at Pride. You know this decision to keep police officers out of Pride it has been controversial.   A few weeks ago The New York Times editorial board they issued this op-ed that called NYC Pride's decision to limit police a quote misstep. And in this piece it quotes this queer police officer who said that not allowing her to wear her uniform at Pride it was like putting her back in the closet.  No one's being put back in the closet because to be a police officer is not a marginalized identity. And I do not think police have any place at Pride.  That is writer and commentator Roxane Gay. She ended up writing her own essay in the Times with an entirely opposite take. Roxane says that she found the editorial board's piece while she was researching her own piece.  I do not know that I expected to see it but I was not surprised to see it because I find that the editorial board tends to skew centrist. And the centrism is such that it is going to try to appease all sides.  Anyway Roxane Gay is going to talk about not just that debate - overpoliced at Pride - but also why everywhere it seems right now there are these big public fights over who Pride is for what Pride means and who is really in charge of Pride. To me it seems that these questions rarely get fully answered. But for the next few minutes we will try.  My argument was simply that we have to do something to just say no no cops no cops at Pride. That said if you are a cop if that is your life choice and you want to march at Pride you are welcome to do so out of uniform.  Yeah. I hear you. I hear you. I hear you. You know it is impossible to have this conversation without talking about the history of Pride itself. And I know for some listeners they know this history very well. But for those who might not I think it is important to remind them that the first Pride march was to mark the anniversary of a rebellion and a riot that was a resistance to police brutality against queer people.   And when you know that history it makes the presence of police at Pride period symbolize a lot more right?  Yeah it does. It symbolizes sort of an endorsement of police and a welcoming. And police are not welcome until they get themselves together and can police without brutality until they can reform themselves which frankly they cannot. So until they abolish themselves they are not welcome at Pride. And I do not think that is an unreasonable line to take given everything that they have done to us.  I mean since the start of queer people there has been a response from the states and from police to queerness.   During the year 1964 we arrested 3000 homosexuals. And I am opposed as a matter of principle to making anything which is improper or immoral conspicuous.  Criminalizing queer sexual behavior overpatrolling queer spaces - you know the folks at Stonewall were antagonized by police for a while before they pushed back and had that first riot. But I think a lot of folks might say Pride has morphed into something very different since then. And the relationship between a lot of queer people and the police has become different as well. You know Pride for me when I go now it is full of corporate sponsors. It is full of straight parents bringing their kids. It feels a lot more like a block party or a parade in many cities - no longer an uprising or a riot. Does a change in experience of Pride itself also maybe change who gets to be included? Because it is different now. You know what I am saying?  Yes and no. I mean clearly Pride has become something of a mass cultural celebration. And frankly I am ambivalent about that.  Tell me more.  I think that sometimes we yearn for mainstream approval too much. And this sort of everyone's welcome at Pride dilutes what Pride was about and who Pride is for. And we see it in a lot of the ancillary discussions about who belongs at Pride especially when it comes to suggesting that people in kinky communities should tone it down for Pride.  Yeah.  I love kids.  Same.  And I think it is wonderful that children attend Pride.  Yeah.  And I also think it is wonderful that our children appear at Pride so that they know like this is who we are. This is our community. You are never going to be alone. And if straight people want to come with their families that is fine. But sometimes it has the feel that they do not even understand what they are celebrating. They just want to be at something that is bright and colorful and exuberant.  Yeah.  So I question that.  I also find that when we get into these arguments about like what should the kids that come see or not see it feels as if it is giving the power of decision-making about what is acceptable or not to people who Pride was not even originally for.  I mean that is exactly the problem. I mean it seems like straight people and corporations have taken over Pride. You know like people now say happy Pride which on the one hand I am thrilled that Pride has become so embedded in our culture that it is now...  Yeah.  ...Like an actual sort of month-long holiday. That is incredible. But I do not need to see Budweiser cans you know like that are colored like the rainbow and things like that.  Can I say though Roxane I will always take the free vodka. I always will .  I mean who would not? I mean there is nothing wrong with that. There is no shame in that free vodka all right? Like if we get swag as a side effect of having to deal with homophobia then so be it. I am fine with that. But I think that we can certainly admit that Pride has become incredibly corporatized and has become incredibly interested in heterosexual approval. And that is getting us so far away from where we began.  Well and like this seems to be the existential debate about the gay rights the queer rights movement. Is it about us doing us whatever those other folks do or is it about us becoming palatable to the mainstream?  Right.  I do want to go back to kink though because on top of this debate about whether police should be allowed at Pride or not there is also a debate online about whether kinksters and leather folks should be allowed at Pride. And that - for me that seems like an even easier question to answer and the answer is well of course because they have always been there. But I want you to kind of talk about your thoughts on this debate and why it seems to be really hot as well this year.  I think because Pride is becoming more mainstream and people are recognizing that we are gaining mass cultural sanction nobody wants to threaten that. We do not want to threaten sort of the approval that we are currently getting. And so now a lot of queers are like we are going to be on our best behavior by any means necessary.  Yeah.  And...  Yeah.  ...It is sad. It is sad.  It is tiring. It is tiring as well.  Yeah exactly. It is tiring. And the idea that we should remove the sex from our sexuality is offensive. It is almost like - a lot of times when women talk about birth control they are like oh I am on birth control to regulate my period. I am like girl I am on birth control 'ecause I like to have sex myself.   Yeah.  I mean I am not speaking for myself. My birth control is flawless and it is called being a lesbian - or I guess bisexual. I am married to a woman. And it works every time.   I love it.  I swear. But...  Yeah I hear you.  My wife has yet to get me pregnant though we have tried. Anyway you know I think we see a similar thing happening in the gay community where - like it is the Will  Grace effect where we are sort of cute and charming and harmless but we do not actually have sex. And that is not true.  Yeah.  For most of us.  And it is also not historical because all of this...  No.  ...Stonewall itself the start of Pride itself - all of these things happened because homosexual activity was criminalized. And so if you are now saying that at Pride kink and leather and queer sexuality should be monitored or tamped down you are almost reinforcing the same kind of policing of our sexuality that was the root of the original riot.  Yes.  I do not know. It just feels like when there is this - the word normal tossed around a lot with these conversations about how much kink should be at Pride you realize normal would never fit us in even if we faked it. You know you realize the idea of a nuclear family itself did not have space for us ever from the start. And this idea that we need to now look better to the nuclear family to the normals - it is like we can never do that. And like they know it as well.  Yeah.  And yet we do this song and dance around it. I do not know.  You are right. We do some - this song and dance around it. And it is so frustrating. It is so exhausting. And it is so unnecessary because it does not matter how well we dance. It is never ever going to be something that people - like people who are determined to hate us are determined to hate us.  Yeah.  And there is nothing we can do about that. And I think it is so important to recognize that so that we save ourselves some heartache and some frustration and some pain. You know like let us just - let us save ourselves.  How political - like capital P - do you think Pride is for most people today?  I do not think it is that political for most people in the same way that Christmas is not that religious for most people.  Yeah.  Yeah. How do you feel about that?  You know it is disappointing in a sense but in some ways look how far we have come that we have an entire generation of queers that do not know why we celebrate Pride. But I also think that it is upon us as - well I speak for myself as an older person in the community - that we remind the youngins. Like they do not know what they do not know. That is why it is important to teach our history.  I am thinking about the activist Sylvia Rivera who was booed in 1973 when she chastised the crowd at Pride for not helping trans people and queer people who were in jail or prison. And she said you tell me to go and hide my tail between my legs. I will not put up with this S. I have been beaten. I have had my nose broken. I have been thrown into jail. I have lost my job.   I have had my nose broken. I have been thrown in jail. I have lost my job. I have lost my apartment for gay liberation and you all treat me this way? Think about that.   I do not believe in a revolution but you all do. I believe in the gay power. I believe in us getting our rights or else I would not be out there fighting for our rights. That is all I wanted to say to you people.  And it is like you know what? Pride is for her.  Yes.  And until we find some place on which those voices are the loudest - and in these conversations I do not think we are there yet. Anyhoo on that note it is an honor to have talked with you.  Likewise.  I appreciate your mind and your writing and your thinking. And thank you again and happy Pride.  Thank you. I hope you have a great celebration and enjoy some of that vodka.  Yes I most definitely will .  .  Thanks Roxane.  You are welcome.  Yeah.   Thanks again to writer Roxane Gay. Coming up I talk with director Natalie Morales about her new movie Plan B. It is a teen buddy comedy that is all about reproductive health. Natalie Morales is the director of a new film on Hulu called Plan B. I liked it a lot. And we will get into the meat of that movie in just a bit. But when I first sat down to talk with Natalie I had to begin by telling her how much I liked the music in the film.    What? Do it all for Jesus.   Do it all for Jesus. Do it do it all...  I got to start by saying that little trap Christian song that you have the two leads singing as they are road-tripping - that was a bop.  Is not it good? I love that song.  And so like one I am like a former Pentecostal so I am always happy when like religious stuff that is subversive kind of finds its way into secular pop culture.  Yeah.  And I felt like you were doing this on purpose because later on you had Creed's Higher.    Can you take me higher?  And that is one of my favorite secret Christian songs.  Listen that was an expensive joke but a joke that I was really insistent on.  .  I was raised really Catholic. And there are some themes in the movie that you know can be controversial in Christian households. And there is a Christian character in the movie and he is kind of a dork but he is not a dork because he is Christian. And he also really talks about Christianity in this way that I wish I had heard when I was a kid. And that was really really important to me.  Yeah yeah. We should say before we keep going a little synopsis description of Plan B without spoilers.  All right. I will see what I can do. It is a movie about two girls in America's heartland in South Dakota who are you know high school girls. And they are nerdy and they have a - they threw a party and one of them loses their virginity and then the next morning pees out the condom.    Lupe I was peeing and a condom fell out.   What?  And so they have to get the Plan B pill. But in many states in the United States South Dakota being one of them there is something called the conscience clause.    I am sorry but I decline to offer you the Plan B pill. Have a nice day.   What? Why? You cannot do that.   Yes I can. Any medical professional in the great state of South Dakota can refuse to sell birth control drugs to someone if it goes against their beliefs. And around here it does.  So they have to get to the one Planned Parenthood across the state because it is the only place they can see themselves getting access to this 'ecause in their small town you know there is no other pharmacies and everywhere around them people feel the same way. So that sounds like a very serious topic but the movie itself is a big R-rated comedy. And you know I feel like that is what our lives are like. It is...  .  ...The tragic and the comedic and the highs and lows and you know as my producer Matt would say the farts and hearts you know?  The farts and hearts.  It is both. It is all rolled into one.  I love that. And I feel like Plan B is channeling that. Like this movie is about you know contraception and access to health care for women but it is also being compared to films like Superbad and Booksmart. And it is got these you know teenagers doing high jinks. Maybe someone does drugs. Some lessons are learned hilarity. But there is some heavy lifting there. And I wonder - like to make both of those dynamics work in one film is very tough. How afraid were you of getting that balance right in the movie?  You know I was not afraid of it because you know those movies like Superbad and Booksmart and like American Pie and you know even Ferris Bueller ...  Yeah.  ...All the teen movies especially the R-rated teen comedies that we are used to I kind of think of them as like teen quest movies 'ecause there is always a quest right?  Yeah. Oh yeah.  It is always like let us get alcohol.  Oh yeah. Hero's journey.  Yeah let us go to the cool party or let us go to whatever. And this is the same. It has a quest. It just - the stakes happen to be a little bit realer. But it does not take away from the fact that they are still teenagers that they are still having fun and that they still have the same you know hopes and dreams and desires and you know turn-ons and horniness that teenagers have. You know it does not take away from all of that. So to me it was not that difficult to you know keep that balance because I knew all the elements were there as long as we played it all real.  I really admired how some things that are actually really tragic in our society you were able to poke fun at in just hilarious ways. And there is this one scene toward the top of the film that really sums up the sad way our culture sends so many mixed messages to teenagers about sex especially around the time a lot of them begin to think about having sex. And I am talking about the scene where there is this video in a sex ed class where a woman's virginity is like compared to a car.    Oh that is your car? It is so used. Man I could never sit in here because it looks like you gave rides to the entire football team. Oh and what if somebody I know was given a ride? Oh hell no.   Oh I wish I knew that nobody would want something so damaged and ugly. I should have saved my car for my husband. But now it is all used up .  By the way it is actually based on a real you know abstinence video that writers were shown in school and that exists.  Wait. Really?  Oh yeah. I mean the real video is about a sneaker. It is about a pair of used sneakers...  .  ...Which is even somehow worse. But yeah it is an abstinence-only education which is still very common prevalent in a lot of American schools. And by the way in the press for this movie and in all the stuff that is come out afterwards it is so telling that the education in this country is bad around sex because so many people believe that the Plan B pill is an abortion pill which it is not.  Yeah.  It is a contraceptive. So...  Yeah.  ...I have had people adults ask me about you know how it is an abortion movie and it is not at all. Like you cannot get pregnant immediately after you have sex. A Plan B pill would not work if you were pregnant. It is a contraceptive just like you know the pill is.  Yeah. Yeah.  And a lot of people do not know that. So it is been eye-opening for me to know that you know it is so - it is just such misinformation out there.  Yeah. Yeah. How bad was your sex ed growing up?  Pretty terrible. I went to a Catholic school so I had no sex ed and just you know a promise ring...  Oh my God.  ...And abstinence-only education. So it was not good. I remember when I was a kid I was very inquisitive. And I think I stopped asking my mom questions once I was very very embarrassed in class because when I was a kid I asked her how babies were born. And she was like - she gave me this answer which made perfect sense which - she was like you know how your bellybutton has a knot in it? And I was like yeah. She was like they just untie the knot and take the baby out. And I was like...  Oh my God.  ...OK great right? So then I believed that till was way too old - like - I do not know - seventh grade or something. And in class I was like wait. What? It comes out of what? And...   Down there?  Yeah. And so then I never asked my mom about anything having to do with sex ever again.  Yeah yeah. Oh my God. You know there are so many lessons I think to take from this movie. And the one that I got especially with how the film wraps up is that one the people who really love you they love you more than you know and two because of that you should not be afraid to be honest with folks. That was the big takeaway for me.  Yeah.  But I wonder like what do you hope is the biggest takeaway for folks that watch this movie? And is it a different message for different kinds of people?  Yeah. I love that that is what you got. Like I literally just got chills because...  Oh my goodness. I mean it.  ...That is one of those things that I wanted people to take away. I mean I also want people to know what a real friendship looks like you know and feels like and acts like you know somebody who is there for you - like really there for you and really accepting of you.  Yeah.  I think you know above all I wanted to give people especially teenagers the license to be themselves and know that that is good that you are inherently good even if you mess up or make mistakes or do anything that you are worthy of love and affection and good things.  I like that.  Yeah.  Look at this Oprah Super Soul Session. I am so into it.   Yeah. And yeah this is an R-rated comedy. I should say this. But there is a blend of all of this happening in there.   Coming up Natalie Morales plays Who Said That with her friend and collaborator Josh Ruben.   We are about to play a game with two guests and I am going to let them tell you who they are. Go ahead.  Well I am Natalie Morales. I have been here if you have been listening to the show. And my friend my very good friend is joining us.  Oh my goodness. What a pleasure to be here. I feel like Larry Mantle. I am Josh Ruben and I cannot believe it.  Josh is a super talented actor director writer whose new movie Werewolves Within is coming out this summer.  There we go. I like that friends supporting friends.  Yes.  Oh my goodness.  Well after that lovely supporting moment I am going to pit you two against each other in a combat to the death. Is that cool?  OK great.  Oh boy.  Yes.  OK.  So every week on the show we play a game called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  It is really quite simple but everyone takes it way too seriously. I share a quote from this week of news. You got to guess who said it. There are no buzzers there are no timers there are no scorekeepers 'ecause we are public radio and we are broke. So just yell the answer out when you have it. If you do not have it I will give you a bunch of hints. If you get the answer or not it does not matter 'ecause it is just a game and there are no prizes. Shall we play?  I - yeah. I have not paid attention to the news this week or any week recently because...  OK.  ...I have been trying to keep myself sane. So this will be fun.  All right. Let us do the first quote. I am going to just call it out. You can guess who said it. You can guess what I am talking about. Just get close.  OK.  OK.  Here's the quote - I have said for a long time I think Emily and John have a pretend marriage for publicity. But I still think...  Amy Schumer. Amy Schumer.  Yeah.   OK.  Wow.  Set this up for our listeners. What happened here?  She said that about Krasinski and Blunt? Damn.  I think she was joking. She was joking.  Oh wow.  It was a joke.  But you never know with Amy Schumer. That is why I just can never get into her humor 'ecause I am like I do not - I cannot - it is too much for me.  Yeah. She also in the same post said that Emma Stone was a toxic person...   ...Which is really great.  So let us set this up as best we can. Go ahead. Go ahead Natalie.  Oh she was just making an Instagram post I think about her friends who had movies out which are John Krasinski and Emily Blunt who have A Quiet Place II out this weekend and then also Cruella which is Emma Stone. So that - I have - I did happen to see that. I did happen to see that.  Natalie you got that first point.  Thank you. I am very competitive.  Josh do not give up. I believe in you Josh.  OK.  All right. You do not believe in yourself sounds like.  Cue Smash Mouth. OK.  Yeah . There we go. There we go. Here's the next quote. This was a viral video on the internet this week. The quote is when I go over there to see what they are barking at I am like that is a funny-looking dog. I look it in the eyes and the first thing I think to do is push it.  It is that woman who pushed the bear.   Yeah.  What?  Josh where you at?  I guess - listen.  Josh where you at?  A woman pushed a bear? Natalie take the point.  Yeah.  Please explain.  Yeah. OK so there is a video that went around this week where there was a bear a really big bear and a cub on the - like perched on a wall of someone's patio and all their dogs went outside to bark at it. And the woman whose dogs that was walked out shoved the bear - like with her bare hands pushed the bear off the wall to save her dogs...  Yeah.  ...Which was kind of phenomenal.  It is amazing. So this was a 17-year-old young woman named Hailey Morinico. And in this viral video as you said Natalie a bear was screwing with her dogs and she said not on my watch.   Honestly I did not know it was a bear until right after I pushed it. I was like oh my God I just pushed a bear.  And pushed that bear off a...  Wow.  ...Short ledge that - the bear was OK but wow.  Yeah.  Would you all ever push a bear?  Probably not although if it was to save my dog yes. So I relate.  I believe that. I believe that Natalie would do a lot of things to save Taco the dog.  Yeah.  I think for me I - we have Ruby  the cat here at my place. And I think if a bear came near it you know I do not know.  .  I mean I think about my dog Zora who I love very much. But if a bear is up in her mix I am going to have to give that to God.   She is had a full life. Sorry you all.  Fair.  Here is our last quote. Josh you can still - actually there is no way you can win. But I am going to just like...  This is - yeah this is no British Bake Off situation.  Yeah.  Like yeah Natalie's won the technical and the signature.  We can do this one for double points. At least he can tie.  OK OK. Let us do it. This is for twice the points. This is a thing that everyone's been talking about I feel like especially on Twitter. Here's the quote. In Episode 1 she is having sex on a couch. I said to my husband am I OK with that? Is it all right that I am playing a middle-aged woman who is a grandmother who does really make a habit of having one-night stands?  Oh Kate Winslet - Mare Of Easttown.  Yes. Yes.   Oh.  You get three points for that 'ecause you said it really enthusiastically.  Oh man. Get a hoagie and watch that show. It is great.  So this was Kate Winslet in an interview for The New York Times talking about her heroic run in the first season of HBO's Mare Of Easttown. This show let me tell you it dug into my bones.  Yeah.  I am excited to see it. I have not watched it yet.  Josh tell Natalie what this show is without giving away spoilers.  Kate Winslet plays Mare. You know she plays...  That is her name?  She - that - yeah Mare I think short for Marianne . And Jean Smart plays her mom.  I love Jean Smart.  Oh she is so good. She plays Fruit Ninja on an iPad. She is her mother and they live in a house. You get to see Jean Smart not only play Fruit Ninja on an iPad but also endure the weight of her daughter's - or  daughter's as they say in this part of Pennsylvania...   ...Trauma and tribulations as she is trying to solve a small-town murder here in Easttown. And the accents are just an absolute mess. Not - it is not on the actors. It is just like the accents are really like - in some counties in this part of the country in some they say wudder  and some they say water but they say  hoagie. I mean it is like - apparently was really really difficult for them to surmount the dialect. But...  Get that Philly accent right.  Yeah.  I have had to do that for some auditions and I think I gave up 'ecause I was like no I would rather not be embarrassed.  Yeah.  Just not going to do it.  Like does anyone really say home  home home home? Is how they say it?   Home. Home.  On that note I got to say Natalie you won.  Oh I won now again? That feels unfair to Josh. I mean...  It is fine.  I am the worst referee. Oh actually - OK now my editor said that you all tied.  OK.  It is - I mean everyone's a winner with Who Said That right?  Yeah.  Listeners you can catch Natalie Morales' film Plan B on Hulu right now. Josh tell our folks where to find you and watch you and see your work.  Check out Werewolves Within. It hits theaters June 25 and VOD July 2.  I love it. The movies are back and I am so happy. I am so happy.  Me too. I cannot wait to see that in the movie theater. Thank you so much.   Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.  Hi Sam. This is Katie  from Bellingham. The best part of my week was driving with my dad from Wyoming back to my home in Washington. We had two days in the car together laughed a lot. I got to hear his stories from growing up and really had some awesome quality time together.  Hi Sam. This is Rudy . And this past Monday I became fully vaccinated. And on that same day I found out I was accepted into an early career journalists workshop which is very exciting because it could lead to something big for me.  Hi Sam. This is Katie  from Mobile Ala. The best thing that happened to me this week was my grandbaby who is 10 months old has started to whisper thank you and it is pretty amazing.  Hi Sam. The best part of my week this week was going to a memorial service for a dear co-worker friend that died of COVID six months ago. And we were able to all come together and just hug each other. And it was just so wonderful.  Hi Sam. This is Natasha . And the best part of my week is finally getting to see my dad my stepmom and my siblings and get hugs. I miss hugs. Thank you so much for this segment.  Thanks so much for your show. I listen every Friday.  Have a great week.  Thanks to all those listeners you heard there - Katie H. Rudy Katie B. Liz  and Natasha. It is so heartwarming to hear our listeners talk about re-entering the world post-vaccination and seeing friends and loved ones again and doing the things that they missed. I got to say my favorite post-pandemic activity this week was going to a Dodgers game. And I got to hang with some good people and sing all the baseball songs.   Even though I do not know a thing about baseball it was delightful. Go Dodgers. Listeners do not forget you can share the best part of your week with the show at any point throughout any week. Just record yourself and send that voice memo to me at samsandersnpr.org. Email samsandersnpr.org.   All right this week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Andrea Gutierrez Sylvie Douglis Liam McBain and Christina Cala. Our new intern is Manuela Lopez Restrepo. Welcome Manuela. We are so happy to have you here. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. And our big boss is NPR senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners till next time be good to yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  