Hey its Anna. Weve been hearing from a lot of you recently about what this show has meant to you during the past yearand during our shows seven year history.  This past seven years one constant has been you know your podcast. This listener Daniel from Colorado has been listening since we launched in 2014. Hes written into our inbox along the way to talk about grief therapy a breakup and masculinity.  I just wanted to say thank you again for pushing hard conversations. Discovering Death Sex  Money helped me a lot. Death Sex  Money is not just a podcast. Its a community of listeners who share and learn from each other. We hope that this show has helped you make choices understand people better and have those important conversations in your life. And if Death Sex  Money has been helpful to you and you have the resources available Im asking you to please make a financial contribution to Death Sex  Money today. We cant make this show without our listeners pitching in and supporting us and as we come to the end of our fiscal year were asking you all to please donate now. The very best way to give is to become a Death Sex  Money sustaining member. It helps us plan and it allows you to just give a little at a time. If you sign up at the 10month level well send you a copy of my new book Lets Talk About Hard Things. You can also give 120 all at once to get a copy of the book. Either way youll get an invite to a virtual gathering later this summer to talk about the book after weve all read it. Now I realize thats more than the book costs at a bookstore but if you get your copy this way youll also be supporting the work of our entire team and the future of this show. And if you became a member this spring and already have your copy of the book look out for an invite coming your way soon. So support us now at deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Or you can text the letter DSM to 70101. Or again go to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. And speaking of talking about hard things thats what todays episode is all about. Your stories about the conversations that youve hador need to haveabout some of the most difficult topics in your life. So a heads up this episode discusses sexual assault and suicide.  I had spent my whole middle school high school years college years like lying to avoid hard conversations and - so just in that moment I decided like the lying stops today. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. A few weeks ago we asked you to tell us about the hardest conversations youve ever had.  I heard your request for submissions about hard conversations and instantly this memory came to mind and my heart started pounding and Ive been staring at my phone now for like the last 30 minutes. This is Death Sex  Money the show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and talk about more. I am Anna Sale. A few weeks ago we asked you to tell us about the hardest conversations you have ever had.  I heard your request for submissions about hard conversations and instantly this memory came to mind and my heart started pounding and I have been staring at my phone now for the last 30 minutes.  The difficult conversation that I had last year was with a client of mine just before he was executed.  As a man especially in his early 20s one of the toughest conversations I had to have was admitting that I was raped in college.  Explaining to her why mommy and daddy are not going to live together anymore.  Telling dentists about my bulimia and why my teeth are so jacked up.  The hardest conversation I have ever had was the conversation where I came out to my parents.  She cried I cried.  I called it G-Day. It was like the D-Day invasion but a lot gayer I guess.  Quite honestly it made me feel so relieved.  I broke her heart I felt really bad.  The conversation was way more difficult than I had even expected it would be.  And is one that stays with me and has been with me in my heart and head every day since. Our interviews on Death Sex  Money are about big complicated personal things. But talking about them with me a stranger and an audience of mostly anonymous listeners is really different than talking about hard things with people in your own lives. That can be way scarier. I just wrote a book about having tough conversations in your personal life called Let us Talk About Hard Things. And when I was writing it and talking with people about the hard conversations they have had what I heard over and over was that they feel high stakes because these conversations often spark a change. A hard conversation might change your relationship or the situation. It might just shift something within you. But there is a definite before the conversation and after the conversation. And that is probably why talking about hard things in your own life can be really hard to psych yourself up for.  The thought of talking about it and having that discussion that will eventually come soon one day still gives me a lot of anxiety. This is a listener who is asked that we call her Palmer. She has not yet had the hard conversation that she knows she needs to have.  I have a very very very close-knit high-performing immigrant family and so certain things just would never be expected. Basically the difficult conversation that I will have at some point soon is that the person that I love and madly in love with is currently incarcerated. Palmer's family comes from Jamaica and England. She met her boyfriend through her best friend who is also dating a man who is in prison. He and her boyfriend are both set to be released later this year.  I am very well aware of his crime. I have no issues with his crime except for it was literally just a dumb choice that he made. He was the driver of I guess you could call it a getaway car and the person he was with had robbed the bank. The loss was only 3000. That money has been paid back. I think he is more than paid his debt to society. Literally just made a dumb mistake and as a Black male in America you have very little space to make a dumb mistake. I have always been really pro-prison reform even before I ever met him and so that is why I am mad at myself for still feeling so nervous about having this conversation with my family eventually one day. He is a wonderful person and he is made me happier than I have ever been. I do not know I need to get myself together though. I need to stop being so worried about what other people think and if they think that I have lost my marbles. Our listener Mike sent in a voice memo about a series of hard conversations he had with his family starting 12 years ago.  I was sexually abused for a long time by my brother. I had talked to my brother about it. We had had a conversation about closure I forgave him and he apologized. We went into the depths of it. It was a very challenging conversation. I saw it as a reason why my mom my brother and I were just not jelling as a nuclear family unit. Mike was in therapy and he resolved to talk to his mom about the abuse he would experienced as a kid but that same year his brother died by suicide.  The people around me who were my support system who were going to be there for me when I had this conversation with my mom pressuring me in saying You should not tell her now it is too late. You missed your opportunity he is dead now. What is it going to do for her? Obviously my mom was devastated by the loss of my brother and I kind of packed it away. About five or six years later I did finally have that conversation with my mom. It was a long conversation but in the end I feel like it has brought us closer together. When a person dies in our culture we tend to absolve them of the mistakes they made when they were alive. Suddenly he was this poor angel. It was unfathomable to say anything negative because we do not speak ill of the dead. I think it normalized that angelic innocence for my mom I think it brought her off of that pedestal. I think she started to or I know she started to move away from this perfectionistic view of my brother's spirit. Hard conversations often reveal hard truths ones that can be really difficult to incorporate into your reality especially when those hard truths are about you.  One of my best friends from college lost her dad junior year. Her dad died and I was abroad at the time and she was on campus. It was in the fall semester and then I came back in the spring and did not acknowledge the death of her dad at least not in the way that she needed at all. I was oblivious and just tried to make her happy and did not at all acknowledge that she was grieving constantly. Anyway I did not realize that I was doing anything wrong until she sat me down and initiated a conversation that was along the lines of you are not being here for me in the way that I need you to be. I would much rather you talk to me about the death of my dad and ask me what I am going through. That is the more caring route than just not asking. That was one of the hardest conversations I have ever had because I just felt such intense guilt but also she was able to frame it in a way that was very blunt and very direct. And it was cool to see her be able to do that and just say so clearly and directly This is what I need and you are not giving it to me. Of course sometimes very direct and clear conversations with friends do not go so well. Like for this listener Kandace.  I have been very lucky to have a set of female friends that I met in high school. There were a total of six girlfriends that we have stayed friends from 15 until now we are in our mid-40s. In recent years Kandace noticed that her friendship with one of these women seemed to be waning. She just did not feel as close with her anymore so she decided to talk with her about it.  Just to acknowledge that our relationship had changed and that was okay so I could feel comfortable leaving her off with a group text messages of things that were a little more personal. We ended the conversation quite well it was loving but then the next day she sent a video message to the group saying how fake I was and how she was happy that she did not have to deal with me anymore. It was very hurtful because I was attempting to be very intentional in the way that we discuss things but it is a difficult conversation that still bothers me two to three years later because we have models to break up with romantic relationships. We even have some models on how to have some space in between maybe some toxic family members but I do not feel like I really have a model on how to break up with a long-time friend. After the break more hard conversations with friends kids and a woman one listener's ex-husband cheated with.  We met at a bar and I remember very calmlyI am still proud of how I handled itbut stated first and foremost it was my ex-husband's responsibility not to have an affair obviously but after that the blame really rested also at her feet.  If you missed my conversation with musician and writer Michelle Zauner last week about finding joy in the aftermath of taking care of her mom as she died from cancer Id really recommend giving it a listen. After we put out the episode we heard from our listener Christy in Milwaukee.  Something that really spoke to me in that episode is when she was talking about not wanting to learn anything from death. Christys son died 14 years ago from cancer.  I felt really guilty and still feel guilty that I did not learn anything from his death. I did not become a better person a more patient mother uh seize the moment kind of person. Those are things I am working towards but his death did not spur me into being a better person which I was felt a little shameful about. So I really appreciated Michelle talking about that. Like no this is terrible. This is horrible. I do not need to learn anything from this. Thanks to Christy for writing inand if youve got any reactions or story ideas that youd like to share with usyou can reach us any time at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode we meet an 18-year-old high school senior whos about to graduate and leave home and manage his physical disability on his own for the first time.  I will have to figure this out for myself and either if I hurt myself I do not hurt myself. It is up to me to really figure out. 'ecause I am at I feel like I am at the age where I just I want to explore things you know just check out how far I can really go you know?  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC I am Anna Sale. Hard conversations even those that happened decades ago really stay with you. This listener Mary Beth told us about her hardest conversation which happened almost 30 years ago in 1993.  The hardest conversation I have ever had took place with a four-year-old and a one-year-old. My husband passed away from cancer at 30 at night on a Saturday and in the morning I was awake with the kids I am alone and told them and it was tough. It was very hard. My one-year-old daughter she did not know what was going on and did not know why I was crying and my son definitely did. That was just a tough day. It is been 28 years since that time and I still remember it like it was yesterday.  I feel like maybe it is assumed with being young that you have not had many hard conversations. This listener Sam wrote in from Seattle. He is 20 now and his hardest conversation happened when he was 13.  My mom and dad sat my brother and I down. I thought maybe they were going to get divorced just because there had been a lot of tension with their marriage. My mom she was just crying more than I have ever seen her cry. She is a big crier. Most movies I would say I try to discretely look at her and see if she is tearing up but she was crying more than I would ever seen her. still to this day I have never seen her cry that much. It became pretty clear that probably it was not divorce but something really really serious was going on. That is when I found out that my dad was diagnosed with Huntington's disease which is a disease that affects your movements your cognitive ability. It is essentially the cells in your brain are deteriorating and you basically change into an entirely different person. I do not think I really thought it was that hard of a conversation at the time but now six or seven years later it is-- My dad is now in an adult family home I do not really recognize him at all. He is entirely different. I do not even always feel like I have a father which has been interesting also because I transitioned in high school. At this time I was dealing with lots of issues with my gender and sexuality and then when actually physically transitioning and beginning to live in the world as a man and not having my father to guide me I feel like I never got to have the experience of your dad teaching you to shave for the first time which I feel like I still mourn sometimes.  Hi Death Sex  Money I am calling to chime in on challenging conversations. My ex-husband had an affair with someone he was in a master's degree program with. It was devastating and really hard for me to let the relationship go et cetera et cetera but we divorced and I moved out of state. About a year after I moved he contacted me saying that he and the woman he had had the affair with were also moving to the same state the same city that I was living in and it really threw me for a loop. I started having tons of anxiety and nightmares about running into them. Especially the woman he had had the affair with seemed to have outsized power over my thoughts and just really upsetting. Once they moved to town I called her up and said I would like to talk to you. Let us meet. To her credit she was willing to meet me. I was never mean I never rose my voice very very clear and just went on to outline how heartbroken I was and betrayed and devastated. I remember she was actually way more nervous. She was chain-smoking the whole time this was back when you can chain-smoke in bars. When we left I gave her a hug outside of the bar and said I forgive you. It was amazing. It was like a switch had flipped and I really felt absolved of so much angst and anxiety surrounding the power that she had once held in my emotional state. I really think it is a testament to having that super hard conversation both of us being willing to sit down talk about the hard stuff and truly being able to move on and not have it be such a dramatic pressure cooker then for decades and decades after. We started today's episode with a hard conversation that has not happened yet and that is where we are going to end things too. A decade ago a listener we are calling Jen was in her early 20s and could not afford her share of the rent.  I do not know what I was thinking but I had some checks for my bank account and I just thought I will write my roommate a check for my half of the rent and give it to her and it would give me a little bit of time before she went to cash it and for it to clear that I could get some money to have in my account. I think that worked once or twice and then I started giving her bad checks. I do not know it is not like I had this thought in my mind where I was like I am just going to give her these bad checks to fuck her over or whatever. It was not like that. It was just I did not have the money. I panicked. I did not want to have the conversation with her at that point about not being able to pay my rent properly. I just kept giving her checks. She had student loans so she had a lot of money sitting in her bank account thousands of dollars. It took a few months for her to notice that I had been giving her bad checks and she was getting these bounce-backs. Jen's roommate kicked her out. They got into a big fight and Jen eventually paid her back after borrowing money from a boyfriend. Jen did not talk with her extra mate for you.  Randomly I would say about five to eight years later her and I started talking again. We became friends again. It was very surface-level at first where we would just message each other back and forth on Instagram send each other different memes and things like that. Our relationship has now progressed since then to a point where we talk weekly with each other over texts sometimes now. We even saw each other in person recently for the first time. It is still a fairly surface-level relationship. We live in different cities so we do not hang out a lot but we do talk quite a bit at this point. I have never had a conversation with her about what happened between us this long time ago. She has not brought it up either. I think partly because of that and partly because I am still too afraid to have a conversation with her about it I just use the fact that she has not brought it up either as an out for me to be able to just continue to sweep it under the rug. I probably think about bringing it up to her and think about the fact that I owe her an apology almost every day probably. It feels nice to actually just talking about it out loud right now even though I am not actually telling anyone else about it. There is a little bit of a weight lifted there so maybe one step closer to finally having the actual hard conversation. Thank you to all of you who sent in your stories about having hard conversations. For those of you out there who know you need to have a hard conversation but have not done it yet for whatever reason we want to hear from even more of you. We are working on an upcoming series about people who need a push to have a hard conversation and then actually do it and then report back about how it went. If that is you tell us about it. Send in an email or a voice memo to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Katie Bishop. The rest of our team includes Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein Yasmeen Kahn and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Marty Harding and Kristie Song. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram Annasalepics P-I-C-S and the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Please if you value this show and our community please make a financial contribution to help us keep making it. Go to deathsexmoney.orgdonate to become a sustaining member or you can just text DSM to the number 70101.  Thank you for giving us the space to share these difficult conversations with you. Thank you for the work that you do to elevate these stories because they do make a difference. I know that for all of my network of folks who listen to Death Sex  Money it does create almost a prompt or probe for us to talk about those topics within our own circles. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.