 All right man my first big question for you given these two big rulings on DACA and on worker protections for queer people on a scale of like one to oh my goodness how big of a week was this for the Supreme Court?  Oh this was an oh my goodness week.  OK. OK .   Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show a look at big decisions from the Supreme Court and Black Lives Matter in the U.K. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. As my Aunt Betty just said we have a lot to talk about this episode. Seems like there is so much happening right now and it is all happening all at once. The Supreme Court has expanded the rights of not just one but two marginalized groups this week - DACA recipients and LGBTQ workers across the country. And at the same time protests continue across the globe on behalf of another marginalized community - Black and brown people victimized at the hands of the police. What does it mean when all this change seems to be happening all at the same time? This episode we will try to explore that. To start let us make sense of what exactly the Supreme Court did this week. Mark Joseph Stern covers the courts and the law for Slate. He was the voice you heard at the top of the show. I called up Mark to ask him what these rulings actually mean and whether we really understand just how big of a deal they are. So I want to break down both of these cases quickly and then I want to get big picture and talk about what these rulings say about the court right now about the Trump White House right now and kind of about all of us. But in a very quick wrapup what is this DACA ruling and what does it say?  So the DACA ruling is a 5-4 decision written by Chief Justice John Roberts and joined by the liberals that says look Donald Trump could rescind DACA. It is an executive program. Obama started it Trump can end it. But if Trump wants to end it he has to do it right. And one of the things he has to do is provide a good clear reasoned explanation for ending the program. And he has to follow a series of procedural rules to make sure that he is not doing it in an arbitrary and capricious way. And so this does not mean that DACA will now be around forever. What it means is that if Trump still wants to repeal it he has to start from the beginning. He has to do a do-over. And this time he has to provide good reasons for ending it and he has to follow the rules. So in a sense kind of a narrow decision. But if you are one of the more than 700000 DACA beneficiaries who was waiting for this ruling it is just really earthshaking in the best possible way.  Yeah. You know speaking of Roberts and this idea that I keep hearing about this week that Roberts with this ruling shows he is kind of just tired of the Trump White House - I want to get back to that. But first I want to have you explain briefly what this SCOTUS ruling on employment protections for LGBTQ people actually means as well.  Yeah so another huge decision and one that had a very unexpected lineup with Justice Neil Gorsuch writing the opinion joined by Chief Justice Roberts and the liberals. And...  Yeah Gorsuch who was hand-picked by Trump.  Yes that is right to fill the seats that Republicans held open for more than a year precisely to avoid decisions like this one.  Yeah.  And basically what Gorsuch said was the Civil Rights Act of 1964 bars discrimination because of sex in the workplace. And when employers discriminate against gay people or transgender people they are inherently taking their sex into account and that is exactly what the law says you cannot do. So you know if a male employee marries another man and gets fired but a different male employee marries a woman and gets to stay on the job what was the difference between those two employees? It was their sex. That is the only difference. And Gorsuch says so this is sex discrimination not that hard to figure out. We do not really care what Congress thought in 1964. The words of the statute are the law. And so this is sex discrimination. And LGBTQ people are protected under federal law.  You know with both these cases besides kind of just giving the administration a black eye because we know where the White House stands on both of these issues it also complicates some actual things they were trying to do. Earlier this week the Trump White House announced some new guidelines that would restrict some LGBTQ rights. And they have been trying to and talking about dismantling DACA for years. How severely will these rulings limit what the Trump White House can do politically between now and the election on these two issues?  Well on DACA you know the process of winding down DACA was always going to take some time. The Trump administration always said that they would basically just stop renewing DACA beneficiaries' permits. And so it seems like if Trump does not get reelected then DACA will stay. Like I just do not think Trump has enough time to repeal DACA over the next couple of months. With regard to the LGBTQ cases I think you are absolutely right to wonder what impact these cases have on Trump's agenda. And I think the answer is a totally devastating impact because one of the major initiatives of the Trump administration has been to reinterpret a bunch of different federal laws to actually allow discrimination against transgender people. These are all laws that bar sex discrimination. And the Trump administration said well sex discrimination is totally different from trans discrimination so none of these laws say anything about trans people so we are just going to make sure that everyone can discriminate against trans people. And the Supreme Court just told the Trump administration you are wrong. Basically every law that says there cannot be sex discrimination also protects transgender people. And so when Trump tries to roll back the Affordable Care Act's protections for transgender people I think that is out. I think that is obviously null and void. Trump has tried to revoke protections in education for transgender people. I think that is out. Same story in housing.  Wow.  Just all across the spectrum the Trump administration has been building up this theory that the Supreme Court just kind of blew up. And so I think this is quite devastating to again one of Trump's main goals which was to repeal every federal protection for trans people that exists.  Wow. I want to talk a little bit more about Neil Gorsuch who has surprised everybody this week with this textual interpretation of the Civil Rights Act to be part of a ruling that is exactly the kind of ruling that Trump did not pick him for. How big is that? How big is Gorsuch and what he is doing? And does this actually take away one of Trump's arguments for reelection - that he can make the Supreme Court truly conservative?  It is really big. It is huge. And Neil Gorsuch presented himself as a true textualist OK?  Yeah.  The kind of guy who only looks at the words of a statute and nothing else. But if you are a human being it is hard to do that without letting your own prejudices and biases enter the picture right?  Yeah.  This was something that Justice Scalia really grappled with. I felt like especially toward the end of his life Scalia's opinions were much less textualist and much more about reaching the result he wanted. So this was a case where it really was a battle over textualism because if you only read the words of the Civil Rights Act it does seem clear that LGBTQ people are protected because you just cannot take sex out of sexual orientation. You cannot...  Yeah.  ...Take sex...  It is like literally in the word.  It is in the word - exactly.  Yeah.  And it is really baked into this kind of discrimination so that was Gorsuch's argument. And also you know even Scalia acknowledged that laws can cover a lot more than their drafters ever anticipated they would. And this is just one of those instances where Congress wrote a super broad law and - shocker - it has super broad applications.  Also I mean why even try to figure out what folks in '64 were thinking about 2020 when everyone here in 2020 cannot figure out what 2020 means?  .  Who knows what today means?  Exactly.  But I digress.  Exactly. No I think that is a great point. And if I could just add one thing...  Yeah.  ...No one in 1964 - no one who voted for this law - thought that it banned sexual harassment in the workplace OK? The Supreme Court did not even acknowledge that it banned sexual harassment the workplace until 1986 decades later.  Wow.  So if we only...  Wow.  ...Looked at what congressmen thought in 1964 this would be a largely toothless statute. And I do not think that is really what the Civil Rights Act was supposed to be. I think that law was supposed to have teeth.  Yeah. You know we have been talking about Gorsuch as a surprise but Roberts shows yet again he is been a surprise for years.  Right right - upholding Obamacare repeatedly now siding against the Trump administration - repeatedly. It is hard to figure out who John Roberts is and what he wants. He is just like a fascinating case study in a totally opaque and seemingly mild-mannered person who apparently has some kind of deep reserve of independence that he only draws upon like three times a year. And this year he is already done it several times.   Last question for you. When the ruling came out Monday about worker protections for LGBTQ people I said to myself wow this is a really big deal. Maybe it is even bigger than marriage equality because a lot more queer people want to have a job than want to get married. But it felt like all week America did not stop and pause long enough to say how big of a deal it is. Do you feel like we have accepted the magnitude of that ruling - of these two rulings this week and if not why?  So with regard to the LGBTQ ruling all reliable polling indicates that a sizable majority of Americans already thought that was the law. So most Americans...  Oh .  ...Already thought that it was illegal to discriminate against LGBTQ employees all across the country. And so I think one of the reasons it had a somewhat muted reception is that a lot of folks were just surprised that the ruling even had to exist. They were like what? This was legal like two hours ago? What is happening?   Yeah.  And I think you know the marriage equality battle in so many ways was fought in the court of public opinion. And these employment cases are not as romantic or life and death as the marriage cases. With DACA I mean you know DACA affects about 700000 people. For those 700000 people and the communities they live and work in it is a huge victory. But I suspect if you are a white dude in Idaho you probably do not know any DREAMers and this case probably is not going to mean a lot to you.  Yeah I will say like I cannot wait to like 30 or 40 years from now have like - I do not know - a niece or nephew come to me with their history book from grade school with like the whole three chapters on 2020.  .  And I am going to be like I was there. And it felt like a whole decade.  Oh.  All of the things happening all at once.  All constantly. And now we have to figure out once again who John Roberts is. This is probably one of the most powerful people in government if not the most powerful. John Roberts sits at the head of the entire federal judiciary. And so it is like 2020 is crazy but with John Roberts at the head of the judiciary it could get crazier. Who knows what is going to happen? I truly...  Who knows?  ...No longer know which way he is going to come out on a lot of these cases when I really thought I had the guy's number.  Man - next season on Real Housewives Of SCOTUS.  .  Stay tuned . Thank you so much for this chat. I really love it when a smart reporter like yourself can make really hard stuff sound really easy.  Aw.  You have made it plain for me. Thank you sir.  Always a pleasure. Thanks so much.  Thanks again to Mark Joseph Stern. He covers courts and law for Slate.   As Mark said that DACA ruling and that LGBTQ worker protection ruling - they are both really big but neither is quite permanent. In fact President Trump announced this Friday that he would try to dismantle DACA again after that ruling came down. This comes as really no surprise to my next guest. Her name is Tobore Oweh. She came to the U.S. from Nigeria as a child. She grew up in Maryland and she now lives in Los Angeles where she is a floral designer. Tobore has had DACA since 2013 almost since it began. And she says for years now she is just had to make peace with being a DACA recipient and living in limbo and being used in her opinion by both parties playing politics. So Tobore I am guessing this is - we are talking Thursday morning. There is just been a big Supreme Court ruling upholding DACA. You are a DACA recipient. How are you feeling today?  I definitely woke up to several messages from friends family. Everyone was super happy. I am in a great mood. You know just grateful for the little wins really.  Little wins. How big of a win do you think this is? I mean is this - for me seeing the ruling I am saying oh that is a big deal. But for someone who is a recipient of the program how big of a deal is it for you?  It is definitely a step in the right direction. But as much as I am excited I am not getting overly excited because I still know that I am still a pawn in a immigration battle. And it is still going to be a roller coaster ride for me. So I am just keeping all of that in mind.  Yeah. I want to unpack more this idea of feeling like folks like you - DACA recipients - are pawns being used by the government. Talk about what you mean with that and talk about how that feels because I imagine on top of just being worried about your status in this country you have to also think about how people like you are you know forced to be in the headlines all the time.  You know as much as I am grateful for DACA - and it has brought a lot of opportunities my way - feeling like a pawn is not a good feeling at all. It just feels like you did not really care about us you know? Because when you make these little wins you feel like OK someone's listening someone cares. But then when you get slapped with OK well there is no path to citizenship unless there is a wall built you are kind of like OK so you did not genuinely do this. It just makes me feel like are the Democrats doing enough to make this happen for us? Are they in on this?  Do you think they are using you as well? I mean...  I mean I am not going to...  Like a lot of folks have talked about Trump.  I am not necessarily going to say that. But you know it feels like it sometimes. And you know I am not stupid you know? I know it is all a game.  .  You know what I mean? Like I mean being a pawn feels - it is like a roller coaster ride for us. Like you said we are constantly in the - it is a story about us but then it is like we are used in a story to get this done. And it is like guys I am a person you know? Like this is my real life that you are playing with. You know what I mean?  That is hard. Well and you know speaking of real life like this must be a very interesting week to be a Black woman who is also a DACA recipient because in the same week we have the Supreme Court ruling on your immigration status there are also still ongoing protests and conversations about the way Black men and women are treated in this country by police.  Right.  Does it feel like - I do not know - is it just emotional overload for you right now?  Well I call it a triple whammy  because...  OK - explain.  Well first you have to deal with just going outside and being a Black person you know? So you have a race issue there. Then I am a woman - then you get into sexism on that. And then on top of that being undocumented - I share all the time that it feels like America tries so hard to make me feel - on one hand make me feel like I do not matter. It is a constant message every day.  Yeah. Does the ruling this week from the Supreme Court make you feel a bit less unwanted by America?  No.  I am not new to this. I know the games. I know there is a system. So I am just looking forward to what happens after this. Like what is the moves? So as much as I am excited I just want to see real progress.  Are you hopeful for real progress?  Yes I am always hopeful.  OK.  We have to be hopeful. I mean if you lose hope then you have nothing you know? We have been hopeful for over 400 years - right? - as Black people you know just on that level. So we are doing the same thing we have always done. Just do not dim your light.   Thanks again to Tobore Oweh for joining us. Also listeners our friends over at NPR's Code Switch podcast they have been checking in with one of the plaintiffs in that DACA case for a few years now. They actually met up with her this week after she heard the news about that Supreme Court ruling. You can hear their discussion with her on a brand-new episode from Code Switch right now. All right. Time for a break. When we come back we talk about what Black Lives Matter looks and feels and sounds like across the pond. BRB. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. This episode we are talking about how in some ways it feels like everything is happening right now all at once. Two big Supreme Court rulings this week expanding the rights of DACA recipients and LGBTQ employees - and yep coronavirus is still around. And protests against police brutality - those are still happening too. We have talked a lot about those protests on this show but really only in the American context. But of course as a lot of you know by now those protests have been popping up all over the world. So I called up an old friend of the show who lives in the U.K. and asked her what it is been like where she lives. Hello there. Can you hear me?  Hey. I can.  How is it going?  Hey Sam. How are you doing? Long time.  I am good. That is the voice of Candice Carty-Williams. She is the author of the acclaimed book Queenie. So in the book Queenie the character Queenie this Black British woman she is figuring out her love life her work life. But also she is grappling with the Black Lives Matter movement in that book and how some of her friends who are not Black are processing that stuff. And I have been wondering this week what you think Queenie would be doing right now and saying right now as these protests have become front of mind again.  Right. Well I have been thinking that Queenie is still - I mean you know Queenie she is moved on in her life but obviously her values are still you know still very firm. And I think that Queenie would be doing everything she could at that newspaper to get things like front page. You know one thing that we have had over here definitely is the news - so I talk about it in the context of a newspaper because that is where Queenie works. But the newspapers have not been very favorable when it comes to the protesters. And also in terms of you know it also being a global pandemic there is so much discourse around the fact that if there is a second spike then it is going to be the fault of these Black Lives Matter protesters. But also when there was like a queen's coronation or similar - I do not really keep up with the monarchy here - and lots of people were outside their houses celebrating and doing like conga lines and it was like but you sent BBC reporters there to almost celebrate it. So the languaging...  So what is up with that?  Right. So the language and the positioning around how you know like Black Lives is seen is always going to be different. And so I think Queenie would be trying to make sure that did not happen. I know she would. She is good like that.  Yes she is. Yes she is. You know for me it is been really interesting especially over the last week to see how these protests have become global. And I wonder what it is like to experience this as a Black person in different parts of the world. I think so much of the Black American experience is centered on our Americanness. But there - this movement is very Black and also very global at this point. And I kind of wonder - I do not know - like how does it feel different to see it there as opposed to here? And there is no way to know but I am guessing your perspective is different there.  Well I think you know we have seen - so we have had our riots here before. But then understanding the riots in America they are way more violent to the protesters. We do not have tear gas. We do not have rubber bullets. We do not have all of those things they used on American rioters. And so you know I think here you know you have your placards and you can march peacefully and you can sort of opt in opt out. But in America it feels like it is like you have got to be all-in and you have got to be ready for danger. It is terrifying.  Wow.  But it also feels like - you know what I will say is that the American police system for Black people it is always to me felt like you are going to be in danger anyway - you know? - whether you are playing with a toy in a park or you are in your bed so...  Wow.  You know?  Yeah. It is so interesting in this moment as these protests capture the world's attention to think about how the rest of the world sees us you know? Some of the scenes that I have seen coming out of major American cities it just feels like oh I do not - I have not expected to see those kind of scenes in America. And I am not going to say it is embarrassing but I do not think it is a good look for America right now .  But I did not see it that way. I see it as a very passionate group of people who are...  Yeah. I mean I am talking more about like the response of police you know? Like...  Oh my God. Your police system is pathetic. It is embarrassing. It is awful. Ours is also horrific but yours it is terrifying. When I have been over to America which I have been a handful of times now when I see the police knowing I have done nothing wrong I still am like oh. Like I still move.  Wow.  I just move immediately just even as a Black woman knowing that like I am just like commuting. So yeah I think the - I mean the American police system I cannot - you know what can I say on it because I am a British - I live in Britain. But I still know that when I am there I feel afraid.  Yeah yeah. It is so interesting to hear you say that because I think that like so much of American life for all Americans is assuming that the American way of life is just the way everyone else does it. And I think the last few weeks of protests and seeing how this stuff has played out in other parts of the world and what you all are doing or not doing it shows that in many ways America is an outlier on some of these issues. And that is just weird for me to process as like someone who is you know - I do not know - Team America all the way. Like we are in a weird place right now and it is on vivid display for the whole world.  But I also wonder how growing up in that like what that is done to you as a person and what that is done to your psyche. I do not feel as afraid as I felt in America and I cannot imagine living in that constant state of you know that person that I have seen on the news could be me could be my child. And you know it is something that I think about. I think like oh I would love to move to America. That is one of my plans. But I am also like but do I want to raise children in America because they are going to be Black?  Yeah. One of the things I keep wondering in this moment is how this round of protests became so global so quickly. You know there are Black Lives Matter protests happening in I think most of the continents all over in strange pockets of the globe that you would not expect. And when the movement began a few years ago that really was not the case. What do you think about now that made this wave of protests truly global?  So my theory has been from the beginning that it is because lockdown means so many of us cannot distract ourselves with real life that we have to sit and look at what is going on. And I think that people have also demanded that people who are not looking at what is going on look and pay attention to it and talk about it. And I really truly believe that if life were just going as it was this would not have happened. I mean it is basically evidenced right? Because we have seen this before. We have seen just for...  Yeah.  Look at Eric Garner. What happened there you know?  Exactly. It is so sad.  And what change happened? Yeah. And what happened to the men who killed him you know? So I think this - it is sad to say but I think it is because we have nowhere else to look.  Yeah yeah. Last question about this. Queenie - if she were here right now experiencing this moment what message would she want to give to the general public? What would her message to the world be right now watching this all play out?  I think her message to the world would be that looking inside of ourselves is really important. And being kind and doing the right thing is important because obviously Queenie is - she is a queen of introspection. And so it is about looking inside. And it is about thinking about the world that you want to grow up in also what you want to say that you did in this time.  Yeah. I like that. I like that. All right. Time for a break. When we come back we play my favorite game Who Said That with Candice Carty-Williams a special U.K. edition. Also quick favor to ask. Listeners can you help us out here? We are doing a big push for the show this month. So if you enjoy it if you like what you are hearing please rate us and review us on Apple Podcasts. Even if you do not like us it is fine too. Just review us. Something about you all reviewing this show helps us get discovered by new listeners. I do not know how that magic works but it does. So hook us up OK? Appreciate it. All right. BRB. All right now I am going to ask you to play a game with me. Some weeks I play this game with two panelists. Sometimes I play it with one person. But the game is called Who Said That. And basically I share three quotes from the week and you have to guess who said it. And we choose weird wacky strange quotes to lighten the mood and have some fun and have a few laughs about the week. So if you will indulge me we will play this game together.   Yeah OK.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  OK. All right. There are no buzzers. There are no timers. Just literally yell out the answer if you think you have it. The first quote is I want a world in which we send you Marmite and you send us Vegemite. Who said that?  Who - that is - so do me a - you see? Look I am reading about it. Is it a person who said this?  It is a person who said it a leader in your nation talking about a possible trade deal this week.  Is it Boris Johnson?   Yes it is. You have not seen this video yet?  No. Do you know what? He makes me so angry that I cannot engage in anything that he says or does. I just have to see on Twitter that he says it. And I say yeah of course he said that.  It was so interesting. Let me tell you what happened. So Boris Johnson now is pushing for a post-Brexit trade deal with Australia and New Zealand. And so he went online to make a video promoting a trade deal. And he talks about Marmite and Vegemite. And then he holds up a bag of Tim Tams.   How long can the British people be deprived of the opportunity to have Arnott's Tim Tams at a reasonable price?  You know annoys me right? I have Tim Tams in my house because I bought them from a Target in LA. So we do not even have access to Tim Tams here. So he is just touting rubbish. You see how he talks rubbish? I have to go and get my Tim Tams and bring them over from Los Angeles and Target.  .  This guy.  Also what are Tim Tams? What are Tim Tams? Please tell me.  Oh my God. Tim Tams Sam - Tim Tams are so delicious. They are like - so they are basically like a chocolate biscuit that is like encased in more chocolate. They are like plain or you can have caramel ones. I would implore you to go to your local Target and buy some.  All right. This next quote is from this side of the pond. It is about a very big iconic brand that is making some changes given the last few weeks of protests. The quote is while work has been done over the years to update the brand in a manner intended to be appropriate and respectful we realize those changes are not enough. They continue we are starting by removing the image and changing the name.  Oh my God. I think I know this one. It is the - is it like maple - no it is not maple - it is - what is it? It is the woman on the front. Is it maple syrup? Or it is something like that.  It is syrup. Yeah yeah yeah.  Ah.  I will give it to you. It is the syrup lady Aunt Jemima.  Aunt Jemima.   Yes.  Yeah.  I saw this. I knew this because also Aunt Jemima - when I go to Jamaica they sell lots of Aunt Jemima products. I am always like this feels a bit weird. This is not right. OK yes.  It is a little weird.  I knew it. I knew it.  So it is amazing to see it happen now because for years Quaker foods has faced pressure over this logo and this name because the logo and the name are directly linked to like minstrel shows.  Yeah.  So the backstory is the founders of this brand first hired a former slave to portray Aunt Jemima at the 1893 World's Fair in Chicago. And then after that the character was played in a radio series by a white actress who had done blackface on Broadway. And the whole brand has its roots in a 19th century minstrel song called Old Aunt Jemima.  Oh my God.  So now she is finally leaving. She is finally going away.  Goodbye. Do not let the door hit you on your way out. How awful.  Also like do we need anyone's face on food nowadays? Can we just move past that period? Just tell me what the food is and I will see if I want to eat it or not.  I do not think I have ever needed a face on food to endorse it for me.   Yes yes. All right you have gotten two of these. This is the last one.  Unbelievable.  This is about something going on kind of based in your neck of the woods. This is about a movie that is about to be made about a very very famous person. The quote is...  Oh dear.  The quote is we are very happy to have her. She is very committed. As a filmmaker when you have someone who can hold such a weight - dramatic and narrative weight just with her eyes then you have a strong lead who can deliver what you are looking for. Who am I talking about?  You are talking about whichever idiot cast Kristen Stewart as Princess Diana.    Yes. Kristen Stewart has been tapped to play Princess Diana in an upcoming film about Princess Diana. That quote is from director Pablo Larrain singing the praises of Kristen Stewart.  You know what? Shoutout to Kristen Stewart 'ecause like Twilight - I had my time with it you know?  OK.  She handled that. But like Princess Diana is a lot. My whole - I will tell you what. When I was a child I woke up and I could hear screaming - screaming howling in my house. And I was like who has died? And I was like what is happened? And my mom was like she is gone. And I was like oh my God. The first experience of family death. And I was like who? And my mom was like our Diana. She is gone. And you cannot tell me that Kristen Stewart is going to play that. And I just find it really weird 'ecause also...  .  Do you know what I mean? It might as well just be someone unknown because like it is Kristen Stewart.  Yes. Prayers up for Kristen Stewart. I do not want to be in her shoes right now.  Not at all. I just would not take it I do not think. I just - do you know what I mean? I just would be like no. Do not worry about it. But as I said like shoutout to her. Twilight.  Yeah.  I did all of those films - every single one.   Well whether or not Kristen Stewart loses or wins with this new movie role you have won this game.  I cannot believe it.  You got all three. Congratulations Candice.  I am very very competitive.   Hey well thank you so much for talking about the heavy stuff and the light stuff this week. And listeners check out her book Queenie right now. It is wherever you get your books.  Thank you so much for having me.   Thanks again to Candice Carty-Williams. If you want to hear more about Candice's novel Queenie which I devoured last year and loved go check out my interview with Candice all about that book in our podcast feed.  Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a fe