 This is FRESH AIR. Our rock critic Ken Tucker has a review of Margaret Glaspy's debut album Emotions And Math. Glaspy who is 27 produced the album herself. She plays a variety of instruments including the fiddle. But on the album she concentrates on the guitar. Here's Ken.    Looks like  and you forgot  who I was to be who you would want. Yes I have been sitting in silence because I thought you liked me quiet. But I do not want to watch my mouth. No I do not want to act like I cannot speak at all. I do not want to hold you till I am good and ready to. Oh I do not want to be on pins and needles around you   I do not want to be on pins and needles Margaret Glaspy sings on that song which has a lyric about not wanting to alter her behavior to try and please someone she cares for. It is a song about how we sometimes often without being conscious of it readjust our essential nature to simply move a relationship along to keep things going. It is a nicely complex idea to stuff into a catchy song with a strong guitar line. Turns out this is what Margaret Glaspy specializes in  complexity that unfurls with deceptive directness.    Why do not we throw the beautiful fish in the sea? You keep on coming back to me. And I am waiting on the day you wake up and say you do not want me.   I do.   You do not need me.   You are on my mind every night of the week. Stop being so naive.   Every woman and their mom is wondering where you are from. All in good time you are going to change your mind because you do not want me.   I do.   You do not need me.  That is You Do not Want Me in which Glaspy's forceful guitar strumming contradicts the neediness of the lyric. But that is only how it seems initially. As the song progresses you realize Glaspy has thought through what it means to be desired and knows that it works both ways. A number of songs on Emotions And Math operate in this manner including the title song.    Oh when I have got you by my side everything's all right. It is just when you are gone I start to snooze the alarm because I stay up until 4 in the morning. Counting all the days till you are back shivering in an ice cold bath of emotions and math. Oh it is a shame. And I am to blame 'ecause we are all right until you go and I start losing control without wanting. Counting all the days   One recurring strategy Glaspy employs is to launch a song as confessional singersongwriter material before revealing it as toughminded rock music. In a tune called Situation Glaspy sings about someone who is been condescending and controlling  or rather attempting to do some controlling  and she is having none of that. There is an angry bite to the way she delivers the lyric that is echoed by the song's barbed guitar hook.    Take your hands off of me. There is nothing wrong with me. I do not like sympathy. Do not you dare pity me because you do not know my situation. We have had at most one conversation. Do not call me out of the blue and tell me what to do.  As a guitarist Glaspy favors echo and distortion while keeping the melody ringingly clear. This frees her vocals to explore a wide range of tones  guttural threats and irritation higherpitched yearning chatty forthrightness sarcastic disbelief at the idiocy or obtuseness of the person in front of her. Listening to one song after another it starts to occur to you  this is someone I would really like to have a conversation with or maybe avoid one. She is both impressive and intimidating.  Ken Tucker is criticatlarge for Yahoo TV. He reviewed Margaret Glaspy's debut album Emotions And Math. Coming up John Powers reviews a new documentary about the 1964 murder of Kitty Genovese. This is FRESH AIR. 