I should not be fighting the same fight that my grandparents fought. This isdisgraceful. This is Death Sex  Money. This has been a long time coming. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot I just feel angry and overwhelmed. ...and need to talk about more. Im really hoping this gets us somewhere because Im sick and tired of being in the same place. Im Anna Sale. And this week a lot of you have told us what you need to say right now in this moment of protest against racism and anguish about recent brutality illness and devastating loss. Im used to racism being a thing in the background. Im used to racism being something thats subtle and something that isnt in your face. But right now it feels super point blank and straightforward in a way thats hard to deny and it just feels like oh yall dont even care who sees. I think what I need to say is I am struggling Im not doing well. I cry it hurts my heart sort of physically it hurts. I want to scream. Friends ask if I am okay. And I tell them I am not because I am not. How can we be okay when we live in a state of terror? It cant be tolerated it just cant be. I cant get this stuff out of my head and its really hard to then sort of show up the next day you have to go to work. And its messing with a little bit of my work productivity and stuff. And it just feels so so heavy. And there are so many things I want to say or so many things Im thinking about rather and just dont know how to say. We heard from those of you who are whiteas well as those of you who identify as people of color. Thank you to all of you who told us whats on your mind. But today were mostly going to be sharing with you what we heard from Black listeners.  What I want to say right now is that Im disappointed. Nicole sent in this message from from Brooklyn New York. I cannot say that I am surprised but I am truly disappointed in the way this country continues to treat Black people like we do not matter. Um I am a woman who is looking to have children and seeing what is being done to my people makes me fearful of just having children. This country does not like us this country does not love us. And we built - we built it! I am angry. I am disappointed. I am frustrated. And while people are making comments about the looting and the rioting none of us - none of us should be telling people how to grieve. And we have protested silently for so long and that has not worked. And it is time for white people not to just sit back and look at the TV and wag their finger. It is time for you guys to do the work. Get up and put your bodies on the line. Get up and dismantle these systems that have been put in place to keep Black and Brown people behind and below. Do that work. Do the work. We are tired. Black people are tired.  How I am feeling about everything is just very... combination of tired and angry. Um I think those are the two main emotions in there. Emmett is 25 and lives in Dacula Georgia outside of Atlanta. Um the tiredness comes from the fact that um this is not the first time we have seen this cycle you know my name's Emmett and Emmett Till died due to a false accusation from a white woman um decades and decades ago. So like this has been a problem forever. And we are still at square one it feels like things have not changed at all. And it is not surprising. It is one of those things where - I was actually listened to a another podcast called Spawn On Me which is a Black-centric uh video games podcast. And they had on a special panel the other night to talk about all this stuff. I just finished listening to that. And one of the panelists Blessing  Jr. um he had talked about how a lot of this stuff especially when you are in gaming circles where there is not a lot of Black voices there you kind of like in order to just get by you have to just drop it and put it to the back of your brain a lot of times. And so that that the weight of that terribleness in the world does not weigh down on you too much and it just ruins your life. It is just something you have to compartmentalize and try and go on despite it even though that is totally not the ideal way to deal with it. And on that podcast Bless was talking about how this whole situation has kind of allowed him to feel again. Um and I totally do feel like yeah it is always been in the back of my mind but now it is like at the front of everyone's mind which makes it feel like I am allowed to have that be at the front of my mind now as well.  Hi my name is Bukie and I live in Philadelphia. I am Black I am female. I am an immigrant to the United States. And I am also in an interracial relationship with a white man. We have been together for over a decade and we have been married for four years. Um with everything that is going on in the world I am just completely terrified and full of anger and rage and sadness and pain and I am grieving grieving and just beside myself. And I do not sleep I do not quite know what to do. And it is hard to believe that change will come because if we know history we know we have been here before. And I suppose what I really want to talk about is the deafening silence of my white family members. Besides a couple of them that have reached out the majority have not said anything at all. Not a text not a call not a I am thinking about you... nada since all of this started. And I cannot say I am surprised. I cannot 'ecause I am not but I am disappointed. I am sad that their silence and the complicity continues even in this stage of potential great awakening. And that fills me with dread. I do not want to see them. I do not want to interact with them... because I do not believe that they see Black people as human beings.  Um hello this is Kristi 49 Dallas Texas. Um and right now I am feeling scared. Uh I feel like I have always been scared for all of my life but just at a low line level like a buzz. Uh but with things happening from the last couple of weeks it is starting to feel catastrophic. And just the fear of being Black a woman and a Black woman that likes to run loves to run. Uh and now I feel like I am afraid and scared for just one more reason. Like running is taken away from me somehow. Uh but even so I always try to not let that fear stop me. Because I need to run. It is something that has saved me many times over my life from childhood trauma to dealing with it to depression to suicidal thoughts. And when I run the fear that I had eventually dissipates and I do not get to feel that for those few minutes that I am out. So I lace up I get brave because that is what Black people people of color do. We dig deep and we get brave and we keep going. We deserve the right to live and run and feel normal without the fear of harassment or just feeling fear. Uh so each time I lace up um I know it is still gonna be there but I uh it is still my right. It is still my right to run and I do not want that taken away from me. So I am going to keep it. After the break more of what you need to say right now.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. And today we are sharing some of what you told us when we asked What do you need to say right now? While most of what were sharing in this episode is from listeners who self-identify as Black we also wanted to share this message from Sabina in Olympia Washington.  So I am uh I am a Brown woman. Uh my parents were immigrants Im first generation my mother is from Guatemala and my father's Pakistan. I grew up in a Muslim household. And I have intimately experienced racism in this country. And I guess like as I am seeing these like protests and marches and like online presences in response to George Floyd's murder and police brutality and inequality and injustice you know I am just you know I am just wondering like have any of these people have any of these white people like actually showed up for Black and Brown pain? Do these people actually give a shit about Black people or is this just an opportunity to like show up to a thing? Because it is not just about police brutality. It is about everyday racism. You know being a person of color I can deeply understand this sense that you know Black folks go through that oh like I am not in the right neighborhood. Maybe this is not safe for me. I need to like watch how I dress or speak around these certain groups of people if like I want to make a certain impression. And just like am I going to encounter a situation that makes me feel unsafe like physically unsafe? And it is based off of a lifetime of of dealing with microaggressions. It is notracism is not always explicit. Like the police brutality is extremely explicit but it is just like it is just the most obvious manifestation of a problem that is always happened - that is always been happening. I am really inspired but also very upset. It is just this emotional dissonance. And I just want to ask you know white people did - have you - do you actually care about regular-ass Black and Brown people in your lives? Do you care about their feelings on a daily basis? Do you care about their emotions? Do you give them grace if they do not always keep it together because a lot of us have accumulated so much hurt and pain and trauma and are so patient all the time. And I do not know if white people really understand that.  I think whats hardest right now is the surplus of white people reaching out to let me know theyre thinking of me during this really difficult time. And I think whats really hard about that is that they dont really understand that all the time is a really difficult time when youre Black in America. And so whats happening right now with the pandemic and the marches and the deaths that we see is that we are kind of really surpassing what I would call a difficult time. I dont know how to describe it really. I understand that people who are not Black are now forced to think about all of these things right now. But I need them to understand that all of these things are something that we carry every single day. And on every single day every normal day no one really asks how am I doing during this difficult time or tells me that theyre thinking about me. And thats really tough.  Heres what I want to say about everything thats going on in the world at the minute. Obviously you can probably tell by my accent that Im British um so its a bit different in that I dont have the historic American lens. But what I do have I guess is sort of because of how I grew up and where I grew up which was predominantly white neighborhoods in England all my friends are white my boyfriend is white. And I guess I have always experienced a sort of socioeconomic privilege um that you know even family members cousins and stuff like that do not have. And yet in this instance I cannot help but feel that before I am anything else I am Black I have traveled to America so many times. I always used to want to live in L.A. and now I am scared. Um I am really scared. And it is exhausting. The whole thing is exhausting. What is most exhausting I guess because of the people I I am sort of surrounded withobviously my family is Black but in sort of my work the job that I do which is very corporate and my friends and all that stuff I find myself being looked at as someone who has answers I guess because I am not also shy about talking but I am tired. I have had a lot of people saying I did not realize and I am just looking at them like how did you not realize? I am and will always be Black before I am anything else because nobody hears me speak or sees where I live or what car I drive before they see me as a Black person. And it is exhausting to have my best friends asking me what can we do? I do not know. I do not have the answers. And it is sort of started to irritate me in two ways the sort of silence from my friends that feels complicit this time. But on the other hand I am watching celebrities speaking now when they have not spoken about your Trayvon Martins and your Philando Castiles and Mike Brown and whoever else and they are speaking now and they are speaking now and I feel like they are only speaking now because so many people are saying it they feel sort of a comfort in crowd. And I know that it is not fair but that is exactly how I feel. I am annoyed. I am exhausted. I want people to say something and yet I am irritated when they do because it feels performative. And yet there is a little part of me that hopes that this time there is real change. I will be marching. I do not have the luxury of looking away as much as I really really want to because I am tired and because it hurts. Because any kids that I have will be Black before they are anything else. My nephews are Black. My niece is Black. My father is Black. My brother is Black. My sisters are Black. So yeah. What do I want to talk about? I guess everything and nothing.  It is an interesting time because when asked what you want to say I feel that I do not want to say anything. I feel um as a person who happens to be Black in 2020 we have been saying everything that needs to be said for as long as you know racism has existed. It is been the same thing. So it is hard to say more. What is there to say? I think one thing that I am trying to get at in my own kind of subjective experience and in my relationships with white people is that I do not believe for a second the sentence that says I do not even know how you feel. I cannot imagine how you feel. I cannot imagine what it is like to have your son out you know at night. Yes you can. Yes you can. That is the point. You can imagine. You do know. I just do not believe it. I do not believe for a second that you know empathy is racialized and subjectivity is racialized. I believe that there is a cognitive override that you are doing. I believe that there is a lie that you are telling yourself about what you cant see and you cannot feel. And I would like to suggest that the unconscionable thing that you cannot get your head around we Black people also cannot get our heads around. It is unconscionable that what happened to George Floyd could happen. The way you see it is the way we see it. Youre just pretending you are seeing something else you know you are pretending you are seeing something normal. And we know that every time this happens there is a tear in the very fabric of reality. We know that. We have always known that. We know that there is a tear in the fabric of reality and we are still supposed to get up and go and be a person. And we do. And we do. Thats a listener named Janine in Philadelphia. Before Janine you also heard from Antoinette in Dallas and Ann in the UK. Thank you to all of you who told us what you need to say right now. Keep telling us. We are listening. Our email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org.