 This is FRESH AIR. Today rock historian Ed Ward tells us about Billy Ward and His Dominoes. Billy Ward made a career out of covering white hits for the black market and along the way had some original rhythm and blues hits and discovered two of the greatest voices of the era.    I saw the harbor lights. They only told me we were parting. The same oh the harbor lights that once brought you to me. I have watched the harbor lights... ED WARD  Billy Ward was born Robert Williams and showed musical talent from an early age. He was initially inclined toward classical music which he composed as a teenager and also during his studies at the Juilliard School of Music in New York. But there was not much chance for a black composer then and as he coached young vocalists he and his friend Rose Marks decide that a vocal group that could go back and forth between pop and rhythm and blues might work. They held auditions and The Dominoes were born. Billy did the arrangements and played piano and organ and Rose did the business end. Soon they signed with King Records' subsidiary Federal and did their first recording session on November 14 1950.    No greater need  and it is true  than the need I have for you. So baby cannot you see you must do something for me. Something for me. I will never sleep...  Their lead singer was Clyde McPhatter who'd sneaked out of his gospel group to try his luck at amateur night at Harlem's famed Apollo Theater where Ward may have seen him. McPhatter was only 17 when he recorded Do Something For Me although he turned 18 the next day. But the group's first smash had a different lead vocalist their bass singer Bill Brown.    Sixtyminute man sixtyminute man. Look a here girls I am telling you now they call me loving Dan. I will rock them roll them all night long. I am a sixtyminute man. If you do not believe I am all I say come up and take my hand. When I let you go you will cry oh yes he is a sixtyminute man. There'll be 15 minutes of kissing...  Sixty Minute Man raced up the rhythm and blues charts and stayed there for a couple of months. It was also probably the first offcolor black hit to sell two white teenagers and it is worth noting loving Dan's reference to rocking and rolling. If Billy Ward is remembered for anything it is his strict rules for The Dominoes  not only fines for the usual showing up late messy clothes and so on but there would be no smoking or drinking and each member of the group was required to drink a glass of warm milk before bedtime. As a result the group changed personnel fairly regularly. So by the time of the next smash in 1952 there was at least one new member not however the lead singer.    Have mercy mercy baby. I know I have done you wrong. Have mercy mercy baby. I know I have done you wrong. Now my heart is full of sorrow so take me back where I belong. I have been good for nothing. I have lied and cheated too. I have been good for nothing. I have lied and cheated too. But I reaped it all my darling and I do not know what to do. So have mercy mercy baby.  Apparently people thought the group was Clyde McPhatters' because after Have Mercy Baby the records were by Billy Ward and His Dominoes. McPhatters' last hit with the group was one of the weirdest records ever and it is hard to imagine people listening to it over and over but they did.    There are four black horses with eyes of flaming red. There are roses tied in ribbons all around my baby's head. The bells are ringing and they say all go and see. Well I know why they are ringing. They are ringing out for me.  But soon after The Bells Atlantic Records' Ahmet Ertegun went to see Billy Ward and the Dominoes at Birdland and McPhatter was not there. Ertegun went backstage and asked Ward why? And Ward growled that he would fired him. Ertegun lost no time taking a cab to Harlem and soon McPhatter had another group The Drifters on Atlantic. His replacement Jackie Wilson was a teenager from Detroit who'd been an amateur boxer whose mother begged Ward to take him into the group to get him out of Detroit. With an almost entirely new group of Dominoes Ward went back into the studio with the new lead singer and hit the top 10 right away.    Oh you cannot keep a good man down. No you cannot keep a good man down. You can beat him mistreat him 'till he bawls . No you cannot keep a good man down.  It was at this point that Ward and Marks came up with the idea of covering white pop records the first of which was their version of Tony Bennett's hit Rags To Riches. In 1954 Ward decided King was not promoting him enough and unilaterally signed with Jubilee Records. King took him to court and got the group back and their first record under the new contract was a weak sequel to Sixty Minute Man with new bass singer Cliff Givens called Cannot Do Sixty Anymore. Neither could The Dominoes despite a flood of covers pop songs and occasional novelties. In 1956 they signed with Decca and started spending more time in the lounge of the Sahara hotel in Las Vegas where Elvis went to a show and was knocked out by Jackie Wilson's vocal on Do not Be Cruel. Early the next year Billy Ward fired Jackie Wilson who went back to Detroit where a young songwriter named Berry Gordy started writing him hits for his solo career. Ward took what work he could get and with the group doing polite pop material it was always there as were labels to record The Dominoes but nobody remained a Domino for long. They made their last records in 1965 and Billy Ward died in Los Angeles in 2002.  Rock historian Ed Ward played music from twoCD set Billy Ward and His Dominoes The Complete Federal/King Singles. On Monday's show Dr. Theodora Ross an oncologist and cancer geneticist tells us about her own cancer diagnosis and the search to understand the source of her family's genetic predisposition to cancer. Her new book is A Cancer in The Family. Also Gillian Jacobs and Paul Rust the costars of the Netflix series Love which Rust cocreated with Judd Apatow. Hope you can join us. 