 You know the fantasy in the club is that you are a big baller and you have such a great life. And your lifestyle is great. And the reality is these guys are just as broken as us you know? This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  Every man wants to put the dollar in your G-string. And that is not allowed no more. I called up Jessica Barrera at home in El Paso Texas where she lives with her husband and young son. Shes 24 and works at a topless bar called the Red Parrot.  I know a lot of girls in the industry like to say I am a dancer or I am an exotic dancer but for me I just come out and I am like Oh Im a stripper.  Jessicas been doing this work for the past six years since she was 18. But she told me her job looks very different today than it did before. Everyone who comes to the club has to get their temperature taken wear a mask and stay spaced apart.  We have these buckets at the end of the stage where if they want to tip you they can either put it physically on the stage or they can put it in the bucket. But theres no way they can physically touch you whatsoever. And sometimes the guys just want to feel your skin you know? Or be able to put it in your bra or you - you know do that little move where you pull out your G-string and you look at them and they are like Oh my God but you do not get that anymore. The interaction's not there.  So you are dancing in a different way then I imagine.  Yes.  If that way of interacting with the people watching you is not the same. Are you making eyes in a different way since that is what is visible?  That is my thing now. I am shooting eye contact to everybody in the club.   El Paso has been hit hard by COVID. Last fall El Paso County was topping 1000 new cases per day. More than 2100 people there have died. The Red Parrot like all other non-essential businesses in El Paso was shut down for several months last year. They closed last spring then reopened then had to close two more times. But since November the Red Parrots been open. COVID is keeping away a lot of customers. But its still a destination for some. Like Josh a 32-year-old commercial truck driver.  I see a whole lot of desert. I mean I am on the I-40. It is a lot of scrub desert. Josh talked to me from his bluetooth headset while he was behind the wheel of his semi somewhere outside of Albuquerque. He spends a lot of time on the road. About 60 hours a week.  I think I am delivering asphalt right now. I am not entirely sure. I got big bags of stuff in the back of my trailer. But like I have done copper wire back I do... The route Josh drives most often is between Los Angeles and Dallas a 21-or-so-hour trip mostly down I-10. It takes him right through El Paso where he usually takes exit 37 off the highway and parks at the truck stop next to the Red Parrot.  Before ally on weekends there was usually a crowd.  A lot of drinks being served people just having a good time spending money enjoying themselves totally to the max you know? Darius Belcher is the owner of the Red Parrot. Hes been running the club since 2003.  We were known or we are known still for bringing in the adult stars. So we have had any adult star you could name of come to our club and perform.  And like I imagine just like dollar bills flying through the air.  Yeah yeah yeah. Big-time dollar bills flying. Our clientele is more or less a little bit of the older crowd. So we might not have as many dollar bills flying around but we have a lot of credit cards flying around.  Mmhm. Like on a busy night these days how many customers do you have?  Probably 25 maybe 30 at the most. That is all day long. Where before the pandemic we would average maybe 100 maybe 120. Same thing with entertainers. Now before we would have 40 50 girls here 60 sometimes. Now we only have the most we have had is 15. Until this week Darius was only allowed to operate at 50 percent capacity but he says they were rarely that busy. Now the state of Texas is lifting state-wide restrictions on businesses and the state-wide mask mandate too. But Darius told me hes keeping safety precautions in his club masks hand sanitizer and for now no lap dances. Customers like Josh are used to it.  I go for the company. I do not go you know for sexual gratification. I mean yes that is a nice part of being at a strip club. Like it is - I am not going to lie I am a guy but it is not the main reason why I go. I am alone 60 hours a week with bare minimum human contact. Is it something that I miss? Yeah. Is it something that I am going to stop going to a strip club because I do not get anymore? No. Because I go for the human interaction mostly.  And for you whats more fun about a strip club than just going to a neighborhood bar?  Mostly I know everybody at The Red Parrot. I know the bouncers I know the bartenders I know the girls. I am a social butterfly. I have never had a problem talking to strangers. And in fact I actually have a problem talking to strangers in the sense that I talk to strangers all the time. So like I would I would like bounce around all night. Even go sit at other peoples tables and have a conversation with people. The main thing that I have noticed is that it is a little tamer. Not necessarily like that it was wild before but instead of having a group of friends hanging out at a table it is maybe one or two people.  Yeah that sounds like it must have a really different vibe inside. Like there is people talking and connecting but not in the same like raucous everybody's on a night out together kind of way.  Yeah. What was a party is now a library.   As you might imagine...bringing in tips is a little easier at a party than in a library.  Pre-is is the absolute top dollar amount I worked a double but I made 1800. The least I have been walking out right now with ke 50 bucks. And sometimes it is nothing that I am doing wrong or anybody's doing wrong just there is nobody at the club. So you cannot really make money there is no one to get money from. Like most strippers Jessicawho goes by Violet at the clubworks as an independent contractor. The money she makes on the floor is all that she brings home at the end of the night minus a pole fee she has to pay to the club25 to 50 dollars depending on what time she dances on stage.  I think 55 is the highest and that is like around 10.  When you are getting ready for a shift how do you prepare?  I shave everything always. If you are a stripper your best friend is a razor.  Like you do not have any body hair?  No besides the one on my head and my eyebrows. And then I just basically get to work and I have to change into my outfit. My outfit is a two-piece. Black fishnet stockings. Black Pleaser eight-inch heels.  Pleasers? What is that mean?  Thats the company that makes these super heavy-duty heels that - its a stripper shoe.  Its incredible to me theyre called Pleasers. Whoa.   So cute right? So my hair I kind of just let it do its own thing because when I am on stage I do like these little like hair flicks. Like . I am always the thing is I always make sure to just catch the attention like boom and then hold for just a quick second and then let it go you know? I feel like I have just been dancing so long. I kind of just already know like how to get that attention. I get that attention by my song choices. Right now my favorite song to dance to is Red Light Green Light. Its by Duke Dumont. Thats my show stopper and there is a little part that is like When I say red light I want you to stop. When I say green light I want you to go. Then there is a little part that says Hit the strobes and the strobes come on. And no matter what you are doing you are going to turn and look at me.   I want you to understand a little bit about just how the - what is communicated with words and what is communicated in an unspoken way when it comes to the money transactions? And I wonder how that is changed during COVID? Like when you move off the stage in a pre-COVID world where you were able to touch where there were lap dances like was it up to you to sort of make those sales?  Yes but at the same time there is kind of there is already a set price. For every song it is 20 a song is three minutes. For every song that you dance it is a 20 dance. So right now that we are not doing dances - luckily for me I have always had my customers. And my customers are more talkers. I like to think of myself as a therapist. You know? Like they know I have a baby they know I am married they know almost everything. They are not really into the bump and grind type of thing. So right now with ll affects me because a lot of my money I would make off dancing or playing pool because we have pool tables at work - I am actually an excellent pool player. But it is just different now because how do you tell a guy Hey give me 20 for sitting here for an hour you know? Because they are just going to tell you Well you did not have to sit here.  So you like you will sit and you are visiting with them but it is up to them choosing to give you a big tip. It is not a set price way in the way that it was pre-COVID to get to spend time with you.  Yes. Pre-COVID I would sit down chat a little maybe get a shot or drink or something and then I would tell him Oh would you like some dances? Oh ok so at least you can kind of calculate your money there. It is funny because pre-COVID I actually have all my customers programmed in my phone as dollar amounts.   Tell me what that means. Like their typical tip or like -  Men are creatures of habit. So.  It is so funny to say but I have customers who give me 200 or would get 200 worth of dances and that is what they would get. I have customers in my phone under 400 meaning they always get 400 worth of dances from me and not to mention if they get dances from anybody else but I know who is who luckily you know? Josh is one of Jessica's regulars. He will often text her as he is rolling into town to see if she will be at the club. Jessica told me she is got him saved in her phone as 200.  I go in with a budget.  So you know you know when you show up how much money you are planning to spend?  Yes I do not spend more than 400. 200 on dances and 200 on alcohol.  What do you usually drink at the Red Parrot?  Honestly Jger and sugar-free Red Bull. It is the only thing that I can drink to my heart's content and not wake up with a hangover.  Wow that does not give you a hangover? That is impressive.  Uh I do not know why.  And now I am curious how you think about it like the money for the dancers. Because you cannot do lap dances. Like have you had to rethink how you do tips and what you pay them for?  Yeah well I mean like either way you are taking up somebody's time that they are at work where they are expected to earn money. You have to compensate them for that. Prior to d compensate them by buying dances you know for just their time you know? Now it is like tipping more on stage you know? If they need to make a certain amount of money I try to help out where I can. Like it comes down to if you are going to hang out with me all night you are losing the opportunity to go make money at another table.  Yeah I mean is that has that felt a little like awkward that there is - because there is more of a system when they are selling dances for their time.  I mean not really because like I said a lot of these people are my friends. So you know I would not want to see them in a bad financial way. I mean it is not like - and they do not push the issue. They are not pushy with that. Like they are not saying Oh you owe me this this and this for hanging out with you all night. No one's ever done that.  Mmhm. Do you ever say I have got 200 set aside to tip you tonight?  Oh always! I make it very clear.  You say it at the start? Like so they know -  Yeah it is just being upfront like Hey this is what I have. I can only spend this much money. And if you need to go and make more than the said amount let me know. I am usually fine with them - like 'ecause I can understand that this is a job. If you need to make a certain amount of money for the day to be right with your bills and whatnot like go do that.  I always tell my customers If you are not my man you have no reason to get jealous. So luckily my customers sometimes I get annoyed sitting there for so long or I just need to go do something new. I will be like Okay I will be back. I am going to go make money. They are always like Okay girl you go make that money.  So I want to understand when the first shutdown happened when the pandemic began and the Red Parrot closed what did you do when you lost that income?  So once the pandemic hit I still was not working. I had just had my baby and I wanted to be home. So I had left the club for a long time.  And so did you have any income when you were a new mom when your baby had just arrived?  My husband's always worked. So we have both always had jobs. He has a pretty good job.  But you had no like um paid leave or anything for you?  For myself no.  So when did you first go back to work?  I went back to work when the club reopened. I was like This is my shot. I am going back. You know at first I was very paranoid because of the pandemic. But with how strict my work is on t that worried anymore.  Was there a part of you that was like I am not sure this is worth it. I can just wait this out a little longer.  Um I would say that yes. You know? Because you never know the thing about COVID is you can test positive and basically what we are all relying on is for people to have a conscience and say Hey I am not going to go out even though I feel fine. Because I have COVID. But unfortunately there are some people who do not care. So you know you never know that the guy you are sitting next to got a positive COVID result and just feels fine.  Yeah. When you said when you had the thought Now's my shot I need to go back how much of it was I need to go back and be earning some money?  It is funny because I think everybody always thinks like Oh you are in it for the money. I needed to go back for myself. Ugh I was...I have always since the age of 15 I have always worked always worked for myself. That is what was embedded in my mind work and survive work and survive work and survive. And I now that I have this baby and everything I feel like a lot of myself was lost. And when work opened back up I was like This is my shot. My job really is my confidence. And I was like I am going back to the club. I do not care. I do not care if I am a little bit bigger now. I do not care if I look different and I actually changed my name. I used to go by London I came back to the club I was like It is Violet bitches.   Wait tell me that why were you like the old name does not fit anymore. I need a new name?  Okay so London did these gorgeous pole tricks. I would go to the very top very very top of the pole and then I would grab onto the pole and I would walk down. I would like glide down. Now Violet on the other hand Violet just kind of rolls around on the ground.   That is what she does.  I love that as like somebody who is gone through pregnancy and then how your body changes. I have a new name and I am rolling around. I am not getting up on the top of the pole anymore.   You know? I do not have insurance I cannot be risking the biscuit. Coming up...  Right now we are just piecing everything we can together. I talk more with Darius the owner of the Red Parrot who is frustrated by the lack of government help when he deals with a lot of government oversight.  We have I would call them wellness checks by the sheriffs that come in here. It is not like they come here and say Oh no you cannot do that you are shut down. No they come in here they do their check and they leave. They have been doing that for 20 22 27 years.  Wait do they call them wellness checks? That is a funny term to think about those....  I call them - no no I call them that. I call them that.   And that is the check to be like They are not doing anything they are not supposed to be doing in here right?  Yeah. It sounds ten times better instead of me saying Oh man we got raided last night.    This year compared to a year ago theres been a big jump in the number of mothers of school-age children who dont work outside the home. 1.4 million more mothers according to the Census. The podcast The Double Shift is looking at the disproportionate effect of the pandemic on working mothers in a new series launching today. The first episode features a woman named Jenna in Oxford Mississippi a single mother of two who describes leaving her waitressing job last year and having to ask friends and family for money. Jenna The past few times I have needed help I like go through well I have already asked that person for money and I have already asked that person and you are thinking like who else can I ask that I am close enough with to be that vulnerable? One of the hosts of The Double Shift Katherine Goldstein put us in touch with Jenna. Jenna told me about a restaurant worker friend who lent her money last year and then months later asked Jenna for some help in return.  And she was like I hope you know having to ask for help is harder for me than it is for me to pronounce the word Worcestershire you know? And she was like I still do not know how to say that word. It just became this sort of shorthand like if one of us needed the other - whether it was financial or you know emotional it was the kind of like Code red I need you!  I love that! And you did not have to say it you could just text it.  Right. And I think it is because like you know both of us are very stubbornly independent people who really hate asking for help. And so it is - it really spared us both that like I said that taxing moment of having to explain what is going on this time. Whether you are a mom who is left the workforce or just someone whose financial situation has shifted in the past year we want to hear from you. If you have asked friends or family for money how did it affect your relationship? Was it awkward? Did you come up with a shorthand? And if you are someone who has lent money we want to hear about that too. Tell us about it. You can send us an email or record a voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And make sure you go listen to the entire Double Shift episode about Jenna's story. It is really good. There is a link in our show notes. On the next episode our producer Yasmeen Khan checks in with Donna Perry a mother and business owner from Brooklyn who she first interviewed in March 2020. In the last year Donna contracted COVID and recovered. But she lost her best friend and more than a dozen members of her church to the virus.  Am I angry about COVID? Yes. But in addition to that anger I also feel a sense of hope. COVID allowed me to appreciate time and not take time for granted. I heard Les Brown say one day that procrastination is the arrogance in believing that God has to give you another day so I am really starting to believe that.  This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. Darius Belcher the owner of the Red Parrot knows that even in non-COVID times the potential customer base for his strip club has its limits.  In this business one thing you do understand you are only going to get a third of the community no matter what.  A third is an interesting - why a third not half not quarter a third? One and three you got a shot.  One in three because you got the guy that is in a relationship with his girlfriend that says Oh heck no you are not going to that place babe. And then you have the religious part of the world you know? That want to you know wanna Ban them. Get them away get them away. And the other third belongs to me. I am sorry.  The Red Parrot is a family-run business. Darius's brother Kevin opened the club in the mid-'90s after a short career in the NFL. And until recently Darius's mom did their accounting. Darius took over the club after his brother died in 2003.  Growing up my brother was my idol. I did not have to turn to Magic Johnson Larry Bird Michael Jordan to see like Wow you know these are my idols. My brother was my idol. So when my brother was good in high school what did I want to do? I wanted to be a high school football player. My brother was good in college I wanted to do the same. So the bond that me and my brother had was just unbelievable. And for me to have the opportunity when he was sick and he was like Look man I want you to keep this legacy alive. And that - that was like a welcome burden put on my back because I knew it was something I can do. So it hurts me to be in a position that we are in right now to know that any day you know the way things are that it could be our last day. Not by any fault of what I have done. Not because I have mismanaged money not because I have got 17 strippers pregnant you know?  Not for any of those things. The reason why we are in the position we are in right now is because of our government. He blames the government not the pandemic more generally because Darius feels like he is been unfairly left out of government aid programs. Businesses of a prurient sexual nature have longed been deemed ineligible for federal business loans and grants. And that extends to pandemic aid like the PPP - the Paycheck Protection Program. Darius found this out last spring when he went online to apply for help.  I got on their websites. Plain as day got ready to fill out the application. As soon as I got on there they say Business ineligible. Adult entertainment. So why even begin to fill out an application when they are already telling me ahead of time I am going to get denied?  So I just want to understand like you are running a legal business. You are running a business that is paying taxes and employing people. Have you ever run into any rules before that say you are not eligible for this program or this government support because of the nature of your business?  Oh my goodness. The last part you said The nature of your business. We have tried to get all kinds of loans pre-pandemic and we were denied as well then. You know we are always told that we were not able to get loans because again the nature of our business. As you said I pay all kinds of taxes. We have articles of incorporation that says that we are a legal corporation. You know? So it is not like we do not run....we run a very good business. And what it has done is it is handicapped to me. I still have a mortgage or a lease the pay I still have electric bills to pay during all this pandemic. They have occurred the cost occurred and my lights has been on thank God. My electric bill at this point is probably about 4000 or 5000. My cable bill at this point is probably about 7000. What I owe my owner is probably about 60000 or 70000.  The property owner your landlord.  Yes madam Yes madam. You know and all those things at some point everybody's going to want to cash in you know? Nobody is even caring about whether you got any assistance or not and I will tell them Hey look I did not even get any assistance. Well I am sorry sir. We have to go ahead with our procedures. It is just very frustrating. In the past year a few strip club owners across the country have filed lawsuits in federal court fighting their ineligibility for government pandemic aid. Judges have sided with a handful of business owners but the federal rules still stand.  It is been tough. It is been very difficult. You know on a Friday I used to do maybe 3000 4000 5000. Now I am barely doing 1000. You know it hurts. It is painful. It is depressing. I try to walk around try to keep a happy face try to encourage my - the employees I have working and the entertainers I have the customers. They all Oh man how are you doing? You going to stay open? You know in the back of my heart it hurts because sometimes I want to say Gosh man I just do not know. But I cannot tell them that. Oh yeah we are going to make it man. We are going to be all right. We are going to be all right. Sometimes I just want to pull the mask off and relate my real feelings about how I feel. Darius says he used to employ 25 staff people at the Red Parrot. Bartenders bouncers waitresses in addition to the dancers who worked for him as contractors. He told me all but four of his staff have left to find more stable work elsewhere. Jessica told me that some of the dancers she used to work with have turned to sex work on sites like OnlyFans to make up for the lost income.  I just do not think I would be able to do it. Like I have worked at nude clubs and I left soon after because I am just not comfortable you know showing the whole enchilada. That is me personally. I do not know. You know the way I think about it is I am a mom and I am a wife. Because at that point like it is a lot more sexual for me. At the club it is more of a fantasy. Like it is a big tease but I feel like OnlyFans and cam girling you know you are actually being sexual and I think that is the part that turns me off about the idea.  If the Red Parrot went away what would you do?   I think at that point I would just have to transform from my beautiful unicorn figure and become a regular person a nine to fiver. That is the reality I do not want to hit because I genuinely enjoy my job. I love being a dancer. It is my favorite thing to do. And I do not want to become a regular person.  Why not dance at a different club?  I have tried every single club here in El Paso and although they are good the Red Parrot's my home. You know they take care of us. Other clubs they see us like I see my customers dollar signs. And they do not care about your wellbeing. At least at the Red Parrot they kinda coddle you you know? They feed you they make sure you are okay. If I fall they pick me up. It is just little things where - I have been a dancer for so long I have realized that it is the little things that count in a club. I could not imagine going and dancing anywhere else.  Have you thought about what it would be like if the Red Parrot closed for you?  I lived it for like four months. It was boring as all hell. Like it breaks up my week it gives me a chance during the week while I am working to relax and when it was closed I was stressed because I had no decompression it was work work work work work work work. And you know what is the point of making all that money if you are miserable? I am not married I do not have kids both my parents are deceased. I live with my sister and she works as much as I do. So I am not going to go to an empty house because that is even more depressing than staying in the truck. Actually I have only been home about eight days in the last 10 months.  You just spend your time off out on the road?  Well I mean we have a truck yard so I will go to my truck yard and we have showers and stuff there. A lot of the times I will do like you know I will clean the truck up I will get things ready for the next week and go back out again. That is what I am saying is is when the club was closed that was my life was driving all week with nothing to do in between. Go back to the truck yard and do it all again with no human interaction whatsoever.  You said you felt yourself feeling stressed like for you did it make that much alone time begin to feel less tolerable?  What I tell people is about truck driving you got to be fine with being by yourself. And for the most part I am. However during that couple of weeks where nothing was open it felt I had not had a day off in a very very very long time. Because even though I am only there for a few hours that is my day off. Even if I got to work the next morning even if I am only there for a couple of hours that is my time off and that is what I have considered my time off. It is when I am around friends being able to hang out and drink and have fun with people I know. And when the club was closed it just felt like I was going crazy.  They are very very good loyal customers the truckers. And for them we are the only stability. You get me? You know like I say I like to refer myself as a therapist who strips.  And I have never noticed it until now but a lot of these gentlemen just a lot of them have a lot of things going on and I feel like I have gotten to know them a little bit better right now since COVID because the strip club is this big facade of beautiful woman wealthy guy kind of duo you know? The gentlemen in these clubs they are never telling you any details about them struggling or them having a hard time. And with ust realized they are just like us. Like they are you know? They are not dollar amounts they are people. They are people that have things going on in their lives just like us. That is Jessica Barrera a.k.a. Violet. When we checked in with Jessica recently she told us that Josh the truck driver is no longer saved as a dollar amount in her phone. She wrote in an email He moved up to his name saved in my phone as Josh because he sent me money to pay my electric bill. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Katie Bishop. The rest of our team includes Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein Yasmeen Khan and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Emily Tafur. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Twitter annasale. The show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. And wherever you listen to our show please subscribe so you never miss an episode. Thank you to Brooke Smith in Kansas City Missouri who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Brooke and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. For now the Red Parrot is still open. Josh told me he expects to be heading there soon and when he pulls off the I-10 for that rare night off they will welcome him in like all their regulars by his nickname.  It is called cousband.  Wait cous-band like half-cousin half husband?  Yeah so there is another dancer and we are both white and very white at that. And I guess it came down to Oh look you guys look alike and you are both Caucasian you must be related. ... It was a weird nickname and yeah that is how it came about.  I got to say that is a good nickname cousband.  Ehhh. Sometimes. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.