 This Sunday the AMC cable network presents its new TV series a crime drama called The Killing. It is based on a 2007 miniseries from Denmark and tells the story of the murder of a young girl from three alternating perspectives  the family of the victim the police investigating the crime and a local politician who is a person of interest in the investigation. Our TV critic David Bianculli has this review.  In literature and in TV and movies some of the world's bestknown recent crime series have come from Scandinavian countries. Sweden has given us mopey police inspector Kurt Wallander and even more famously The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. There is even a name for this genre now  critics are calling it Nordic noir  and this weekend AMC throws its hat into this global ring of gloom doom and depressing murder mysteries by presenting The Killing a new adaptation of a fouryearold miniseries hit from Denmark. This Americanized version is set in Seattle and the cloud cover and oppressive rainfall count as important minor characters. And while the inspiration for this series comes from Denmark the unusual structure and tone of The Killing can be traced to a few groundbreaking American TV series 24 Murder One The XFiles Twin Peaks. And if you cannot imagine what those four shows could possibly have in common well here we go. Murder One was Steven Bochco's landmark 1995 TV series  more of a miniseries really  which took an entire season to solve a single murder and take that case to trial. That is the patient approach that The Killing takes as well. The entire season is about a single murder  of a high school girl  and how two cops work to solve it. Like 24 each episode dramatizes a finite period in the story. With 24 it was real time Each hour of TV represented an hour in Jack Bauer's very bad 24hour day. But in The Killing things are a bit more condensed. Each hour of TV time represents a day in the investigation. Like Twin Peaks it is a show set in the Pacific Northwest which begins with the murder of a local girl and dwells on her parents' painful shocked grief. The music the imagery  even some of the plot details will remind you of that famous series but there is none of David Lynch's metaphysical whimsy to lighten things. This series is dark dark dark just like the Seattle sky. Actually it is the Vancouver sky standing in for Seattle but you get the idea. Finally like The XFiles The Killing pairs two very dissimilar investigators who come with different styles and perspectives. Sarah Linden played by Mireille Enos is the lead detective on the case even though it is supposed to be her last day on the force before taking a leave to get married. Stephen Holder played by Swedish actor Joel Kinnaman is supposed to be her replacement  but as they work together their styles often clash. Here they are meeting with the parents of the slain girl. The parents are played by Michelle Forbes and Brent Sexton. Sarah the female detective speaks first. But when her new colleague eventually chimes in all she does is shoot him an annoyed stare.  Ms.   I appreciate you keeping this just to family for now. The first 48 hours are the most important. Ms.    Rosie home? Ms.   Soon. We will have a unit over at your house later to go to your daughter's room. Mr.   I just want to know if she was into politics. Ms.   We are looking at every angle. You should get home. Get some rest. I am sorry for your loss Mrs. Larsen Mr. Larsen. Mr.   Will you find who did this? Ms.   We will do our best. Mr.   Will you find who did this? Mr.   Yeah.  The Killing is intentionally slow and does not provide any of the usual staples of the genre as highoctane relief. No gun battles no car chases  just cops doing their duty politicians looking for ways to spin things to their advantage and parents facing their worst fears. There is one scene in which the parents are called in to identify the body of their daughter where their individual reactions are nonverbal unconnected and emotionally scalding. The husband and wife do not even hold or look at each other. In that awful moment they are hit by their own individual grief. It is astoundingly good acting  but like so much of The Killing it is tough to watch. But it deserves to be seen  and the persistence of these detectives is a little reminiscent of Columbo where their unassuming unorthodox approach ends up unearthing certain hidden clues and at the same time getting us to root for them strongly along the way. The Killing is AMC's most depressing series yet  and this is from a network that has given us apocalyptic zombies and a terminally ill crystal meth manufacturer. But just as I came to love and recommend The Walking Dead and Breaking Bad I am doing it again with The Killing. Just do not tune in for a USA Networktype lighthearted romp or you will be sorely disappointed.  David Bianculli is founder and editor of TVWorthWatching.com and he teaches TV and film history at Rowan University in New Jersey. The Killing premieres Sunday on AMC. You can download podcasts of our show on our website freshair.npr.org. 