 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. We are going to talk about being the parent of two schizophrenic sons. Schizophrenia is a chronic and incurable disease of the brain. Symptoms often do not emerge until the teenage years. That was true for my guest Ron Powers' son Kevin. His struggles with schizophrenia began at age 17. In 2005 just before his 21st birthday Kevin hanged himself in the family's basement. A few years later Powers's older son Dean started experiencing symptoms of schizophrenia and had a psychotic break. Powers says Dean is staying on his meds and doing well. Ron Powers has written a new book called No One Cares About Crazy People. That is a memoir about his sons. It is also a history of how the mentally ill have been treated medically legally and socially. If Ron Powers' name is familiar to you it is probably because he is the former media commentator for CBS Sunday Morning and author of a bestselling biography of Mark Twain and the bestseller Flags Of Our Fathers which was adapted into a film by Clint Eastwood. He lives with his wife Honoree and their son Dean. Ron Powers welcome back to FRESH AIR. It is been a long time since we spoke. It is good to have you back.  Thank you Terry.  Let us start by talking about your youngest son Kevin who took his life. What were his first symptoms looking back now?  Well looking back we probably did not detect the first symptoms Terry because it is gradual. And  and you can mistake erratic behavior for adolescent clowning around or a lot of other things. But the first awareness that we had that something was wrong with Kevin who at that time was about 17 years old and he was enrolled at the Berklee school of music in Boston  he was a guitar prodigy  the phone rang at 4 of the clock in the morning one autumn day. Kevin was on the line to tell us that he had been selected to go on a musical tour of Russia along with the director of the Berklee school. Believe it or not no red flags went up right away for the reason that Kevin was a phenomenal musician. But as we talked his voice changed. And then we started to realize that he was not listening to us. And then we realized that we were talking into an empty line. Kevin had hung up. So we started to decide what to do and how to track him down. I think he called us back and said he would boarded a bus a Greyhound bus to travel crosscountry to Los Angeles from Boston and get a job as a rock star. Kevin is not like that. He  he was not flighty. He was  he was a very rational kid. And at that point we looked at each other. And then we said let us get going. We jumped in the car drove to Albany where the bus was going to pause to intercept him. The bus arrived. Kevin was not on it. We learned that he had had a sort of  an eruption on board the bus was restrained and taken off and let off the bus at a previous station. The upshot is we spent a long day that ended with finding Kevin in a hospital sedated. And the doctor the attending doctor thought what doctors often think. Maybe he is had a drug overdose. We were horrified. But of course we were  that was nothing compared to the horrors that came later. We got him home and his odyssey into schizophrenia continued from there.  Were there any clues before that?  Not that we recognized. In retrospect and after a lot of reading on the subject we realized that the symptoms of schizophrenia are often linked to creative talent that the  that psychiatrists have noticed that the same impulses that enable creativity which was crossing categorical boundaries and looking for new  new solutions and new concepts are the same tendencies that feed schizophrenia. And from this certain writers have decided that  or theorized that schizophrenia is not unnatural to the human brain. It is  all of us share the tendencies. In some of us it leads to creative gifts. In some of us it leads to madness. The symptoms  I guess what I want to say by his rapid rise as a guitar player I think in retrospect that was a symptom. He  he was so preternaturally good at it. And he devoted so much time to it that it was maybe a way of dealing with the onset of his disease.  So both your sons started to manifest the symptoms of schizophrenia when they were in their teens. And from what I understand that is the typical time when schizophrenia starts to express itself. What is the connection between that period of life and the onset of schizophrenia?  It has to do with the maturation of the brain. And in order to mature in order to start functioning as an adult brain the brain must undergo a period of what is called synaptic pruning really a cleansing away of all of the neurons all of the  all of the connective material that has built up since infancy that is no longer useful. And it is quickly replaced. But there is a period of sort of vacancy almost in which the brain is very vulnerable to any kind of disruption. It is unprotected. And this is the period of life roughly clustered around the age of 17 when the disease can make its appearance.  Stress was also an issue for Kevin. And you reprint some of the letters and emails that he wrote. And he wrote you that the last  the last thing I want to do is move into my first Berklee year with the stress that is eating me alive.  Yes.  What was some of the stress that he felt was  was killing him?  I first want to say Terry that Kevin was not a typically stressedout kid before this hit him. I think that the stress came as he started to deal with the realization that his mind was changing. Kevin  one of the saddest things I can remember about him  saying about him describing his turmoils inside his head was that he was having racist thoughts. But at the same time as he was having these thoughts he was appalled at having racist thoughts. It was like he was watching his mind as it began to deteriorate. So the stress he talked about in that email came about from what he perceived as a loss of friendship with his fellow musician. And I think he was probably hallucinating or exaggerating the loss of friendship. This would be paranoia. And from that point the symptoms deepened into other things.  You know I am thinking you like  you had two sons with schizophrenia. One of them took his life. The other's around  in his mid30s now? And...  Yes.  ...And has had psychotic breaks but is  seems to be stable now. Do you know of any other parents who have had two children with schizophrenia?  We do not know of them personally but we know that they exist. We also know that studies of twins have indicated that one twin can be afflicted with schizophrenia; the other twin can remain normal. The brain is so complex. The brain has something like 86 billion neurons floating around there and the interactions between these neurons are infinitely variable. So sometimes it happens and sometimes it does not happen. And scientists are still trying to be able to predict and quantify the reason. I think with our children each of them showed a distinct and classic entree into schizophrenia. For Kevin it was the fact that he was  he was an artist. He was an incredibly skilled musician. He had the brain capacity to make leaps of associations. He could compare one thing to another. He could not create music out of thin air as all musicians do. But that kind of capacity is often the same kind of capacity that triggers madness. And so the link between creativity and madness was certainly borne out in Kevin. Dean followed the other classic root. And that is an enormous traumatic stressful period in his midadolescence right at the time of the synaptic clearing that I was talking about earlier took place. So each of these young boys exhibited a different classic route into schizophrenia.  If you are just joining us my guest is Ron Powers who is a Pulitzer Prizewinning journalist and author. His new book is about his two sons both of whom were diagnosed with schizophrenia one of whom took his life. The book is called No One Cares About Crazy People. The book is also about the history of how mentally ill people have been treated. We are going to take a short break. Then we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. If you are just joining us my guest is journalist Ron Powers. His new book No One Cares About Crazy People is the story of his two sons who were both diagnosed with schizophrenia. One committed suicide. The book is also a history of how mentally ill people have been treated or mistreated medically and legally. Your younger son was the first to be diagnosed with schizophrenia. And then your older son Dean started experiencing symptoms. Dean had witnessed some of the things that happened to Kevin.  Yes.  So when Dean started exhibiting the symptoms of schizophrenia was it more frightening to him because he had seen what happened to his brother?  Well I do not think it was frightening Terry because each of  each of our sons was afflicted with this companion condition called anosognosia. And that is an inability to understand the self  a blockage of insight into what is happening. Many perhaps most schizophrenic victims deny that they are schizophrenic. And this has led to many important social and legal and ideological conflicts. But the denial that took place  with Kevin the symptoms occurred before he reached the age of 18 meaning he could be treated without his consent. He was a juvenile. And he was taken into care with custody without his consent. Dean was over the age and resisted treatment denied that he needed to be treated. And it was only after a series of psychotic breaks that he came around to the understanding that he needed help. And he was aided in this by a very perceptive psychiatrist in our home state of Vermont who used a kind of carrotandstick approach to Dean. Dean hated hospitals. He hated being penned up any place where he had to you know lie in a bed and let the hours pass. So the psychiatrist promised Dean that if he took a monthly injection of an antipsychotic called Haldol he probably would not have to go back to the hospital. And Dean consented to this and has been fairly stabilized since that happened. He is showing an upward arc of resocialization and happiness and responsiveness. Now another significant aspect to his injection was that Dean was  Dean is accountable to a clinician. He has to report. There is a record of him taking his meds. Kevin was taking oral medication only on his own consent. And we were not sophisticated enough to perceive that instead of taking the meds Kevin might be hiding the meds. And it was after he finally announced to us I am fine. I am healed. I am OK. I am not going to take my pills. Within a few months after that Kevin hanged himself in our basement.  What you are talking about here though is I think very common for people who are mentally ill. They do not recognize that they are sick. They do not take their drugs. They hate the side effects from the drugs.  Right.  And so they either hide them or they hide that they are not taking them. And they become more and more symptomatic. And it often ends in what you are describing with your son which is suicide. And so I am thinking about how hard it must have been for you as the father and for your wife as the mother of Kevin to know that he was away either at a boarding school for the arts because he was such a gifted musician or at Berklee school of music  again because he was following his dream and his talent. But you could not keep an eye on him  not that being able to keep an eye on him would have necessarily made sure that he took his medicine. There are so many ways of not taking your medicine even when you are living with family. I would like you to share some of how it felt for you to be a father knowing what your son was going through and knowing what you could do to help and knowing what you were helpless to change.  There is no greater state of helplessness Terry or feeling of helplessness than to watch a beloved son  in our case two beloved sons  deteriorate before our eyes not knowing what to do to bring them back. Honoree herself is temperamentally conditioned to fixing things. If something is wrong she will find a solution to it. She was a devoted mother and remains a devoted mother to Dean. For her to realize that nothing in her arsenal of remedies could possibly touch Kevin was crushing on a scale that I cannot even begin to describe to you. So helplessness is the worst thing  helplessness and hope. We hoped maybe Kevin would come to his senses enough to resume his medical treatment. But he did not.  What did you try to do to get help for Kevin when he did not acknowledge that he was sick enough to be hospitalized?  Schizophrenic people can be very clever Terry. They can  and I am not  I do not want to imply by this that Kevin was naturally devious. I think his main goal was to not only to deny that he was ill but to keep the evidence from us. And toward the end of his descent  when he really had descended to a level called schizoaffective disorder  which is a combination of schizophrenia inability to process reality and paranoia  when he got there I think he had developed certain skills to convince us that he was OK or that he was better off than he was. And pretending that he was still on his meds while hiding them in the basement was one of these devices that he used. So we were left without very many strategies of our own other than to trust in the counseling that he was getting and trust that he was taking the medications.  When Kevin was paranoid was he paranoid about you? And was he angry with you?  No. One of the blessings of this child was that he was a loving young man. He wrote us tender loving emails from Interlochen and thanked us again and again for supporting him and his music. So had he deteriorated further I cannot predict because he was no longer Kevin really. But we never felt that he was a threat to us or really to any living thing except as it turned out himself.  So you found him in the basement of your home after he would hanged himself. Was he living with you by then?  Well he was  yes he was living with us and commuting 30 miles to Castleton College where Honoree taught to play in a  you know to participate in the music program there. Yes he was living with us.  Had you seen that coming at all?  That is a good question because I do not  I did not think I saw it coming. But in about a sliver of an instant after I spotted Kevin hanging from the cord a very quick feeling came over me that could be condensed as yes  yes. And I guess that told me that subconsciously I might have seen it coming.  Did you feel like you could fathom the degree of pain that your son must have been in?  Oh Honoree and I have thought about that endlessly. He was hearing voices  we know that. We could watch him through the kitchen window as he walked out of the house and toward the hot tub that he loved to sit in. And we could see him climb into the hot tub and sit down  his profile was to us  and we could see him laugh. He would laugh. He would giggle. Was he in pain  well he was hearing voices. That is the point of the giggling. Something was talking to him. And I think because of that happy response we saw from him we told ourselves that he would made friends with the voices that the voices were beckoning him. They were coaxing him into their world and that he finally decided to join them. I do not know whether that is true or not. I will tell you that it got me through the first five years of trying to figure out where Kevin's mind had gone.  My guest is Ron Powers author of the new book No One Cares About Crazy People. We will talk more after a break. And rock historian Ed Ward will play some great Chuck Berry recordings and talk about what made Berry so important in the history of rock 'n' roll. Berry died Saturday. We will close this half hour with a solo guitar recording that Ron Powers' son Kevin made in high school. Kevin sent the recording to his parents. He is playing the Rodgers and Hart song My Romance. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with journalist Ron Powers author of the new book No One Cares About Crazy People. It is the story of his two schizophrenic sons. It also tells some of the history of how people with schizophrenia have been treated medically. Powers' younger son Kevin a gifted guitarist hanged himself in 2005 when he was 21 about three years after he would become symptomatic. After his death Powers' older son Dean started having symptoms of schizophrenia and had a psychotic break. Do you think that Kevin's death frightened your other son Dean and made him think at some point that he could do that too like after the systems of schizophrenia started expressing themselves do you think there was any point when he thought well my brother could do it I could do it too  well my brother did it therefore it is inevitable for me? Did he ever talk about thoughts like that?  No that is unknowable to me Terry. And to honor his well  I would describe Dean as the strong silent type. He is verbal. He is expressive. He does not like to share his interior thoughts with us. Kevin did not really. I do not think children do with their parents generally. But I never got the impression that he lived under fear that this would happen to him and that he would react in a way that would damage himself or us. And in a way he did not. So it is in the realm of the unknowable and that is one of the tragedies of being a relative of a schizophrenic person. There is so much that is and remains unknowable.  I want to pick up on something you wrote about Kevin. There was a period when Kevin was having racist thoughts and he found that very upsetting because as he told you he said I  you know I am not a racist but I am having these racist thoughts. And you thought that represented some kind of division within him and that the racism was an expression of his illness. And I have really  to be honest  often wondered if there is a certain kind of racism if there is a certain kind of extremism a certain kind of hatred that is an expression of a mental disorder that we sometimes see represented in hate groups in certain like far extremist political movements. Have you thought about that?  That is a very good question and yes I have thought about it. And I think you are onto something Terry. I think the rubric would be the fear of the other. We all pretty much select others that are not palatable to us or we create hierarchies of human worth in our minds. But the willingness to lay off blame and a sense of evil sense of unworthiness to any kind of group I think is probably  and I am not a psychiatrist  but I think it is a displacement of the fear that we have of what might be happening inside ourselves. Much of the racism the antiSemitism the antiMuslim feelings that we see expressed are completely without foundation and without any rational explanation. And although I would hesitate to ascribe mental illness to any individual I would not hesitate to say that a kind of collective psychosis or even a bunch of individuals psychoses can produce the kinds of divisions hatreds and even violence that we read about and see on television daily.  So one of the things you ran into as a parent was trying to get your sons institutionalized after psychotic breaks. And we talked a little bit about the difficulty of getting somebody institutionalized or you know hospitalized when they do not recognize their own sickness. And that inability to recognize their sickness is one of their symptoms. It is one of the symptoms of the sickness. So you know the laws that we have today where somebody needs to you know voluntarily be committed you cannot commit somebody against their will when they are of age. That is a result of the movement from the 1960s...  That is right.  ...Against forced institutionalization. And something really needed to change. I mean so many of the psychiatric hospitals were  they were hell holes.  Oh no question.  I mean people were being mistreated. They were just being drugged up in a way just to kind of quiet them. The facilities were in terrible shape. So you know you had a combination of factors of people thinking that the mentally ill were really just reaching a higher level of being. And then also you know people thinking these are hell holes. The people  you cannot keep people this way. And so you know places were deinstitutionalized. Do you want to talk a little bit about the institutionalization legislation?  Sure. A lot of things came together. You mentioned the 1960s Terry  and that was an absolutely pivotal decade that changed the climate and the course of how we deal with madness in this country. The advent of the socalled wonder drugs like Thorazine that were touted as cures for schizophrenia. They were not. At best they were cures for symptoms. But on the strength of Thorazine and its great consumer success and promise President Kennedy seeking to do the right thing signed legislation I think it was on Halloween Day 1963 not long before he was assassinated that authorized the emptying out of mental asylums and the transferring of their patients their inmates hopefully into community care centers that were going to be built around the country to receive them. Deinstitutionalization was a catastrophic social experiment one of the worst we have ever had. It ended up creating the homeless population that still plagues us today.  The mentally ill homeless.  The mentally ill homeless. The second terrible effect of deinstitutionalization was that many of the people never ended up in the community centers. The government ran out of money. They could not build enough to contain this outflow of patients so they ended up on the streets. And from the streets they ended up in prison many of them. Today our prisons are overflowing with the mentally ill. They are  prisons are our defacto mental hospitals.  Well I tell you what let us take a short break here and then we will talk some more. If you are just joining us my guest is journalist Ron Powers. His new book is called No One Cares About Crazy People. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is journalist Ron Powers. His new book No One Cares About Crazy People is the story of his two sons who were both diagnosed with schizophrenia. One of them committed suicide. The book is also a history of how mentally ill people have been treated or mistreated medically and legally. There is an observation you make about your son Dean your surviving son. He is among other things a songwriter and he wrote a lyric that he would sent you.  Yeah.  And the lyric was about how he had a man inside his head...  Yes.  ...And he disagrees with what the man said.  Yes.  And you emailed him back. That is as good as anything Dylan ever wrote. And then you wondered to yourself perhaps I should have asked myself what is that man doing inside his head? You know like maybe that was a symptom of schizophrenia. I assume this was early in the progression of his illness.  It was early in the progression. He never mentioned a voice again. When we asked Dean about it he would deny. And Dean is a truth teller. My sons were not liars except under when they slipped out of rational control of themselves. I do not think that Dean was beset by voices. On the other hand a man inside his head  it was a man inside his head. And in an ideal  with an ideal Ron an ideal daddy I would have seized upon that. But I did not.  But that is the thing. It is actually  it is a creative line. It is a nice lyric.  It is.  And I have a voice inside my head. It is the voice that is always kind of telling me that I did it wrong. I should have been better. We all have that voice in our head. So you know I relate to that line and it is not because I am mentally ill. And I am thinking it must have been hard for you sometimes to find that line between creativity and a nice metaphor and something that was actually literal and a symptom of his illness.  Yes. I have heard voices Terry not sustained voices telling  having conversations with me. And until you know  fairly recently it will take  maybe I am waking up in the morning. I am half asleep half awake and I think that I hear Honoree call me. And I realized right away that it was not. It was something I just heard. It is a flash. It is not ongoing but it happens. And what do you make of it? You know I could go on from here to say that given the general consensus that schizophrenia is passed along through families by genes. Both Honoree and I have had parents who exhibited strange traits. Both of Honoree's  both her mother and her father  her mother is an Irish immigrant  were hospitalized at various periods in their lives were what was then called nervous breakdowns. Neither of my parents was ever diagnosed but my father was a severe depressive and a very angry man. My mother as she aged grew paranoid so that leads me to question as I have how far along on the spectrum am I? I think  I would never deny that I am symptomfree but I have not  it has not gone to the  it has not reached the depths of selfdestruction that it has with the boys.  So you think there is a genetic explanation to the fact that you have two sons who had schizophrenia?  Well yeah in that it is  it is an inherit  it is an inherited trait. Most psychiatrists now believe. So it could not be anything but and if it was inherited who was the person who passes it along? It is father and mother. I will hasten to add that my wife Honoree whom I have described as a scientist is the most rational person I have ever ever met in my life. And I am lucky to have her as a husband and the boys were extraordinarily lucky to have her as a mother. I think she softened a lot of blows that they might have absorbed from this world in their condition.  So we talked about how your son Kevin took his life and you found him hanging in the basement. Your son Dean attempted to take his life and he was found in a lake with rocks in his pocket.  Right.  What stage was he then? I mean how serious a suicide attempt was that? Was he still conscious when he was found?  No. Well yes he was conscious. It was very shallow water. He was spotted almost as soon as he laid down in it by some campers and he was pulled out before any  I am not even sure it would have been possible for him to drown at that level. It might have been just a gesture. There are such things. Another time he sort of worried at his chest with a pocket knife. The blade collapsed but he did draw blood. I think he was very distressed very disoriented. That was the  around the point at which we were able to get him the care that he is now enjoying. So it is hard for me to say how serious those attempts were but it is easy to suspect or to believe that he was undergoing a tremendous amount of mental turmoil.  So you were able to get him better care then because he proved that he was a threat to himself?  Yes that is right.  So how is Dean doing now? He is in his mid30s.  Well he is in his mid30s. He is living with us. We have  in just recent weeks we have seen a real upswing in his mood and his responsiveness. There  you know there were peaks and valleys. And I do not even  almost do not want to say this on the air. I do not want to jinx him but about a week ago Dean bought himself a guitar. Dean had not really touched a musical instruments since Kevin died and we were resigned to the possibility that we would never hear music from him again. He has a guitar  bless his heart  whether he will play it how much he will play it is for the future to decide. Right now we are quietly reveling in the fact that Dean bought a guitar.  You write that you still dream of Kevin nearly every night...  Yes.  ...Kevin your son who took his life. What are those dreams like if you do not mind my asking? And what is his mental state when you dream of him?  You know before Kevin died I would have recurring dreams in which a family member  not my sons  maybe you know a family member was dead. And I would wake up and they were not dead. It was just a dream. The dreams I have had of Kevin were mirror images of that. In the dreams Kevin is alive. He is a small boy always 10 11 12 years old. We know he is a gifted guitar player but he stopped playing his guitar. And he will not start again. And the odd thing is that both Honoree and I have had this dream. It is  it might be a metaphor for his death  but he shows up almost every night as I say.  So when you dream of Kevin do you feel connected to him? Do you awake glad that you dreamed of him? Or are those dreams upsetting because as you say like he stops playing guitar and that is maybe a metaphor for his death?  That is an amazingly good question Terry. Oh God. I am glad to see him. In the dreams he is etched so perfectly  the reality of him the physical sharp focused reality of Kevin is overwhelming and all of his kindness and his goodness are there. So it was an ordeal of a book to write but not necessarily for the reasons you might think Terry. It was not  I anticipated that the worst part of it would be delving back into the lives of Dean and Kevin and remembering the past and how real and endearing they were. That turned out not to be so bad. I enjoyed revisiting them  the memories the emails the episodes the things  hearing their music. Sitting in an audience and listen  listening to Kevin and watching him take his guitar into his hands and listening to those notes fan out through the audience and through the ceiling and out into the stars was the happiest I have ever been. And I liked reliving those moments.  Well Ron Powers thank you so much for talking with us.  It is been my pleasure Terry.  Ron Powers' new book is called No One Cares About Crazy People. After a break we remember Chuck Berry and rock historian Ed Ward talks about what made Berry so important in the history of rock 'n' roll. This is FRESH AIR. 