 How old are you?  Five years - I am 5 and a quarter's half.   Do you know what the coronavirus is?  The coronavirus makes people sick.  Yeah. What is different right now? It is OK. Like have you gone to school in the past week?  No. I am too sad.  You are too sad.  Yeah.  Do you want to try doing this later?  Yeah.  You want to take a couple deep breaths real quick?  I am trying.  OK. It is OK.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. This episode we are hearing kids and their parents talk about what it is like in this age of coronavirus to be home all day long with no school.  Hi my name is Carrie Conrad . I live in Upper Marlboro Md. with my husband and my three kids. Our day lately - there is a lot of yelling. There is a lot of screaming from the other room. If I have to come in there...  Right when I think I have gotten to a sweet spot of OK I have got everyone working at the same time someone says all right. I am done. What is next?  There is not a whole lot clothing happening either but there is less laundry for me.  My wife and I are both teachers so I thought it would be a smooth transition where we could get all the work done in the morning and then have the afternoons to just hang out. But it is just been a process of trying to find a groove to set a schedule to get a routine going.  We will spend a little more time getting into a schedule.  Ow  ow ow ow ow ow.  Oh my gosh. What can I say about homeschooling other than it is horrible? They just do not seem to want to like get it or just have chill or just like be kind or normal or - are these my kids? Because literally two weeks ago they were different people. But now they are like the worst humans. I hate this so much. What is life? 2020 sucks.  Guys what do you think? Are we going to get through it?  No.  No?  Thanks to Samantha Braxton  Marcus Zamlica  Amy Stead  Carrie Conrad and my good friend and colleague Melissa Kipers  and her son Felix  for sharing. Thank you Felix. By the way Felix did end up feeling a bit better after a few minutes.  Whoa .  As you know a lot of parents right now are having to become teachers to their kids and most of them have no idea what they are doing. Some are trying to come up with the perfect color-coded schedule. Other parents are content with their kids having days that are totally unstructured because who has the time or the energy to teach them on top of doing their actual jobs? This episode we will hear from several parents trying all kinds of things to make it work like this mom.  I kind of feel like we are in the twilight zone. Like it is a little surreal.  That is Heidi Dresner. She lives in St. Louis.  I am actually a nurse but I took time off to raise my family and then got into carpentry. So I actually build furniture like farmhouse furniture - barn doors rustic tables things like that.  Wow. That is amazing.   Yeah.  You sound really interesting.  I know - a nurse and a carpenter right?  And on top of all that Heidi is a mom of three.  I have three children - a 10-year-old who is in fourth grade - so elementary. I have a 13-year-old girl and then I have my son who is 15 a sophomore in high school. So I have...  Heidi's kids have been home now for about two weeks but the homeschooling could go on for a while. All the schools in St. Louis County are closed through April 24 at least. Heidi told me when the kids got sent home from school she began with a plan but it did not quite turn out like she expected.  So I was one of those parents who made a schedule. Like it was all colorful. And it was like 9 oclock we are waking up and we are out of our pajamas. And from 11 to 30 we are going to do school and then lunch and literally had the whole day planned.  Oh my.  So the first day my kids thought I was absolutely nuts about the schedule.  Yeah .  And they were like this is never going to work. And I quickly realized that it was not going to work either. I totally like almost just ripped up the schedule after the first day .  After the first day - OK.  Yeah. Yeah.  And how much has that schedule changed from then to now like two weeks in?  You know the minute that I relaxed the schedule the kids actually became more self-sufficient. And what I found was they need structure but they also need time to laugh and to play and to reconnect with friends. And instead of saying that you know my fourth grader has to do a lesson on fractions we will cook. She is learning about a half cup of this and a quarter a cup of that. So we are just finding kind of alternate ways of learning and being really creative.  What is been the hardest moment so far? Was there one moment where everything was loud and crazy and you just said oh my goodness?  Yes. It just kind of hit everybody at once and everybody was yelling at everybody. And it was kind of like World War III.  OK.  The issue that set it off was we had said that you know everybody's bedroom is their own space. Well the argument was you are invading my space. I am asking you to leave. You are not listening to me. And that escalated to name-calling and fighting and screaming and yelling. And so I said everybody get in the car. And we got in the car and obviously we did not get out of the car. But we hopped in the car. We put on The Black Eyed Peas. We turned up the radio as loud as we could. And we sang and we danced. And it was just amazing. It was just what we all needed.  Oh my goodness. Which song?  Imma Be. What else? The - actually the album is called The E.N.D. which is kind of a bad pun right now.   The Black Eyed Peas saved the day.  Yes. Yes. Yes.  Your kids are there with you now. One of them is right next to you.  Yes. Actually two of them are right next to me right now. Yep.  OK. Can I say hi?  Yes you can. I will pass the phone to them. Here's Brady .  Hi Brady.  Hello.  How you doing?  I am doing good.  You sound like you are the high school student.  Yeah.  OK. How are things going?  They are going well - just doing my schoolwork pretty much.  What is been the hardest part of all this for you?  I am a big sports fan. So all the sports are canceled now and March Madness is canceled so it is probably the hardest part for me.  I bet. I bet. Is there another sibling right there with you?  Yeah my sister Tess . She is the 13-year-old.  Hello.  Hey Tess. This is Sam. How are you?  Good. How are you?  Pretty good. So Tess first question for you - how do you feel as a young person going through this? Are you sad? Are you scared? How weird is it? I ask this because I am 35. I am a grown-up and seriously like every day I have at least one moment of totally freaking out. Is it crazy like that for you in the same way as well?  Well I am not necessarily scared. I am just like worried for the people at risk in my family or people who I am close to like my dad. He has diabetes and he is at risk. But like honestly just going through day by day had just made me realize that it just made us all closer.  Yeah. You know speaking of that newfound closeness with your family have you learned some new things about your family in the last few weeks?  Oh yes. I have learned that we are all like - kind of get along honestly when we are together more. I feel like we get along a little bit better than just seeing each other on a regular day like that we would have school. I do not know. We just talk more and I am kind of closer with my family now.  Well that is beautiful.  Yeah.  Yeah yeah. Well thank you for sharing your story with me. You can pass the phone back to your mother.  OK. Thank you.  Yeah. Thanks. Heidi you still there?  Yep.  What are you most scared of right now?  I think my greatest fear right now is that my husband's business kind of comes to a screeching halt. That will force me to be the primary breadwinner which I can be. And I am not scared of going back to work but I am also terrified that I would contract it or bring it home to my husband...  Yeah.  ...Who has heart disease and diabetes. But I think a week ago I would have answered that question with I am most worried about the kids and our family. But that actually is like the least of my worries now. It is just really unified us and it is just been really nice.  Heidi you are giving me hope.  .  Heidi thank you for your time. And thank you for being an inspiration I am sure not just to your kids but to me and all of our listeners.  Yep. Well thank you. I hope everybody stays healthy. Stay home. And we will get through this. Take care Sam.    Imma  Imma be - Imma be be be be - Imma Imma be.  Thanks again to Heidi Dresner in St. Louis and her kids for talking with me and of course thanks to The Black Eyed Peas. Coming up we will talk about what happens with coronavirus homeschooling when there is no schedule. BRB.   This episode we are talking with parents and their kids about the new realities of homeschooling and working from home in the age of social distancing. Hello Elizabeth. How are you?  Hi Sam. I am good.  Elizabeth Farfan-Santos is a professor of anthropology at the University of Houston. She has two kids. Oliver  is 9 years old and Anhita  is 20 months. And Elizabeth says the first thing she felt when schools closed in her neighborhood in Houston was overwhelmed.  Lots of messages about you know here's this website that you can use to practice math. And you know our teacher sent us a message saying stay prepared for you know your star test. And for me you know it was too much. And so I will be honest. I shut it off.  So she turned off all notifications and just let her son Oliver be - no schedule no forced routine. But she quickly realized something was off. Oliver got moodier and more defiant.  Oliver struggles with anxiety so we already know kind of how he gets in stressful situations where he cannot control things or where plans that he may have had just kind of suddenly change. And you know one of the things that changed was that well he was not able to see his friend in the neighborhood anymore.  Elizabeth realized it was time for a more detailed plan to keep Oliver busy. What has been the routine or activity that has worked best for him right now?  Yeah. Well we you know noticed that he needed to have a little bit more structure. And we sat down and - you know he loves making lists ...  OK.  ...And schedules. And you know so I said OK. Let us sit down and make - you know make a schedule. And he was actually interested in checking out some of these online resources. He is really into math and science and loves computers and programming. And so for him...  OK.  ...You know the thought of you know being on a computer was OK. You know it was exciting.  What has he been sharing with you about how he feels about all of this? Is he forthcoming about his emotions during this time or do you have to pry a bit harder to get that from him?  Well so he and I ever since he is little - he is been smaller we have talked a lot about emotions. And the other thing that I have noticed is that he gets physical symptoms from anxiety.  Really?  So for him - yeah. So for him it is been - stomachaches and nausea are things...  Oh.  ...That he is had. And so that last week of school he actually started complaining about stomachaches and I noticed that he was going to the bathroom a lot more often.  Oh.  You know everybody was still going to school so I mean I was still sending him to school. I was worried about whether I should be sending him to school but nothing had been canceled yet. But he told me every - almost every day that he went to school that week that I was risking his life by sending him to school.  Oh my.  And so you know through these kinds of expressions it was clear that he was worried about what was going to happen.  Yeah. What is the biggest lesson you have learned in this whole process of having to you know deal with your kids schooling from home?   I am learning that - I am learning the value of just taking things day by day and starting over as many times as we need to. You know yesterday was the first day that we really tried to implement this loose schedule. It was - started off great and then it got rough. He - again because you know he is dealing with so much loss and his emotions all our emotions are all over the place. We are all struggling. You know we all miss our friends.  Yeah.  You know we put a lot of pressure on ourselves as parents and you know we feel like we need to do something. And sometimes it is not about doing. Sometimes it is about not doing. Sometimes it is just about being.  You need to just be.  Yeah.  You need to just be. You need to be still you need to be at home and you need to be patient because this could be a long haul.  That is right.  Well thank you for your time. Thank you for sharing those words of wisdom with our listeners. And I feel like I know your kid already. He sounds awesome. Tell him I said hey and keep on pushing.  Thank you so much Sam.   Hey Sam. This is Shannon  from Madison Wis. My perspective right now is that I am also a nurse practitioner at a community health center. Needless to say it is been very stressful to not only be doing that on the frontlines but then also figure out how to homeschool my 8- and 10-year-old when I am not in clinic. So also to complicate things my husband works in transportation infrastructure so he is considered essential and is out there as well making sure that things continue. And the truth is our kids are not going to school every day because it is just not possible because we are both doing important jobs that keep things running and keep things going and keep people healthy. So our kids are going to get the school they get when they can. It is a little bit demoralizing but we are just trying to take it one day at a time.   So far we have talked about parents who have the types of jobs and the time to be able to work from home and teach their kids but a lot of parents do not have that luxury right now. After the break we will talk with a mother who has no choice but to keep going into work. She tells us how her kids are going to school. BRB.   My kids have special needs. My younger kid is autistic and my older kid has ADHD. We had a whole team of folks at school in the special ed department and we had some therapists at home who really helped us kind of hold it all together. So you know in the course of a week we like lost all of our support. My younger son he has an aide with him at all times in school who really helps kind of redirect him and makes sure he can focus and learn. And you know my husband and I we just do not have that kind of skill set and time to do that. You know our first focus is keeping them safe and happy. And then little by little we are trying to just figure out how to help them learn. You know we have had to kind of be patient for years with these kids so we will just keep going with that.   That is Kate Davis  in Seattle Wash. We heard from so many parents like Kate for this episode - parents with kids who have special needs parents working from home while also teaching their kids who cannot go to school. But there are a lot of parents in a different boat right now parents who still have to go to work - first responders grocery store employees laundromat workers. Kiana Wilson  is one of those parents. Hey. This is Sam. How are you?  I am good. And you?  Good good good. Thank you for your time. I hear a kid there in the background. Who is that?  I have two kids and now my sister has five kids. So it is seven kids in the house right now.  Ooh boy.  .  Kiana is a cabin cleaner at San Francisco International Airport. She is on the frontlines in a different sense. Every day she goes to work and is exposed to all the gunk that is on most airplanes and she is been going to work since before the coronavirus outbreak really grabbed the country's attention.  We have to clean up pocket seats  the bathrooms the floor everything dealing with basically getting the next flight out.  Do you feel safe doing your job right now?  No I do not.  OK. I am sorry to hear that. How do you deal with that? How do you grapple with that and still find a way to keep doing your job?  I mean I really do not have a choice because it is my job and I have two kids to take care of. I try my hardest to protect myself. They have gloves for us but I bring my own masks and things like that to protect myself.  On top of worrying about getting sick Kiana has to also think about her kids. Those kids were still on spring break when Kiana and I talked last week and now this week they are officially out of school. Kiana told me she is taken off of work recently to take care of them.  They was going to day care but day care out here is closed down as well as the schools. So I actually have not been at work. I was trying to go back to work tomorrow but I do not know if it is going to you know actually happen for me to go. I have to make sure I have someone to keep my kids. Or if I do it you know I have to drop them off somewhere I need to have someone to be able to pick them up because I do not have a vehicle right now you know?  So in these days that you have been home from work have you thought about trying any of the ClassDojo stuff from your kids' teachers or is that just too much to think about right now?  I actually just contacted to her today. Some of us is supposed to like get tablets from the schools for us to do homeschool with the kids and stuff like that. But until their spring break is over we do not know. Like we are just stuck right now...  OK.  ...Until their teacher to get everything together and we are able to go pick up the things that we need for homeschool.  Do you - you know in talking to parents this week who are able to homeschool their kids from home they have all been saying that they really enjoy it. They have been enjoying having more time with their family with their kids and that it is allowed them to grow closer to their kids. And it is been a blessing. Do you kind of miss not having the opportunity - given your work and your life right now do you miss not having the chance to be a homeschool teacher for your kids for the next few weeks?  I miss it because you know like I like make sure my kids is OK. I like to know that they are learning. I like to know that you know they know the things that they need to know. But at the same time if I do not work we could be homeless you know? In the world we are living in and how things is going we have to have some type of money to survive. It is like a bittersweet moment to me right now.  Yeah. What advice would you give to other parents who are having to juggle kids and homeschool and work and coronavirus right now in a very stressful way?  All I have to say is try your hardest to keep focus and just know that you are doing this for your kids you know? And just let them - you know I really do not know because I really do not know what to do. But I just figure if you pray keep - stay prayed up and stay with a positive attitude and things like that I think that we should all be able to fight through this and get through it. What is it? A minor setback but a major comeback. That is how we can look at - have to look at it.  Yeah. Kiana look at you inspiring me. Oh my goodness.  .  I hope everything works out for you. And thank you for your time.  You are welcome. Have a good one.   Thanks to all the parents in this episode including Heidi Dresner Elizabeth Farfan-Santos and Kiana Wilson. And for all you parents out there thank you for all that you are doing. I have no idea how you make it work but you do. For more tips on homeschooling check out the latest episode from our friends over at Life Kit. It is out now. This episode was produced by Anjuli Sastry with help from Andrea Gutierrez and our editor is Jordana Hochman. Listeners I want to keep hearing from you. Tell me how you are getting through coronavirus. Your frustrations your concerns the snack you cannot stop eating the stuff you have been binge-watching all of it - tell me everything. Record a voice memo. Send that to me at samsandersnpr.org. All right. That is it for today. Till Friday be well. Stay home. Talk soon.   What did you just do?  I called my friends.  Which friends?  All my friends from my school.  From your kindergarten class?  Yes.  How did it feel to see all your friends?  Good good good good good good good. Let us be friends. No we are not yet yet not yet not yet not yet.  OK. All right. I am going to turn it off.  No no no no no no no. 