 Oh my god.  I apologize.  Do not apologize.  I am so sorry.  I just wanted to be hugged. My guest today was running late to our interview in LA because of the Australian actor Ben Mendelsohn who was also at NPR West for an interview.  There is a guy with a giant truck outside. I cannot get in. And I was like it is Ben Mendelsohn.  .  And he literally - I am in a loaner car so I did not want to mess it up. And he literally helped me park my car.  Takes a village. She was late but she did not come empty-handed.  Get it all up. Oh I brought you a present.  Wait. What?  It is like Jolly Rancher crack but not sugar. And your teeth will not fall out.  Halter... You all my guest the actress and director Pamela Adlon - she came ready to play.  So we are not cursing.  We do not. You can curse and we will bleep it. I cannot curse.  Because I said the word tits with Terry Gross and she was like we are on the radio. I was like...  She said that?  I was like I am so sorry Ms. Terry.  I was playing that one yesterday. It was really good. Oh now they want you close to the mic.  Hi.  .  It is me and Sam. We are the tits baby.   Now they are saying not that close. I like it.  .  I like it. Terry's good. Terry does this thing where like you want to impress her.  Oh.  You want to impress Terry Gross.  You are immediately a child...  .  ...Around her. I have never been in the same room with her but I always feel very...  Yeah.  ...Reverent. And oh it is Ms. Terry.  Yes. Yes.  You know?  Ms. Terry - exactly.  Yeah.  Ms. Terry.  Yeah. Yes.  I love it. Well this will not be that.  OK.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders and my guest today is Pamela Adlon. She is the head writer director showrunner creator snack-bringer and star of the FX show Better Things. She does a lot. That is because the show was basically her life literally. Better Things is a comedy-drama about a divorced actress raising three kids in LA. In real life Pamela is a divorced actress raising three kids in LA. In this chat we will talk about how she juggles everything about seeing your parents as real three-dimensional people about the awful crazy beautiful wonderful experience of becoming a parent yourself. We will also talk about what it is like to have a show that was created by Louis C.K. in the wake of the MeToo era and why she keeps his name in the credits. All right. If you have not already guessed yet listeners Pamela is not afraid to use very colorful language. So just a warning to you all the bleep tone in this episode got quite the workout. OK. Let us get to it. Here's my chat with the one the only Pamela Adlon.  I am so happy to have you here.  Thank you.  I have been a fan of your show for years. And I am honored to talk with you about that and a lot more.  Please.  But I want to start by asking you about your directorial debut. I am talking about you directing a music video for Madonna.  Yes.  .  Oh my god. It is so funny because...  Please tell me all about it.  I know. OK. So we made this video. Madonna had this contest. And she looked at the camera. And this was when MTV was fun. And she said go ahead. Make my video.  For which song?  True Blue.  Oh yeah.  And we made the video. And my protagonist - heroine in the video was my best friend Gail Boggs...  OK.  ...Who is black. And then the hero's boyfriend was our friend Tucker  who was like this beautiful like square-jawed white guy. And then they had this mannequin that she walked around. It was all downtown LA. And we did all these things with color and everything. And we were like let us just go throw this into the contest. And we made top 10.  I love it. I love it. How much of that director can we still see or feel in your show now in Better Things?  I think it is completely different in the fact that I did that with two other people. I would not say that my show is not collaborative now because I have so many people on my crew and in my cast and my staff. And so I give props to everybody. But it is...  But you drive that show.  Oh yeah. I am running it. I am running it.  Well because your director head writer lead actress in the thing...  Yup.  ...Showrunner everything.  Yeah. And I am a mom first.  Yeah.  So I have always kind of been a mom in my life. Like my friends used to call me Mommy...  .  ...When I was in my 20s. And I had a sofa bed - like this pullout couch. Everybody lived there.  Really?  Everybody lived in my apartment. They called me Mommy or care unit.  .  And I took care of everybody.  Yeah.  And so when I became a mommy I was not ready for being a mommy of human girls.  Yeah.  So that is like a crash course. And then I had one. And then I had another. And I had another. And then being a mommy without a partner in the house was another crash course and then kind of waking up and realizing oh maybe I need to put myself out there and do more things now.  Yeah. We should stop right now to give a little elevator pitch...  Cool.  ...Of the show for those who have not watched it yet. You are missing out. Watch this show. But describe your show in 25 seconds.  Oh . I thought you were going to do it.  .  Sam.  No easy answers here Pamela.  Oh my god.  I will help you out. You do not need any help .  OK. So it is...    It is a story of a lovely lady - ay ...  Ay.   ...Who was bringing up three very lovely girls.  Ay.  I never did that before.  I love it.  It is perfect.  That was really great.  So yes.  .  And so she is bringing up her daughters - single mom in Los Angeles. She is kind of just punched the time card - actor gun for hire has an English mother who lives next door. And it is a human show. And it is not a lady show. I used to fight because everybody was like oh that is for chicks. And it is not.  No it is not. Yeah. And there is - you do something with your show that could be really difficult and really hard and really confusing. Your character Sam is her own fully formed character with plotlines that are her own in that show. But we also know that a lot of Sam's character comes from your own life from Pamela's life. And it is - there is got to be a delicate balancing act of making sure both of those people Pamela and Sam...  Right.  ...Feel different even though a lot of their stories are similar.  Yeah.  How have you worked through that tension if it is a tension?  I love that because that is new.  .  I have not touched on that in quite a while. It was harder for me to inhabit Sam than any other character I have done.  Even though she is the most like you.  Yeah.  Like in many ways - a former child actress...  Yeah.  ...Three kids single parent...  Yeah.  ...Lives in LA British mother. That is you.  Exactly.  But this was the hardest you say?  Well it just - because I was like - you know even when I was pitching the show I thought oh I am not interesting enough to have a show of my own. There is no way that anybody is going to want to watch me.  You know men do not say that. But go ahead.   Well I do. You know I mean - and I thought I have to take it so completely far away from my life. It cannot be me as an actor. It cannot be me you know with three girls. It has to be something different. And my dad who was a writer would always say write what you know.  Yeah.  And this is very simple 101 stuff. And so when I leaned into that and take the bones of my life and just kept that then you jump off from there.  Yeah. And you end up making a show that only you can make.  Yes exactly.  Which is the best show because then they cannot fire you.  That is right.   I have - oh listen. I always felt like at a certain point they are going to pull me out and put Amanda Peet in here.  .  Like they are just going to be like no. She as not all that. We do not like that. You know I always always felt...  Really.  Oh god. yes. I have always been waiting for the rug to get pulled out from under me or like the Lucy with the football thing.  Oh yeah.  But that is the survivor in me. And my friend Robin  always says that is the potato farmer. That is the goyische side of you...  Yeah.  ...That keeps going that keeps going so...  Because you do not know when they might come and just take it.  Yeah exactly.  When do you not feel that feeling?  It is always kind of there you know? I always have this little buzz like I have to take care of everything. I definitely do not feel that I have to prove myself the way I used to. There was a time years ago when IMDB started that I was like why did they have my birth year on there? That is poison. That is like a bullet.  Yeah.  That is a loaded gun...  Yeah.  ...Pointing at a woman in Hollywood.  You think it is better now?  I do. I really do.  How much better?  You see women who are in their 60s and 70s and 80s who are working. We have been waiting for our stories to be told.  Yeah.  You know so it is like when women are in it it is always better you know? So I do think it is a lot better. I think that there is a lot of work for like young hot girls you know? But I think that there is a lot of work for old  women like me too.  Into it.   Into it. Into it. All right time for a break. Coming up why Pamela Adlon cannot help being a mom to everyone including me. BRB. This story on a surface level you know functions as a telling of what it is like to be a modern single parent. But it also in this really smart way gets into what it means to be a person who is taking care of their parents right now today. There is this scene in the premiere of Season 4 where you have what could be a stereotypical mom-of-three-kids moment. I am going to pull this car over. But in the scene...  .  ...You pull the car over because your elderly mom is just going crazy. It is not the kids.  Yeah. Yeah.  It is your mom.  Yes. Yes.  And I am like oh I get this .  Yeah. It is a thing.  Yeah.  I guess they are calling my generation the sandwich generation. And it is another way that the show has really changed my life and been therapeutic for me because my mother used to drive me crazy.  Yeah.  She will tell me the same story over and over.  Oh yeah .  Please do not talk about Verizon calling the person on the - you know and going to the store. And she went to the - how many doctor's visits? - and everything. And it used to make me want to tear my hair out.  Yeah.  And then one day I am sitting there looking at my mom. And I am like oh this is funny.  Yeah.  She is funny.  Yes.  If I just get out of my own way and I look at it for what it is - it changed everything.  Yeah. Well - and this is a thing that kids do not realize until a certain moment somewhere in their 20s. Something clicks. And you say oh my God. My parents were fully formed human beings before I got here.  Yeah. It is amazing.  Right?  Yeah. It is something that - you know I feel like if my show was on any other network it would be like you know Sam's you know dealing with her mom her kooky mom. She is dealing with her terrible kids. When will Sam find love? Like that is so the opposite of...  Yeah.  ...What the show is.  Yeah.  It is just human interaction. And just nothing is cut and dry.  Yeah. And no one is exactly a hero or a villain.  That is right.  Sometimes the daughters are total a-holes.  Yes.  Other times they are the voice of reason.  Yes.  Sometimes Sam is the best mother in the world. Other times she is yelling profanities at everyone around.  That is right.  And that is life. But it takes a certain level of self-realization to get there. Like what in your life brought you to a place where you are able to say in your life and in your work no one's cut and dry. Everyone is complex. Everyone - because like it would be really easy to make a show with stock characters. It would be...  You know I feel like life experience and all of that - but really my kids...  Really?  ...You know because they are incredibly thoughtful completely conscious people. And when they say mom do not do that. You do not know their story. And they are very fair and right-minded with the world and with other people not with each other and me...  .  ...No.  Yeah.  But I do not know what my life would be like if I would have survived this long. What they have given me is just endless. And the way I look at my life is really - my kids have really fueled that. I mean I kind of always was that way a little bit.  Yeah. Yeah. Speaking of ways in which you were always like that you know you have mentioned a few times now that you are - you are the caring one. You are the mother. You are the nurturer. You are the one who takes care of the people. Why do you think that is? Because like I feel like I am a decent human being. I am not that guy. I as not feeding you. I am not hosting the party. I will show up. I will drink your alcohol.  That is amazing.  But I am not...  See. I even brought you a hostess gift.  You brought me candy. Yeah.   I know.  What is that about? I love it.  I...  What is it about?  I do not - I guess. It was something that was always in me. Like if I was at somebody's house I would do their dishes. Like if...  What?  I know.  Did your - was your mom like this? Was your dad like this?  I want to be more like you Sam.  I am just literally - I do not do my own dishes - good God.  I am not picking up the check.  .  I am not going to do the dishes. Sure I will come over. I would like a little more of that. But I think that I am - yeah. Sometimes it is too much.  Really?  I liken it to the scene of Whoopi Goldberg in Ghost after the ghost leaves her. And she goes .  .  And she is sitting there and she is exhausted.  Yeah. Yeah.  You know so it is kind of like that because I let everybody take a piece.  And it is - for me at least it was interesting and refreshing to see in your character on this show a woman who is extremely successful and career-driven and goal-oriented and doing all of the work but also still doing the - I am the mother with the minivan picking the kids up.  Yeah.  I am at home cooking them dinner. You are doing both - or your character's doing both...  Right.  ...And it is not in this way that is Sheryl Sandberg - you can have it all. You are doing it all. But you are still like it is stressful . Like it is a lot.  Yeah. Yeah.  You are showing it really raw.  Well I was in my life. And I was you know shooting Californication or recording the Tinker Bell movies or any of the other Disney stuff that I was doing...  Yeah.  ...And King Of The Hill...  Yeah.  ...And living this you know quote unquote Hollywood life. And then at the end of the day I would be like cleaning up dog  and pulling the cans in...  Yeah.  ...And doing all the mundane things. And I thought this is so crazy. It is funny to me. I wonder if anybody else would think it is funny. But you know - so I went through that. And that is what I was able to put in this show you know?  Yeah.  It is not like you can have it all.  Yeah.  But what I needed when I was a young mom was other moms to share with me. So when I was looking at the robot mom who was like making the thing and the casseroles for the class and everything - and I am like oh my God. How does she do that? I need to know. And I always felt a little bit judged. And I needed somebody to be a bro to me as a mom.  And say here's all of it.  Yes.  It looks like this and that.  Can I look in your kid's lunchbox?  .  I want to see what you made your kid for lunch.  Yes. Yeah.  It is that simple.  Yeah.  So that is what I do with my show now...  Yeah.  ...That I hope that other moms and parents can see. And as a woman I know that sharing with other women is the most generous thing you can do.  All right. Time for another break. When we come back a very special message to Pamela from a very special friend of this show. There are tears. There is laughter. There is whitefish salad - seriously. BRB.   Hey listeners. It is Sam. Duh. If you are in LA I have an announcement for you. If you are near LA I have an announcement for you. We are having a special live show at NPR West in Culver City next month March. We have lined up some public radio royalty for a special live show Friday morning March 27. I will be talking with NPR's David Greene. I will be talking with NPR's Kelly McEvers. And we will have a special guest as well on the morning of Friday March 27 for a live taping of our Weekly Wrap from NPR West. It will start early at 30 but we will have coffee and breakfast. Come join us. It will be a fun experiment. You can get tickets at nprpresents.org. Come out and see us.   This is from a friend of yours.  What?  I told him I was talking to you.  Pamela Adlon it is your friend Ari Shapiro.  Oh.  From the first day I met you when I showed up for an interview and you had half-sour pickles and smoked whitefish salad and bagels and - my God my mouth is watering just remembering this.  .  I knew that this was going to be an extraordinary friendship. I do not know anyone who does as many things as you do and does them all so damn well. I am in awe of you I am impressed by you and I miss you. Sending you a big hug from the East Coast Pam Aldon.  Yes.  .  Oh my God. That made me cry.  He is the sweetest guy.  I cannot believe it.  He is the best.  He just killed me.  He interviewed you how many years ago?  Oh my God.  And you all just stayed in touch right? I love that.  We did.  I love that.  He - oh my God. I love him so much. I am crying.  It is OK.  I cannot believe he got my name right too. It was so...  .  That just really - thank you.  Of course. I want you to hear it. But I also want to talk about a thing he brought up in that voice message for you. He talked about all this food you had laid out when he went to your house. The thing I notice on the show - Sam the character is extremely busy all the time and yet she is always cooking for everybody.  Yeah.  Why is she cooking so much? I think of my mother who was a busy working woman. And the first thing she outsourced was the food. She was not doing it. Someone else would.  Well you know for me it is occupational therapy. Like it helps me. So like when I say I get anxiety or the Sunday scaries I am focused on this one thing. I am making sauce. I am doing a chicken. I am making lasagna or quiche or whatever. It is so healing for me to just do something like that. And I cook the way I cook. I am not an expert. I do not know what I am doing.  It looks good on the show. Like I can recall you making lasagna that one scene.  Yeah.  I was like that looks like good lasagna.  It is good...  It is good and saucy.  ...Because it is the thing that brings my people together you know? And so it was the one thing - like the way I could give love to my family is through food you know?  Yeah yeah.  And Rocky my youngest said to me one day - she goes Mom I do not really like that brown chicken but I will eat it because you made it. But just so you know. And I am like OK .   There is this really interesting dynamic that I see in this show that has been making me unpack all the ways I was or was not nice to my parents as a teenager. And watching your show I am just like I think I was really rude to my parents for several years.  I love that. It is so funny.  And I am like I think I got to call them up and be like sorry about that.  I love that.  You know?  Yeah.  You lay it out so bare 'ecause like these kids in the show - they love their mother.  Yeah.  But every other sentence is Mom Mom Mom.  I know. It is just the cut down contrary...  Yes yes.  Oh I am sorry it is opposite day every single day of my life.  Yeah.  I apologize.  Yeah.  I love that. I have a guy who is been with me for years since the beginning of the show as a post-PA writer's assistant Ryan and he would say to me every day - he said I call my mom so much now.  Really?  I see you momming  so hard and doing the show and it makes me appreciate my mom.  I love that. I love that. Everything I have read about the show and how you run it makes it seem that the space in which the show is made is a woman's space and it feels inherently different from a set run by a dude.  OK.  What are the biggest differences?  Well it is a thing. Like when we would have guest stars come they would say wait. What is going on?  Really?  What is going on?  Really?  It just feels different. It feels less - I do not know if this is the right word - important.  OK.  But like everything when men are walking around and - we are talking about equipment and lensy  lensy lensy. You know no. No.  Yeah.  It does not have to be that way.  It is stripped of ego.  Yes. When you strip it of that your days are shorter more efficient. You are getting what you need. And you know I mean I fight that feeling even on my set that I am running. And I have a female first AD. There is other elements that come in that - we are like OK well that is not the way we are doing it here.  Yeah.  And then when I am like - if I go and do another TV show or...  Yeah.  ...A movie I see all of that stuff happening there. And I am biting my tongue because I am not running it.  Yeah.  And I am like do not tell them how to do it.  Yeah.  But there is an easier way to do things that does not strip the crew of their marrow and makes you want to go to work every day.  Yeah. Well and like small things - like I have read a lot now that you just kind of like make sure everyone's day ends at a reasonable hour so they can go home - dinner with their families.  Yeah.  I want to say that I really appreciate the way that you have dealt with Louis C.K. and the fallout from that since his incidents and I really appreciate the way that you still keep his name in the credits as a creator of the show because I think we are in this moment right now where there is a certain pressure under the MeToo movement to disappear these men...  Yeah.  ...And to make them go all the way away and to forget they ever existed. But I do not think that is fair.  Yeah.  We got to remember it happened so it do not happen again.  Yeah.  In the same way it is like I do not ever want to stop talking about slavery.  Yeah.  You cannot not talk about it.  Yeah.  You know there has to be a realization that these men were there. They were part of this industry and their legacies can live on in positive or negative lights. But it is there.  Yeah.  You should not have to answer questions about that man for the rest of your life.  Yeah.  But I appreciate that you do not ignore that he was a part of your life.  Oh he is a huge part of my story yeah. And you look back at Louie the show and it is just this magnificent thing.  Yeah.  You know I mean the show is just great. And the contributions to Better Things - and so yeah it is significant because when you realize - I kind of did something in Season 1 of the show where we are at the anti-patriarchy rally.  Oh yeah. I love that one.  Do you remember that?  I do.  And Frankie's like Gandhi was pen pals with Hitler and Martin Luther King beat his wife. And I am like what are you saying?  .  And she is a 12-year-old girl.  Yeah.  And then Mother Theresa sucked. She was a Catholic nun. There is nothing good about her. You know it is just a kid saying these things.  Yeah.  But she is saying our heroes - yeah - have flaws.  Yeah. And like you were saying at the top of interview like no one is one thing. No one is just one thing.  That is right.  There is good and bad in all of us and we can speak to that. And that is just life.  That is right.  You know? Anyways I know you have to go. This last question is very personal. I cannot figure out whether Better Things the show is saying to people without kids oh my God have kids it is the best thing ever...  .  ...Or if it is saying to people without kids do not do this. I say this as someone who is 35 and considers one day having children.  Yeah.  And I am like well what is Better Things telling me about parenthood? Should - does...  Guess.  ...Better Things want me to do it or not?  Guess what?  What?  It is in the middle of those two things.  .  Right down the middle baby.  OK. OK.  It is both.  Yeah.  It is not one or the other.  Oh.  It is like this is messed up do not ever do it or this is the greatest thing you are going to get so much back.   Thanks again to my guest actress Pamela Adlon. Her show Better Things is back for its fourth season on FX March 5. Also do not forget. Listen to this show on Friday. We will be back with another wrap on the news and the culture of the week. And of course per use  we want to hear you share in that episode the best things that have happened to you all week. It could be a big thing a small thing a life-changing thing a serious thing a funny thing - whatever. Just send it to us. Record the sound of your voice onto your phone and email that voice file to me at samsandersnpr.org. You might hear yourself in the show. I would love for that to happen OK? All right listeners. Thank you so much for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Till next time talk soon. 