 OK so you say I am Ayesha's daughter and my mom is hosting It is BEEN A MINUTE this week.  My mom...  I thought we could just say what we wanted.  Go go go...   No you cannot.  ...Go go go.  Can we start it?  Stop eating paper.  Sorry - sorry mom.  OK do not eat paper.  My mom is hosting It is BEEN A MINUTE this week.  Let us start the show.  Let us start the show.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Ayesha Rascoe filling in for Sam Sanders. I am usually on the White House beat but now at least temporarily I get to sit in the host chair.   So this week of news was rough.   It is never easy reporting on a mass shooting but the one that happened at three Atlanta massage spas earlier this week did not happen in a vacuum. Eight people were killed and six were women of Asian descent. As of this taping on Friday officials have yet to say whether this was a hate crime. The suspect a white male claimed he has a sex addiction and that this was an attempt to get rid of temptation. So race and gender and sexual violence cannot be removed from this conversation. And even the discussion about his alleged motive has been problematic.   We should say that all of this happened at a moment of rising anti-Asian sentiment.   ...Against Asian Americans in this country.   Now to a disturbing rise in attacks on Asian Americans.  When we are still in a global pandemic when politicians themselves have used racist language about Asians fueling even more violence.   ....Further and further away from China as opposed to calling it the Chinese virus.   And this shooting for a lot of Asian Americans - it did not really come as a shock.  I am enraged exhausted heartbroken. And none of this surprises me. In fact to be honest I have been expecting this.  This is Jennifer Ho.  I and many other Asian American scholars who know Asian American history have sadly predicted that this would happen eventually.  Jennifer is a professor of ethnic studies at the University of Colorado Boulder. So she really knows this history. And it is one that is often ignored both in the media and in our education system. She also wrote an op-ed for CNN this week called To Be An Asian Woman. And basically Jennifer wrote that to be an Asian woman means not being recognized as a full human being at all.   So I wanted to talk to Jennifer more about her writing the stereotypical images of Asians especially women and where that came from - and what made her think this mass shooting was so inevitable.  Because the history of Asians in the United States is one of violence. So I can state innumerable historical examples - more recent memory - World War II bombing of Pearl Harbor the incarceration of 120000 Japanese Americans - more recently 911 fatal violent attacks on South Asian Sikh Muslim and Arab Americans. So yellow peril rhetoric dictates that you scapegoat Asians and you scapegoat them violently.  And you know you - putting that in a larger historical context you wrote that U.S. culture has long presented Asian women as sexualized objects for white male enjoyment. Can you talk a little bit more about that history? Because some people may not understand that or may not be aware of that.  Sure. So in that piece I talk about how the first wave of Asian women to the United States - and in this case it was women from China - were treated. And they were essentially bought and brought into sexual servitude. So there immediately is an association of Asian women with sex. In fact the very first law that we can say was discriminatory based on race was the 1875 Page Act which predated the 1882 Exclusion Act. So the idea that Asian women are connected with sex started from the first arrival of Chinese immigrant women to the United States and then because of subsequent wars in Asian nations and the way that women during war are used. So again this is not unique to the United States. We can certainly see the incidences of Korean comfort women during World War II and their abuse by the Japanese imperial military as another example. But the images especially in media in film - so if we take the rash of Vietnam War films from the mid- to late '80s where you have Platoon and Full Metal Jacket and Hamburger Hill and you are seeing images of Asian women who are either elderly peasant Vietnamese-speaking women - or the approximation of Vietnamese in those films - and then younger women who are featured as prostitutes. This is all contributing to this idea that whenever you are seeing Asian people two dimensionally Asian women they are prostitutes.  And can you talk a bit about the Page Act? Because you know in reading about these attacks on Asian Americans I have read about and knew about the Chinese Exclusion Act which specifically banned Chinese workers from coming to the U.S. But I had not really heard about the Page Act which as you said came earlier than the Chinese Exclusion Act.  So I should say I am really speaking about Chinese women but I am going to use Asian. So Chinese women as I as I mentioned - vast majority of them who came to to California entered into sexual servitude. And the vast majority of them died in that sexual servitude. So of course what you have when you have women who are forced into sexual servitude is a rise in disease venereal disease. So in the public imagination of this time Chinese women Asian women are diseased. And there are all sorts of public health outcries about the impurity of Chinese women because the understanding of disease in this period especially was that somehow the disease is inherent to being Chinese. And I want to really repeat that. Somehow the disease is inherent to being Chinese - because that kind of rhetoric is exactly what we are seeing now with COVID-19.  And so you have that embodied in the law of this country and in - you know that is in the fabric of this country. And now you come to this point where you are seeing this sort of violent acts often against Asian women. How does that feel at this point? And why do you think it has not been getting the attention perhaps other discrimination has?  So it is complicated and is bound up into the model minority myth. So my primary identification is Asian American but that is pretty rare. Most people of Asian descent do not actually use the term Asian American as a primary mode of identification other than checking a box on the census. I identify as Asian American because for me the choice of being Asian-American is a political act one that is rooted in social justice. What people do not seem to understand is that the the term model minority coined in the 1960s by a white man William Petersen was actually used not to praise Japanese Americans as his article seemed to suggest but actually was a way to condemn Black Americans who are agitating for social justice and civil rights at this time. So it was a way of saying like look at these Japanese Americans. We put them in camps and they did not complain. They went willingly to prove their loyalty. And then we took them out of camps. And they do not even speak English. And they are so passive and docile and they are the good model minority unlike these Black people who are causing problems for our nation. So I think there is a lot of Asian Americans that are not quite as politicized and understanding of this larger history of racism that Asian Americans have have experienced from the time that they first set foot on U.S. soil. I also think - and I have been doing numerous workshops on anti-racism and anti-Asian racism in particular. It is hard to talk about how people are feeling vulnerable who are Asian American at potentially being attacked when you are seeing footage of countless numbers of Black people who are really fatally being targeted. And so when I speak to Asian American student groups in particular they are - they do not want to feel like they are taking away from the vital conversation about anti-Black racism. At the same time they are also suffering.  Yeah. And you talked about - with one of our producers you said that to be Asian in America is to be invisible. What did you mean by that?  People do not know the stories of Asian Americans. Like when I was growing up in the 1970s 1980s in California - and look. California is a state that is associated now with having a very large Asian population. But what I learned about the contribution of Asians to U.S. history was that the Chinese built the railroad - period end of sentence. Chinese built the railroad. So the average American knows nothing about a very long history of Asians in America. And they do not know about the many different discriminatory laws and acts that have been passed and that the - our ideas of citizenship hinge on who Asian Americans are and what they were denied.   Thanks again to Jennifer Ho. She is a professor of ethnic studies at the University of Colorado Boulder. Coming up we talk identity politics and Married At First Sight.   Some people are like in the Bachelor nation. Married At First Sight - we are coming. We are getting to that level.  That is Brittany Luse a culture critic who most recently hosted The Nod With Brittany  Eric. She and my friend Delece Smith-Barrow a journalist at Politico are both huge fans of this show Married At First Sight MAFS for those in the know. And Delece specifically has been trying to get me to watch this show for a few seasons now. And I was dragging my feet because I got a lot going on. But I finally tuned in this season. And listeners they got me.   It is so funny because I was going to start this discussion saying I told you so I told you so I told you so...   ...Because Ayesha resisted. And I knew that...  I did.  ...Great things were in store if she were to watch it.  Now every Wednesday night I reserve two hours - yes I said two hours - on my calendar for viewing.  Married At First Sight - at this point for me it is not just a show. It is a lifestyle. I am scheduling around it.  .  I am like rearranging things.  Delece tell it.  So we are going to lay out the case for why this show in particular is the juiciest thing going on TV right now. But first let us explain the premise. Tell me a little bit Brittany about how the show works. People get hooked up and married literally at first sight.  At first sight - so basically these you know single people in a given city - this season it is Atlanta - they submit themselves to this process. They are always talking about trusting the process. That is a big part...  The process.  Process.  Yes  - the process.  Exactly. And they are - I mean it is kind of like I think participate in a casting call. But also there are like these relationship experts that evaluate their relationship readiness you know interview their friends and family see how and where they live and decide whether or not these people are in fact ready to get married at first sight. So if you get selected one of the first scenes is you tell your friends and family. Then you go try on your tuxedo or your wedding dress. And then like the next big moment that you have is like at the altar on your wedding day when you meet your spouse.  For the first time yeah.  Yeah for the first time. It really comes down to can that relationship survive? - which is such a juicy and open-ended question. And just really to me it opens the door to so much relationship doom...  Yes .  Wow.  ...Which is why so many people watch. But the thing is - I will say this though - at least one couple every season does genuinely fall in love or appears to genuinely fall in love.  Yes.  So the couples that really fall in love that really seem to be into each other - you root for them.  Yes.  Yeah. And let us get into this season and the couples this season. There is a drama couple this season. You know we could call this section Everybody Hates Chris. Now I do not hate anybody.  .  I love the Lord. I do not hate nobody. But who wants to talk about Chris and Paige this season?  Delece I defer to you because you seem ready. You seem ready.  OK .  I am ready. And I feel like you should even ask who does not want to talk about them because we know everyone...  Exactly. Yeah.  ...Wants to and is talking about them. I will say this. It is interesting that Ayesha you say you love the Lord because that is one aspect of their relationship that interests me most.   They talk about God...  Girl do not start. Do not start.  ...So much. And I am - like I am just being totally serious. Like it is something that they talk about. You know Paige is like I am following God's orders right?  And God is saying I had nothing to do with this.  Right. I am like...  Leave me out of it. Leave me...  I am like I just want to know...  But let us talk about why is Chris - so this is a Black couple.  Yes.  Black man Black woman - Chris and Paige - they get hooked up. They are both in like their 20s. But Chris immediately seemed to have an issue with Paige and that is why he immediately became the villain right?  Well he did not find her attractive.   Paige is different from the type of women that I am used to.  As you have known her for the last hour.  So what are the type of women you are used to?  The opposite of Paige.   Like the real prissy  girls pretty girls.  Paige is so used to dealing with dudes who she is putting...  Like trophy wives.  But Paige is a trophy wife. That is out of the box but...  I do not think she is a trophy wife.   Oh my God. It is worse than I remember.  Same.  It was bad. Let us get into that and why people felt like he was saying that. I - and me and Delece - and I am sure you had these same conversations Brittany - we felt like he was saying that because she is a darker-skinned Black woman and that she does not fit whatever he has envisioned as beauty in his head. He is questioning whether she is feminine.  Yeah I really did not like that comment. And I mean - how do I put this? Only Chris can know for sure what he meant by that.  Yes true.  But I do think that those traditional colorist standards of beauty absolutely had something to do with him even thinking that saying that was acceptable.  And I have to say this. I just want to share this one thing that he did really when we talked about him talking about the Lord. And as you know I love the Lord. He said that he called his grandma up and asked her to pray for him. And I - if you do not  go - tell your grandma to pray for your mind. You open up the Bible pray for yourself and figure out what is wrong with you. Stop calling her up stressing her and you pray for yourself.  All season I have been wanting to know what version of the Bible are these people reading? Is it King James?  .  I do not know. I do not know.  They have referenced it so many times. It is mind-boggling.  .  But one reason why I like this season is because we do get to see Black couples. And so many times - like the reason why I never watched The Bachelor or shows like that is because you never really saw - I mean they have had Black people on it. But really they have never been showcased like this. And so - how often are you seeing Black couples falling in love and being desired? Like do you feel like Married At First Sight fills that sort of void? Have they always had a racial mix or is that new?  They have always had a racial mix. Yup first season they had a Black couple which unfortunately was also a mess. But...  .  ...I appreciate that - I appreciate now - I mean I kind of feel the same way as you do Ayesha. Like one thing I have always enjoyed about Married At First Sight is that you do get to see Black people dating and just kind of being regular people. They are not being you know fetishized. They are not being shown in extreme poverty - just some of the like stereotypes you will often see in entertainment media. I feel like Married At First Sight allows you to break away from that. A lot of them you know just went to college got a good job and now they are looking for love as opposed to the sad you know downtrodden story that we see so often with Black people in entertainment media.  I like it because I feel like they have a pretty good variety of Black people on the show. They are from different parts of the country. They have different backgrounds. They present themselves differently. They look different. They have so many different like - so many different types of Black couples have been on Married At First Sight over the years. And I will say I do think that in some ways the show does not always set the Black women up for success. But I will say there are also like quite a few really nice Black love stories that you do see on the show and I think that is what keeps me coming back - is the variety. You can see the full gamut of Black folks trying to fall in love which I do enjoy.  I mean you know we look at these shows obviously as a guilty escape. I do not like to look at anything too seriously. But do you feel like they reflect on the realities of Black women dating in real life? Like is there anything there?  I think there is something there especially when you look at a couple like Chris and Paige. Paige is very accomplished. And we know that Black women go to college and graduate from college at much higher rates than Black men right? And so I think that a lot of Black women can relate to having a partner or trying to date someone who is not going to be intimidated by their achievements.  I think that like the - like these shows are like a microcosm - a very skewed microcosm of society. And so a lot of the things that show up in society are going to naturally show up on the shows like the colorism stuff. I mean I think that that is something that...  Yes.  I think that every Black woman has an experience with that. You could be on any you know stop on the shade spectrum and you are still going to have an uncomfortable experience unfortunately dating and either seeing - witnessing something having something said to you having something done to you that recalls something ugly having to do with colorism having to deal with sometimes men being intimidated. Even regardless of whatever you have or do not have or what they think you have there is this kind of throughline on a lot of the couples on Married At First Sight where the man feels like he is supposed to be the head of whatever household head of their family head of their life...  Yeah.  ...And is perplexed at times when the woman does not agree. But yeah. But still I mean you know when you see a couple especially a Black couple for me fall in love among such a - like fall in love in the midst of such a weird environment it is nice.   Well thank you so much. That was Brittany Luse and Delece Smith-Barrow. Are you guys up to play a round of a very special game that I like that is called Who Said That?  Who said that? Yes my fiancee and I walk around saying that at home all the time.   It is the best part of this show. I am always game. I do not know if I will win but I am game.  I am ready.   So you guys you ready to play this game?  I am ready.  Ready.   It is called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  And I have had a chance to play before and I have won. I know I have won.  Uh-oh.  You know I have won but I have never been in charge of who wins and who loses. So now I am drunk with power. So...   ...The rules are simple. For those who may not know all I do is I share three quotes from the week of news and then you all have to guess who said it or what story I am talking about. Just yell out the answer when you know it because we do not have any buzzers and I will give you lots of hints. The winner gets nothing but bragging rights so this is really low-stakes. So for this one the first one you do not need to tell me who said it but you can tell me what it is about. Direct deposit - 1400.  Stimulus.  Me at Victoria's - wait.  Oh sorry. Sorry.  Direct deposit - 1400. Me at Victoria's Secret - tell me.   Who said that? I do not know who said that.  What is this about? What is it about?  Oh stimmy checks.  She - yes stimmy checks. The memes about the stimmy checks.  The memes - I love them.  This was the work of disxpix. I do not know - disxpix. I do not know what that is. That might be a bad word but this person - everybody was tweeting these memes about people basically being rich with their 1400. And then there was also the Moneybagg Joe memes out there which I love. Brittany have you heard of Moneybagg Joe?  Yes I have heard of Moneybagg Joe.  . Because Moneybagg Joe said he had time today. He checked his wrist. He had time today. He signed a law and so everybody got their 1400. So what is the first thing you all would do if you all get a big little - or nice little lump sum like that? What is the first thing you all do when you all get that?  I think probably the first thing that I would do is honestly - I mean I do not know what this says about me but it is like I would probably get my hair done and...  Yeah I feel you because I need to get - I am going to get my weave back in. So I am very...   So I feel you on that. Delece what would you do if you got a nice little lump sum?  And this is a safe space right? Like no judgment.  This is a safe space - no judgment no judgment.  Mmm hmm this is a safe space.  First I am going to buy maybe 30 things at Sephora that I do not need but are really just enticing.   And then because I have been working from home every day all day like many of us I am going to get some new stuff for my living room. At this point I just hate all of my furniture - the walls the carpet everything. So whatever - however I can stretch the money to change some stuff that is what I am going to do.  Just redo it. I feel you. I feel you. Who did - who got that one first? Was it Delece? Delece got it first. OK one point to Delece.  Yay.  I got remember. I got to be - I got to keep up with the points. OK this next one - this - you all are going to get this one. The next one is The word I was given was those conversations were not productive but they are glad that they have at least started a conversation. This was a really big story guys - really big story.  There is such a - there is - the quote is so...  It is like applicable to so many things.  It involves a family - family drama.  Was it - did Meghan Markle say that?   She did not but that is close. I will give you a point.  Harry?  It is Gayle. So Gayle...  Oh.  She talked to...  ...King - she talked to the royals. Oh they are not royal anymore but she talked to Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. And Harry had talked to his dad and his brother - so talked to William and Charles. But no one has reached out to his wife. So they - the conversations were not productive but they at least started the conversation. You guys - did you - you all watched the interview right?  Oh you know I watched the interview.  Oh well yeah you - yeah you watched it. Yes.  Yes I definitely watched the interview.  Yeah.  I watched - I think I ate a special meal 'ecause it was such an event.  OK. So now we are tied up. So Brittany Delece this is the one for all the marbles. This is the last one and this one...  All right I am getting a little nervous.  This one is a little spicy. It is a little - I mean so...  Oh no.  So cover your ears. Delece is always shocked if I say anything a little ratchet.   Yeah. I am like who is this Ayesha? I do not even know this person.  Oh yeah and just noting for listeners too cover the kids' ears. I am just going to say something. It is not too bad but just cover their ears a little bit. So here we go. If you think making your husband a sandwich is a sin but popping your vagina into another woman's vagina in front of the world is power you are a lost soul.  Oh.  Is this Cardi B?   It is not. It is - but she did not say this one.  Oh she said - it is Candace Owens.   Yes.  Candace Owens. Yeah Candace Owens. Yeah so this is a tweet from conservative political commentator Candace Owens who got into a Twitter battle with the Cardi B. And Cardi started calling her Candy and...   ...Was basically going off on her. And what Candace Owens was criticizing was that amazing WAP performance at the Grammys which I was impressed by.  Me too.  It was really good.  It was really good. They - I mean they were dancing hard. Like they were dancing. And the move at the end - that was - I was concerned for their safety...  Right.  ...For flipping like that.  Yeah yeah.  Because that was a...  I know.  Because that knee that hit that ground like that...  I was thinking they needed some kneepads.  They need some...  That is what I was thinking the whole time.  .  I was thinking they need IcyHot and a bunch of other things.   I was concerned about that knee. But they pulled it off. And they did that. So...  They did.  They did. But of course you know people got all worked up about it as they tend to do. But...  People do not want to be entertained.  Right.  They do not want to be entertained.  Well they - see. The thing is they do because they play the clips over and over again to say is not this horrible? It is the worst thing ever. Look at this clip one more time.   But yes. So I think that is the game you all. Who won? Who won? Did Delece win?  I think we are all winners.  Delece won.  I think Delece...  No I think we are all winners.  Yeah Delece won. So now you can have the glory to take back with you wherever you go. Brittany next time you are going to - you can get it.  Next time I mean you know - next time prayerfully.   Prayerfully.  Do not read the Bible there even on Married At First Sight though Brittany.  Yeah.  You find some other prayer.   Find  - do not be praying like Chris. Do not get your grandma to pray for you like Chris. Do not do that. Do not do that.  I do not need that. I do not need that.   Thanks again to the wonderful Delece Smith-Barrow and Brittany Luse for playing Who Said That With me.  Now it is time to end the show like we always do.  OK. And Gabrielle you say every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week.  .  Listeners share their week.  OK you say it Gabrielle. Listeners shared the best thing that happened to them all week.  Listeners shared their week all week.  They shared the best thing that happened to them all week.  Hey Sam. This is Chris Latham  in San Diego Calif. The best thing that happened to me this week was I got a new kidney. I got a transplant - no more dialysis.  Hi my name is Jackie . And the best thing that happened to me this week is that I completed my chemo and radiation treatment at Memorial Sloan Kettering in New York City. I had eight rounds of chemo and six weeks of radiation. And I am really happy to be finished with that and looking forward to starting a new chapter in my life.  Hi Sam. This is Diana . And I live in Sequim Wash. And it is my birthday today. And that is not even the best part of this week. The best part is that I got my second COVID vaccination. And now I have been invited to dinner for a home-cooked meal at my dear friend's house. I am so looking forward to this.  Hey Sam. I told myself that I would record this voice memo when something good happened to me. And the good thing has happened to me. My sister was able to FaceTime me from the hospital. And she has been in the hospital about three weeks now. This is not COVID-related - just a really bad situation. She is pretty young so we were all really scared. And she could mouth things at me. And she knew me. And I just felt really blessed. And I just was so happy that I just wanted to tell you the best part of my week. And thank you for everything.  Thank you so much for sharing your stories and the best thing that happened to you this week. Thanks again to all the listeners you just heard there - Alexandra  Diana Jackie and Chris. Listeners you can send your best thing to us at any time during the week. Just record yourself and send a voice memo to samsandersnpr.org. That is samsandersnpr.org. All right. This week the show was produced by Jinae West Andrea Gutierrez and Sylvie Douglis. Our intern is Liam McBain. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss the senior vice president of programming at NPR is Anya Grundmann. All right. Until next time I am Ayesha Rascoe. Sam will be back next week. Talk soon.  