 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. Our guest Loretta Lynn recorded her first single I am A Honky Tonk Girl 61 years ago. Lynn is famous for her singing and songwriting and for her life story told in the 1980 film Coal Miner's Daughter. It was adapted from Lynn's 1976 memoir of the same name which described how she grew up in poverty in eastern Kentucky became a wife at age 13 and after having four children started writing songs and performing see POSTBROADCAST CORRECTION below. A new updated and expanded edition of her memoir has just been published. Lynn also has a new album titled Still Woman Enough. Here's the title track which features Lynn Reba McEntire and Carrie Underwood.    Well I have been through some bad times been on the bottom been at the top. And I have seen life from both sides. It is what you make with what you have got. There is been times life's got me down  pick myself up and bounce right back around. I was not raised to give up. And to this day you know what? I am still...    Woman enough still got what it takes inside. I know how to love lose and survive. As not much I as not seen and I as not tried. Been knocked down but never out of the fight. I am strong but I am tender wise but I am tough.   And let me tell you when it comes to love I am still woman enough.  When Terry spoke with Loretta Lynn in 2010 a tribute CD had been released which featured her songs recorded by the White Stripes Steve Earle Allison Moorer Carrie Underwood Sheryl Crow Miranda Lambert and others. They started with Loretta's first recording Honky Tonk Girl and followed by the version on the tribute album performed by Lee Ann Womack.    Ever since you left me I have done nothing but wrong. Many nights I have laid awake and cried. We once were happy. My heart was in a whirl. But now I am a honkytonk girl. So turn...    So turn that jukebox way up high. And fill my glass up while I cry. I have lost everything in this world and now I am a honkytonk girl.   So we heard Loretta Lynn singing her song I am A Honky Tonk Girl and then Lee Ann Womack from the new Loretta Lynn tribute Coal Miner's Daughter. Loretta Lynn what a great pleasure to have you on the show. Thank you so much for coming.  Thank you Terry. It is really nice to be on your show.  Now did you pick the performers on the new tribute CD and did you talk with them at all about the songs?  No I did not talk to them. I just told my manager who I would like to have on the  you know the record. And the next thing I knew they were here and we did the album. We had a good time. Me and Sheryl Crow and Miranda Lambert did the video down at my house and we were there all day long so we had a good time.  Now the song we just heard  that is the first song you wrote. It was your first record released in 1960. You say you wrote it in 20 minutes on a 17 guitar that your husband bought for you...  That is true .  ...Because he thought you sang well. And you wrote a song because he told you to. Do you think you ever would have written or performed if your husband did not say that is what you should do?  No I would not have because I was too bashful. I would not get out in front of people. I would not  you know I was really bashful. And I would not  I would have never sang in front of anybody.  So when you wrote Honky Tonk Girl with absolutely no songwriting experience how did you approach writing a song?  You know I just sat down with my guitar. I was outside. In fact I was leaning up against the old toilet out there on the West Coast in Washington state.  Did you say the toilet?  The old toilet yeah.  OK.  And I sat there and wrote Honky Tonk Girl and Whispering Sea.  So what made you think of the story that you tell in Honky Tonk Girl?  Well I think I probably listened to a bunch of people you know their songs and stuff. And I figured well I can  if they can write I can too. So I just said hey I am going to tell a story. And that is what I did.  And had you hung out at honkytonks or did you know them from songs?  No. When I first started writing my husband got me a job at this little bar. And me and a steel player and my brother  he played the fiddle and sang. So we sang together. And so we really had a good time you know? And I wrote Honky Tonk Girl and Whispering Sea during that time.  So you were doing some performing?  Yeah I just had started.  I see.  In fact I had never sang in front of anybody till my husband pushed me out there you know? I would never been out and sang for anybody.  But at home you sang.  I rocked the babies to sleep. And in Kentucky when I was growing up with my sisters and brothers we all sang and rocked the babies to sleep you know? But that was about as far as we ever did you know?  So when you recorded your first single Honky Tonk Girl you were 24. You would already been married for 11 years because you got married when you were 13 and you already had four children. Do I have that right?  I had four kids.  And the twins came a little bit later.  Yeah the twins come later.  What was your life like as a wife and mother before you started recording?  It was not easy. Me and my husband both worked. I took care of the farmhouse. I cleaned and cooked for 36 ranch hands.  Wow.  And  yeah before I started singing. And so singing was easy. I thought gee whiz this is an easy job.  Wait. So you cooked and cleaned for 36 ranch hands and had four children.  Sure did. Paid the rent on the old house that we lived in. And that is what I did to make the rent yeah.  Wow.  It was not easy let me tell you. Life was hard .  So when you made your first appearance on the Opry which was the same year that you recorded Honky Tonk Girl...  Right.  ...You were not used to performing on such a prestigious stage in front of...  Oh no.  ...An audience like that. Did you know how to perform onstage in a place like the Opry?  Not really. I just got up there with my guitar and I sang. I mean I just did it just like I was doing it at home you know? I never thought about it being the Grand Ole Opry because if I had have I would not have been able to have done it. You just pretty well got to figure well you know this is something like you do every day.  Right . It is so much like what you do every day.  Yeah .  My guest is Loretta Lynn. So the next song we are going to hear is a song that you first recorded in 1966 Do not Come Home ADrinkin' . And this is a great song. We are going to hear your version. But first I want to hear the story of how you wrote it. You would already had about six years of songwriting experience behind you. You probably were no longer leaning against the toilet when you   when you wrote this.  I was probably out at the  Doo had fixed me a little writing room at this time out in Goodlettsville.  Doo's your husband  was your late husband yeah.  Doo is my husband yes. And he is the only one I have ever had. And so he fixed me this little writing room and I would go out there and I would write. And this was one of the songs that I wrote was Do not Come ADrinkin' .  And at this point did you feel like I know how to write a song?  Oh yeah. When I wrote Do not Come Home ADrinkin' I knew I could write because I would had quite a few on the charts by that time.  Now you have said that your husband is in every song that you have written in a large way or in a small way...  Still is I mean  if I write a song he is in there somewhere.  Were you thinking of him when you wrote this song?  Oh yeah.  Would he come home after drinking like that?  Well sure. If a man drinks he is going to come home drinking. He like to drink.  Was this song intended to send him a message at all?  Not really. I probably told him many times. I did not have to sing about it.   OK.  .  Well let us hear the song.  All right.  This is Do not Come Home ADrinkin' recorded in 1966 by Loretta Lynn.  Right.  And it was a No. 1 country music chart hit.    Well you thought I would be waiting up when you came home last night. You would been out with all the boys. And you ended up half tight. But liquor and love they just do not mix. Leave the bottle or me behind. And do not come home adrinking with loving on your mind. No do not come home adrinking with loving on your mind. Just stay out there on the town and see what you can find because if you want that kind of love well you do not need none of mine. So do not come home adrinking with loving on your mind.  That was Loretta Lynn recorded in 1966. And there is a new Loretta Lynn tribute CD. And on that CD that song is performed by Gretchen Wilson. Now when you started performing Patsy Cline was your mentor until she died.  But you know she had not been in the business that long when I come to Nashville. She would only been singing two or three years and  yeah.  So she must have really related to what you were going through.  Oh yeah. We talked a lot .  What were some of the things that she taught you that really helped you a lot things relating to  you know from clothing to performing style to dealing with the music industry.  Well she kind of helped me...  Yeah go ahead.  ...You know with the style and everything that I was  you know I was in blue jeans and a Tshirt or blue jeans and just a Western shirt. And she taught me a lot how to dress and...  What did she tell you about how to dress?  Well she told me to get out of the jeans you know? Of course I would wear them until we get to the radio station. Then I would get in the backseat and put on my dress. Then I would take the dress off and go back into my jeans and wait 'till the next radio station.   And then I would go back into my dress again .  My guest is Loretta Lynn. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is country music star Loretta Lynn. I want to play another song that you wrote. And this was a song that was actually pretty controversial at the time it came out. And it is called Rated 'X'.  Yeah .  And I am going to let you describe what the song's about.  Well it is about a woman that is been married and divorced. And I will let you listen to it .  OK. And what I want to do I want to go to the tribute CD. The White Stripes have a really good reworked like reinterpreted version of this.  Yeah.  And I know you have worked with Jack White before. He produced a terrific album of yours...  Oh yeah.  ...In 2004 called Van Lear Rose.  Right.  So do you want to say anything about the White Stripes version of your song?  Well I think whatever Jack does is good. I mean you cannot  I mean he is good. You have to love him. So this is good.  OK. So this is the song Loretta Lynn wrote. She recorded it in 1971. It is called Rated 'X'. And here's the White Stripes from the Loretta Lynn tribute album Coal Miner's Daughter.    Well if you have been a married woman and things did not seem to work out divorce is the key to being loose and free. But you are going to be talked about. Everybody knows that you have loved once. They think you will love again. You cannot have a male friend when you are a hasbeen of a woman you are rated X. And if you are rated X you are some kind of goal that even men turned civil try to make. But I think it is wrong to judge every picture if a cheap camera makes a mistake. So if your best friend's husband says to you that you have started looking good you should have known he would. And he would if he could. And he will if you are rated X. Well  That is the White Stripes from the new Loretta Lynn tribute album Coal Miner's Daughter. And now we were talking before about writing from a woman's point of view which Rated X most certainly is you know about what it is like to be a divorced woman when men think that you are available and try to take advantage of you and you have a reputation. So why was the song controversial?  I think it was because you know you are  been a married woman. I think when you write about it they take it to heart too you know they  people do. So I think that was it. It just starts out if you have been a married woman things did not seem to work out divorce is the key to being loose and free. So you are going to be talked about. So that is exactly how it is you know?  When you called it Rated 'X' I mean do you think some people thought oh this is going to be a very provocative sexy ...  Oh yeah. You know a lot of the...  ...Song because it is called Rated 'X'.  Yeah. A lot of the disc jockeys you know banned it before they even listened to it. And you know after it got way up in the charts and they all flipped the record started listening to it and playing it. But you know another old dirty record from Loretta Lynn.   Now something that was even more controversial than Rated 'X' was your song The Pill which is about...  That is right The Pill and One's On The Way. And you know we have a lot of them that says it like it is. So that is  really I guess we are not to talk about the way it is .  This has some lyrics that I think you know really were controversial in some country music circles at the time. And the lyrics include this old maternity dress I have got is going in the garbage. And you have set this chicken your last time because now I have got the pill.  Yeah.  I am tearing down this brooder house because now I have got the pill.  Yeah.  So the song sounds autobiographical in some ways. I am not saying that you are necessarily angry in the way that the character in the song is angry. But you had six children.  I had six kids. I lost three.  You lost three.  I lost three.  Oh I am sorry. I did not realize that.  I was about five and six  well it was not  you know I lost them before they were born.  Oh. So you had six and lost three others? Wow.  Yeah. So...  That is a lot of pregnancies.  Yeah.   Yeah. Right. OK. Stating the obvious. Did you share the song's anger?  Well I sure did not like it when I got pregnant a few times you know? It is hard for a woman to have so many kids. And well at the time I guess I had four. And then I got pregnant and had  you know with the twins. But yeah I was a little angry.  Let us hear it. And this was released in 1975...  All right.  ...Recorded in 1972. This is Loretta Lynn The Pill.    You wined me and dined me when I was your girl promised if I would be your wife you would show me the world. But all I have seen of this old world is a bed and a doctor bill. I am tearing down your brooder house 'ecause now I have got the pill. All these years I have stayed at home while you had all your fun. And every year that is gone by another baby's come. There is going to be some changes made right here on nursery hill. You have set this chicken your last time 'ecause now I have got the pill. This old maternity dress I have got is going in the garbage. The clothes I am wearing from now on will not take up so much yardage. Miniskirts hot pants and a few little fancy frills  yeah I am making up for all those years since I have got the pill.  That is Loretta Lynn recorded in 1972. It was released in '75. The song is called The Pill. Now you have said that you never even used the pill as birth control .  Well if I would had it I would have used it. At the time I...  I see. Right.  Yeah because even  back when I was having all the kids we did not have birth control pills. Or if they did I did not know anything about them.  Well so you write that there is a lot you did not know about that you were 13 when you got married in 1947. And you say you did not even...  Did not know anything about sex either did I ?  No. You said you did not know anything about sex...  No.  ...Or even pregnancy. You say when you got pregnant you did not even know the word. Is that right?  Well I do not know. I guess we just called it having a baby. We did not call it pregnant. Back in Butcher Holler there was a lot of things we did not know...  So...  ...A lot of things they still do not know back there .  When I think of you getting married at 13 it just seems so young.  Well it is. It is way too young you know?  What made you think that you were ready?  Do not ask me. I was 13.   So when you got married about a year afterwards you moved to the state of Washington.  Washington state.  Far away. Did you feel lost for a while when you moved away from...  Oh yeah.  ...Your family and everything you knew?  Yeah. Daddy said he told me he would not take you away where I could not see you . And here I was 3000 miles away two months after he married me.  Wow. I was thinking what it must have been like for you to be you know so far away from home at the age of like 13 14 15...  Yeah.  ...Having children already. You probably had no idea you were ever going to become famous.  No. Never. And I still do not . I am not famous. I am just me.  Loretta Lynn speaking with Terry Gross in 2010. She has a new CD. And a new updated version of her memoir has just been published. We will hear more of their conversation after a break. Also Justin Chang reviews the new film The Father starring Anthony Hopkins. And Lloyd Schwartz reviews a new PBS American Masters documentary on Marian Anderson. I am Dave Davies. And this is FRESH AIR.    His sweet caress his tenderness his warm embrace his gentle face  I love him so. I will let him know...   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. We are listening to Terry's interview with country music star Loretta Lynn. Her life story was made famous in the 1980 film Coal Miner's Daughter starring Sissy Spacek as Lynn. An updated and expanded version of her memoir Coal Miner's Daughter has been released. And she has a new CD which celebrates the women of country music. Terry spoke with Loretta Lynn in 2010.   Now there is one kind of song you have written that I have not asked you about and that is the I am so angry you would better be careful because if you take my man I will actually hit you kind of song.  Is that Fist City?  I am thinking Fist City yeah.  Oh.  And it is not exactly a sisterhood is powerful kind of song. The lyric is if you do not want to go to Fist City you would better detour around my town or else I will grab you by the hair of your head and lift you off the ground .  Yeah.  So tell me about writing a lyric like this where I mean it is like real physical anger.  Well there was an old gal that tried to take Doolittle away from me.  There was somebody who tried that?  Yeah there was somebody. And  but she did not make it.  Did you threaten her?  Yes I did  with more than a song.  And not in rhyme .  That is right. It did not rhyme at all .  What did you tell her?  I just told her back off. She is playing with the wrong deal.  You know what is amazing to me? Like why would somebody think that they could compete with you? And also maybe I am speaking out of turn here but like why would your husband...  Well that is how women take your husband away from you all the time. So they all think that you know.  Right.  Are you married?  Uhhuh.  Oh Lord you will kill us. You will kill us.   Do not let him hear this.   We are OK.  OK.   So was it right after this incident that you sat down and wrote the song?  You know I do not know exactly when I wrote the song but I am pretty sure that I had some things in mind when I wrote it. I will not talk about it.  That is fine. But do you think she knew that it was about her?  I just imagine.  You imagine that she did?  I imagine she did.  OK.  I probably told her.  Oh nice.  Yeah.  OK. So this is Fist City. This is Loretta Lynn one of her many hits.    You have been making your brags around town that you have been loving my man. But the man I love when he picks up trash he puts it in a garbage can. And that is what you look like to me. And what I see's a pity. You better close your face and stay out of my way if you do not want to go to Fist City. If you do not want to go to Fist City you better detour around my town 'ecause I will grab you by the hair of the head. And I will lift you off of the ground. I am not saying my baby's a saint 'ecause he as not and that he will not cat around with a kitty. I am here to tell you gal to lay off of my man if you do not want to go to Fist City. Come on and tell me what you told my friends if you think you are brave enough. And I will show you what a real woman is since you think you are hot stuff. You will bite off more than you can chew if you get too cute or witty. You better move your feet if you do not want to eat a meal that is called Fist City. If you do not want to go to...  So that was Fist City featuring Loretta Lynn. I want to play another song and this is something more recent than what we have been hearing. This is your collaboration with Jack White. He produced an album of yours in 2004 Van Lear Rose. How did you meet?  I went to Detroit to work. And Jack White came to see me. And of course he told me about when he was little he was about 9 years old when Coal Miner's Daughter came out. He stayed in the theater the whole time all day long and watched Coal Miner's Daughter over and over and over. So when he got a chance to work with me he says  I told him I had to go home because I said I have got to hurry because I got to record tomorrow. He says well how about me coming and being the producer? I said well why not? That is how we got together. So he was in Nashville by the time I was. And we recorded. And that is how we started. He lives here in Nashville now.  Oh I did not realize that.  Oh yeah. He lives here in Nashville. So yeah.  So you are good friends now?  Oh yeah.  That is great.  We have always been good friends ever since we did the album.  The track I want to play is called Miss Being Mrs. You wrote all the songs on this album. And this is one of my favorites. I like the song a lot. And also I just love how stripped down it is. It is just you and a guitar. Is that Jack White on guitar?  That is Jack White.  OK. Do you want to say anything about writing the song?  Well you know I do not like to talk about the way I write songs. I just let people hear what I am talking about.  All right. Good enough. So this is Loretta Lynn from the 2004 album Van Lear Rose produced by Jack White who is accompanying her on guitar.    I lie here all alone in my bed of memories. I am dreaming of your sweet kiss. Oh how you loved on me. I can almost feel you with me. Here in this blue moon light oh I miss being Mrs. tonight. Like so many other hearts mine wanted to be free. I have been held here every day since you have been away from me. In the mirror it is such a hurtful sight. Oh I miss being Mrs. tonight. Oh I miss being Mrs. tonight. Oh and how I love them loving arms that once held me so tight. I took off my wedding band and put it on my right hand. I miss being Mrs. tonight.  That is my guest Loretta Lynn with Jack White on guitar from the album Van Lear Rose which  Jack White produced of Loretta Lynn songs in 2004. Your husband who we have spoken a little bit about died in 1996. And you did not perform for a while after that. How has your life changed since he is been gone?  Well not for the better. I mean I miss him so much you know. He kind of kept things going like me recording. And he would always tell me how good I was you know. And that always helped a lot. And he would say you know we need to get a new record out or whatever. He always kept me moving. And it had not been for him I would not have been singing period because he thought I could sing. And that is  he put me to work.  You know as so many people are I think kind of baffled a little bit by the relationship because it seems in some ways to have been a very rocky relationship and at the same time you stayed with him throughout.  Oh we had a  I think we had a relationship. We fought one day and we would love the next. So I mean that  to me that is a good relationship. If you cannot fight and if you cannot tell each other what you think why your relationship as not much anyway.  You do not need him anymore to tell him you are a good singer right? I mean you know that right?  Well. I do not know about that but I try.  It is really been great to talk with you. Thank you so very much.  Been nice to talk to you honey.  Loretta Lynn speaking with Terry Gross in 2010. Lynn has a new album Still Woman Enough. And a new expanded and updated version of her 1976 memoir Coal Miner's Daughter has been released. Coming up Justin Chang reviews the new film The Father starring Anthony Hopkins. This is FRESH AIR.  The audio of this interview originally broadcast in 2010 says that Loretta Lynn was married at age 13 as Lynn wrote in her memoir Coal Miner's Daughter. However in 2012 The Associated Press reported that Lynn is three years older than she had stated and married a few months before she turned 16.  