 My calculation is moving more and more towards staying home because I do not - I do not know what the right thing to do is. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. And this is a listener who emailed us last week. Shes 32 and lives alone in Virginia. And shes been sober for a little less than a year and a half.  One of our like cliche slogans that you hear people say and - was one of the songs in Frozen 2 - is like Do the Next Right Thing. Right?  I love that song!  Its so good! And you know Kristen Bell's husband is in recovery and I was like they totally stole one of our things.  Do the next right thing! Im not kidding. I really do love this song. And after two weeks at home with my daughters I have been hearing a lot of it. Anyway weve been hearing a lot from you about some of the challenges of being forced to stay home particularly for those of you who are in recovery or are sober. So I wanted to talk with this listener about that. Her job is in social services and she didnt want to use her real name.  We can do Chloe. It is the name I used to give guys I did not want to talk to at bars when I was still drinking.   Regular 12-step meetings helped Chloe stop drinking. But that routine along with everything else is in flux. Addiction thrives in isolation she wrote in her email to us. For some of us being around people on the regular is the thing that keeps us alive. Last week I gave Chloe a call from my new makeshift studio in my back bedroom.  So if you hear anything that does not sound like it would regularly happen in a radio studio it is because I am at home.  Sure! Sheltering in place.  Sheltering in place. I am so I want to talk to you about your email. But first I want to understand - so you are you are in Virginia right now. How much are you staying at home right now?  I am staying at home as much as possible. If I need to go to the grocery store I will go to the grocery store and things like that. I am going for a lot of walks outside when the weather is nice and warm but -  Yeah. Before you were spending most of your time at home how often were you going to meetings?  Depending on how difficult things were in my life at that time anywhere from twice a day to three times a week four times a week.  Yeah and what is happened since you are spending time mostly at home? Have you noticed that your community hasyour recovery community is sort of scattered and it is trying to figure out other ways of staying in touch?  So you know a lot of recovery groups are held in hospitals or in churches and where I am those things are closing down.  Yeah.  So a lot of groups have been asked you know have lost their place to meet. You know I know some groups are moving outside but for me personally it is really balancing the extreme fear of isolationwhat isolation has meant for me and can mean for mewith a sense of responsibility to other people who are you know are 30 days into this process when your brain is still you know going crazy and screaming at you all the time and who are craving that in-person interaction so badlywith my you know concern about spreading virus that can turn fatal. Which one do I prioritize? And it is really hard.  What have you noticed about - like how are you staying in touch since you have been spending more time at home?  So I went to a meeting yesterday. I went to actually two different kinds of meetings yesterday. One was a place that was physical where I was there and that was a really hard decision for me to make to go. I was really glad that I was there in spite of the amount of guilt that I felt throughout the rest of the day. Kind of questioning my decision because there were a lot of people in that room who talked about how much more afraid they are of their addiction then they are of coronavirus. And so I did that and then I also did an online meeting yesterday night and they were really really different experiences but they both gave me something. I was glad I did both of them and showed up for both of those things. But I would say that it is bringing me back to early recovery in a way that I was not expecting. Because I have to think about the things that keep me sober for like today. For right now. Because like we have no idea what tomorrow is going to look like and that is always true. But it is particularly evident to me right now.  Yeah. And all of the sort of systems that you have been developing over the past 500 plus days are in flux.  Right so you know it is like I have I have my things I do. I talk on the phone a lot. You know I still have to work which feels a little unreasonable in some ways to try to get the same amount of things done. But I still have to do all the same things. And so yeah it is just it is changing all the time.  What was the physical space of the meeting? Did you notice were chairs further apart than usual? Were people not touching in the way that they usually do when they greet each other? What was different in the physical meeting?  Yeah some things were exactly the same. It is really hard to get people who are in recovery to give up coffee. And so you know they had disposable coffee cups but were still serving coffee. I was like So you are all your all touching the same coffee pot. How is that better? But the chairs were a little further apart. The meeting was a lot smaller. But it was you know the people who are there I felt like probably really were afraid of needed to be there so.  What is different about being in the same space physically with people compared to a virtual meeting where you are coming and gathering intentionally but notbut online?  I mean the first thing that comes to mind is - the difference between those things. It is just like technology is annoying. Like impossible. It is constantly breaking up and people are unmuting themselves and so there is that it is aggravating. But you know people drive you crazy in person too. Because they are like getting up and walking around or clearing their throat really loud spilling coffee everywhere like eight times and like cursing loudly under their breath. And you know people are aggravating everywhere and that is I know that that is about me on my inside right? More than it is on the outside. But I do not feel as connected to other people through a screen.  Mmhm. Does that feel - is there something like is it harder to compartmentalize when you are living at home and you are having a work call and then you are having a call with somebody who is in recovery with you? Like is there something that feels more...I do not know weird about that?  Um I do not know if it is harder to compartmentalize it. Maybe it is. I have not actually thought about that before. But I think what is hard I guess about it for me is that people in my life know that I live alone. But they may not know that I live alone and am in recovery and how important social interaction is and recovery communities are to so many people's recovery. And so I think there is - it reminds me of kind of that pain that I felt before I got sober. Where I really wanted people to see and understand how hard it was and somebody to see Oh she is really struggling. Maybe she needs help and offer help. And fortunately I am familiar with that feeling. I have done this before and I can say oh I know that. I am I am sitting here quietly like a good girl hoping somebody will intuit that I am in a lot of pain and will know and will call or will say the thing or will ask me if I need help. And I have learned through experience that you have to raise your own hand and say Excuse me. I am in a lot of pain right now.  And when you say - when you are raising your hand right now what does that look like?  Calling people and saying you know I am scared or I am lonely or I am having this feeling. Texting people. Being able to say out loud I feel lonely is hard. I do not like saying it to you right now. It is very uncomfortable. But I know that people feel lonely all the time and if we do not acknowledge it then we cannot move through it. You know people who have been doing this for longer than I have talked about you know not putting your head down and running through the things that you are afraid of. But standing up and you know looking at the thing and walking through your fears.  Do you think that being in recovery has helped you? Like do you feel like you are - you are armed with more tools than people who have not had the experience of going through recovery of dealing with this time?  Maybe.  I do not want to assume what anybody has or has not - does or does not have but I have had to practice so many things that are uncomfortable for me around reaching out to people I do not know very well. Calling people and checking in on them. And also just building community which is something that I find fascinating how people successfully build good communities that I think I just maybe practiced it more then some folks have.  Yeah well you have had the experience of having a lot fall away you know.  Yeah.  And then you have had to like you know sometimes people build community because of - just it just happened spontaneously but you have had the experience of having to really intentionally figure out how to communicate ask for help lend help in ways that I think is really useful right now. Because we are not just going to run into each other you know  Right. And I think the thing for me that is useful to folks who are in recovery and out of recovery is that this does not come easy for most people you know reaching out to people calling people that you do not normally talk to that is not comfortable or easy. It was not comfortable or easy for me. But to know that you know calling other people and asking them about their day or telling them about your day or talking about really anything other than the coronavirus or listening to them talk about the coronavirus all of those things. You can just practice that stuff. Anybody can do it. It is not you know it is not some kind of given talent. It is just - it is just practice. Thats a listener were calling Chloe. Before we got off the phone together she wanted to tell me one more thing...about an episode we did years ago with married musicians Jason Isbell and Amanda Shires.  I used that podcast with my clients.  Oh you did!  I did.  That is really beautiful.  I did and it really helped them and it really helped me. In that conversation Jason and I talked about his sobriety and coming up I check in with him about how he and his family are handling isolationand what music theyre listening to.   Hello?  Hi Jason its Anna Sale.  How are you?  Im okay how are you?  Im doing fine just fine today. When I talked with musician Jason Isbell last Friday hed been self-quarantining at his home outside Nashville with his wife Amanda Shires their four-year-old daughter and some family friends for about the past week.  We have got three uh extra folks and a dog in here. They had had a bunch of tornado damage in their neighborhood. So we just moved them into the house for the time being. Yeah.  Well you mentioned the tornado. I have been thinking about that. Like you are in Nashville. Tennessee is just still reeling from those tornadoes earlier this month. I mean how what have you noticed about how that is changed with people not being able to be as physically together? That recovery?  Um you know it it I do kind of feel like the efforts for tornado recovery and dealing with that um kinda got swept under the rug. You know and that is just the way things are. It is not like we can change that. It is just sort of disaster piled on top of disaster for those folks. You know the last show that I played um before the virus knocked everything out was a benefit show for tornado victims. You know we raised a lot of money but there were three or four more scheduled that week that got canceled. So that was yeah I mean seeing the quarantine cancel a bunch of tornado relief shows was very sad for me.  Yeah. Can you give me like a visual of what you all have done with these three extra people in dog in your house? Like what have you all been doing to pass the time?   Well last night Amanda cooked a big dinner. Luckily we had parsley. The parsley is starting to come up and it is usable. We have a big garden outside. So she went out and got some herbs from the garden and and we found a couple of lemons and I grated up a bunch of cheese and she cooked a big dinner. Um she has like a pasta dish that has lemon it which I never would have thought would work but it is it is amazing. She is she is a really good cook. Amanda was supposed to be out on tour right now. Jason also had some tour dates coming up this month too. Theyve both got new music to promote. Jason has a whole new album coming out in May. And now like a lot of musicians their tours and revenue streams are really up in the air.  You know I am really lucky in my situation because I have a little bit of a safety net and you know missing out on a few shows or having to reschedule a few shows or even a lot of shows is not going to cripple me financially. But everybody at the level right under me uh is suffering right now because they you know they do not have the same kind of safety net. So um you know I am trying to not focus on my own issues with having shows canceled and moved and trying to think about the folks who really seriously cannot afford to miss work right now.  You just said you are trying to think about what other people need but one thing I am wondering for you um have you noticed at all how like does changing up your routine suddenlydoes it make you think about your recovery and sobriety in a different way for you? That is something we have heard about from listeners.  Yes. Well I I have been thinking about that. But um just for me personally you know I am used to changing up my routine. And I have been doing that for the last 20 years of my life. You know going through periods of time where I am on the road and I am around people and then coming home and being somewhat isolated. Um but I mean that is a huge it is a huge change. Um. You know when you go out on tour and you are playing for a few thousand people every night and then you come home and you are vacuuming you know.  So I personally am you know I have been working a long time on adapting to those changes. And as a sober person um that was one of the biggest challenges for me and and one of the real focal points of me getting sober and staying that way.  When you have since you have had so many years practicing this like when you when you have those very quick changes in momentum and um being surrounded by people and then all of a sudden not did you find anything in particular that helped you with those transitions?  Yeah I mean establishing rituals in both um settings for me really. You know um when I am on the road if I do essentially the same things throughout the day. And then when I am home there are different things but they are also scheduled at essentially the same times. Um a big thing for me was just making sure I got exercise every day. That was that was a huge part of recovery and it was a huge part of you know acclimating myself to the different types of life that I have. Um you know whether I am on the road or home I try to take a couple hours every single day to work out and and keep myself active. You know I am also I am a man in my forties so I am going to turn into an apple on a couple of popsicle sticks if I am not careful.   Um the other question I was thinking about for you like does being home and off the road like do you you know you have this new album coming out you have just you are releasing new singles so you are in this period of new music coming out into the world but being home do you feel a sort of pressure to be writing new songs because you have this space and time?  No I do not I do not feel a pressure. That particular that very specific pressure is something that I that is like it is like tying my shoes. You know it is something I have been dealing with for a long long time. Um because as a songwriter as somebody who could essentially sit down and start working at any point you are never you are never out of the office. So I had to teach myself early on to not go crazy thinking I could be writing a song right now. Um with that being said I you know I always feel better after I have written one. So when I have the time and the opportunity and uh can actually sit down and give in to that I try to do it.  What music have you been listening to around the house these last few days?  My my wife keeps me very current. Um uh so she listens to new music. New Weeknd is big today. And last night it was uh Clairo. That Clairo album is really really good. And Lennon Stella um her newest work is is really really good pop music. The songs that FINNEAS has or at least uh from his solo project are really good. Um and then I when nobody else is around I go back and listen to old RB music called all day um or blues.  Like who?  Yesterday I listened to Freddie King lot. And you know Otis Redding and and Aretha and The Staple Singers and Albert King. I think that that Born Under A Bad Sign record is probably one of my five favorite albums ever made.  Hm. I have been listening a lot to your two new songs and I just like - I am just soBe Afraid and What Have I Done To Help and listening to them when I am stuck in my house and thinking about the way the world is just uncertain and wild and who knows what tomorrow's gonna bringlike they are pretty appropriate anthems for this moment. And I just wonder how you think about that?  Like you it reminds me that the world is always always in a mess. Because like I remember going to see John Prine. You know we Amanda and I have played with John many times and seen a lot of his shows. One night he was playing here in Nashville at a little small club um as part of the uh AmericanaFest thing a few years ago. And he was playing his first album um his debut album all the way through and he had to go on eBay and buy a copy of it on vinyl just so he could set it up in front of him on the stage. And he remarked on that I think he had to pay like 70 or 80 bucks for it he was shocked.  But uh when he got to Sam Stone the song about the Vietnam war you know. He said I thought that this was going to be over with you know this song is this came out in '71. You know I thought that when I wrote it in '70 that the war was about to end and that people would look back on this song with nostalgia. But you know he was saying he did not realize that that that the the the theme of that song and the meaning behind it would be something that was so important to people for so long. And and I think partially as a songwriter especially somebody who writes protest music or music that is a call to action. I think there is a big part of you that hopes that the world will not need those songs in six months or in a year. But the truth of it is you know those songs wind up meaning things to people for a long time because we are not really doing a great job of sorting out our problems.  Hm. Well those are all my questions for you. It is always so fun to talk to you. I will be thinking about apples on popsicle sticks for a long time.   Oh apples on popsicle sticks. Yeah. Thats Jason Isbell. And this is one of his new singles called Whatve I Done To Help. Its off of his forthcoming album called Reunions. And while he and Amanda are quarantined at home theyre going to be performing live on the internet from their barn at 5 pm Central. You can watch those daily performances on YouTube. Just search for Amanda Shires. And were going to refeed my 2014 conversation with Jason and Amanda tomorrow. In the show notes there and here well have a link to a Spotify playlist of the songs theyre listening to at homeplus The Next Right Thing from Frozen 2 because we may all need that song right now. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.