 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies filling in for Terry Gross. Our guest today tells the story of a son who followed his tough and overbearing dad into the family business then eventually found his father so cruel and abusive that to save himself he had to betray his family and leave the enterprise. What makes Frank Calabrese Jr.'s story so unique is that his family business was organized crime and his path to freedom was informing on his father to the FBI. Calabrese's father Frank Calabrese Sr. was a member of the Chicago crime organization known as The Outfit a syndicate once ruled by the legendary Al Capone. The elder Calabrese ran loansharking and gambling operations and became a goto hit man when The Outfit needed somebody eliminated. Frank Calabrese Jr.'s decision to inform on his father and others led to one of the biggest mob prosecutions in American history in 2005. He tells his story in a book called Operation Family Secrets How a Mobster's Son and the FBI Brought Down Chicago's Murderous Crime Family written with Keith and Kent Zimmerman and Paul Pompian. It is out in paperback next week. Calabrese gives an insider's account of life in the mob including events dramatized in the Martin Scorsese film Casino. I spoke to Frank Calabrese Jr. last March and he began by talking about his childhood in a crime family. Well Frank Calabrese welcome to FRESH AIR. You write that you never saw your father kill anybody.  Correct.  But you describe a moment once when he came back to the house just looking different with the adrenaline pumping. Tell us about that moment if you remember it.  I do. I do remember that. We lived in a threeflat that we called the compound and one night he came home and I will never forget this and he used to like to talk in the bathroom with the fan on and the water running in case there was any kind of bugs in the house. And I could just see his adrenaline going. And he was telling me  he was schooling me and he was telling me that they killed somebody tonight. And you know and the reason they did it was because the guy was dealing drugs and he was disobeying his boss. And I remember looking at him while he is telling me this and I am kind of shocked because I am like OK you know he is telling me this. And I am thinking is this what you know other kids hear when they come home and their father comes home from work? So you know it kind of stuck with me all my life.  And how old were you then? Do you know?  I was young. I was young. I want to say in my late teens.  And what was your reaction to the thought that your dad could kill somebody? Do you remember?  Well being around him more and more and slowly  see that is where my father was a master manipulator  was that you know he just did not come out of nowhere. He just kept slowly  you know he  while I was watching his reactions he was probably watching my reactions too. And he always made it sound like you know he was teaching me that  from right from wrong and this is what you do. And your dad does not do anything wrong but this is the way life is. So when I am looking at him I am having mixed feelings because I am like well if my dad is telling me this and he is doing it there must be something right about it.  So when you got a little older and your father brought you into the family business one of the first things you did involved pornography stores that your dad and his brothers were running. What did you do?  I assisted my uncles in the operation of the stores collecting the money.  Quarters right lots of quarters?  Yeah lots of quarters and then there were cash too from magazine sales and VHS sales.  This was the days before you know the Internet porn and a lot of video porn.  Correct correct. At first  I started counting away from the stores at first. My uncles would bring the quarters and I would be in a room and at wherever we had a place at where we could count the quarters. And that was all I did at first. Then I started going with my uncle once a week my Uncle Nick and we would go down there and I would start collecting the quarters with him.  Now these are quarters from little  what arcades that would show a brief pornographic film?  Yeah they were  correct. They were booths. So we would go in there and it was really  it opened my eyes to a world that was totally different than my normal everyday life. Some of the things that went on in those booths and in those back rooms were kind of gross. So yeah I was introduced to all this at a real young age you know and  but then again you know hey my father's telling me to do it and you know I am starting to buy into it more and more. At that same time I am starting to spend more time with my father and he is starting to pick up the pace a little bit on grooming me.  Now you eventually get into the family's loansharking business. He was part of this crew  he had this crew. Tell us how the loansharking worked and what your role was.  Well basically I started out as my father's righthand man and basically what I was doing is I would sit to my father's side and he was showing me how to do the books. And it was ironic because I was not real good in math in school. And all the math I learned were from percentages from the juice loans. And to this day I still laugh about it because that is how I got my math education.  Now you just used a term juice loans. Explain that.  OK. In Chicago we call it juice loans and a juice loan is a highinterest loan that is not through a bank or a credit card company. And you would get it on the street preferably from somebody like my dad or somebody from organized crime. In New York and some of the East Coast cities they would call it vig. So it is just a term that we use for juice.  So who were your customers? Who would borrow from you?  You know we had all kinds of customers. A lot of customers were degenerate gamblers that could not pay after they gambled that week. So we would put them on juice right away. Or they were businessmen that needed some quick cash and did not want to show it. We used to have hundreds of guys on juice some for as little as 100 some for as much as 100000. And my father was  he taught me a lot of good stuff in that business because a lot of people would say Well if you do not pay you are going to get your legs broken. And my father did not look at it like that. What he looked at was if I break the guy's leg and it is going to scare him how is he going to pay? So he would always figure out different ways and show us different ways to present to the juice loan customer if he could not pay. Say a guy had 1000 and he was supposed to pay 50 a week and he could not he could not pay that 50 a week  and it was only interest. Well what we would do is  my father would double the amount that he owes to 2000 and he tells him OK you pay 10 a week but you have got to pay every week and that whole 10 comes off the 2000. So he would never try to back guys in a corner if he could.  But he is keeping them on the hook and in the end making a lot more money.  Exactly.  Right. But in the end you do have to collect from people who are in a jam. What do you do then?  The biggest problem where violence would come in is because you would work with people and they would constantly lie to you or constantly try to avoid you. And then that is when you either had to send them some kind of signal to let them know that they better pay or they are going to have a problem  you know if it was physical to come and give them a crack in the head; you know rough them up a little; sometimes if you had to take a baseball bat and hit them in the leg sometimes just maybe throwing some dead rats or something on their car. So there are always ways to show the person that they would better start paying.  Now was that your role or did you just watch other folks do that?  I had a role in that also.  Your father's enterprise was really profitable. Talk about some of the ways that he hid his assets stashed money.  He had many hiding places. He had legitimate bank accounts under other family members' names. And what he would do is he would let them keep the interest. He had safety deposit boxes full of cash. We had cash stashed in walls in 55gallon barrels in some garages. Anywhere you could think of he would store cash and he never liked to store it all in one spot.  Your father's crew did not just you know run loansharking and gambling. They also became a hit squad for people in The Outfit in organized crime who needed somebody taken care of. And there were a lot of cases that you describe. But let us just talk about one of them.  The boss's house got robbed. And so what the boss wanted is he wanted these crews to go around and grab all these thieves and torture them torture them and leave them to be found so that the message would get out and they...  Now these were thieves but they were stealing from the wrong people in other words.  They stole from the wrong person yeah and a lot of people disagreed with the boss's decision because it seemed like it was going to  especially my father  because it seemed like it was going to be bad for business all these bodies laying all over. It was going to bring in a lot of heat from the law enforcement. So basically what they did was they tortured these guys. They cut their throats. They beat them up. And they did that after or during  they were questioning them to find out exactly who was involved even though they already had an idea of who was involved. So they were brutally tortured and killed.  And what was your father and your Uncle Nick's role in this one crime?  Beat them strangled them and then my father  my father's way of making sure somebody was dead was that he would cut their throat from ear to ear. And I do believe in this one I believe that he might have made my uncle do this one  the cutting of the throat. He did make my uncle do it in one of them. But that was my father's way. My father was a handson guy and you know he loved to strangle people and he loved knives. He had a whole big collection of knives. And to make sure they were dead he would cut them from ear to ear.  Now in the book you describe quite a few cases where they were involved in murders like these. In fact I think you use the term at some point Calabrese necktie for the strangling and then the throatslitting.  Correct correct.  Did you know about this? Did they talk about them at the time?  Some I did know about and some I did not know about until later on OK. A handful of the murders I was actually you know deep in at that time at that time so they  my uncle and my father would talk in front of me and you know I was in on everything as far as the conversations and stuff. The involvement  I was not involved directly because they did not want me to get involved with The Outfit. They only wanted me to be involved with the family our family. So if there was something that was going to be done for our family I was going to be involved. If it was something done for The Outfit I would just stay in the background.  Our guest is Frank Calabrese. His book is Operation Family Secrets. We will talk more after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us our guest is Frank Calabrese. He was part of an organized crime family in Chicago. He wrote a book about informing on his father and others. It is called Operation Family Secrets How a Mobster's Son and the FBI Brought Down Chicago's Murderous Crime Family. You know it is  you are probably a free man today because you never actually killed anybody but there was this one occasion where it could have happened John Big Stoop Fecarotta. Do I have the name right?  Correct.  Yeah. Now why was that different? What was your role there?  OK I was  I had bought into everything at that point. And you know I was ready to follow my father no matter what. Whatever he said I would do. Why I was so gungho about this one is because John had in one of the other murders in Las Vegas the murder that they showed in Casino with the two Spilotro brothers my uncle was out there part of the crew. And he would come back and report to myself and my father to let us know what was going on while they were trying to get Spilotro and kill him. And John Fecarotta was breaking all the rules while he was out there. He was in charge. He brought his girlfriend. He was spending a lot of the money that they were sending out there. He was not supposed to. But the big thing he did was he had my uncle sign a gambling slip. And that was a big nono because now it shows they are all out there under fictitious names and my uncle signs under his real name.  Yeah this is your Uncle Nick who...  My Uncle Nick.  Your father's brother. And you say he signed a slip. You mean Fecarotta was out there; he had some actual legitimate gambling winnings; and he wanted your Uncle Nick to sign the slip for the IRS. Is that what we are talking about?  Correct correct. You had to sign to collect so he needed my uncle's signature.  Not something you would want to be doing if you were out there doing mob business.  Correct. And the fact that he made my uncle sign it he had no regard for my uncle's safety. He just did not care. He was only concerned about himself. And then he started to go and he started to do what we would call arm and threaten which you know you basically threaten some of our juice loan customers to start paying him  and screw us. So when my father and my uncle found out about this for me I was so gungho because this is family. I do not care about organized crime. I do not care about that other stuff. But this is family. The problem was John was an oldtime gangster. And he was smart. He carried a gun on him all the time and he could catch what we call plays. If somebody was up to something he could catch on real quick. So my father knew that John Fecarotta had a sense that the bosses were mad at him and everybody was mad at him. So he had his guard up. And if my father and my uncle were in the car together he knew that there would be some kind of play. So it had to be done without my father being there. And so while we were practicing and coming up with the way it was going to go it was going to go  my father was playing John Fecarotta in our little role and my uncle was sitting in the passenger seat. And the idea was that he had a bag that looked like it was going to be explosives that we were going to send a message to a dentist. And then I would sit in the backseat and then I would shoot John in the back of the head.  So they were setting this up so that you were going to actually shoot this guy right?  I was going to shoot this guy. And then my uncle kept trying to tell me that  not in front of my father but away from my father  that you know you cannot do this. I mean basically he saved my life. You cannot do this. If you do this you are going to cross that line. There is no crossing back. And the line he is talking about is the line that now I am in debt to my dad because now I have performed a murder and he owns me. I cannot say one day ah I do not want to do this no more. So there is no ceremony involved or anything. It is just the fact that I cross that line with him. My uncle was not as fortunate enough to be slowly groomed as I was with my dad because as soon as my uncle got involved with my dad they committed a murder immediately. And so he was in. And he kept wanting to pull away because he did not like what he was seeing either. But he was in on two ends. He was in with my dad plus he was a made man in The Outfit now. So you know he was trying to help me get away from it.  So they want to get this guy Fecarotta and the drill is Uncle Nick is going to be in the front seat you are going to be in the back with the gun. So how did it actually happen?  Well what had happened was my uncle says you know I can do this. I can do this. I do not need Frankie in the car. I can do this. And my father somehow agreed with it and  which is a big nono because of the fact that you know it would have been much easier with two guys. And if there was a problem you have two guys against one instead of one. And so there was a problem. It did get  John Fecarotta caught the play when my uncle pulled the gun and my uncle wound up shooting himself in the arm in the process of shooting John. John jumped out of the car ran in the street and the kind of guys that my father and my uncle were is that you know my uncle knew he had to finish this. And it was kind of almost like a scene out of Scarface where Al Pacino runs out in the middle of the street to gun down the guy in the head down in Miami. My uncle did the same thing. He crossed the street walked up to him put a bullet in his head to make sure he was dead right in front of  it was ironic because he did it right in front of the bingo hall where my grandmother played bingo all the time.  Now throughout all these years you had a difficult relationship with your father and wanted to break away at times. And there was one moment that you describe when you overslept and missed a meeting with your father. How did he react to that?  Well my father used to like to do all our meetings under cover of darkness and in the middle of the night. And so when we did this what he would do is we would set this meeting up days before and he would pick me up. I would walk out the back of my house. I would walk down a couple of alleys and he would be sitting on a side street. I would get in his car. We would take off drive the car park a few blocks from the office where we were going and then we would go down in the basement and we would do all our book work for the week. Well I happened to oversleep. And so I got up and I hurried up and instead of not going I just decided OK let me get there. I am just going to go through all the motions that I would if I was with my dad  but by myself. So I go through all the motions park away walk. I am coming down into the basement and you know I look at my dad. I am like Hey Dad sorry I overslept. And he got up and all of a sudden he started punching me with lefts and rights to the head  knocking me to the ground. I mean all this because I was a few minutes late. And my uncle's looking at him and he could not believe what he was doing either. You know in my father's eyes he is got that glassy thousandyard killer look in his eyes. And he is just beating the crap out of me. I could tell he cannot control himself. And I am not feeling it physically because I am so numb mentally that my father's beating me up for being 15 minutes late. All of a sudden he catches himself. He catches his  and he says Here go wipe your face. Come on let us get on with this. Well in the meantime my uncle ran out of the basement while he was beating me and he called my father. You know he goes You are a nut job. I cannot believe you are beating him  and took off out of the basement. But these were the multiple personalities that my father had. I mean he could not control his temper. And for the littlest things he would just beat you and then two minutes later he is fine. He did it another time to me in front of my daughter. And this is when it really started bothering me because now I am an adult. Now I am an adult and I am risking my life for him and I am giving him my life and he is still going to beat me. I am not raising my hands to him. And I am doing whatever he asks me to do. And one day whenever  we had pagers back then. There were no cell phones yet. And he paged me and I was supposed to call him. But when you call him you are supposed to go out of your house go so many blocks find a phone and call him. Well I was babysitting and my daughter was young and I am home alone. So I cannot call him. So he comes to the house and he thinks I am avoiding him. So when I open the door he cracks me in the face. Well he did not see my daughter standing next to me. And it just made me so angry. And he looks down. He is like  oh laugh like it is a joke. Laugh like it is a joke. Your daughter's standing there. It just  you know after a while he could not control his hands. He could not control the beatings.  When you look at other memoirs of organized crime folks like Henry Hill whose story Goodfellas is based on one of the things that he says at the end of the movie is  and at the end of the book  is when it is over what he really missed was the life that there was a day when he had all the money and all the cars and all the feminine companionship he wanted and could take what he wanted and bully anybody he wanted and it was great.  I got caught up in it a little bit. I did. I bought into it for a while and got caught up in it. And I understand what he is saying because sure I mean you know you walk in a room you know and everybody is coming up hugging and kissing you. You had all this easy fast money so you did not respect the money. You drove nice cars. You vacationed a lot. But my problem was in order to be in that life you have to be a mean mean person. I am  by heart I am not a mean person. You know at first when I was getting into that life it was not about me becoming  I could never be in the mob because I am halfIrish. So I could never be a made man. And my father's goal for me was not to be in The Outfit. We call it The Outfit in Chicago  la Cosa Nostra Mafia  but in Chicago the term we use is Outfit. And he wanted me  he preached to me about being part of the family. The family meant me my brothers my uncles you know our family our blood family. You know when I did stuff for him it was  I felt I was doing it for the family. So whenever  I used to watch a lot of organized crime guys out there Outfit guys and you know I did not like a lot that I would see. A lot of them were real mean a lot of them were unfair. So I really did not want to be like that.  Frank Calabrese Jr.s memoir Operation Family Secrets is out in paperback next week. He will be back in the second half of the show. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am David Davies filling in for Terry Gross. We are listening to my interview recorded last year with Frank Calabrese Jr. who grew up in the Chicago crime family and ultimately helped the FBI that his father and his associates away for good. He tells his story in a memoir called Operation Family Secrets which is out in paperback next week. From an early age Calabrese worked in his father Frank Sr.'s loan sharking operation and he eventually became a fulltime criminal. Well to move the story along a little bit here you spent years working with  in your father's crew. You married. You had two kids. You had a lot of difficulty dealing with this wanted to break away from your father. You got into cocaine using some dealing  right  which was utterly forbidden in your father's crew. And then there comes a point in the 1990s when a guy that the family had dealt with named Matt Rousseau goes to the FBI. And the result is indictments against you others on loan sharking for a racketeering indictment not for the murders. And so you end up going to a prison but for a few years. Now what was your plan for your life as you were entering prison? How did you look at this? How did you look at this?  Well I looked that I had two demons in my life. I had two big demons cocaine and my father  and basically breaking away from my father. And it was not just me wanting to break away from my father. It was my brother. It was my uncle. It was anybody in the family around my father that  he was just getting out of control. But you know it is your father and you love your father. And it was almost like we were codependents because we  every time something would happen we would think oh you know what? Now this happened so now he is going to change. And going to prison I wanted to change my life. And in order to change my life I had to get away from my father and I had to get away from cocaine. So going into prison I was prepared for it. I could not wait to get in there. I needed it. I really really needed it bad so I can get my life back in order. I went in early so I can get the drug program in prison. They had a great drug program in the federal prison. Not only is it a great program but you also get time off for it. You get a year of good time plus six months halfway house so that you get 18 months to be on the street earlier.  Now you ended up I think against your preferences in the same prison as your father. And the federal investigation that really ended up bringing down this family  and it was one of the most important criminal investigations probably in  certainly in Chicago history probably in American history  really begins with you sitting down and typing a letter to an FBI agent because you want to inform on your father. Tell us what made you do that.  I am down for a year and I am with my father for eight months every day and I really want to work out this relationship. We would made some promises to one another in the lawyer's office the day I was reporting him. And I wanted to keep my end of the bargain but I wanted to make sure my father was going to keep his end.  And what promises did you make to each other?  Well I promised that I would never touch drugs again. And I keep that promise to this day  and until my dying day I will. His promise was that he was going to change his ways. He was going to back away from the mob because you can never leave but you can retire. And we were going to work on our relationship and be honest with one another. And I thought this is great you know I am going to be away from my dad for a while. When we get done we get out I am going to be a better person he is going to be a better person and we are going to work on our relationship. So when I sit down to write this letter after eight months of trying daily to work out my relationship with my dad what I did was I used everything my father taught me against him to see if he was telling the truth. And at this time in life my father did not draw no lines no more. He did not care who he manipulated. He did not care if it was me or my brother or my uncle; it was always for his benefit. You know and I can give you one great example of that  is there is a play around the country called Tony and Tina's Wedding.  Mmhmm.  OK. In the Chicago version my brother was a partner there. But my brother did not put his name on anything  my brother Kurt  because he did not want my father to know about it because if my father knew about it my father would want some of it. That is how my father was; he would extort us. So my father sent  he thought Kurt had something to do with it and Kurt was trying to break away from him so he sent some of his guys to the play to extort the owner my brother's partner. Well what my father did not know was that there was cameras there for security and when the guys that came  my brother recognized them because he was in the back just happened to be there that day and seen them on camera. So my father always denied that he had anything to do with it. So when we were in prison I confronted him on it. And I told him I says I cannot believe that you would extort your own family. He says what are you talking about? I says you extorted Kurt at the play. I did not; I saved him. I says no. I says we have on tape your guy walking in there and extorting him. And my father's jaw dropped. What are you talking about? Who is taping who? I says look Dad. I says this is the way it is. And he gave me this long story. So that was another strike against him. And there were a lot of other stories like that.  So you decided based on these conversations and other things you learned that your father was not getting out. He was not going to back away from the mob. He fully intended to be just as involved.  Correct.  And you had to do something.  Right. And you got to understand this case we are in jail. The FBI thinks they got us. We are done. They barely touched us  and all this all comes out later on you know. And I am looking at what choices I have here. You know I mean the choice that I wanted was the agreement I made with my dad We would both go to prison; we you know we do what we promised; and we get out. But now I look and I am like OK. You know I can only think of two choices that that I have. And one choice is to cooperate with the government which we were always 100 percent against or my other choice is wait 'til he gets out and let us see what is going to happen  and knowing that what is going to happen is either I am going to wind up dead or he is going to wind up dead  and the other one is probably going to wind up in jail.  So you write a letter to this FBI agent and you say come talk to me. And he does. And what do you tell him?  OK. Well when I wrote this letter you know I wanted to do a business agreement with the FBI. I did not want  I was not looking  you know I am not a victim here. I was a bad guy. I belonged in jail. But I needed to keep him in there because I knew I was not going to be a bad guy when I got out. So I needed to work out a business agreement with the FBI. And you have got to understand the FBI. I mean all of a sudden here you get back from lunch and all of a sudden you have got this letter on your desk? They could not believe it. There was a lot of legalities that we had to go through. I could not reach out to my lawyers. I could not trust nobody on this. So I was on my own. I did not want immunity. I did not want any kind of deal that I was indebted to anybody. I just wanted to work in a business agreement. I do not want to lose no time but I want to help you keep my father locked up. And at first I decided that I would just feed them information so that they can get my father. After the first meeting  and I went back to my cell and I sat there and I laid in my cell and I thought about it. I says you know I need more than that. If I need to wear a wire I will have to do it. I cannot draw no lines. I cannot make no boundaries in doing this. If I am going to do it I have to do it a hundred percent.  So in the end you decide you will wear a wire and you will go and try and talk to your father and get him on tape admitting to some of the awful things he is done  for the FBI. Now it is dangerous doing that outside the walls. Being in prison must have presented special obstacles right?  Oh yeah. Yeah well the biggest obstacle was for me to even get to the room that the FBI agents were in. If I was seen going anywhere near that area and I did not know somebody seeing me my life's in danger. I mean I am going out on the prison yard OK? You know you cannot trust  I do not know who I can trust in prison. I do not know what guards I can trust. So it was really hard. Plus there was no monitor on me. So when I got wired up and I left that room those FBI agents sat there for as many hours  sometimes as many as five hours not knowing what is going on. They are not listening because they cannot. And they are just waiting to see me come back or waiting for the prison alarm to go off that somebody's down  meaning I am probably dead or beat up or stabbed.  Now your father was always very careful about talking business. Even at home he used a lot of code words and liked cover noise. How did you approach getting him to talk about some of his criminal past?  Well I did not push anything. What I used was he had this jealousy of our relationship  mine and my brothers with my uncle. And he thought that my uncle was trying to take his place as a father. And it was not the case. He was just he just had our backs; my uncle had our backs. He was an uncle. And my father taught me you know two ways to make a guy talk. Either feed th