 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. I am seeing comic Louie Anderson in a new way and it is not just because he is wearing a dress. Anderson costars in the new FX comedy series Baskets playing the mother of Zach Galifianakis' character. I have gone back and listened to his standup comedy and hear how even though he is considered a familyfriendly comic his comedy comes from a very dark place. He grew up in a housing project in St. Paul Minn. with an alcoholic father and 10 siblings. He considers food his drug and he is been told many times by doctors that he has to lose weight. He came very close to shooting himself in the head some years ago before he was supposed to go on stage. We will talk about all that later. Let us start by hearing him in Baskets. We are going to hear two short scenes that show different sides of his character Christine Baskets the mother of Chip Baskets. Chip is an aspiring clown who is always been something of a loser and is a bitter angry guy. Christine lives alone and deals with her frustrations by eating. She can be very critical of her son Chip but she can also be his biggest supporter. Chip did not tell his mother that he got married to a French woman. When the mother finds out she invites her new daughterinlaw Penelope played by Sabina Sciubba on a trip to one of Christine's favorite places  Costco. Here's Louie Anderson.    Oh look at this. Oh that is perfect for you. I am going to get one too. Oh I love this place. I would love to get lost in here. Would not it be something? Do you have this in France?   Not yet.   Oh I did not think so. Oh acid reducer  this stuff is a lifesaver. Do you have multipacks in France?   I do not think we take so much medication in France like you do.   Oh well that is a shame. Oh cheese balls  it is the only thing Chip would eat as a child. I got tired of fighting him on it. I gave them to him for breakfast lunch and dinner.   .   Oh he blew up but I helped him get the weight off. I always supported Chip. He needed more attention than other kids but I always supported him even during this clowning phase. It is hard being a good mother. I mean 1.50 for a quarterpound hotdog and a drink. Tres bien right?  While spending the day together Christine discovers that Penelope married her son Chip only to get a green card and that Penelope and Chip do not even live together. Here's Christine played by Louie Anderson driving her daughterinlaw Penelope back to Penelope's apartment after dinner.    Well then thank you so much for buying dinner.   It is nothing. Thank you very much for the tour of .   Sure thing. Well I will wait here. You get your stuff.   What stuff?   All your stuff. We are going to head to the airport. I have a direct flight to Paris for you. I got it on Icelandair. I got a very good deal. Of course all my miles are on Southwest but you cannot pass up a bargain.   What are you talking about Madame Basket?   Well I had a conversation with your father Monsieur Herbert. I guess I was not the only one in the dark on the marriage. He said for me to tell you this  if you are not on that flight you can kiss your trust fund goodbye. Those were his words. He spoke very good English.   I am sorry.   I am not as simple as you think I am dear. Here you go. There there now. Take your time then get your things.  Louie Anderson welcome to FRESH AIR and congratulations on your performance in Baskets.  Thanks Terry.  Now Zach Galifianakis told us that when he was casting the part of the mother  the part that you play  he heard a voice in his head and he did that voice for Louis C.K. who produces Baskets. And Louis C.K. said oh you mean like Louie Anderson's voice. So they decided well why not call Louie Anderson? So they called you. Did you have any reservations about whether you could convincingly play a woman?  No. Unfortunately I did not. I grew up with a really great strong woman in my mother of 11 children and five wonderful sisters. And so I did not have any  and I would been doing my mom's act her voice to some degree in my act for you know several years.  What is the difference between your voice and your mom was?  Well my voice is  you know the voice I am speaking to you in and my mom's voice is  Terry Gross huh? Now what is that? Is that Irish  Gross? Is that Irish or are you  is it British? That would be more my mom. Terry I have always liked that name  my mom was never without a compliment.   Whether she meant it or not.  I think she meant it. She loved people and she loved conversation and she loved to engage with people. She was a really fantastic person. You would have really liked her.  What other qualities did you take from your mother to give to your character of the mother in Baskets?  Well she was a little passiveaggressive you know like in that  those scenes that you played  is not this something? You do not have this in France you know that little side  she just could slide stuff in and you would go did I just get cut by a really sharp razor? Mom what did  you know she just had that  she had that thing. She was a little competitive but she loved to show off. She was a showoff. I really love playing this part for a big reason that my mom gets to come to life. It is the weirdest thing. When you get a wig  when that wig and the makeup comes on  you know I work on the transformation I think while I am getting dressed.  Yeah what about the dresses? You wear these like big dresses with large bold primary color patterns you know caftans long necklaces an Easter bonnet in one scene. How do wearing those clothes help you get into character and who do those clothes remind you of?  Well the first day that I went in to see the clothes it was early early on. We were all going to meet and do a group photo I think it was. And there was a big wall of clothes and I just went through it. And I go this would be good this would be good and I just thought of my mom and my sisters. I said this'll be good. I said that is out nothing like that. They have to be really colorful. Make them enter the room sometimes before the  I will. You know make them what a person who has not got a lot of money thinks is really fancy. Make it real American. Make her a big American woman. And I have to tell you it was kind of  even though I never dressed up in my mom's clothes or never had any real desire to put it on I always remember how soft her clothes were. You know my mom always had soft like a lot of jersey knits and my mom was ahead of her time. She wore pantsuits and she goes you know what I like about a pantsuit Louie? And I go what Mom? I just look so good in it.   Was she a plussized woman?  She was. She was a big girl.  And there is a scene  after she is kind of spurned by her adopted twins she takes to her room with like a tub of ice cream and a big scoop and is eating it lying on her side eating it from the scoop. And it...  Now that would have never been my mom. I have done that. I am a food addict. You know I go to OA and I really work hard on trying to eat better especially lately. I have been really working hard on it. And so I know what that is like. When you are really down if you are any kind of an addicted person you are not eating for flavor and you are not eating for  you are eating for some comfort that can never come from what you are doing. There is no comfort that could actually come from it. But there is a familiarity that I think comes with it. So it was really a sad scene but I really think that the scene was really important to show her disappointment with  you know when you go out on a limb and pretty much put those kids above everybody else in the family and then they just kind of blow you off it is a big blow to her.  Did you and your mother bond over eating together?  Well my dad was an alcoholic and he was a really mean and you know could be very vicious. And so with anybody who is grown up with an alcoholic knows that there is usually a fight to bring everything to a head in an alcoholic family where you know the lines are drawn and that either ends with police coming or in our case my mom would feed us. It was the weirdest thing. So there is a lot of stuff emotionally tied to my eating. And then I created a character on stage that had a lot to do with being fat and so I have really  I really boxed myself in a lot and I am really aware of it.  You think that you boxed yourself in  were you referring to your persona as a heavy person?  Yeah. I mean yeah I  and I would never play those parts in movies so I was kind of limited. And I was not a very good actor early on. I was a terrible actor 'ecause I did not know who I was or how to do it you know? But I feel like this part gave me an opportunity to play the most real person  a really real person. That is what I was really going for here Terry. I was really going for a really real person. I do not know if that even makes any sense...  No it does. That is what I love about your portrayal. It is like  it is funny but it is also sad because she is sad a lot of the time and feels you know rejected and lonely. But it is never like pathos you know?  I think a lot of women are sad.  Well I think a lot of everybody is sad .  Yes but I mean  but yes I agree that a lot of everybody is sad. But you know this whole thing about raising all the kids you know so much  I remember my dad would work and my mom raised the kids. And it was a weird  like it was a much  it was very lopsided in one sense you know? And I even  I figured that out early on you know 'ecause I think my mom all she did was wash clothes and put them in the dryer and then fed us and then you know washed clothes and put them in the  you know it was just very...  Yeah 11 kids. So let me reintroduce you. If you are just joining us my guest is comic Louie Anderson who costars in the new FX series Baskets as Zach Galifianakis' mother. We are going to take a short break here and then we will be back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is comic Louie Anderson. He costars in the new FX comedy series Baskets as Zach Galifianakis' mother. I was very sorry to hear about your brother Tommy who died last week in his sleep. And this was like your youngest sibling. You had been the youngest of ten  then he was born he was the youngest.  No he was  yeah. I was the youngest of ten and he was...  It sounds like his death was totally unexpected. You have described him as your inspiration. In what sense was he that?  Well you know like he was my  such a good friend. And you know he was really smart. He was the kind of guy you could call up and go what you think? He would go ah that is all crap; that is all bull; do not do that; that is no good. You know like he was just that kind of guy.  He had a thing we called the truth ranger where he goes everybody should tell the truth as long as it does not hurt anyone's feelings. And I just laughed and I would go Tommy you are so sweet. Of course it is going to hurt people's feelings if you always tell them the truth. Well you know you just do not know how to tell them the truth then Louie.  And I would go maybe not. But it broke my heart. My heart's completely broken right now.  When you did comedy about him...  Yeah.  ...Did you run it past him first?  And if so what...  No I never did. But people did not  my family did not get mad. I did not even know I had to run it by him. Do you know what I mean? I regret some of the books that I wrote 'ecause I think I hurt people's feelings. And I forgot one thing.  One thing to remember when you are successful famous whatever you want to call it  wellknown not that wellknown  whatever you want to go.  One thing to remember is your family's not famous. And they are not wellknown. And even though you can handle it that does not mean they can. And that is the biggest regret that I have. I should never  I should have run it all by them.  And yes they all read it before I ever published anything but still I did not realize  you know what I mean? Like I am in show business. I have always been in show business. I kind of know how it works. Well they are my sibling but they are not in show business.  Well one of the things you have joked about about your younger brother is that you used to torment him.  I mean I used to tell him he was adopted.  I said you were adopted. And I used to say they were frogface people  pretty soon your eyes are going to pop out.   How old were you when you stopped tormenting him?  Just before he died.  .   He would like that. I think there was always a little bit of a  like Tommy used to get really mad at me if I interrupted him. Tommy was a very really precise person. And he suffered from you know some bipolar stuff and those kind of things and a little bit of paranoia. And he did not have an easy life. He had a tough life. And he lived on the streets for many years. And finally  you know I always would take care of him if I could. And finally I said Tommy I am not going to  you have got to get it together. I am not going to help you anymore.  You are just being unreasonable. And that was with some advice from a good friend because I was at my wit is end. My good friend said listen he is got to hit bottom and then he will be able to deal with it. And it was really good. It was good advice because he did. He said Louie I need your help. He said when he asks for your help then you will be of use. He said Louie I need your help.  And I said Tommy you know  you know what you should do Tommy? Your sisters could really use your help. I think you should move back home and take care of your sisters. I think they could really use your help. And so like five or six years ago he moved back to Minnesota and he really did  he took care of my sister one sister until she passed away  and my other sisters  and he really helped. And we had a service for him Sunday and people talked about how much that he had done for them. And it was really  I was really touched by how many people loved Tommy. I thought I was the only one who loved him that much. But of course my whole family loved him. And we are going to miss him.  Does having a younger brother who died  and you are around 63 he was 60  has that made you think a lot about your own mortality?  You know it is so funny. Like mortality  the first time I really felt anything about mortality was in 1990 when my mom died. That is where I really went oh my God I think I could die now. You know what I mean? Like I came from my mom. She died. I cannot believe she died. It was you know very devastating. I could not believe my mom died. It is like oh my mom died. When I lost my dad  you know my dad was a really bad drunk but a really funny guy and he stuck with us and he stayed. My mom  I will never forget. My dad quit drinking when was 69 and here was my mom's response. She turned to me and she said I told you he would quit drinking.  .  And I just said that  and you know that is who the character Christine is do not you think? Do not you think that in a nutshell that that is Christine?  Sure.  Finding a silver lining  and you know it just  that was really profound. I did not even realize it when she said it.  So if your brother's death has you thinking about mortality where is that leading you?  I have to be locked in a cage Terry for 23 hours a day...  .  ...And fed small amounts of food. I mean really I cannot be trusted around food.  I mean I have been eating really good for four weeks. I started this thing four weeks ago 'ecause I saw the show and I said you are really big Louie; you are really much bigger than you are looking at your mirror and seeing. And then some other people in TV told me they were worried about me. And so that always makes you feel like OK OK OK. And so the last four weeks I have been eating healthier. And I did not weigh myself until just the other day and I would lost 10 pounds. And I was disappointed that I had only lost 10 pounds. And I had to deal with that  to really talk to myself about that  because that is really  that is perfect  about two and a half pounds week. You know that is a really good thing. So I have to keep that in mind.  You know you were saying mental illness runs in your family. And your thing I think was maybe depression.  Yeah I would say depression. I definitely think that.  So depression always seems to go handinhand with comedy. You know I think most comics you know have either some kind of like bipolar or depression disorder. And I am not sure why they go together but they do. So maybe you have some idea.  Yeah I mean I think the reason that they go together is because you know if you look at that depression long enough you have to tip it on its side and look at the other side and find some humor in it.  And is that helpful...  I tried to kill...  Yeah go ahead.  Well I mean I tried to kill myself but the rope broke. That would be a joke that I could probably do and get a laugh on it.  Well well...  I mean I have to be very careful about how I do any stuff on sadness 'ecause the crowd gets really sad and concerned for me. So I try to  you know I used to do this joke which is really  and you know I am going to take a risk and tell this joke. I used to do a joke  I would go how about  I read a thing where this guy killed his whole family.  I go I am surprised I do not read that every day.  I mean I do not think you start out where you are going to kill the whole family but the rush of the first one must carry you all the way through to the end.  .   But it was too dark for my audience.  My guest is comic Louie Anderson. He costars as the mother in the FX comedy series Baskets. After we take a short break we will talk more about comedy and about some tough choices he is thinking through right now. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with comic Louie Anderson. He costars in the new FX comedy series Baskets playing the mother of the rodeo clown played by Zach Galifianakis. Anderson's portrayal of the mother draws from his memories of his own mother. His standup comedy which he is kept familyfriendly often draws on memories of his childhood growing up with 10 siblings and an alcoholic father. He says there is a history of mental illness in his family and he is dealt with depression. In reading your books  'ecause you have like at least three books that have a lot of memoir to them  and you know in listening to your comedy I keep getting the impression that you have parts of your humor that are too dark for your audience and that you know maybe there are things you would be saying to a different audience that you would not say to yours.  You know I am at this precipice right now that I feel like I will be changing myself on stage just because I am 63ish . I do not even know how old I am. I think I am 62. It does not really register. I do not know how old you are Terry but does it register with you? Like I do not ever think  like if somebody were to say I am 62 I would go I am not.  .  You know in my eyes as 62 that is like you know Walter Brennan.   That is an old reference but you know what I mean. It is...  So how does being 62 or 63 relate to this perhaps turning point in your comedy? Do you feel like there is...  I could be an alternative comic. I could be that really dark  I was  I was a very dark comic to begin with. I could be that guy and the only reason I did not is that I wanted to make money. I wanted to be popular. I wanted to be liked more than I wanted to be admired. Does that make any sense?  Sure.  You know and I  my mom and my family would  you know I was trying to  that was my audience. I really  I think I have always been trying to heal families and here's why. I did a cartoon about my family. All my specials are about my family and I wrote all that stuff with the intent that you Terry and your children if you have any and your parents could sit in a room and all get something out of the performance or the jokes or whatever. That was my goal. But I think the world's changed a little. I mean I think I could go to another level but I do not know  you know what am I going to  am I going to betray my audience? Is that a betrayal you know?  Well you have to allow yourself to grow as a performer if that is what you want to d to change. I think performers should not let audiences hold them back from becoming the artist that they are ready to be.  But you know you get so much criticism from it. You know that right?  Sure.  I mean you know the press is relentless but your fans are mad at you.  Right.  But I mean you do have to take that chance. I mean I am not afraid to do it.  Well let us talk about something that is happened to you or that you did nearly to yourself and how that either could or could not become something that you would use on stage. You tell a story in one of your books about how you were in your dressing room backstage before a performance. You had a gun. You put it to your head and you were very serious about pulling the trigger. You though first about something you would seen on TV in which an expert explained that if you shoot yourself in the wrong part of your head you might survive and then just be brain damaged which would be worstcase scenario. So you tried to do it you know place it in the right spot and then you thought oh I do not want to leave a mess so you got a towel. And then you decided not to pull the trigger and you went on stage and it went really well. The audience liked it. You felt better about being alive after that. So  OK so that is a kind of near suicide story. Has that made it on stage into one of your performances?  No no but here's what I will say to you. I never even thought of it as a thing. But you know I could do it. You are exactly right. I could do it in a second. It would be funny. That whole experience was I did not want anyone to find me. That really was the  the thing is I did not want that to be their last memory of me.  Right.  You know that was another big part of it you know? So you are right. That could be  I mean you know I did a dark joke for a while. I go I was  I was going to kill myself but I just thought I would just eat myself to death  but nobody ever laughed Terry. I could not get people to laugh because it was too dark do not you think?  I think you have to see it as adding an audience as opposed to adding and taking away. Like you can  you could do something different without betraying I think without betraying...  You can Terry? So Terry...  What do I know? What do I know?  No I am going to turn the tables on you.  OK.  Will you allow me?  Yes.  OK Terry.  Yes.  What is it are you doing exactly  always have you done  has your road been this road that you are on with...  I have been doing shows like this like my whole adult life.  And this is what you have always wanted. You never wanted to get on a show where you just let it fly and just go .  It would be really out of character to do that.  It would be so there is nothing in you  there is nothing in you that you are not  that you need to do in that area.  Yeah I feel like my person on the air is being true to myself.  So do people think  'ecause you know you are not the first person to be mentioning this stuff to me  so do people think I am a wimp? And I do not mean that in a mean way. But do people think I am too sweet and too nice there is a dark thing that should be explored and that I should lay it all out there?  I do not know what people think. I think that there is an...  Well you brought it up. You brought it up.  Yeah I think that there is maybe an edge in your humor that you are protecting your audience from.  Do not you think they see it Terry?  Probably it is probably true.  You know like do not you think they probably think he has a knife but I do not necessarily want to see it?  Yeah I get that. I get that. Yeah.  Do you think that  I mean...  That is a really interesting way to put it. If you are just joining us my guest is comic Louie Anderson. And now you can see him on the FX series  comedy series Baskets playing Zach Galifianakis' mother. It is a terrific role. So we will be back after we take a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is Louie Anderson. He is a famous comic who is now making a name for himself in a performance that he is giving as Zach Galifianakis's mother in the FX comedy series Baskets. Zach Galifianakis plays an aspiring clown who is trapped in a job as a rodeo clown and his mother is a really interesting character who  the portrayal is based in part on Louie Anderson's actual mother. So one of the things I learned about your father is that when he was courting your mother he was a trumpeter and he played in Hoagy Carmichael's band. Wow.  Yeah like I mean  yeah. I mean he was a great musician. My dad was a famous musician  I mean in those standards. You know he recorded  I mean to work with Hoagy Car  that is a  he was a hell of a trumpet and cornet player. And I never got experience any of it yeah.  So did he play music in the house? I realized you never heard him play trumpet but what about playing...  I never  yeah he would play ukulele and he would play harmonica. And when I was opening for Crosby Stills and Nash one time at the Orpheum Theatre in Minneapolis  security came back and said there is a guy who used to take trumpet lessons from your dad. I said send him back. I talked to him a long time. I go well what kind of guy was my dad? Well you know he was a tough  he was a tough teacher. I go yeah you got that right. And he gave me a poster and it is the only poster we had ever. And it said Louie Anderson and his orchestra and it was a woodcut poster and it looked just like one of my posters from the '80s. And I was just like oh I really am a lot like my dad . I mean I really you know was  I have been in lots of the same theaters that he probably played in.  Was he alive when you started performing and when you got successful?  Yeah he saw my very first show and the next day he had a stroke which was really upsetting to me.  Oh gee.  But he had lots of strokes  like 20 or 30 strokes. My dad was a really tough guy.  Wow.  We finally had to kill him.  .  That was a joke...  Right I  yes.  ...I have done. I think I used to do my dad smoked he drank we finally had to kill him.   The joke  the whole joke is my mom ate every piece of butter in the Midwest she lived till she was 90. And my dad he smoked he drank  we finally just had to kill him.  .  That was the whole joke .  Did he feel like you were fulfilling his dreams by actually having a showbiz career?  I think he was the kind of guy who'd fight somebody and then we would go to the store and he would pick up an extra bag of groceries and we would put them on somebody's steps 'ecause they were struggling. He was two guys.  So there is the guy who did bad and the guy who came in and apologized for it.  Yeah. Alcoholism you know all addictions all that stuff  you know my dad  when my dad was a kid his mom and dad you know were very  my grandfather has 72 I think inventions that he sold. We would have been really rich. You know like the switch on the train tracks that switches it from one track to the other the sliding thing that you slide your door  the big door out to the patio  he invented all that stuff and sold them. And then they would go on drunks across the country him and his wife. And they would leave the kids and one of the times they went there was a murder by a Swedish gang in the house in Frazee Minn. And the kids were taken away from my grandparents. And my dad and my dad's sister were put up for adoption. And what that means you probably know Terry but people do not know it. You were put up in front of the congregation and people would pick your kids. They could pick them and take them to their farm and have another farmhand. And my dad and his sister were split up and my dad never got over that. He never recovered from that. And then you would live in a different part of the house in another city...  Well it sounded like your father was treated more like a servant than a child.  Yeah he was treated more like a servant. He took me to house one time in Northfield Minn. He said you see that window? I go yeah. He said they used to wonder why it got rusty. He says I used to pee out of it to get back at them. I said good one Dad.  So he had a hard life yeah.  And then at 15 he made them sign a paper so he could join the first World War. And then he learned how to play the bugle and that is how he taught himself the trumpet.  Oh wow.  And then...  But you did not find out about this until later in life.  After he died.  Yeah. So you must have been shocked to find out that there was this big secret  there were so many secrets in your family. You are supposed to keep it secret that your father drank. He kept secret from you that he was put up for adoption...  I do not think secrets as much as just it was not  nothing was talked about like that. Do you know what I mean? I do not think they hid it away 'ecause when my dad was going through radiation for his prostate cancer I was with him and he spilled his guts to an attendant who was doing all that. He told all this stuff and I go Jesus I am right here Dad. You never told me any of this. You are telling some stranger.  Well that is the thing. Sometimes it is easier to tell secrets to a stranger.  Much easier yeah.  So like on the subject of secrets  years ago you were blackmailed by somebody who said you would propositioned him.  Yeah.  He blackmailed you for 100000 or else he threatened to go to the tabloids. I think you paid him that and then he asked you for like a quarter of a million dollars and you said you know forget it. And you went to the police or FBI or whoever. He was arrested and that was the end of that. But just given the fact that secrets had a really  pretty big place in your family  they do in most families but maybe a bigger place in your family than in most. The thought of being blackmailed for you know threatened to go into the tabloids with the secret that must have been just horrifying.  You know I mean this was the weirdest thing 'ecause what happened was really like nothing and just the fact that that proposition happened and then to have somebody do that to you was just so leftfield. And then I thought I am not going to do this. I am not going to do this anymore. I am not going to 