 I was done for. I was ready to basically call it quits and die. 'ecause at that point obviously I did not imagine coming out as a prison guard. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. I met Mandi Hauwert at her home in Petaluma California. It is a bedroom community north of San Francisco. It was a Thursdayher day off of work.  Hi how you doing Mandi?  Hi. Come on in. She showed me around the split level house that she shares with three dogs two cats and four roommates.  We have our landlady and then we have another trans woman and a couple who lives downstairs.  How much is your rent here if you mind?  700. Thats it.  That is a deal in this area of the country!  Yeah! And it is a great house. My parents were so happy when they saw that I was living here. I tried to get an apartment before and I kept getting turned down even after they told me I made enough money to get in. When I would get in there to view the place and meet the manager all of a sudden they were full. And the only thing I can think of is once they realized I was transgender all of a sudden they did not want to rent to me anymore. Mandis been openly trans since 2012. The summer that she came out she was 32 years old living in a hotel and feeling nervous about transitioning for a lot of reasons. For one she was afraid she was going to lose her job as a guard at San Quentinone of Americas most notorious prisons.  I felt like I had a couple options leave San Quentin and transition somewhere else. Or stay at San Quentin and never transition. There was never transition at San Quentin because who would do that? That is insane. But Mandi stayed at San Quentin. And transitioned while working inside. For any prison guard work can be a hostile and dangerous place. Monitoring inmates is tense. But Mandi says that since she came out as a trans woman shes also had to worry about her fellow guards.  The harassment really did not start until after I came out officially until the rumors spread around.  Have you thought about quitting?  Uh every day. I think about quitting every day. Growing up Mandi sensed there was something different about her. She was uncomfortable in her body. But she didnt put a name to what she was feeling until she was 19. It was in a psychology class at a local community college.  Well like many psychology students I thought I had everything. I thought I was a schizophrenic I thought I might be a serial killer. Because some of the things they talk about like in psychopaths is that they do not have the ability to recognize or process emotions in the same way people do but they learn to mimic people mimic emotion so I did that with boys. I learned to talk like them walk like them act like them. You know I am six foot six feet even with broad body and shoulders so it is not hard to fit in.  And so I thought when I read this in abnormal psych that thatI thought that was me. I did not recognize that it was at the time something else completely different but um.  So you read that and thought Maybe I am a psychopath.  Yeah.  Was that prior to hearing the term transgender?  Yeah we eventually got to gender identity disorder and the professor would talk about transgender issues. But at the time I still was not sure. I thought maybe I was just a cross-dresser or a transvestite or just some kind of weird pervert. Around the same time is when I had my first suicide attempt. And it basically just ended up with me in the hospital. It was um getting to the point of feeling like you are never you are never gonna be normal and you are never gonna be yourself so what else do you have other than dying?  How did you get to the hospital?  A friend of mine.  You took pills?  Mhmm. That friend who took Mandi to the hospital covered for her. He told her parents that she just drank too much. Mandi didnt tell her family the truth either. Instead she enlisted in the Navy.  It is this thing of trying to escape. So maybe if I go into the military I will be a little more manly. Not want to be a girl anymore. Mandi moved onto a ship based off the coast of Japan. She worked in maintenance and repair and quickly started dating a fellow petty officer named Katie. Things got serious fast. And Mandi proposed.  We were going to get married. And I figured before we did that I should probably tell her that I liked to wear women's clothing. You know you phrase it as if you are just some kind of cross-dresser. Which goes over easier for most people for some reason. Like oh if you are just doing it in private that is okay.  It is a hobby as opposed to your identity.  It is a hobby just like to doll up for myself you know . Um she could have reported me and I would have been kicked out of the military at that time. Um and she did not and she accepted it. And she kind of thought it was interesting . Um But over the years what ended up happening is she realized I was using herin the trans community we call it a beard. I was using her as my beard I was using her as an excuse not to transition and she knew or at least recognized that I would be unhappy. And we ended up eventually breaking up. But we were together for like seven years.  She broke it off.  She broke it off. Because because she was my excuse to be normal. Or at least what I thought of being normal. By the time that relationship ended. Mandi had decided to leave the Navy. She was working a series of odd jobs setting tiles driving limos teaching martial arts. It was Mandis martial arts teacher who encouraged her to apply for a job in corrections.  I thought he was referring to the idea that I was Kung Fu master expert and I would be good at like using Kung Fu to handle inmates but what he meant was that my attitude and my demeanor is very calm very precise and you know I could handle the stresses and rigors of a job like that without becoming a complete um a-hole  to put it bluntly. Still because of her build and height Mandi presented as a very physically imposing man. Through training academy and her first years at San Quentin she kept her trans identity a secret...up to a point.  I do really great eyeliner. And so I would put on the liner and put on the mascara just like a little bit. Just to have some sense of feeling when I went to work that I was being secretly feminine. Uh everyone thought I was secretly a goth. Because it was just liner and like black liner and like oh he is a goth right? Mandi wanted to be open but didnt think she could. She started having suicidal thoughts again. Then one night four years into her career at San Quentin she confided in a female colleague.  She was super accepting like right away. And then it got me thinking like maybe maybe I could come out but I still did not feel like it was possible and I still did not really intend on fully coming out. Like maybe I would just get to the point where I could wear little bits more makeup and stuff like that. And so I talked to a supervisor and the supervisor told me that she felt that it would not be an issue wearing the makeup and stuff like that.  You went to a supervisor and said May I wear makeup?  She was not my direct supervisor but she was somebody I trusted. Um and so I started wearing makeup and one night I am sitting in another unit down in H Unit which is a dorm setting it is 200 inmates two officers  So there is 100 inmates for one officer  Per one officer. Yeah. And I was sitting there and my partner noticed I was wearing like a lot of makeup and asked me questions about it and it was dark so the inmates did not really see me 'ecause I waited till they turned the lights off for the night to actually go in so the inmates would not see the makeup. And I intended on wiping it off before the lights came on in the morning. Um then I got a phone call from what they call the watch commander which is usually a lieutenant. And they said they wanted to see me in his office. And they told me people have been complaining and reporting that I am wearing makeup and all this other stuff and I immediately told them that I was transgender and their immediate response was that they do not allow cross-dressing. Coming up Mandi keeps reporting to work. And waits to hear more from her bosses.  A month or two goes by and nothing nothing nothing I hear nothing.  Did you stop wearing makeup?  Yeah. I cut my hair military cut down to the skin basically. And uh I became even more depressed.  We heard from a lot of you about our most recent episode about Tony and Victor two men who were brought together by a case of mistaken paternity and a little girl they both love. A listener named Jessica wrote in from California to say she was that little girl except she found out as a teenager that the man she knew as her father was actually her stepfather. Her biological dad died before she found out. And she is always wondered what he thought about the situation. Hearing Victor talk about the shame he felt not being there sooner definitely struck a chord Jessica wrote.  kind of gave me an answer Ive been wondering about for a very long time. And Brit from Indiana related for another reason. She called in with this message.  I am almost officially one year into me and my husband's first foster child placement. She is an amazing adorable little girl. Brit says she and her husband wanted to adopt their foster daughter but the girl's family members have been working hard to keep custody.  I am thankfulI am so thankful our girl will have an amazing biological family and hopefully a really healthy and safe relationship with her mother in the future. But there is still the heartbreak of my daughter not really being my daughter anymore. And there is no like sad tragic reason for it other than somebody else's family is becoming whole again. Also we want to thank you for all your tips for Ela. We asked for your advice after she tweeted us asking for a survival kit to feel less lonely after moving to a new town. Were sharing some of your advice in our weekly newsletter. And if you dont already get it you can sign up at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. Theres a link to past newsletters there so you can read up on all that youve missed so far. On the next episode I check in with Rashema Melson. When I last talked to her on the show she was adjusting to dorm life at Georgetown after moving there from a homeless shelter on the other side of D.C. In the year since Rashema got married. And decided to leave Georgetown.  You know like when we talked about how I feel about when people call me the homeless valedictorian Yeah.  I think with leaving Georgetown I felt like I was leaving that life behind. But then it occurred to me you know why run away from what Im destined to do just because people are showing me that theyre on my side?  This Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. In the weeks after Mandi got called out for wearing makeup at work rumors were flying around the prison.  Like I figured I was gonna about to lose my job and then my life would be done. I would not have anywhere to go. Because at the time my parents were not accepting of me as far asthey did not disown me but they did not want me dressed at home or anything like that. So I would have nowhere to go. And uh at one point um one of the officers I used to work with asked me if the rumor was true I said Yeah. And he goes So why are not youyou know coming to work as a woman? And I said They will not let me. And he goes What? And it turns out he was what they call a job steward and they  With the union.  Yeah with the union. And so he went I do not know what he did and next thing you know I had permission. On July 14 2012 Mandi reported to work for the first time as a woman.  I get to the to the prison I drive into the parking lot and I sat in the parking lot for awhile. Just super incredibly nervous. Nobody had seen me at least not fully made up. And I had to walk past all of these different people and there were a few comments that people made under their breaths. Andum I do not know it just feltit is a really awkward situation. Nobody knows how to behave.  During that transitional time did you get bullied or harassed by any guards?  Um early early on it was really bad. There were  What sorts of things would happen?  There were officers who would openly like basically start speaking to me and start voicing their concerns and they would talk about me going to hell. And I would have officers do the really juvenile like cough and yell you know Faggot. Mandi was the first trans prison guard at San Quentin. And the male inmates also responded to her new look and identity. She told me about a time she was working in a cell block and monitoring a rush of inmates as they headed to a meal.  And there is hundreds of them coming down to go to chow and I figured I am going to standbecause this is still early on in my transitionI was going to stand there in the doorway to monitor them because you are actually supposed to do that but I felt it as like a way of challenging myself. I am going to stand in front of all of these inmates and they are going to do what they want to do and I am going to do you know I am going to stand strong. And they come down and the slurs started coming and the yelling and the laughing and at one point I can see the other officers are looking at me and trying to like signal me to go back inside because I was causing a disturbance and it could have ended up really badly and what ended up happening is I ended up going back inside and crying because even though they are inmates it still hurt to have those insults being thrown at you and hundreds of them. Work was miserable. But its also how Mandi got her health insurance. And in 2014 she got some unexpected news. It would now cover gender reassignment surgery.  I had come to terms that I would never have a gender reassignment. It was just an impossibility. It was way too expensive. I am horrible at saving money so I am never going to save that much money. And then all of the sudden they were like here you go you can have your surgery and on top of that it is pretty much for free. And instead of being incredibly happy all the time I became even more stressed and depressed because once you realize that you can have it and you have something to lose you realize how important it really was to you.  It is frightening that you will lose that opportunity.  That I will lose it that I will do something wrong that I will screw something up. Um I will not I will not get the time off of work or work will not approve the time off orat the time I had to drop like 40-some pounds. I was like watching the scale and crying every time I gained a pound. Mandi ended up losing 50 pounds. And she got the time off work 7 weeks. She had surgery two years ago this month. By then her family had become more accepting. Her parents and her sister were there as she was wheeled into the operating room.  You literally go to sleep with a penis with a penis and wake up with a vagina. Right? Or you wake up with not a penis because it does not look like a vagina when you first see it. And they first take the bandages off and it looks like nothing really it does not look like much. It looked horrible.  Its just this mess of black and blue and but the following Monday they um they take the catheter out and then right afterwards they want you to go to go pee. And so I do not know it is just superlike I cried sitting on the toilet and peeing which sounds like a bad scene from a soap opera or like some Hallmark movie but it was it was a beautiful moment for me just being able to pee like that.  Has there been anything about your life after your surgery and after coming out at work has there been anything that still that you have been surprised that that was not a complete feeling of liberation?  Yeah. I mean of course it is notcoming out is not a one-and-done process. Some peoplefor me it is frustrating because I am like I said six-foot broad and all that and I do get misgendered by people every now and again. Not as often as I used to but I do get misgendered. I cannot fix my height I cannot make my shoulders less broad. I could go out and get big huge breasts and get facial feminization surgery but that is only going to do so much. Not every trans woman is super petite and looks like a little flower. There are a lot of us who are never going to look like that no matter what we do.  What is your romantic life like now?  Zero nothing. It is been almost ten years now since I have had a serious relationship. I have been on dates and I have not had any like boyfriends or girlfriends or anything like that but I have had aI have been hit on by a few people most of them are other transgender people and mostly trans women and I do not want to be with a woman anymore even though some of them are like you know they will keep their male parts for me. And I am like no.  That is not why I want a guy for. It is more than just male parts. I do not care what the guy looks like at all I just care that he is intelligent and he is smart that he watches South Park and that is about it.    And if he watches South Park then he is perfect.  It it strikes me that you are likethinking about your social life um it is like you are openly trans in the San Francisco Bay Area where there is a community.  Yeah.  And you are openly trans in a prison.  Mmhm.  Does it feel sometimes like you are crossing between completely different cultural environments in terms of the safety you feel or the sense of community you feel? It seems like it might feel pretty stark.  Yeah well one of the things I found out is that the trans community really hates peace officers. They hate cops they hate - not the whole community obviously but there is a lot of discontent and anger between the two. And to be fair law enforcement has historically even in this area treated trans people very poorly. Sadly the trans women we have in our prisons they are bas- they are housed based on what genitalia they have not how they identify. Which I think is wrong but um you know that is not my decision to make. And I got a lot of hate mail from my own community the trans community after I came out for being a cop. I had one transgender woman write to me and tell me that I was just another white man oppressing and beating down black trans women. And that really hurt. The way I look at it is we need is we need more trans people as officers in the prisons. We need more trans police officers. You have to have people in the system before it starts to actually make a change. Mandis still the only trans correctional officer at San Quentin. But the prison says shes not the only transgender employee there. For the most part Mandi says the inmates have come aroundtheyve even profiled her in the prison newspaper. But Mandi says not a lot has changed with her fellow guards.  I mean not only did I have bad experiences but I continue to have bad experiences. It is not as open um but it is in the way people um treat you and when they are working with you in person either they do not talk to you or they talk to you very sparingly. It is walking into a room full of officers sitting in a hallway and having everybody move their chairs over to one side away from you. And turning away from you not talking to you. It is having people continue to misgender you almost every single day you go to work and no matter how many times you correct them they just they just do not get it.  When you wake up in the morning and know you have to go into work does it feel heavy?  Yeah. And it is not even that I hate the work itself. I just hate the feeling of being there. I hate the negativity.  Do you think you will leave corrections?  Right now I do not want to put myself in a position where I am having to struggle financially. Last year I earned around 70000 so I am definitelyas far as trans women goesI am definitely in the higher bracket as far as money earned. I think the average trans woman if they have a job at all earns between 15-20000 a year so very very low. And a lot of them do not have work whatsoever or are struggling to go from job to job and just trying to make ends meet so I am very lucky. So at the moment my goal is to do ten years total right now. Ten years is where you get some locked in benefits. However if I end up having to stay longer than ten years my goal is to promote and become a sergeant no longer an officer become a supervisor. And start taking a more active role in making things a little better at the prison and in the department. At 15 years I will get locked in medical butI cannot think of doing that much more. But who knows? I say that now maybe I will be there another 15 years. Um I could be the first transgender warden.  Thats Mandi Hauwert. This August will mark ten years for her at San Quentin. In her spare time shes been doing a lot of writingincluding a biography of another trans womanin case she feels ready for a career change when she hits that ten year milestone. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Adriana Rush. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And dont forget to subscribe to our weekly newsletter! Thats where were sharing our tips for Ela who asked for your advice on how to feel less lonely after moving to a new town. Sign up for our newsletter at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter or just text the word newsletter to 69866. And some exciting newsDeath Sex  Money is now also on Spotify! Look for us on the Spotify app. Our entire archive is there including my first conversation with Rashema Melson. If you havent heard it or you just want a refresher before we catch up next week -- just search for the episode episode titled Stop Calling Me the Homeless Valedictorian. Mandi didnt start going by her new name until she came out in 2012. But she picked out the name years ago back when she was still in the Navy.  I actually got my name from a guy. My favorite one of my favorite actors Mandy Patinkin.  Oooh!  And I decided it is a girl's name too sobut like I like the name .  I love Mandy Patinkin!  Yeah he is great right?  Yeah!  You killed my father prepare to die. So how great is that? I am a transgender woman who got her name from a man. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.