Its Friday again. We made it another week. And since last Friday weve been watching as you all fill up our pandemic toolkit spreadsheet. Its full of solutions for staying at home with kids...or by yourself...as it feels like everything is falling apart. And its helping me at least feel connected even while were distancing. But of course not everyone can stay home. This week we got an email from a nurse named Mary. She works at a small hospital in rural upstate New York. And things are changing there rapidly.  My hundred and 80 bed hospital in central New York state has been mandated by the state to increase its capacity by 50 to care for a number of patients. The magnitude of which we really do not know. So my hospital looks like a ghost town. Actual floors are closed visitors are prohibited. And. For right now it feels like primarily a fear of the unknown. I am afraid of getting into a situation where the halls are filled with people who cannot get care and the immense suffering that that would create. Mary told us that pandemic toolkit you all made? Not so helpful for those of us still going to work.  I am looking forward to a show about the toolbox for the healthcare professional. I think in that tool box instead of beautiful books to read and lovely recipes to cook while I am socially distancing that toolbox is going to be full of. Personal protective equipment masks that I can use when I take care of a coven 19 patient gloves unlimited supply of gloves and gowns. I would like to know how. My nurse colleagues are managing through this crisis especially those nurses who are giving direct bedside care to critically ill patients. Mary we hear you. And we want to know that too. So thats this weeks homework assignment If youre an essential worker...working in a hospital or grocery store... or keeping peoples lights on and trash picked up...we want to know whats on your mind right now...and whats helping you. Record a voice memo and send it to deathsexmoneywnyc.org by Monday. And weve also got an assignment for you if youre NOT on the frontlines of this crisis--and its just to reach out to someone you know who is. Thank you to Mary and all of you who are leaving your homes to keep the rest of us safe.