Danny Oquendo Im not super religious. But you think God giveth and he taketh right? And he takes something away and he gives you something special in that same year. So it was a rollercoaster. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. In early October of 2013 a 14-year-old boy named Avonte Oquendo disappeared from his public school in New York City. News clip Police are still asking for the publics help in finding a missing teenager... News clip Avonte Oquendo walked out of his Long Island City public school on October 4th... News clip He is autistic and nonverbal... News clip How he even got outside the school is being investigated Missing person flyers with Avontes school picture papered the citysearch parties scoured train stations and parks looking for Avonte. One of the people helping to direct the searchwas Avontes older half-brother Danny.  Anyone on subways theyre going to be with Esmeralda. Anybody in cars you come to me... And this is his story -- about what happened after those desperate weeks of searchingwhen the adrenaline and the headlines fadedand Danny Oquendo was left changed. Danny didnt grow up with Avonte. After his parents split up when he was a kid Danny lived with his mom in northern New Jersey. He was their only child. But hed spend summers in Queens with his dad and three half-brothers including Avonte. Danny was 12 when Avonte was born.  I just remember how playful he was. How much he enjoyed you know play wrestling and watching music videos and just how kinda happy-go-lucky he always was.  When did you realize that there was something different about Avonte?  Uh we pretty much knew once he had turned 2 or 3 and he wasnt really talking um he is - he was nonverbal so when it came to a point where it was like well he should really be talking by now. Thats when a lot of the - an intervention started happening with doctor visits and eventually he was diagnosed with autism and we were told why he wasnt speaking.  Did you get the feeling that he kind of saw you as his big brother? Like when - what would happen when you would come visit?  Um he would kind of almost attack - like jump on you and he would check my pockets for candy and he - yeah there was definitely a relationship there where he knew I was family or brother if he had a concept of brother.  Did you have candy in your pockets ever?  Sometimes.  Danny was the oldest child in his familyon both his dad and moms sides. It had its perks.  I was sort of a golden child I guess you could say. It didnt hurt that Danny was also a football star. Game clip What a great catch at the 49 yard line going up high it is number 17 Danny Oquendo. Wow. Danny was a wide receiver at the University of Maryland. He got playing time even as a freshman. And he was noticed on the field long before that.  I was pretty much getting recruited freshman year in high school eighth grade - before that even. I kind of felt like I always had what it took early on in high school. You always have the - I guess the dream of playing the NFL and you know making millions of dollars and having your family set. Growing up money was sometimes tight. Danny's mom did administrative work in schools...but it didnt always cover all the bills.  Id say we were at the higher end of lower-class I guess. You know trying to cusp the middle-class. You know almost there but not quite there.  What was it that didnt quite feel secure?  Um I - you know we always had food on our tables we always had clothes on our back um but now and then you know youd get a late rent - a late rent - rent request. You know youd get knocks from the super you know kind of Pay your rent pay your rent so those little things here and there that you knew that things are a little different than for some people. Lights turning off.  Did that happen?  Yeah. A few times here and there in my life.  Like how would you understand that as a kid?  Maybe there were a few times where I was a bit embarrassed but I think for the most part I was always a very very proud kid. And I dont really have an ego but I knew that my mom and my family were always doing everything they could for us to always have food on our plates like I said so. I never really get - let something like that get to me.  Its interesting that you say a proud kid.  Yeah.  What do you mean?  Um just proud from where I come from proud of whos in my family proud of whos taking care of me and proud of the things I do so I would never let a moment where someone elses I guess vision of what life should be like kind of - kinda craps on mine. Danny has a quiet intensity about him. There is none of the showmanship that some wide receivers can be known for. But his focus is clear. In the end though his professional football dreams got derailed by his own body.  I tore my LCL my lateral collateral in my - my left knee. And um I had a heart procedure also around that time for a uh hole in one of the tubes in my heart. So Id be out of breath. Thered be a lot of dizzy spells on the field off the field and they eventually just you know we can correct this pretty easy and they did.  Did that ever feel like something that could be um a really serious problem when youre exercising that rigorously?  Yeah I think so it would almost feel like youre having - Ive never had a heart attack but it feels like thats what it would feel like definitely. Like you have to stop what youre doing or else youre gonna really hurt yourself.  I mean you dont hear about football players getting heart surgery during the off-season.  Yeah.  It is unusual.  After my last season maybe a few months after that I kind of like - you know what I dont wanna I do not want to be on this grind. And just called it quits.  Was that scary?  I guess its - when youre playing something for so long its scary to you know youre done with it. So its - it is like wow whats - whats next or - thats really done so its - its something that you have to get you have to get used to. You know playing football since youre five years old so - then when youre twenty-one after fifteen sixteen years its thats it? I was done with college that - that um fall of my last season. So I was d- I had nothing yeah.  When you went to college what did you think you were gonna do after school?  I didnt think about it so much. I know my mother had wanted me to go and get into law school and be a lawyer um. That could just be her golden child attitude about me. But as someone who didnt have to pay for college I was extremely scared of having to pay for law school. Youre talking 35 36000 a year and I just didnt feel comfortable taking out the loan to go at the time.  And this is like 2008 2009? So you - so yeah you graduated right when the economy was falling apart.  Yeah exactly the perfect time. Like many other college graduates around that year Danny needed to move back home after school. His dad had moved to Florida and Danny wanted to take the opportunity to reconnect.  Growing up at my mothers household I guess I never really got the chance to really live with my father and my fathers side of the family who all lived down there in Florida.  Did it feel like something was missing. Like you just hadnt quite developed like a deep relationship with your dad?  So when youre a child it is - youre always yearning for that time you know no matter how much love is shown when youre when youre with a parent or youre with a loved one if that times not there sometimes it is always going to feel like well I feel like theres some time missing. And it - it sucks cause youre when youre a child of parents that are separated you know the amount you see them sometimes is based upon how the parents relationship is so. The better that relationship is the more youre gonna see the other parent. I guess I was looking to have some of that time back.  Did you call your dad and say Can I come live with you?  Um I didnt say I dont think I asked I said Im coming to Florida. Im coming to Florida dad. He is uh - and hes ecstatic this is what hes always wanted too. He always counted down until I was 18 until I could make my own choice to live with him.  You said he was counting down until he was 18?  Yeah.  Did he tell you that?  Oh yeah he would tell me that all the time. He is like I cannot wait until you are 18 and you can come live with me and it is gonna be your choice and we are gonna have father-son time. In Florida things fell into place for Danny. He got a good job with an electronics recycling company he eventually got his own apartment he spent a lot of time with his dad. And he had a girlfriend.  We actually went to prom together in high school and we dated for awhile in college and then after a few years living in Florida um she came down to visit a few times and we kind of just sparked things back up. Then came a phone call from New York. Danny's brother Avonte was gone.  Here and there hed get out the house. But it was never anything for more than ten or twenty minutes. So once we heard that he was gone for you know a few hours we knew something was different.  Our last episode was about Mike and Susanne a married couple who went through heroin addiction and recovery together. Those are not their real names. We heard from a lot of you afterwards about how addiction has touched your lives.  Megan sent in a voice memo from Florida. She got addicted to heroin when she was 21 and spent 7 years trying to get sober. Megan In December 2013 I decided it was time to stop for good. I went to treatment for one final time and joined a 12-step fellowship when I got out. I have been in that fellowship ever since and use it as part of an everyday life that is now completely not what I imagined it would be. I absolutely never thought that I would be able to function as a normal human being let alone a successful human being. Megan went on to work as a counselor for other women trying to get and stay sober. Another listener Katie in Boston works at a methadone clinic. Katie The episode gives me hope that listeners will hear the voices of real people and that your hearts will be touched. It is horrible that Mike is facing charges. But that does not undermine his and Susanne's story and the major accomplishment they have made by working on recovery. The charges Mike is now facing are not drug related they are for sex abuse of a minor. We heard from a listener named Adryan in California who wrote in about a friend whos currently serving time for a sex offense charge. I struggle with the reason hes there Adryan wrote But I also remind myself a mistake doesnt define a person but how they deal with those mistakes proves who they are. Well follow what happens in Mikes upcoming trial and what it means for Susanne and their family. On the next episode we will bring you our live show from Brooklyn. Actors Rosie Perez and Mahershala Ali and comedian Hari Kondabolu were there with their family members. Plus singer Lisa Fischer performed live and Dan Savage gave me some more real talk. Dan Savage You will instantly become the Democrats and Republicans the second the baby is born and the problem is if I can rant for a second  Rant ahead!  If you dont realize thats what youre doing it can destroy your relationship.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When his dad got the phone call that Avonte had run away from his school Danny Oquendo wasnt surprised at first. Avonte was a kid who often wandered. On a school form his mom had written Please make sure you keep an eye out he likes to run.  Usually everyones on high-alert you know? Hes not gonna run out the door when you know hes got people there and all the locks are on the door um there is an alarm - there was an alarm on the door so.  What do you understand about what would trigger him to wanna flee?  Uh I dont think its sometimes I dont think its something in particular a lot of times um. Sometimes it could just be a comfort level. Um so I think its - its something thatd be hard to put - kind of put your finger on. You just - you dont really know. Some autistic kids are  just wanderers. And thats what it is. News clip They canvassed the streets and surveyed the air. They scoured the East River even looked in sewer drains. The search for Avonte eventually expanded throughout New York Citys five boroughs. Subway conductors announced a missing person alert on trains News clip The NYPD has expanded its efforts to find the boy especially here in the subway system since Avonte was known to like trains. A van drove through neighborhoods blasting Avontes mothers voice from a speaker. News clip Hi Avonte its mom. Come to the flashing lights Avonte Danny coordinated volunteers who fanned out from Avontes school. For weeks Danny held out hope. News clip If you knew him you know why were out here. And well be out here for as long as we have to. Until hes found.  When did the adrenaline first run out?  Id say it took at least three - three weeks. Three weeks to four weeks um of us kind of you know sleeping outside sleeping in our cars um you just kind of start to lose hope. Youre really just - youre desperate for anything. Any kind of news. You really start to be - become disheartened.  Why were you sleeping in cars?  Uh it was literally non-stop. You know there was always volunteers coming to the school to see any ways that they can help and we were sort of pointing people in different directions of where to go and where we havent searched yet and we never wanted to leave that site so if we werent looking for Avonte or pointing volunteers of what to do where to go we were just literally sleeping right there at that school.  Like what was it like with your - with your dad doing that during the search?  Uh I mean its - its good that - I mean it felt good being there with him you know searching for Avonte but you know you still see - look on his face the distraughtness how emotional he was getting the weight we were losing - uh it was - its - its hard to explain. He was just visibly distraught at all times so its you know on one side you know we cant find Avonte we cant find a brother and on the other side Im looking at the faces of my father and my other brothers and his mother - uh its - its just a sadness from each direction.  Did you get angry?  There are pockets where you get angry. You know angry at the school for allowing this to happen angry at any particular employees that mightve allowed this to happen. You know usually the sadness overcomes - overcomes the anger. You know its you get angry for a second but that just turns into sadness. After about a month Dannys leave from work ran out. He had to go back to Florida. Fall turned to winter. More than 400 tips came in to police. Avonte was still missing. Then three months after this had all started on a cold January morning News Clip The NYPDs boats were back cruising the East River... News Clip As the family of Avonte Oquendo clings to hope... News Clip Police came upon and later removed human remains on the shoreline of Powell Cove Park... News Clip Tests have now confirmed the human remains are those of missing autistic boy Avonte Oquendo...  What did that - to have an answer that was the worst possible outcome - what did that feel like?  It was terrible. It was like someone dropping 1000 pounds on your head. You know especially after everything we tried to do to find him all the other answers that we were looking for and hoping. You know there couldnt have been any - any worse news than that. That - you know he died drowning. You know the last person in the world that deserves at all to die one of the worst ways - it - terrible.  Was there a service?  Um yes we had a service.  What was it like?  Um it - was depressing. I mean. Just seeing everyone thats - for the past four months you know. Looking looking for Avonte. Just seeing the changes for everyones body and everyones demeanor. Um - Ive never been a part of anything that was as sad at that was. As uplifting as it was to be able to - to say goodbye with all of our family there its just - it clearly had taken its toll and it was hard. I had a break down moment you know carrying his casket out into the um - into the hearse. Thankfully we have a great support system in our family just picking each other up when we go down. After all this Danny started to feel Florida was just too far away. He decided to come back home.  It felt important to sort of attempt to rekindle all my relationships with my family members. I wanted to make sure I told everyone that I was related to or that I love that I loved them.  Are you close to Avontes brothers?  Um yeah. Um its been hard lately after Avontes disappearance its been hard to remain close um. Everyone sort of goes through tragedy in their own way and you know its - its been hard there trying to mend everything and pick up the pieces. So thats still - thats a work in progress. The loss also brought him closer to his girlfriend Ileana. They quickly moved in together in New Jersey where she works as a pre-K teacher.  What is it about her that you think makes you two work?  Um shes very different from me. So I think in - in that not to say a cliche she sort of completes me. All the things that Im bad at you know she is - shes great at.  Like what?  Um so in regards to any kind of I guess talking emotions-wise shes very good at getting that out of me. Um. Im just disheveled chaos and shes an organizer. While everythings occurred with Avonte she was probably one of the - one of my biggest support systems. And was just my net to fall on whenever I felt so down I didnt want to keep going. Losing Avonte also gave Danny renewed focus...for his career. He spent his first summer back working with a local law firm that specializes in cases involving children with developmental disabilities.  You start to see a lot of the holes that exist. And you want to do whatever you can to fill them. Its just it - its a very flawed system. Danny decided it was time to try law school. He enrolled in New York Law School a year and a half ago while also holding down a full-time job.  Is your work paying for your lifestyle now and student loans are paying for law school?  Um actually Im on a scholarship at New York Law School now. Um after my first year I finished at the top of my class so when that happens they give you a full ride. Um so I dont have to pay for law school anymore so.  Is this the hardest youve ever worked?  Yeah yeah. Definitely. Its - its been very hard. Every day I walk into school you know Im reminded of the reason Im walking into the school. Um every time I finish a test hes who I think about. Hes who motivates me.  Do you have picture of him in your home?  Yes I do. We have a few. Theres one where hes taking a selfie. Thats one of my favorites. Um so I have that one hanging up in my office.  When did he take the selfie?  Um Id say a year before that. Um he did it on the ph- on an iPad and its just a cute picture. You can tell - hes looking up at the camera and smiling. Its a great picture. A few months after Avontes body was found Danny and Illeana found out they were having a baby. Their daughter Savianah was born the day before Dannys first law school finals.  Every new thing that my daughter does its - its - brings smile on my face ear to ear. So you know shes starting to say I love you Dada every time I leave the house.  As far as like your parenting style are you - are you exceptionally focused on keeping your child safe?  Um yes. For sure. You know we have like little child locks on everything in the house. From dressers to the toilets. Just it might be a little - a little hyper. In regards to um my protective parenting style. But better safe than sorry.  Does Ileana have a similar style?  Mmmmm... no. No she tells me to simmer down. You know and I hope the older she gets the - the less - I guess the less worried I become. But its hard to say. Danny Oquendo. He graduates from New York Law School in 2018. He and Ileana are expecting another baby a son in May. Theyre planning a wedding for next summer. You can see their prom picture on our website at deathsexmoney.org. Since Avontes disappearance New York Citys installed some 18000 door alarms in schools across the city as of late last year. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein Hannah McCarthy and Andrew Dunn. Special thanks to WNYCs Beth Fertig for her help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Alsoif you like the show subscribe on iTunes and leave us a review. It helps other people find the show. And maybe you all knew this but we just figured outyou can leave an iTunes review directly from the podcast app on your phone. Just search for Death Sex  Money click on reviews then click 'write a review.'  Do you say oh-ken-doe or oh-kwen-do?  Um I kind of interchange um - its really its oh-ken-doe thats how you say it in Spanish but over the years Ive just kind of got accustomed to saying it  the American way oh-kwen-do.  Letting other people tell how to say your...  Ah pretty much. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.