 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. The story my guest Kelly Kennedy tells is one that I have not heard before about Iraq. It is been described as a mutiny. It is the story of a platoon in the hardesthit battalion since Vietnam and why they decided they could no longer fulfill their mission in the surge. They were tired and angry at the insurgents insurgents who paid children to throw grenades at the soldiers. The men in the platoon were so tired and angry they were afraid if they returned to patrolling the streets they would lose control and murder civilians. Kennedy was embedded with these men the 2nd Platoon Charlie Company 126 in June 2007. She was with them on their worst day and on the day a first sergeant committed suicide in front of his men. The platoon was in Hamadia one of the most violent neighborhoods in Baghdad. Kelly's new book is called They Fought For Each Other The Triumph and Tragedy of the HardestHit Unit in Iraq. Kennedy covers health and medical issues for the Army Times which is published by Gannett not the military. She served in the Army from 1987 to '93 including tours in the Gulf War and Mogadishu. Kelly Kennedy welcome to FRESH AIR. One of the more dramatic events you write about was when a 19yearold Ross McGinnis threw himself on a grenade to save four friends. Would you describe what happened? Ms.  Sure. Ross McGinnis was 19 years old. He had big brown eyes and this huge grin and he was silly just kept the guys in giggles all the time. And about a week before December 4th they would been out on patrol and someone threw a grenade into a truck and everyone jumped out and it turned out to be a dud. So everyone was safe. And then Ross kind of made jokes about it like no way man I would be jumping out. I would be the first one out of the truck. So they spent the next week kind of practicing you know throwing tennis balls into the trucks and then diving out. And then on December 4th they are out on patrol and the grenade came right in through Ross' turret and he was the gunner. And he sees it. He tries to catch it. He is chasing it around the turret and he is yelling grenade trying to get the guys out of the truck. And no one really understood what was happening and they did not have time to react but Ross knew what was going on. So he chased it all the way back down into the truck. And then one of the other guys Ian Newland saw the grenade and watched as Ross McGinnis threw himself against it and took the brunt of the force of the grenade and died instantly but saved four of his friends. And that was really interesting to me because you hear hero stories like that but you do not necessarily hear how that affects the men he is with. So they are so grateful for what he did but also always trying to figure out how they could have saved him.  And one man in particular Ian Newland thought that he could have done more to save McGinnis. Ian Newland thought that he should have died too. What impact did that have on him? Ms.  This is fairly common in combat stress that these guys feel guilt over things that there is no way they could have changed that Newland did not have time to do anything to fix that situation. So he feels like every single day he has to live up to this gift that McGinnis gave him. And I think he is coming to terms with that now. He is working on opening a horse ranch in Colorado to try to help wounded veterans or veterans dealing with PTSD or posttraumatic stress disorder. But I think it is something that he deals with every day and probably once an hour just trying to embrace what his friend did for him but then also live up to it.  Now you mentioned that among other things after the grenade he had traumatic brain injury and that is a pretty common injury now in Iraq and probably in Afghanistan too because  well in Iraq because of the IEDs. I think if you are in a vehicle that is hit or close to a vehicle that is hit by an IED the  what is it the aftershock of that can cause a concussion or a traumatic brain injury. Would you describe how frequently you think men in the company that you were following ended up with traumatic brain injury whether it was diagnosed or not? Ms.  Sure. There is varying degrees of a traumatic brain injury. In the civilian world we have always called them concussions. You know it is you know a football injury is a concussion. So these guys were generally dealing with mild traumatic brain injuries but even a mild traumatic brain injury can cause shortterm memory loss really bad headaches confusion and the anger issues. Some of the guys actually end up with epilepsy with seizures. And these guys every single one of them had been involved in some sort of a blast and a blast wave actually travels through the brain through your whole body and they are still sort of studying how that affects you. If this blast wave is going through blood then tissue then bone how does that affect it? But there are guys who were saying they were hit in as many as 15 times and it was important for them  they felt like it was important for them to always go out with their guys. So they are sort of try to scoot through on the testing afterward to  the medics would do tests to see if they would been injured if there had been a traumatic brain injury and part of the test was a memory test you know look at these three words and then recite them back to me. But the guys memorized all the words ahead of time so that they could keep going out on patrol. So diagnosing it was difficult anyway.  So were there men in the company that you were following who were diagnosed with TBI? Ms.  Not while I was there. I mean several of them had concussions and their medics knew that they had concussions. In one case one of the soldiers came back and even having memorized that test he could not recite the words back. It was that bad. So they took him off for a while. He stayed behind for the patrols while he was recovering for that.  If you are just joining us my guest is Kelly Kennedy. She is a reporter for the Army Times and she has a new book called They Fought For Each Other The Triumph and Tragedy of the HardestHit Unit in Iraq. She embedded with this unit in June of 2007. You were with the company you were embedded with on their worst day. This was in June 21st of 2007. What made that day the worst day? Ms.  Yeah well we would spent a couple of days with them. I would gone out with that unit in particular because I would heard they had a really amazing group of medics and I wanted to do a story about that. And I was also reporting on combat stress and I knew they would been hit pretty hard. So we went on patrols with them. Every patrol we went on there was another roadside bomb or an IED. And  I mean usually they would find them and blow them up but I think they were all  they were all scared already because they knew that there were more bombs out there. So on the morning of June 21st we went out on patrol with them and then they went out again and the photographer Rick Kozak and I decided to stay back and do some interviews while they went out on that second patrol. And we were actually sitting out on some picnic tables talking to the guys about combat stress when we heard an explosion. And what had happened was a Bradley a 30ton vehicle had rolled over a massive deepburied bomb and it was so big that it flipped the Bradley over and left a hole the size of a Humvee in the road. And an interpreter an Iraqi interpreter and four of the guys died instantly and then a fifth guy was caught underneath the Bradley and could not get away as it was burning. And back at the aid station all the guys knew was that this Bradley had been hit. They did not know who was in it; they did not know how bad it was. They knew it was on fire and that the guys were trapped inside but they were not hearing any more information than that. And we sat there for about an hour just waiting. It was the worst hour ever waiting to hear what had happened. And then one of the guys heard over the radio that they would all died. And then as they were  as another unit the 630th MPs were responding to June 21st to that Bradley explosion one of their female MPs was hit by a rocketpropelled grenade and it decapitated her in front of four of her teammates in a Humvee. And then their chaplain was coming out to assist and as he was driving out they ran over yet another IED in a Humvee and the driver's legs were pretty messed up after that and Chaplain Choi ended up with some pretty bad bruising. And so they finally get back in and everyone's dealing with that and the battalion commander comes out Colonel Shocht and as they are preparing the body bags and taking care of the guys they notified the colonel that he needed to go back to the main base where they told him that his son had died that day. He had a 13yearold son who had a heart condition and he died. So I mean the day just kept getting worse and worse and worse to the point where you wonder how anyone could deal with it. It was horrifying.  Well the men in the platoon were wondering how they could deal with it. They were  why do not you just describe the range of emotional reactions you observed among the survivors in this platoon. Ms.  Sure. You know it was all over the place the way they reacted. And there is a soldier named Gary DiNardi who was trying to get out of the gate. You know he is standing at the gate trying to run out into the street to help people and the guards were actually holding him back and he threw a water bottle and was sort of stomping around. There was another guy Eric Osterman who very calmly started spreading water down on the sand to try to keep the dust down and making sure other people had water to hydrate. It was really hot that day. The medics were very calmly going about setting up the aid station and they did not know how many people they would be bringing in. A lot of guys just sitting down with their heads in their hands and distraught and waiting. And there was one soldier who was actually really upset that there were  that the media were there on that day.  The media meaning you and your photographer. Ms.  Exactly. They had dealt with so many reporters in the past and generally did pretty well with it but that day was so personal to them. And they were so upset about coverage in general that you know their friends would die and it would come up as a number on the news and no one would know who those guys really were. And they just wanted people to know who their friends were who they would lost. And I think they were afraid that we were going to go back and do this sensationalistic story and use it in a political way. That was their other complaint was that their stories were often used to show that the surge was not working and they did not want it to be political. So one of the soldiers we were asked to go inside after a while. They are like the soldiers need to calm down. So can you go inside for a minute? And Rick and I had both been sort of standing way back. I mean we understood what had happened and we understood that do to the reporting and the photography that day we did not need to be on top of them did not need to make that day any worse. And I found out later on  we went to Germany when they came home  and one of the guys we would been drinking beer and hanging out all night and he started crying and told me that he would locked and loaded on me that day that he was so angry that he would considered shooting me and the guys pulled him back. And he is someone I hear from all the time now. He is a good kid but the moment was so traumatizing for him he just he needed to take his anger out somewhere and I was sort of the target of that so...  My guest is Kelly Kennedy. Her new book is called They Fought For Each Other The Triumph and Tragedy of the HardestHit Unit in Iraq. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is Kelly Kennedy. Her new book They Fought for Each Other is about a platoon that was in the hardesthit battalion since Vietnam. She was embedded with this platoon in June 2007 and she was with them on their worst day a day she just described. Now one of the men shot himself not long after this worst day. Ms.  Right.  Tell us his story. Ms.  His name was First Sergeant Jeff McKinney and he was known for singing on patrol Sesame Street songs and pretty squaredaway. The other first sergeants in the unit would go to him if they needed help with something they needed to learn something. He had a new wife and a new baby and he was talking about retirement and was all excited about that but he was also really stressing out over not being able to take care of his men as well as he wanted to. He felt like they were not getting the food and the water they needed. So he would do things like not drink or not eat and he would not sleep because he felt like he needed to be taking care of his guys constantly and I think the combination of those things along with  he was with them First Sergeant Kenny Hendricks on June 21st when they recovered the bodies. So he would seen some really bad things too. And he was not sleeping. He was acting strangely. His guys were noticing it. And one day they went on a patrol and he stepped out of the Humvee and he put his M4 under his chin and pulled the trigger in front of his men. And one of the guys who saw it and the medical records actually confirmed this said that at the last minute he actually twitched his head to the side as if he realized what he was doing and did not want to. It seems to have been an instant notthoughtout thing not a  it was not like he was planning it and he had not been suicidal in the past. It just  that is how his stress sort of erupted for him that day. And the interesting thing about it was the other first sergeants after it happened wondered if they were close to the same. They did not look at it as you know he is weak or we do not understand why he did this. They saw it as this is a bad place and we are going through a lot and I need to take better care of myself and my men.  Well shortly after the suicide and after the worst day for this platoon they thought that they could not go out anymore that they would just kind of hit a wall. Ms.  Right.  And although you were no longer embedded with the platoon you write about this. So I am sure they must have told you in detail what happened yes? Ms.  Yes.  Yeah so you describe that the whole platoon marched as a group to the mental health clinic. What did they have to say? Ms.  Well soon after McKinney's suicide another  they would been told to go out on patrol and they said that road's black there is bombs on that road. We know that we are not supposed to go on that road. And because of the weather they could not get back out to Apache during a sandstorm or something. That mission for them got cancelled and they sent out another company instead. And those guys went out in their 30ton Bradley and hit another deepburied IED and June 21st happened all over again. And these guys were in a different company but they were friends still. They were guys they knew. And it felt like for the guys like their leadership had let them down had let them die. So yeah they went to mental health and they said if we go on patrol in Hamadia we are going to kill everyone in our paths. We are so angry that we cannot function with any kind of ethical code at this point. And the therapist and the mental health counselor said you know at some point you need to stand down. If you guys think that you are going to make bad decisions and do things that are going to ruin your lives and others' then you need to stand down.  Okay so you have this whole platoon that decides that they cannot go out again. They are even afraid that they are going to end up killing civilians and going to jail for it because they are that angry. They truly feel like they cannot contain their anger anymore. So what did their leadership have to say? I mean you know the mental health experts agreed these men should not go out. What did the leadership have to say? Ms.  Well the leadership was  there was definitely a lack of communication. The company commander did not know about the trip to the mental health clinic and he did not know about the medications they were on.  Was he new? Ms.  He was fairly new yeah. He would come on in the spring and this was in the summer. But their platoon sergeant apparently had not relayed the message. And the platoon sergeant who was also a former drill instructor felt like they should be obeying the order. You know even though he would said in the past that it was time for 2nd Platoon to stand back he wanted them to go out that day. There was some talk about how it was not fair for 2nd Platoon to stand back because that just meant someone else had to go out in their place but then the company commander actually came out later and said I was disappointed that they did not follow my order. That is their job. That is the military mission. But I respect them for what they did. I respect them for understanding where they were at in that moment and for not going out that day.  So in the long run they were not seen as either selfish or cowardly but as kind of accurately representing their state of mind in thinking that their state of mind was an inappropriate state of mind to go out on a military mission. Ms.  Right. Ultimately they were eventually seen as courageous for that decision.  Was it considered a mutiny? Ms.  You know that is a word that some people in the battalion used. So I do not think it was considered a fullon mutiny once people understood the background to it. But they definitely refused to follow an order and it was known within the battalion as the 2ndPlatoon mutiny.  So just to make sure I understand correctly when the platoon decided they could not go out and the mental health expert said you should not be going out but then the command said no you need to go out the platoon still did not go out. Ms.  Right.  And so what was the immediate punishment and what was the end of the story? Ms.  They were administratively flagged which meant that they could not get awards or promotions or go on leave or anything like that. And that lasted for about two months and then the company commander said I think that is enough. They pulled the sergeants out of the platoon and gave them new leadership which the guys saw as punishment but the first sergeant and the company commander saw as a way to sort of get them back in a fighting mode again. I mean they still had to cover their battle space even with this platoon that had sort of broken in the middle of the mission so...  So how much more time did they have after this mutiny? Ms.  About three months after the mutiny they went home.  And did they all survive? Did everybody in this platoon who refused to follow orders survive the remaining three months? Ms.  They did and throughout their tour that platoon had lost men. A platoon's about 40 guys. From that moment on everyone was okay. There was one more injury after that. It was a medic who was out on patrol and was shot Tyler Holladay but he lived. He was okay.  Kelly Kennedy will be back in the second half of the show. Her new book is called They Fought For Each Other The Triumph and Tragedy of the HardestHit Unit in Iraq. She covers health and medical issues for the Army Times. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Im Terry Gross back with Kelly Kennedy who covers health and medical issues including PTSD for the Army Times. She is the author of the new book They Fought For Each Other The Triumph and Tragedy of the Hardest Hit Unit in Iraq. She was embedded with this unit 2nd Platoon Charlie Company 126 in June 2007 and was with them on their worst day a day she described earlier in the interview. What impact did that day have on you? Did you feel like you ended up with posttraumatic stress disorder? Ms.  Well posttraumatic stress disorder is  it is  there is a full range of symptoms you have to have but people call some of those symptoms that people generalize sort of as PTSD. When I got home I was blowing through stop signs. I just didnt see them. I would get up in the morning to read the paper and it would take me three hours. I was just very distracted. And I was sad for about a year. I think in was in a mild depression. So Id say sort of some anxiety issues for me. Nothing like what the guys are dealing with the nightmares and the flashbacks and that sort of thing and  I mean I didnt have any of the guilt kind of stuff to deal with. But it definitely helped me understand a little bit about how something like that can affect your brain and you know your outlook on the whole world as opposed to just what happened that day.  Well what about the men after returning? You kept up with them. Did most of them suffer from nightmares and flashbacks and anxieties of various sorts as a result of their experiences in Iraq? Ms.  I wouldnt say most of them. I would say a lot of them. It sounds like all of the medics are dealing with some things. A lot of the guys had nightmares. I wouldnt say all of them have fullblown posttraumatic stress but I am definitely hearing about guys who are leaving the military now with disability benefits because they are not able to function as well anymore. I think the rate in general is something like 20 percent for combat stress or posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms.  One of the people you thank in your acknowledgments is one of the medics from the platoon that you were embedded with Tyler Holladay. You thank him for making you feel like part of the group not just a reporter looking for a scoop. You write a lot about the stresses of being a medic in Iraq especially you know with that a platoon anyways. And you say that the medics in that platoon were taking on the men's psychological as well as physical problems treating them for psychological issues and they were just absorbing all of these problems and not having anybody to go to themselves. Now he was very seriously injured. What happened to this medic? Ms.  Tyler was out on patrol and they were looking at abandoned vehicles and trying to get rid of them. They were calling in to have someone come pick them up. And as he was coming back from one of the vehicles he got hit by a sniper in the stomach. And I mean a stomach wound is something that the guys fear more than just about anything because its hard to address immediately as a medic. And for Tyler it was terrifying because he was the medic. There wasnt another medic with him. So he would done some training with his guys to try to help them if they were in a situation like that or in case of a large amount of casualties where he couldnt do everything himself. But all the medics talk about how that first injury is the most difficult one to treat so he is surrounded by guys who have not necessarily done it before and giving them instructions you need to do this. You need to use a wet bandage not a dry bandage and he could feel his stomach filling with fluids. And as he is telling these guys what to do he is certain he is going to die and he is telling them to tell the other medics that he loves them and he is just sure he is done. And it turned out that if he would had an appendix he would have been  it would have killed him. But because his appendix had been removed the bullet didnt actually hit anything that he needed immediately and they were able to save him.  Tell us a little bit about some of the stresses that the medics in the platoon you were embedded with had to deal with. Why was it so stressful for them? Ms.  Well...  And how were their stresses different than the stresses of the other men in the platoon? Ms.  Yeah the infantry tends to be a little macho. So one of the things they know can help for combat stress is to talk about it. But if youre a tough guy it is really hard to talk to your buddy about it. So the medics who are not in their chain of command were sort of a neutral sort of a safe place to go talk and they knew that if they told the medics they were not going to go talking about it to anybody else. So someone would be having nightmares and Doc Holladay would listen to the stories about the nightmares and try to get the person back on track. Or someone would have a really bad day you know see another dead body on the street. For a while they were picking up 10 bodies a day and need someone to sort of talk it out with what he would seen and Doc Holladay would listen. And then when they did get casualties he was not only treating the guys but if they died he was the one who was identifying the bodies and loading them in the body bags. So it wasnt just that he was dealing with injured men he was dealing with his injured men. He was dealing with these guys who told him you know their fears and their hopes. And their friends they are the guys that they drink beer with back home and I think it is a whole different thing for a medic in the military as opposed to you know a regular doctor.  Why did you join the military back in  was it '89? Ms.  Yeah I joined the National Guard when I was in high school that was '87 and joined the regular Army in '89 and it was to get money for school. It was 1987 and there had not been a war for a very long time and I wanted to pay for my college and it seemed like it would be an adventure so I joined the military.  Maybe a bigger adventure than you thought because there was a war  the Gulf War? Ms.  Right and Somalia too. I ended up over there.  Oh okay. So how did it feel to be a young woman who signed up in the hopes of you know some adventure getting some money for college and suddenly youre basically in two war zones? Ms.  Mm yeah it scared the heck out of me.  Ms.  It really forced me to think about what I believed in personally. I remember in Desert Storm I was reading accounts of how soldiers were being forced to fight for Saddam Hussein. So even if they didnt want to be involved in that war or believe in what he was doing they were being forced to fight. And I remember thinking oh my gosh how could I hurt somebody like that? How could I shoot back and that being a big issue for me. And then I remember going to Mogadishu and having guys in my unit attacked or there was a Marine who was killed. He was knifed really close to where we were set up and being so angry that I felt like I could shoot back and having that knowledge without having the background knowledge to understand what the people there might be thinking about a bunch of Americans showing up. Yeah so I think I learned a lot about myself in that way that I wasnt expecting to learn.  Well Kelly Kennedy thank you very much for talking with us. Ms.  Thank you for having me.  Kelly Kennedy is the author of the new book They Fought For Each Other The Triumph and Tragedy of the Hardest Hit Unit in Iraq. She covers health and medical issues for the Army Times. You can read the first chapter of her book and find a link to her PTSD series on our Web site freshair.npr.org. Coming up we listen back to an interview with writer Barry Hannah. He died Monday. This is FRESH AIR.  