 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest actor Jason Segel got his start with Seth Rogen and James Franco in the Judd Apatow high school series Freaks and Geeks. Segel was in Apatow's film Knocked Up then wrote himself a starring role in Forgetting Sarah Marshall a romantic comedy that includes a Dracula musical performed with puppets. He is not done with puppets. He signed on to write the screenplay for a new Muppets movie. Segel also costars in the CBS series How I Met Your Mother. Now Segel stars opposite Paul Rudd in the new bromance I Love You Man. Paul Rudd plays a real estate agent in L.A. who has just proposed to his girlfriend. As they plan the wedding he realizes he has no close friend to serve as his best man. So he starts looking for a manfriend. He thinks maybe he is found one at an open house he is holding at a mansion he is trying to sell. The potential friend is played by Jason Segel. Segel is helping himself to the fancy sandwiches at the open house telling Rudd that the guy who is just said he is serious about buying the mansion is really just trying to impress his girlfriend. Then Segel goes a step further in demonstrating how perceptive he is.  Mr.   Like that guy needs to fart. It is pretty clear but he does not know her well enough to do it in front of her so I assume they have not slept together. Mr.   He does seem to be clenching. Mr.   Yeah he does not want to fart. Watch when he gets enough space he is going to let one rip. I guarantee it. Oh that is a good move. Hey go check out the kitchen honey. I will meet you in there. Now watch. He is making his move slowly slowly but surely. Watch the leg. Wait for it wait for it fart boom. That is a fart. That is a fart. Mr.   Oh my God. Mr.   Look at him cropdusting across your open house. It is a disgrace. Mr.   He farted in my open house. Mr.   He sure did.  Jason Segel welcome to FRESH AIR. So obviously you are very observant in the film. We have just heard you being observant in a more sophisticated take on the ever popular fart scene.  Mr.  Yes. It is one of my more dignified moments on film I must say.  Yeah. Do you agree with the film's basic premise that it is sometimes easier to find a girlfriend than to find a good platonic male friend? Mr.  No I do. You know I was sort of surprised this movie had not been made before. But as you get older it is very tricky for men to make friends with strangers. You know normally I guess your friends are sort of grandfathered in. They are friends of other friends or you know your girlfriend's friends one way or another and to try to make friends with a stranger is tricky for grown men. I think women have it a lot easier. You guys can like walk into a woman's restroom and come out with a new best friend. But for men it is just it is not the same thing.  Do you still have old friends like friends from your high school days and? Mr.  Yeah. My best friend in the world is a guy called Brian Lind who I met when I was 12 years old and he lived with me for the past couple of years and then six months ago he moved to New York to go to med school. And I just gave him kind of a bro goodbye. I said all right man. Go get them out there. I am proud of you. And he left and I woke up at two in the morning out of a dream crying hysterically and I had to call my mother to calm me down.   That is funny. Mr.  It was horrible.  Describe your character Sydney Fife in I Love You Man. Mr.  Sure. Sydney was a late bloomer and so he is kind of terrified of monogamy and you know he is a bit of a womanizer and really values his guy friends. He is a little bit mysterious. I do not want to give too much away but he  you know he is got this attitude that I do not possess in life which is this is who I am take it or leave it which is what really drew me to playing that part. It sort of reminded me of my friend Russell Brand who I did Sarah Marshall with.  Oh he is terrific in your film yeah. Mr.  Oh thank you. Well he has that quality in real life as well of this is who I am you know accept it. And I have never had that. I am the kind of guy who like stays up until midnight thinking I wish I had not said that thing to that guy. I hope I did not hurt his feelings. And then I will call the next day and apologize and they will have no idea what I am talking about. That is sort of how I am bent and it was nice to sort of play the opposite.  You know these bromance movies where it is about the platonic relationship between two or more men Mr.  Sure.  why do you think they are so popular now? Mr.  Boy I do not know. You know I think maybe these kind of buddy movies are allowing men to open up a little bit about you know it is okay to let this guard down and let the machismo down and just be who you are.  Yeah but so many of the bromance movies are so much about the machismo. Like your character is really macho in his own way is a real womanizer and  you know living in what used to be called the classic bachelor pad like living in this like mass of you know boy stuff.  Mr.  Yeah.  These are the guys who cannot really grow up. Mr.  Yeah. My character certainly is stunted and that is what I learn from Paul Rudd's character. I think the slight difference in the way our movie turns it on its head is you never hear in the movie you do not see Paul Rudd and I sitting around and like talking dirty talk. It is  we have very emotional discussions and I try to delve into why he wants to marry his wife and I think sometimes conversations like that are what get cut out of the buddy movie because it seems too sentimental. In our movie we actually do the opposite and we expose that we know the secret that it is really women who do the locker room talk more than men do. I have never been around guys who sit around and talk about you know their girlfriend this or their girlfriend that but I have met friends of my exgirlfriend who clearly know everything about my anatomy and you know  Mr.  It is like you women I think are some dirty talkers.   If you are just joining us my guest is Jason Segel and he stars with Paul Rudd in the new film I Love You Man. Let us talk a little bit about a film that you wrote and star in and that is Forgetting Sarah Marshall which I missed in the movies but I watched it on DVD  it is out on DVD  and it is really good and it is really funny. Mr.  Oh thanks.  Let us hear what I know is your most famous scene in the movie and this is from the beginning of the film. And like you play a guy who writes music for a crime scene kind of TV show. Mr.  Exactly. It is basically a CSI spoof. I was a guest star on CSI for a while and I just always found how serious how serious it all is very funny. You know?  Yeah yeah yeah. Mr.  So yeah I play a guy who composes the music and is sort of just dying inside because he wants to be a proper musician and his girlfriend is the star of the show. And so one day she comes over to the house and I think she is there to have sex with me. So I am waiting there naked for her and she proceeds to dump me while I am naked.  Yeah well let me explain it a little bit more. She told you that she is coming over and you did not expect her that quickly. So you jump into the shower and you come out with a towel wrapped around you surprised to find her there. And as she tells you the news the towel drops. Mr.  Yeah.  And we get to see you full top to bottom from front and behind.  Mr.  Yes.  Fully naked. Mr.  You are welcome.  Yes right.   So here's the scene.  Ms.   Peter as you know I love you very much. Mr.   Are you breaking up with me? Ms.   Pete are you? Mr.   I just need a minute. Ms.   Okay.  Mr.   Please do not go. Ms.   Why do not you just put on some clothes and we can sit down and discuss this? Mr.   No I cannot do anything right now. Ms.   I am so sorry Pete. Mr.   I am in love with you. Ms.   Why do not you just put some clothes on okay? Mr.   I am not going to go put clothes on. I know what that means. If I put clothes on it is over.  Okay that is my guest Jason Segel with Kristen Bell from his film Forgetting Sarah Marshall. Mr.  That was taken from the pages of real life. I once got dumped while I was naked but she asked me to put clothes on during this real breakup my real life breakup and opposed to in the movie when I say no I did go to put clothes on. So she waited for me while I went back into my room to get dressed. Let me just tell you Terry.  Yeah. Mr.  Picking out an outfit for the second half of a breakup is like the hardest outfit you will ever pick out in your life.  Mr.  I came out I came out in a blue buttoned up shirt and khaki pants like I was going to private school.   So did it seem funny to you at the time or is it just in retrospect it is  these things take on Mr.  No you know what? I think maybe this is the mind of a writer I guess but it was  while this breakup is happening which was probably the most significant moment of my life to date you know when that happened and I am naked and the whole time I am thinking this is really really funny. I am going to use this in a movie someday and slowly her voice became like the teacher from Charlie Brown you know just  while I was slowly constructing the scene in my mind.  Oh so what did she say? What did the real exgirlfriend say when she saw the movie? Mr.  Amazingly amazingly we do not speak anymore.  Oh shocking. Right okay.  Mr.  Yeah.  I should have seen that coming. Mr.  Yeah.   So like you are 6'4 I think? Mr.  I am 6'4.  So when you are naked there is a lot of you to see and it makes it even funnier because you have like such  there is such a big body there that is like dwarfing your girlfriend. Mr.  I know. Well you know part of what I thought could be great and I think it did turn out really well is you know I know it is a comedy and so everything has to be funny but I did not want that breakup scene to be funny. I did not want it to be played for laughs you know? Because I think it was a really important part of the movie this  that the breakup be as painful as possible. So I thought the backdrop of me being naked gave me the opportunity to play the scene totally seriously because every time you cut back to me naked you are going to get a laugh you know? And the other thing I thought was I wanted it to be a guy literally at his most vulnerable. And so you know I think naked it about as vulnerable as it gets. And the final thing is I hate romantic comedies for the reason that you always know how it is going to end. The guy's going to end up with the girl like hey probably that girl who is been really nice to him the whole movie who works at the cookie shop you know? You can tell what is about to happen and so I have always been reticent to go and I thought as a viewer if in the very first scene of the movie your lead actor is suddenly full frontal you know naked you are forced to sort of throw out your expectations and sit back and say I do not know what is going to happen in this movie you know? So I think it sort of set the stage to lose any preconceptions about what the movie might be like.  I do not know how to put this in a way discrete enough so that we could discuss it on the radio but so here you are and like six minutes into the film and you are there like stark naked. Mr.  Yeah.  And we see you in every angle. Mr.  Sure.  And so like what did you do to make sure that your privates would look good?  Mr.  Sure. No I absolutely understand the question and I will try to word it equally as carefully.  Thank you. Mr.  Well I found out in the meetings leading up to the movie about the scene because believe me there was a lot of talk about whether or not I should even do it. So all of the sudden I am sitting with Universal executives and Judd Apatow and we are talking about what it is going to be like when I am naked and they told me that you can only get an R rating if it is completely flaccid. That is the only way that you maintain your R rating. So it was very important that that be the case that it be completely like that. It was very important for me personally that it not be completely flaccid.  Mr.  You know there was a real mental battle going on between personal pride and maintaining our R rating. So I found that the right level seemed to be to think about the most beautiful girl in high school and that sort of got things going a little bit and then I would think about how she would never go out with me. And so that kept it at just about the right level.   That is really funny. So what rating did you get? Mr.  We got the R rating pulled off the R rating.  What did your mother say about the scene? Mr.  Oh man. I still regret this moment. I thought it would be a funny joke not to tell my mother I had done it and have her find out at the first showing of the movie. So I walked  You did not tell her? Is that what you are saying you did not tell her? Mr.  Yes I did not tell her that I had done it. And I walk her into the first screening and all of the sudden I walk out and I drop my towel and I am naked and I look over at my father and my father's laughing hysterically. I think my little sister is laughing hysterically. And then I turn and I looked at my mom and she was staring at me with a tear streaming down her face.  And she said Why did not you tell me? And I said I thought it would be a funny joke not to tell you. And then she said This is not a funny joke.  Mr.  That was the last we spoke of it.  My guest is Jason Segel. He is now starring with Paul Rudd in the movie I Love You Man. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is Jason Segel. He is the costar of the new film comedy I Love You Man. He wrote and directed the romantic comedy  I mean to say he wrote and starred in the romantic comedy Forgetting Sarah Marshall which was released last year. So another thing from Forgetting Sarah Marshall. The character that you play in it the main character is working on a rock opera with puppets about Dracula and eternal love. Mr.  Yes.  And I have read that you were actually or are actually working on a similar musical yes? Mr.  I am yeah. Well the way that  that was not written for the movie that Dracula musical. Sadly I had a really bad outofwork period from like 21 to 25. I could not figure out what I was going to do with my life because I did not have a college education and I thought I was going to have to like live with my parents for the rest of my life. Looking back I was such an arrogant kid I thought the two options for me were either movie star or live with my parents. Get a real job like never entered my mind. But so I thought the way that I could jumpstart my career was to write a Dracula musical to be done with puppets. But I was writing it without a sense of irony. It was not a comedy. It was going to be like a slow labored drama. So anyway I finally finished a few of the songs and I took it to Judd Apatow to play for him. He was the first person I played it for. And the first song starts and about halfway through he pushes stop on the CD player and he looks at me and he goes Jayce just take my advice. You cannot ever play this for anyone ever.  Mr.  And thank God I did not because I would have looked like a crazy person and I got to save it for the movie.  Well you know in Forgetting Sarah Marshall your character does not realize that the Dracula musical he is writing is really a comedy. Mr.  Yep straight from the pages of real life.  Right okay. How did you realize it because of Judd Apatow? Mr.  Yeah yeah basically you know  But he did not say it was funny. He just said never let anybody hear this. Mr.  No he said never let anyone hear it. And I will tell you how it ended up happening. Judd has the same feelings about romantic comedy as I do specifically how hard it is to come up with an original ending you know? And so we were sitting around brainstorming like what could be an original ending for a romantic comedy. And I looked at him halfjoking and I said well we could always use my Dracula musical. And he looked at me and it was like you know Judd Apatow is a comedy genius and you just saw like ding. You saw this look in his eyes like oh my God that is weird enough that it might work. So I just rewrote it that night that my character's been secretly working on a Dracula opera and that is how that happened.  Well I want to play a scene that relates to this and this is a scene where you are at a bar with a girl who you hope is becoming your new girlfriend. Mr.  Yes.  And she has asked the band  she knows you are working on this Dracula rock opera. So she is asked the band to call you onstage and invite you to perform an excerpt of the Dracula musical. And you go very reluctantly to the stage and with great discomfort start to play one of the songs. And at this point you still think it is a serious musical and it is not until she laughs Mr.  Yeah.  that you realize oh it is a comedy. So here's that scene in which you are playing an excerpt of your Dracula rock opera.   Mr.   It is getting kind of hard to believe things are going to get better. I have been drowning too long to believe that the tide's going . And I have been living too hard to believe things are going to get easier. I am still trying to shake off the pain in the lessons I have learned. And if I see Van Helsing I swear to the lord I will slay him. Ah ah ah. Take it from me but I swear I will let it be so. Ah ah ah ah. Blood will run down his face when he is decapitated.  Mr.    let this world know how much I love you. Die die die. I cannot.  Mr.  I am such a weirdo.  That is Jason Segel in an excerpt of his film Forgetting Sarah Marshall which is on DVD. You know in that die die die I cannot you just kind of capture very succinctly there the downside of immortality. Mr.  Absolutely.   . Mr.  Yeah. I think I understand why women never want to stay with me.  Imagine I am out of work and I am sitting there writing that song until all hours of the morning.  So what are some of the like musicals or rock operas that have influenced you and made you want to write one of your own? Mr.  Oh man. Well I used to see Les Miserables with my family every year when I was young and I just loved it. I loved it loved it so much to the point where when I was about seven years old or so I was finally old enough to go to my brother's sleepaway camp. And I was so excited because you know I really looked up to my brother and my brother really did not like me that much at this age. Like I would embarrass him a lot. I wore a Superman cape under my clothes for example.   Did you really? Mr.  I did until I was way too old until I was like 10 years old. But so anyway I was going to finally get to go to camp with him and he said Jason let me tell you something. This is my camp. I love it. You are not going to embarrass me okay? And I was petulant. I said of course I am not going to embarrass you Adam geeze. So first day at camp we are sitting there and the counselor gets up and he says all right we would like to welcome everybody back and we would also like to welcome the new campers. As a matter of fact would anybody like to do an impromptu talent show? And I see my brother look at me like you would better not kid. And little Jason Segel raises his hand slowly makes his way up to the stage  in a Superman cape  and I get to the front and he says all right what would you like to do? And I said I would like to sing. And I started singing Mr.   There is a castle on a cloud. Mr.  I sang the little girl's song from Les Miserables from beginning to end.  Mr.  My brother was mortified.  Jason Segel will be back in the second half of the show. He is now starring opposite Paul Rudd in the comedy I Love You Man. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Jason Segel. He stars with Paul Rudd in the new bromance I Love You Man. He got his start in Freaks and Geeks the shortlived high school series cocreated by Judd Apatow. When we left off we were talking about writing and staring in the romantic comedy Forgetting Sarah Marshall which was released last year. You wrote a character that is played by Russell Brand in your film who is pop star who is deeply in love with himself and has also stolen your girlfriend. Mr.  Yes. You want to hear an amazing story  Yes. Mr.  about casting Russell Brand.  Yes. Mr.  That was originally written to be a young British author like I pictured like a Hugh Grant type. And so we are holding the auditions and people are coming in and doing these terrible fake British accents and wearing suits you know three piece tweed suits and everything. And so about halfway through the day we are just exhausted and we feel like we are never going to find somebody and then in walks Russell Brand in his full regalia. He is wearing leather pants he is wearing a shirt unbuttoned to his navel and just like  it must have been three pounds of necklaces  Mr.   and his hair all teased. He is wearing eyeliner  I mean just totally wrong for the part. And he walks in and he has the nerve to look at me the writer and he says you have to forgive me mate I have only had a chance to take a cursory glance of your little script. Perhaps you should tell me what it is you require? And I literally went home that night and rewrote the movie for Russell Brand to be a British rock star. I could not imagine anyone to be more jealous of or intimidated by if they were dating your new girlfriend than Russell Brand.  Now was he doing like as he genuinely had not read the script or was he doing that to show you the obnoxious character he could be? Mr.  I think that it was a mixture of both. He definitely had not read the script. He is in life perhaps the nicest guy I have ever met. But he just nailed this kind of  you know I must say I stole my character in I Love You Man the Sidney Fife character directly from Russell. Russell has like I said that quality of just not caring what other people think or at least seeming like he does not. And I thought what an amazing quality to have in your girlfriend's new boyfriend someone who like  it is not that he is jerk he just does not even feel weird or bad that he is dating your girlfriend. You know it just like not on his radar that that should be an awkward situation because it was very important to me for all the characters in Forgetting Sarah Marshall that they not be stereotypes. I did not want it to be a diatribe against a cheating exgirlfriend for example. It would have been really easy to make her just a real villainous character. And of course you want to hate your girlfriend's new boyfriend. But the thing that occurred to me is my exgirlfriend is a pretty cool lady and so why would I assume that her new boyfriend is going to be a jerk. She is probably going to date another pretty cool guy you know? And so I felt like that is what make the movie more complicated and real than just one of these kind of comedies that come and go and are filled with raunchy punch lines. I wanted to try to really explore what relationships are like. The scene in the movie that I am the most proud of is you know this whole  the whole time it is from my perspective. And you are really thinking you know what a jerk for cheating on him and she must be really selfcentered and all that. And then there is a scene about three quarters of the way through the movie where I say to her it is our first time we have had a talk since we broke up and I say I just wish you tried harder. And she just flips the script and she says you think I did not try? How dare you? I tried everything I could. I went to relationship counseling. I made you dinners. You would not get out of your sweat pants. You know you sat on the couch for a week straight once. Why? I could not drown with you anymore. And I felt like it is those kind of moments that hopefully made the movie interesting.  If you are just joining us my guest is Jason Segel and he is now starring with Paul Rudd in the new movie I Love You Man. He is also on TV in the series How I Met Your Mother. I want to play a scene from the first series that you were on and this might have been like your real acting debut. This is in Freaks and Geeks the now cult TV series that  did it make it through a whole season or was it cut before the Mr.  No we got canceled  13 episodes and we could tell it was going to happen. On TV shows you have the thing called the craft service table which is like a set up of food you know. And we got there for the first episode and there was like a lavish deli spread and all sorts of like beverages. And by about episode 10 it was just like a box of corn pops and some creamer.  Mr.  We could see that the budget was being reduced so yeah we knew it was coming.  Well briefly describe your character and then I want to play a scene. Mr.  Sure. This is my favorite character I have ever played I think. His name is Nick Andopolis and he is just a really openhearted really really loving and caring not so bright stoner who is father is in the army and is incredibly tough on him. And he is constantly under the threat that if he does not do well enough in school he is going to be sent off to join the army which he is terrified about. And I love Linda Cardellini's character Lindsay Weir. She is the object of my affection and I become somewhat obsessed with her in a very sweet but creepy way.  Well she is in the scene we are about to hear. And in this scene you play drums. And your real aspiration is to be drummer in a rock band. And your father thinks that the drums are distracting you from schoolwork. So he is ordered you to get the drums out of the basement and warned you as you just said that if your grades do not improve you will have to go into the army. So this scene is right after you have auditioned with a band and it went really badly. Mr.  Horribly hilariously badly.  Exactly so here you are talking with your friend Lindsay who is played by Linda Cardellini and she is really smart and does well in school. So here you are talking with her about the audition.  Mr.   Sometimes I go down in my basement put on a live album. I can see myself on the stage. Do you understand what I mean? I can see it. And I will playing ten minute solo and I am on one of those hydraulic rises you know? They make the drum kit go way up high. Like I am Peter Criss or something. Oh man. I am not going to be that guy. I am never going to be that guy. I will be lucky if I get to be that guy who pushes the button and makes the riser go up but I am not even going to be that guy. I am not even going to be that guy because I cannot even keep a C plus average man. Ms. LINDA CARDELLINI   Oh Nick I can  I can help you get your grades up. Mr.   He is going to make me join the army. Oh man I am going to have to join the army. I am going to be surrounded by a group of psychopaths like my brothers and like my dad. Ms.   Nick come on. That is going to happen to you. I will not let it. Mr. JASON SEGEL   Oh my God. I am done man. I am done.  And at the end of that scene you and she share your first kiss. Mr.  Yeah I actually just got a little emotional listening to that. That was one of the best times in my life. It is when I met Judd Apatow and it is when I met Seth Rogen and James Franco and Linda and Martin Starr all these guys Busy Philipps. We were all so young and we were so nave that we kind of thought every experience would be like that. If that makes any sense. And it is not. Every experience is not like that. It was  it was a really beautiful beautiful time.  My guest is Jason Segel. He is now staring with Paul Rudd in the movie I Love You Man. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.  My guest is Jason Segel costar of the new film comedy I Love You Man. He wrote and directed the romantic comedy Forgetting Sarah Marshall which was released last year. When we left off we were talking about getting started on the TV series Freaks and Geeks. How did you get the part? Mr.  Well I went in and I just auditioned. And the show was called Freaks and Geeks and I seemed to fit in to both of those categories.  Mr.  So I guess I was a bit of a natural fit. I have been 6'4 since I was 12 and kids used to stand around me in a circle and one by one they would jump on my back while the rest chanted ride the oaf ride the oaf.  Wow that is sounds not only horrible but that it would hurt a lot. Mr.  Yeah physically.  Yeah. Mr.  Yeah it was unpleasant. And I think that  I think that to some extent that whole cast was made up of people who always felt like the underdog in their life. And Judd recognized those qualities in all of us and we were all  you know look experiences like that  ride the oaf I mean  they are either going to turn you into a jerk or they are going to make you funny. And so I went with funny and I think a lot of the people in the cast would you know would tell you they have their own versions of that same story. And we all sort of became comedy dorks. And we united  we united on that. It was  let me tell you I remember me James Franco and Seth Rogen would go to my house every night and rehearse the scenes for the next day. I have never done that since. But we all just wanted it to be so good and Judd was so trusting in all of us. There is a scene in that show where I am in the basement with Lindsay Linda Cardellini's character and I sing to her a Lady the song Lady. And it is really weird and it is really creepy. And before the scene Judd just came up to me and he said listen Jayce this scene needs to be really weird and really creepy and really funny and really sweet. Let us see what you got. That is amazing you know for someone to have that kind of faith in you and it was a little bit like when some parents are teaching their kids to swim they say sometimes you just throw your kid in the pool and see if they can swim. That is a little bit what I felt like  all of the sudden we were required to do big comedy and we had very little experience.  So what did you do I mean what did you think about as you were doing that sc