 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show New York Times immigration reporter Caitlin Dickerson and Morning Edition host David Greene. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am here with David Greene right next to me in studio broadcasting from NPR West in Culver City Calif. and in New York joined by Caitlin Dickerson. Has the snow melted there yet?  Yes.   Mostly. It is sunny outside. It is nice outside. There is still a fair amount of black sludge on the ground.  Oh that'ill be there for a while.  That sounds great.  Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah.  So as Aunt Betty said Caitlin covers immigration for a little small startup newspaper called The New York Times. And David Greene besides hosting Morning Edition for NPR - he hosts my favorite morning podcast Up First.  Thank you Sam.  You pull double duty every week.  Every day.  So you guys this song is special just for this week because there is news around the band that did the song. You know the song and the band?    Say it as not so. I will not go. Turn the lights off. Carry me home.  Blink-182.  Yes Blink-182.  Nice Caitlin.  Good job. This is like from my TRL days way back when. This is a song called All The Small Things from their 1999 classic album Enema Of The State.   And I am playing the song today because just this week Blink-182 announced that they are going to Vegas.  Really? When?  They are starting...  Give me a date.  ...A Las Vegas residency at the Palms Casino Resort - 16 dates. The show is going to be called Kings of the Weekend. It starts in May.  I was so worried you were going to say the news was sad. I loved Travis...  No this is good news.  ...So much.  .  And I wanted to go to a Blink-182 concert with my best friends when I was growing up and our mothers would not let us.  What?  Well now's your time.  Yeah. You are coming with us.  Now's your time. Yeah.    Say it as not so. I will not go. Turn the lights off. Carry me home.  So Mark Hoppus the bassist for Blink-182 - he said quote when the Palms asked us to do a residency here in Vegas we said absolutely. Now we just have to cast our show girls make our set list a true throwback of Vegas classics with Sinatra Liberace. Maybe we can even marry someone onstage. The possibilities in Vegas are endless.  That is lovely.  Oh my.  I for one cannot wait to enter the Vegas phase of my career.  When does your show open...  Listen.  ...In Vegas at the Palms?  Hopefully tomorrow.  2057.  20 - yeah.  Yeah. Yeah. So let us get into it. We are each going to describe how the week of news and everything else felt for us in only three words. David do you have three words?  I do. People are people. Because I have felt - there have been these stories this week that have made me think that people forget that people are people.  OK.  And one of them is immigration. And if you listen to all these conversations among Republicans and Democrats about this omnibus spending bill...  Yeah.  ...And whether to put DACA in it - DACA protections - I mean it is like you have President Trump saying like well you know I am ready to protect the DREAMers if you give me more money for my border wall. And you have Democrats saying you know the White House is showing no leadership. So if we cannot put DACA in there then we are just not going to put DACA in there. And you forget that these are...  Real people.  ...People. They are lives.  Yes.  Who have been in flux...  In flux for...  ...Since that March 5 deadline and before.  ...So long.  Yeah.  And it is just you have both parties saying that you know they want to do something.  And most of the country says fix this.  Do something. And they become just a political football.  Yeah.  So there was another just shocking story. It was our NPR colleague Ruth Sherlock - was reporting on it. It is open slave markets in Libya.  Really?  These are migrants from different countries in Africa who are trying to get to Europe. And it is been you know a torturous journey for so many as we have known. But increasingly they are arriving in Libya and instead of getting smuggled to Europe they are ending up sold as slaves.  To who?  To people who use them for work. There was...  What kind of work?  What?  I mean farm work and other stuff. There was one guy who was in one of the stories that Ruth did. And he said I am a human being just like him - talking about the guy who had enslaved him. This is 2018.  Yeah.  Wow.  I mean I know there is - I mean there is human trafficking and there is stuff that is still shocking and alarming every day in this world. But that just got me.  It boggles the mind.  The U.N. said open slave markets...  To see it out in the open like that.  Yeah I mean it is - how do we as a society...  Yeah.  ...Allow this?  And one it is like well who steps up to stop it?  Yeah. And it is tough because I mean Libya is an absolute mess.  Yeah. Yeah. Oh my goodness.  Yeah. Like people are people. Come on.  People are people.  Yeah let us just remember that.  Yeah I mean and you know just an interesting caveat going back to what you were saying earlier about folks that are recipients of DACA there is no fix for it in this spending bill.  No.  It remains to be seen if anyone's actually going to figure out a permanent fix for them.  Even though both parties say they want to.  Yeah.  I mean that is...  It is amazing.  Yeah.  And I talk to these kids all the time. I especially think about ones who are right now applying for college.  Yeah.  And in some states they might not actually be able to attend college if they do not have legal status. But in other places it is just things like in-state tuition. But that can be - I mean that can be like double or triple you know the cost of your education. And you know I think that people just start to talk about DREAMers in this very general sense and do not spend as much time thinking about the specific ways in which their lives are totally all over the place right now.  Yeah. So Caitlin what are your three words?  OK. Do not get mad at me. I have four words.  Four?  My words this week are could not help but wonder.  That is a lot of words Caitlin.  OK. Let me explain why. I cannot believe you do not recognize these words. Could not help but wonder is the signature catchphrase of Carrie Bradshaw in Sex And The City.  Oh.  Oh.  It is her most overused writing trope. She puts it in almost every single column. So of course these are my words this week because one Cynthia Nixon aka Miranda Hobbes on Sex And The City...  Yeah.  ...She is running for governor in New York. And that made me think I could not help but wonder you know have we reached a kind of turning point? For me actually the thinking started right after the Golden Globes when Oprah made her big speech.  Yeah.  And then everybody started talking about Oprah for president. And I caught myself - because my reaction immediately - I sort of thought Oprah for president. Like instead of saying what why? No qualifications. That does not make any sense. Like and then I caught myself and was like wait. Is this totally normalized now?  I think so.  And in the same way when Cynthia Nixon announced she was running for governor I was like sure. Of course.  Natural.  Makes perfect sense.  You know what I find so odd about it is that those very people who lambasted Trump when he ran for having no experience...  And being from the entertainment world...  Yeah - now support liberals like Oprah and Cynthia Nixon who also do not have that much experience.  Exactly. And listen. Like there is something to it. They are very good communicators.  Yeah.  They are very compelling.  Yeah.  You know I could not envision Cynthia Nixon in sort of campaigning or rallying. And then you look at her video. It is like...  It was pretty good.  ...It is incredibly polished.  Yeah.  And then she does that thing at the end where she looks straight into the camera which I feel like only an actor like a really good actor could really pull off. And the other thing that I could not help but wonder about this week - and I imagine you guys feel similarly - is that you know this March for Our Lives is happening on Saturday. The Stoneman Douglas kids who are campaigning for gun control...  Yeah.  ...Are going to march on Washington and all over the country. Half a million people at least are expected in Washington. And what I am wondering and what I think everybody is wondering is you know are they actually going to be successful? They are doing something very different. And hearing stories about what it is like inside their movement to me is fascinating. You know like parents and adults offer them help. And they say like no no no. We do not want anything from you. The only thing that we would allow you to do is like order us pizza.  Yeah.  You know a writer Charlotte Alter who is a friend of mine - she wrote the TIME magazine cover story about them this week. And she actually likens them to Trump. And she says you know...  How so?  ...They go on Twitter. They go on Twitter and they like lob sick burns at all who are you know NRA activists or politicians who oppose them. Like they are very very good again at communicating online...  Yeah.  ...And being really provocative. And they are not in any way encumbered by the social mores that keep adults from actually saying how they feel or most adults from actually saying how they feel.  Yeah.  And so what I cannot help but wonder is you know are they making a bad or not strategic choice by not taking advice from professional adults who do this for a living? Or is that like just what it is going to take to finally change one of the most intractable policy issues in this country?  Yeah.  It is a moment. No matter where this goes these kids are - have created a moment.  Oh yeah.  Even if you disagree with everything they are fighting for it is like...  You are paying attention.  ...You have to step back - you are paying attention. You are like that is courage.  Yeah.  That is teenagers.  I could not do it.  No I could not imagine myself doing this as a 16- or 17-year-old.  Yeah.  No way.  You guys I have three words.  Give it to us Sam.  It is the same word three times. Data data data.  Can you do that? Can you use the same? Do not they have to be three different words?  I do not know.  You set the rules. I mean it is...  The referees in the studio have not called me out. Data data data.  I broke the rules.  OK.  So I am good with it.  Yeah yeah. So the first data that I got caught up with this week was a little wrinkle in this big omnibus spending bill that President Trump just signed. There is some language in there that might make it easier for the Centers for Disease Control to do research on gun violence. This is a big deal because the CDC has not really been able to do that since about 1996. That was when Congress passed what they called the Dickey Amendment. And it basically killed funding for guns research. And this is going to sound confusing. But this new language in the omnibus bill - it does not get rid of that Dickey Amendment but this bill does include language saying that the CDC now does have the authority to do research on the causes of gun violence. So some folks are saying this is a big win. But just to make it clear people that actually study this stuff are kind of skeptical that anything will change because of it in part because there is no actual allocation of funds in this bill to actually pay for the research that it now allows.  It is allowed. But there is no money for it.  There you go.  Interesting.  So that is the first data story. My second data data data story is about whether or not having a lot of data is actually useful. We have all been talking this week about Cambridge Analytica this technology firm that contracted out to the Trump campaign in the last election and obtained personal data on some 50 million Facebook users through a not ethical perhaps not legal way.  Probably some of us.  I am sure.  Oh absolutely.  Like if we had friends who agreed to that app or whatever I am sure...  Oh yeah. Yeah. And so the coverage of how they got this data what they were trying to do with the data how they worked - it is really crazy. But one thing I have questioned in our coverage of this story is whether or not the data they got was good. We do not know yet. So the big distinction in the data that Cambridge Analytica had was that it was psychographic targeting not demographic targeting. So to break it down simply demographic targeting means an advertiser can predict based on who you are what race you are how old you are what you might buy. Psychographic data says based on your personality traits we can predict what you buy. If you are neurotic you might want to buy this. If you are a narcissist you might I want to buy that. That is the kind of data that Cambridge Analytica said they had.  Yeah.  But here's the thing. Every anecdote of people that have worked with this firm before say the data that they gathered was not that good. So they briefly worked with Ted Cruz's campaign for president back in 2016. And turns out that half...  Well that did not work out.  Yeah. One he lost. Two half the voters that they IDed as Cruz supporters actually favored other candidates. So there were former Trump campaign aides who earlier this month said that the data from this firm was a little bit less effective than just the generic RNC data system. So I think it is totally fine to look at what this firm is doing with our personal data and say that feels creepy. But we should not assume that just because it was creepy that the data was right .  I am glad you brought this up because we were - like the whole narrative just rushed to this sort of...  Oh yeah.  ...Conclusion. It was like oh...  Right.  ...This firm got this data and influenced an election.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And we were on our show every morning like being really careful. We would be like whoa whoa whoa whoa. Like...  Roll it back.  But there is different things to look at here.  Exactly.  Like the ethical question - like should they have been able to get it?  Yes.  ...But also like they are denying that it actually meant anything. And ask the question - did it?  And I do not know about you guys but the other thing about that story for me - and I hope this does not make me sound naive - but I feel like I do not worry. I mean I do not want to say I do not worry. I care. But I assume that anything that I put on the Internet - really anything that I even put on a device - I just assume that if somebody does not have it now they are going to have it one day.  Oh yeah.  And that includes like photos and texts and emails. I am just - I have heard about enough data breaches now that it is like - it is easier for me to just operate from the perspective that whatever...  Exactly.  ...I put onto an electronic device is going to be one day accessible to the public. It just helps me sleep better at night.  All right guys time for a break. Coming up we will catch up on the latest with immigration policy and sanctuary cities. We will play my favorite game Who Said That. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders and we will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two great guests. Tell them who you are.  I am Caitlin Dickerson - cover immigration for The New York Times former colleague of Sam and David Greene's.  Yeah.  I am David Greene the president of the Caitlin Dickerson fan club.  Oh God.  And I host...  Aw.  ...Morning Edition and a podcast Up First.  You guys a quick question before we hop back into the news - you ready?  Uh-huh.  Mmm hmm.  This week Blockbuster closed one of its stores in Alaska which means that now there are only five functioning Blockbuster stores left in the whole country.  Which is not that the news...  Oh my gosh.  ...That are five?  Right. Where are the five? Where are the five?  I was going to say...  I was like . Like I know.  They still have stores open?  Yeah. So my question to you both given this news is if you can remember what is the last movie you rented at a Blockbuster?  David you go first.  I cannot remember the last movie I rented what it was. But I can remember I forgot to return it. And it was a Blockbuster...  How much was your fee?  It was like several hundred dollars.  .  And I had to fight it because I like - I cannot remember what my excuse was. But it was a Blockbuster in Washington D.C. And I went there. And I like tried to rent another movie and they were like you have a bill of like 200. I was like excuse me?  Did you just bolt?  That is...  I was like I swear to God like I threw that in the...  You just run out of the store.  I put that - I did not pay it. I do not remember why.  Yeah do not pay that.  And so I am...  So you are the reason that Blockbuster went under.   Thank you.  Caitlin what about you?  Oh my gosh. It would surely be something really embarrassing. I was a big renter of anything with the Olsen twins for sure.  That is fine. Listen I saw the one where they were in New York trying to like get out - like get around Manhattan and do stuff.  Yeah yeah yeah.  New York Minute.  New York Minute.  .  There is a billboard. Do not they paint over the billboard in the middle of the night?  I think so. It was something - yeah. Yeah. Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance.   ...Where we call someone out in the country or the world and ask them about what is going on in their neck of the woods. And you guys today it is a Skype call. And it is actually to settle an issue of contention from last week's episode. It is all about which country is actually the happiest country in the world. We will explain. Trust me. Here's my call with Bridget Palmer from Finland.   Hello.  Hey how are you? This is Sam.  Oh my gosh. Hi.  So Bridget we called you up because last week on the show one of my panelists Hanna Rosin - she is the host of NPR's Invisibilia. She said that she thinks it is unfair that your current home country Finland gets to be ranked the No. 1 happiest country in the world. We actually have the tape for you right here.   You know what? They need some diversity in that index metric situation because it ends up being countries that are homogenous and have really strong social safety nets because they are really diverse and resist letting immigrants in. I feel like it is totally unfair. It always ends up being like Denmark Sweden Norway Finland.   So I want you to be able to respond to that.  Yes.  First I want to let folks know a little bit more about you. So you are not originally from Finland.  No I am from the United States. I am from Portland Ore.  OK. I like Portland. How long have you been in Finland?  We have been here for almost three years.  OK. What do you do out there?  I work at the University of Turku. It is like the third or fourth biggest city in Finland just about two hours west of Helsinki.  Very cool. So this ranking came out recently. Finland was ranked No. 1 on the list of happiest countries in the world. What is like the secret sauce? What for you are the ingredients...  .  ...To this No. 1 status?  Oh gosh. Well I think Finns are people - in my opinion they are so connected to nature. And Finland is full of just beautiful places to go. And you know it really does not take much to please you. If what you enjoy is nature then there is plenty of that here. I think that is a big part of it.  Yeah. When you got there - what? - about three years ago from the U.S. did you immediately feel happier?   Well of course it is always stressful to move and...  I am sure.  ...To move to a foreign country. Yeah.  Yeah.  I had heard all this about Finns being cold or quiet or distant so I was not quite sure what I would find. But what I did find was they are so welcoming and really so warm. They are quiet but it is a really warm quiet if that makes sense.  A warm quiet - that actually sounds pretty happy to me.  In Finland...  OK.  Yeah it is really - it was really nice yeah.  OK. So you know my colleague that I had on the show last week Hanna Rosin she said it is kind of unfair that a country like Finland is No. 1. And she thinks it is because countries like Finland are in her opinion pretty homogenous and kind of wealthy with a strong social safety net. Do you think that there is some merit to her argument that the data is skewed in favor of a country like yours?  Yeah I heard her say that. And you know I think that is another maybe one of the kind of misconceptions that...  Really?  ...Many Americans have. Yeah it is...  What misconception?  Finland has quite a few - we have got you know lots of immigrants here - more and more I mean if you compare now to the 1990s for example. Just thinking of my daughter's classrooms I think maybe half of the kids in her class maybe have one parent from a different country or they themselves were born elsewhere. And granted we live in a fairly big city but I think that is increasingly true around Finland.  What kind of people? Where are folks coming from?  Oh gosh. I mean Finland's been accepting refugees for example from different countries you know for decades now. So you have got for example lots of Somalis. You have got people from Kosovo. You have got Serbians. You have got Bosnians. You have got lots of Iraqis people from Afghanistan lots of Kurds - really just a big variety of people from all kinds of countries.  OK. OK. Yeah it is funny. I was googling the like demographics of Finland while you were talking...  Yeah.  ...To me. There seems to be some evidence that in spite of the changing demographics of the country it is still an average of 9 out of 10 folks there just about are white.  Yes.  Is that still the case?  Yeah probably. That probably is still the case overall.  But it is changing you say.  Yes I think it is.  OK.  I mean I was looking at some demographics. You know in the 1990s they had 60000 foreign-born. And these days it is 350000...  Oh wow.  ...Out of 5 million total. Yeah so it is definitely you know...  That is a big increase.  Yeah huge increase there.  All right. So then you are a resident of the happiest country in the world.  Yes.  I want you to share some advice for the rest of us sad sacks on how to be happy countries. What do you think is the biggest piece of advice that Finland might give to its - to everyone else about achieving No. 1 happiness?  I think something Finns do really well is - like Finns are not afraid of silence even with other people. And I think sometimes just sitting with people who you love and who you enjoy being around but just enjoying - not even talking just enjoying each other's company - that is something that is really valuable that I have learned since being here.  Now when you quite like that over there is there a lot of eye contact too?  Not very much.  OK.  No.  OK. That sounds better.  Yeah yeah yeah.  What do you guys do for fun out there? I hear there is a really interesting sport people over there enjoy that I have never heard of before.  Is it - are you talking about the orienteering running around in a forest with a map?  .  ...Probably that one.  Yes.  Yes.  Even just hearing you say it I am like that is hilarious.  Yes.  What is orienteering?  Yeah so our kids got into it.  .  And I actually love it. You get a map. You get a compass.  OK.  And you go running in the forest. And you have to...  Without talking because you guys do not talk a lot .  Silently. Silently. And you have to find these certain - it is like a scavenger hunt but without any treasures. You are just - just go to certain points. And the kids will do this at PE at school.  Really?  The teacher will tell them here's a map go run around the forest try to be back in 45 minutes. And then that is it. You got 9-year-olds running around in the forest. It is really fun.  I love it. So what I hear you saying is that I would greatly enjoy...  .  ...Being a student in Finland because that sounds like a blast.  So much yes.  So will you be doing that this weekend?  Not - the season just - well the winter season just ended. I did my last one on Wednesday. I am really sad about it.  Aw.  But the summer season will start up in a month or so. We still got snow on the ground here. So we got to wait for that to go away.  OK. Stay happy over there in Finland. I am so glad we got to talk. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  All right. Have a good weekend.  You too.   Listeners want to talk to you for this segment. Hit me up. Tell me what is going on in your neck of the woods. Email me at any time any week - samsandersnpr.org samsandersnpr.org.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests today - David Greene. You know his voice from hosting Morning Edition and Up First. Also here with Caitlin Dickerson who covers immigration for The New York Times. Hello to you both.  Hey Sam. Hey Caitlin.  Hey Sam. Hey David.   So excited about that you guys were.   Sorry. Should I do it again?  No you are good. You are good. So you guys it is time for our main story. A thing I noticed over the last year or so is that a hot-button issue will flare up in the news and we will talk about it and ponder it and debate it. And then after a few days we will often move on to something else.  Gone. Yeah.  One such issue for me right now that that is happening to is immigration.  Yes.  It has not been the story of this week right? But there were some news this week on immigration news about sanctuary cities. So because we have Caitlin here today who is an expert on immigration policy...  Thank God we have Caitlin here today.  OK.  I want her to break down for us the latest in sanctuary city immigration policy and what that means for the country. So first before we get into all of that I want you Caitlin to define for us clearly what we are talking about when we use the term sanctuary cities.  Interesting request to begin the conversation...  .  ...Especially since you just teed me up as an expert. But you know what? I cannot help you with that Sam.  OK.  And it is not because I do not know what I am talking about. It is because there is actually no such thing as a sanctuary city.  Whoa. Whoa .  Surprise.  Good place to start. Good place to start.  Why is that the case?  A lot of people do not realize this is a completely made-up term...  Huh.  ...That both Republicans and Democrats use at their whim and apply it to places and in reference to like totally disparate types of immigration policies and also just sometimes to like the cultural ethos of a place rather than policy itself. So Donald Trump was the first person to start talking about sanctuary cities or at least the first person to really widely popularize the phrase. And now of course we hear it from Jeff Sessions all the times. And generally they both - when they refer to sanctuary cities they mean places where the local governments do not go out of their way to help immigration authorities enforce immigration law.  Gotcha.  But it does not always translate into policy. So there are mayors in liberal cities who have said yes we are a sanctuary city we protect immigrants - or governors in states like New York. But then you have sheriffs in New York who are like actually I am more than willing to help ICE and I am turning people over to ICE left and right. So...  Yeah do not call me a sanctuary city.  Yeah.  Exactly. So you cannot - so just because a mayor or a governor is calling you know their jurisdiction a sanctuary does not necessarily mean anything. But it is just a very provocative term that...  Yeah.  ...Gets people on both sides of the discussion...  Riled up.  ...Really riled up. And that is why you hear it so much.  Gotcha. So now that we have undefined sanctuary cities...   ...This term has been in the news a bit for three reasons. First California through their state House declared themselves I guess - what? - a sanctuary state recently.  So there are three separate laws that went into effect in January in California that significantly limit the ability of sheriffs to participate and work with ICE and of local officials to share information with ICE. They also - employers also have to by a matter of law now announce to their staffs if they are being audited by ICE. So the result is that a business will make an announcement hey we are being audited by ICE just so you know they are going to look through all - everybody's immigration paperwork. And then if you are talking about you know a farm or a factory or a place that has a lot of undocumented workers then all of a sudden you see...  Yeah.  ...A bunch of people quitting their jobs and leaving.  Yeah.  Oh interesting. If you are illegal you are like - you get that warning you are like I could - I am not going to come to work.  I am out. And so then...  Yeah.  ...ICE does not have the opportunity to make the arrest that it wants to make that is why it is doing the audit to begin with.  So the reason that I want to talk about these California laws this week is because one town in California this week...  There you go.  ...Voted themselves basically out of the sanctuary state. Explain that Caitlin.  They attempted to. I mean...  Yeah. Which town was it first of all?  It was Los Alamitos which is in Los Angeles County in Southern California. And they decided that they want the sheriff to again communicate with ICE. They want the sheriff to hold people on behalf of ICE. If somebody is there and undocumented and they get caught up in jail they do not want that person to be released back out into the public. They want them in ICE custody and deported. And so they have passed this local legislation that really flies in the face of the state legislation. So you know who knows what that is going to look like...  Yeah.  ...Whether it is going to be challenged in court. It puts them in this bizarre sandwich of rules which is inside of an even more confusing sandwich that California the entire state exists in where you have these state laws that go directly against what Jeff Sessions is calling for in policy and declaration and threats to withhold money but also in some federal law.  Yeah.  ...You know the law federal law that governs this auditing process that we talked about. So California was already in a bizarro bind of legislation. And now Los Alamitos has like added one more...  Yeah.  ...Twist.  And so while that is happening this week in California almost the inverse is happening in Texas. So about - a bit over a week ago a federal judge ruled that Texas could institute a sanctuary city ban. It went into effect. But several local law enforcement officials in big cities in Texas like Houston Dallas Austin have said actually we do not want to do that.  Right. Right. So this Senate bill that passed - SB4 is what it was called - was really the strictest anti-sanctuary legislation that I think the country had seen. It did everything from empower local law enforcement to you know - when they pull somebody over on the side of the street to ask them for their immigration papers to also requiring people who pass through jails to be turned over. However these sheriffs in these big cities are saying like we are not going to go out of our way for a variety of reasons including you know they do not have the resources to enforce immigration law because they are busy enough you know fighting crime to they do not want to alienate the immigrant population - they want immigrants to continue reporting crimes and communicating with the police and so they do not want to create an us-versus-them sort of environment - to like we do not want to jump into the political fray. This is too dicey an issue. And so it is really not going to look all that different on the ground in Texas. That is what it looks like right now. That is what the sheriffs are saying. We will see what it looks like in practice.  Can I ask a thing?  Yes.  I was - so I was getting ready to interview Eric Garcetti the mayor of LA and doing a bunch of research and was reading about the so-called sanctuary rules in LA. And I was stunned because in LA it goes back to this thing called Special Order 40 which was actually a brainchild of Daryl Gates who was seen as this like conservative heavy-headed militaristic - some called him racist - LA police chief from the Rodney King days. And he basically - surprisingly as a conservative - set up this rule in LA that the police should not be asking people in the city their status.  Their status. W