 Hi everybody.  We are Julia's parents Jeanie and...  Antonio calling from Brazil. This week on this show Sally Tamarkin features director at SELF.  And WNYC reporter Arun Venugopal who covers race and immigration.  Let us start the show.    This is it. This is life the one you get...  From NPR I am Julia Furlan in for Sam Sanders while he is out living his best life on vacation. It is BEEN A MINUTE. You did it everybody. You made it to the weekend. As you heard my incredible parents tell you our guests today are two of my OGs Sally Tamarkin features director for SELF and Arun Venugopal who covers race and immigration for WNYC. Hi guys.  Hey.  Hey Julia.   The song that we are hearing right now is Gloria Estefan. Let us hear a little bit.    This is it. This is life the one you get to go and have a ball. This is it. Straight ahead and rest assured...  It is a beautiful song but we are hearing it for a sad reason - because it is the theme song for a Netflix show called One Day At A Time which was one of the few shows that like really uplifted an entirely Latinx cast. And this week Netflix made the decision to not renew the show for a fourth season...  Boo.  ...Which I am really bummed about.  Boo.  Yes boo. Regular-people fans and also fancy-people fans like Gloria Estefan and Lin-Manuel Miranda have been tweeting for days with the hashtag RenewODAAT in an attempt to try and get the show back on air. Have you guys watched it?  I have seen a bit of it yeah.  I am sorry to say I have not been. I have friends who for weeks and weeks before the cancellation rumors were just like oh my God. This is the best show. You have to watch this. And so I really feel sad about this thing I have never watched.  Yeah. It is so good. I feel like you know it is on Netflix so you might as well catch up on the three seasons that are there. It is - I mean it was such a beautiful show. People are like really criticizing Netflix especially because Friends - they paid you know 100 million to keep Friends on Netflix. So you know choices - choices being made.  Choices.  It is going to get another boo from me.  .    One day at a time one day at a time one day at a time.  OK. To start the show as we always do each of us here will describe some news from the week in just three words. Arun you are first. What have you got for us today?  All right. So my three words are hate does not die. And I have got to say I came up with my three words started thinking about this before we heard the news - this devastating news of those mass shootings in New Zealand. And so I guess it is a very strange and unsettling coincidence. I was writing this about anti-Semitism in America and all these different incidents we are seeing - very unsettling incidents of anti-Semitism. And then to wake up to this news of this horrific you know brutal anti-immigrant Islamophobic sort of massacre that is happened in New Zealand feels all too familiar for anybody who is lived in America. This manifesto that people are like alternately saying like this is what he wrote and...  Right.  And do not give this person the credit he deserves by going and indulging his xenophobic thoughts.  Right. We should say that at least 49 people were killed by a gunman and there were two mosques that were attacked in New Zealand in Christchurch. Arun do you want to talk about the story that you had come up with that you had prepared with that happened this week? It is - it seems smaller but it is also very connected to the spread of hate in general.  My original three words kind of idea? Yeah you know when I first thought about this idea that hate does not die I was struck by this incident. It happened in Queens in New York City in a neighborhood called Rego Park. It was just a few days ago actually. It was a couple kids. They were caught scrawling swastikas all over a playground in this neighborhood. And they were arrested and charged with aggravated harassment. And these were two 12-year-olds. And then around the same time on the West Coast in Orange County there were a group of high school students who were having some sort of drinking game. And they formed a swastika out of their plastic beer cups.  Oh God.  And were these people all willfully trying to terrorize Jewish-Americans? Not necessarily - we may not ever know. But I do think it does not matter when you think about like the effect it has on people in this country especially Jewish-Americans who are terrified - and whether it is you know this recent massacre at a - in Pittsburgh at a synagogue or other acts of anti-Semitism.  I think it is also hard to figure out the right thing to say to a group of kids who - maybe they do not understand the consequences of their actions. We want to like really hold them responsible but we also want to teach them. And we want to you know make sure that hate does not spread. It is really a tangly thing. Do you have any thoughts Sally?  Yeah. I was just going to say I mean the fact that kids as young as 12 are getting involved with like swastika graffiti - sure they could have white supremacist views to espouse. Or they could just be kids being mischievous in a way that they know adults will find rebellious. But even if it is the latter it is so troubling to me that it is so normalized and so mainstream to just like throw up a swastika or a Heil Hitler or whatever - or to make a swastika with your beer cups. And we wake up to this news about something that happened in New Zealand or that happened in Pittsburgh or Charleston and it is really really hard to know what to say.  Yeah. Well I am going to move on to my three words which are - grounded at last. It is a story that really took over the media this whole week. On Sunday March 10 a Boeing 737 MAX 8 crashed in Ethiopia and killed all 157 people who were onboard. This is the second crash of this specific kind of airplane in less than five months. The other one was a Lion Air flight that crashed in Jakarta. Sally and Arun were you freaked out? Did you have feelings about the crash that really took over our news week this week?  I am so not into airplanes and flying. So when something really scary and sad happens I spend a ton of time reading about it and trying to understand what happened. And that is what I did this week.  Right.  So that did take up about 70 percent of what I was thinking about.  I somehow managed to not freak out about this as much as - I mean I guess we will see when I get on a plane next time how I actually respond to it. And sometimes the weird thing is your mind can be completely fine with it. Your body though reacts in a different way.  Yeah.  That is the weird thing about getting on a plane and how you feel about it.  Right. And for some people like going to the airport is so much worse than going - than for other people.  Right.  And it was interesting to see how like throughout the week there were different countries that were immediately like we will ground the plane. We will ground the plane. We will ground the plane. And I was a little bit like OK OK. But the United States was not quite as fast on that.  Yeah it definitely seemed like it came later than it should have.  You know it is so interesting you say that because I think you know we are in this era where like one institution after another - you know we just lose our faith in it. You know we become cynical. And you kind of think like is this going to be like a scientific decision that is made after due diligence? Or is it a politicized decision that has to do with...  Right.  ...Who has access you know to the FAA or to lawmakers or whatever? And I think it is really unfortunate when you just do not know. And we get such competing information in times like this. So it is kind of scary.  And we should say that the head of the FAA spoke to NPR this week and said that they did not want to ground flights until they had more information about what went wrong. But it is definitely hard to feel like you know what is actually true. There is just so much to go through. And it is just a lot of information. It is really overwhelming.  As if there is not other stories we are constantly like you know obsessing over and trying to figure out - it is a matter of like how much time do I actually...  Yeah.  ...Devote to this particular panic today you know?  Yeah. Yeah how much time do I have to spend on this particular thing I am feeling anxious about? And how much data can I triangulate? And how many news sources can I look at? It is a lot.  The answer is 24 hours a day any day.   The answer is infinite.   Sally you are last. What are your three words?  Well Julia speaking of infinite and endless ways of interacting with the news my three words are hashtag Facebook down.  Oh tell us about it.  Well as you may know earlier this week Facebook went down for I think about 14 hours and also the quote unquote Facebook family of apps as they call it...  Right right.  ...Which is a cute way of talking about all of the Internet that they own...   Most of it.  ...Which is Instagram and - yeah - and WhatsApp Tinder. So people were having a lot of trouble accessing Facebook and Instagram and posting and interacting with it. And I think it affected people in multiple countries.  Right.  I was affected by my - it made it so that I could not like compulsively refresh Facebook for no reason...  Oh wow.  ...Which is what I discovered.  Freedom.  Yeah I know. You would think that.  But it was...  No. I feel like at this point my need to check Facebook has become encoded on my - like there is something evolutionarily happening where...   I just - I instinctually - I will have Facebook open. And I will be like I should open Facebook. And it is like - it is already there. But it is - now it is built in.  Wow.  So there was pandemonium.  There was pandemonium.  There was right? Yeah.  Yeah yeah yeah.  And I think you know it affected people in real ways like who rely on for example WhatsApp to communicate with people internationally.  Right.  But I think for me and most of the people I was talking to it affects us just in that - like for example...  .  ...I posted something on Instagram that morning. And I was really hoping to get some likes. I staged a really nice photo.  Oh.  I am so sorry.  Thank you. Thank you for understanding.  . I recently put my phone to grayscale to try and not use it as much which basically means that it looks like a black-and-white TV or whatever.  You mean it is uglier and it is not as pleasurable?  You know what? You know what happened? I still use all of the apps. I just have no pleasure in using them.   Amazing.  I just get - I am like not happy about it.  .  But I am using them basically just as much as I was when it was color. It is really - I feel defeated honestly.   Oh.  But the thing about this particular Facebook outage is that - I have noticed recently that when I brought it up to people - more people than usual when there is some sort of outage in an app we use all the time more people are like oh I did not notice because for example your phone's in grayscale.  That is right.  Or my wife took Facebook off her phone and as a result is using it like 95 percent less. So she did not know about it. And I feel like that was the other thing. Like half of us were experiencing total panic because we could not...   ...You know access our social media. But then like half of people were like floating with equanimity on a cloud being like I did not even notice that because I deleted that app.  It is funny because I have kind of been reconnecting with an old friend who a few years ago I was like man like you have got to get online with the rest of us so we know what is happening in your life. He is like you know I am sorry. I am just not the kind of person who does that. I do not - I am not on Facebook. I am like you know what? I think you made the right choice.  Yeah.  Honestly.  Right.  Absolutely.  We have come around now that...  Yeah.  ...There is a point where that was like the pretentious choice.  Yeah.  .  And now it is actually the most honorable admirable choice.  You are so sophisticated.  Yeah. Like oh I wish like - I want to be like you one day deactivating Facebook.  No Facebook.  Wild.  Incredible.  Yeah.  It is time for a break. When we come back you heard about that big college bribery scandal this week where a guy named Rick Singer took wild measures to make sure the children of the rich and famous got into college.  What?  We have thoughts and so does one black graduate from one of the nation's top schools. We will talk about what it was like for her to get in. I am Julia Furlan keeping a seat warm for the inimitable Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Julia Furlan also known as not Sam Sanders but trying coming to you from New York City with our two guests this week Sally Tamarkin features director at Self. Hi Salls .  Hey Julia.  And Arun Venugopal who covers race and immigration at NPR member station WNYC. Hey Arun.  Hey Julia.  Hi. Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance.   I know you both have feelings about this one story this particular week - the big college scam story. We are going to get to your feelings a little bit later but let us take a minute and make some noise about what this college scam thing made us feel. I really want you to open up. Open up.  .  Give me a noise. Give me a noise.  .  .  It is probably not good to hiss into a microphone right?  Arun are you crying?  Weeping.  Sobbing yeah.  The quick details - federal prosecutors this week say they uncovered a scheme where rich parents bought their kids admission to elite schools like Yale and Stanford and the University of Southern California. Like 50 people have been charged. A lot of them are parents Hollywood stars and some big-name-business-leader - you know people in suits and stuff.  .  This guy William Rick Singer accepted something like 25 million. He allegedly worked to falsify exam scores and had parents Photoshop photos to make it look like their kids played sports that they definitely did not. We wanted to hear from someone who hustled to get where she is and is shining without having to pay any bribes so we called up Kaya Thomas. I knew Kaya from when she was on a show that I used to produce called Another Round when she was a sophomore in college because she was thriving so much then if you can believe it.  Hello?  Hi Kaya.  Hi Julia. How are you?  Oh it is so good to talk to you. She is 23. She is a web developer at Slack. And two years ago she graduated from Dartmouth College - Ivy League. Dartmouth is not one of the schools implicated in the bribery story so we should say that. Kaya's journey to Dartmouth started years before when she was growing up in Staten Island and Harlem. When it came time to attend high school her parents agreed that she would move with her dad to Westchester - just north of New York City - where the schools were much better. She said it was pretty eye opening. By her second year there when she tried out some honors classes she was struggling.  It was just so much harder and a lot of the peers that I had in my classes had a lot of tutors. All of the kids who were in the honors and AP classes - majority of them were white rich kids. And some of my best friends to this day are the other black kids who were - struggled through these honors and AP classes together.  That is right bonded in struggle right?  Yes.  And what kind of support did you have as you were getting ready to go to college and apply for everything? Did you like hire test prep people or maybe bribe people with like a couple hundred thousand dollars that you had just like lying around?   Definitely not. Definitely not at all. My father really - he is always been a huge proponent of my studies and my mother too. But he had the experience of going to college so he was really you know trying to push me to study for my SATs. We actually did a consultation with one of those kind of college prep coaches who helps you with your essays and all this stuff. And she told us that her rate was like 300-plus an hour or something. So...  Oh God.  ...We could not afford that. And a lot of the studying that I did was really just on my own with the kind of college prep books and stuff. A lot of the courses were so expensive that you cannot really do those test prep courses if you do not have a ton of money.  I mean even the books are expensive. I remember trying to just like getting a sense for how expensive all of it was and being like super overwhelmed even though I was like in a pretty good situation.  Yeah it is ridiculous. I actually worked as a peer tutor. So I tutored some of the wealthy kids in this - I worked for a peer tutoring company as a part-time job. And that is actually kind of how I got an insight into how the other side lived because it was like a whole new world. And the parents - I talked to the parents. And they would tell me like yeah like you are one of the many tutors that comes in and we have other professional tutors for all their classes. And it kind of blew my mind that all these kids have so much help getting through high school.  Which is all the more incredible that you got into Dartmouth early action because you hustled your actual way to that.  Yeah.  You must have been super super psyched about it right?  Yeah I was incredibly proud. I cannot - I will never forget reading that - logging into the system and reading that I got in and then just like running to my parents and giving them a hug.  Yeah.  But the day I got in - towards the end of the school day I will never forget some of the students - and I know who the students are. They said oh she only got in because she was black. And they started spreading that rumor around. And it was really hurtful to be honest because I know I worked so hard. And they do not know how hard I worked or what I had to do to get in. The SATs for me were one of the hardest things I have ever had to do. And in order to actually get a decent score I - for like three four weeks I woke up every Saturday at 7 a.m. and took a full exam.  What?  So that I can train myself to like kind of overcome that anxiety and know that I can do OK. I just know that I worked hard. And like I earned my place and nobody can take that away from me.  Absolutely.  And seeing you know the scandal and all these people just walk their way in I do not know how they sleep at night to be honest.  I know right? I mean tell us a little bit about Dartmouth. Was it - you know I mean Dartmouth is not exactly like considered the world diversity capital.  Yeah  definitely not.  But yeah tell us a little bit about what that was like once you were there.  Yeah I mean I thought that I was - I had been exposed to you know kids of wealth when I was in high school. But going to Dartmouth it was like a whole other level of kids with wealth. You know I had kids in my class who - their last name was the same as people whose last names were on buildings. And I was like wait  are - is that your family? Like you do not want to ask. But you know it is an incredible amount of wealth that you are exposed to. And I honestly was oblivious to it for a lot of my time there. It was not until later on in my college years when I started to meet people who were so wealthy that they started telling me what some of the tells were how you could tell other people were wealthy. And then I realized well oh everyone must know that I am not wealthy because I do not have those kind of same attributes.  Yeah. So tell me a little bit about your group chats. What is popping off this week as this college scam story - what are people saying in the group chats?  I mean we are just like - it is not shock in that we are surprised that they have done this. I think a lot of us what we are really shocked at is the amount the length that they are going to get their kids like these good test scores and to like fake their kids' grades and all these accolades. And like we are just confused that like they could not do it themselves. Like...  I know they hired a whole adult to go and change the test scores. They Photoshopped faces onto people's bodies. Come on.  .  So now you are grown. And you work in tech and you work at one of my favorite applications Slack.  .  And I was wondering a little bit about how you - do you ever feel imposter syndrome in your real adult grown life?  Yes for sure. I think the same idea - you know dating back to high school and college the idea that you got where you are because of affirmative action or because of your race or your gender or what have you I think that sometimes is always there. Sometimes you know I wonder if people think that - not necessary like in my - you know in my job. But do people think that I am where I am because of only this one reason? But how I just try to combat that is just reminding myself of how hard I worked...  Yes.  ...And the skills that I have because the reality is - and like with tech if I did not have the skills there was no way that I would be where I am right? They are not going to just let in...  Absolutely.  ...Let me just because a race. Like what if I cannot do the job? I have to be able to do the job. And so I just try to remember that that I can do the job. So I am here on my own merit.  Yeah and before we go we usually ask our callers what they are doing for fun this weekend. And like I would say that you are having a pretty big weekend. Kaya tell us where you are.  Yes. I am in Amsterdam for the first time. This is like my first time to Western Europe. And I am really really enjoying myself. It is such a great city.  Yeah Fault In Your Stars .  .  What is one thing that you are looking forward to doing this weekend? What are you going to do?  This weekend I am looking forward to going to the zoo . I know that sounds - that sounds silly...  Yes.  ...But I actually have not gone to that many zoos like even in America. So I am excited to just like be a kid again a little bit and go to the zoo and explore it.  Look you deserve every little bit of free time. Thank you so much for talking to us.  Thanks so much. Have a great rest of your week.  You too Kaya. Bye-bye.  Bye-bye.   Thanks again to Kaya Thomas 2017 graduate of Dartmouth College for talking about her own journey to the Ivy League the right way. Back here with Sally Tamarkin from SELF and Arun Venugopal from NPR member station WNYC. What was your reaction to this story this week? Arun I know you especially have feelings. Talk about it.  Oh it hits close to home Julia. Oh gosh I have as you know a 12th grader.  Yeah.  Oh wow.  Anokha .  Yeah that is right. We are just waiting. We are hours from hearing from three schools that matter a lot to her. And so you know there is a lot of stress at home. It is - we are very tightly wound. And this story just kind of like crashed into our home at precisely the wrong moment. And it is not like the sheer number of people is this crazy. We are talking about maybe a couple hundred incidents in all but I think it really just kind of brought home for millions and millions people. I do not think I have seen a story like this which has so - just flooded my timeline...  Right absolutely.  ...With anger and despair about like where do we live? You know this is not a meritocracy or democracy that we were promised you know or think it is.  I mean the thing that I felt looking at this story is that like if you can put your name on a building and get your kid into college that is already not a meritocracy. Let us be real here.  I mean on a lighter note we have been blessed with a wild scam. The thing of photoshopping faces on people - I mean if that does not speak to the immense resources that these people have - and it is in a way I guess not that different from the socially acceptable way of getting your kid in which is buying a building or donating a bunch of money or being a legacy.  I mean the thing is that it is so hard sometimes to distinguish like the actual truth of the story from like all the parody kind of takes on it. Like somebody yesterday on Twitter were saying in response to the fact that Lori Loughlin's - is that her name? - Lori Loughlin's daughter...  Aunt Becky yeah.  Aunt Becky's daughter who is now in USC that she was on the yacht of the chairman of the board of trustees at USC at the time that her mom was charged. And someone was tweeting while she was being fed grapes by students on Pell Grants. I am like no way. They did that?   They make students on Pell Grants feed this girl grapes.  Wow.  I am like wow USC. I am like oh wait - maybe necessarily. But you know it felt pretty real given the context.  Right. Where is the satire? And where is the real thing...  Yeah.  ...That happens?  Exactly.  Yeah totally.  2019 - it is...  We are in it. We are in it.  ...A scam. It is a scam. Arun I hope that it goes well for you and your whole family.  Thank you.  And I am sorry that you had to pay 500000 to make it happen. Just kidding.  You know it is all listener-supported public radio funding.   I just redirect it to where it is needed most.  OK. It is time for a break. When we come back everyone's favorite game - Who Said That? You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   OK. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Julia Furlan in for Sam Sanders here with our guests this week Sally Tamarkin features director at SELF and Arun Venugopal who covers race and immigration at NPR member station WNYC. Hi friends.  Hey.  Hello.   Now it is time for a game. Are you ready?  So ready.  It is called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  I am scared.  Do not be scared.  I want to say that I am ultra noncompetitive.  Great. Same.  I root for other people.  Good.  But I am - this is - people are going to listen to this. So...  OK.  ...I am not going to throw the game.  OK. All right Sally. It is OK. This is a friendly game and here's how it works. I share a quote from the week. You guys have to guess who said it or at least the story that it refers to or something like kind of similar. You know it is casual. And just shout it out if you think you know it. And the winner - are you ready for this? Are you ready for this?  Ready.  The winner gets nothing...  Oh.  ...Absolutely nada.  A whole lot of nothing.  Zed.  How much nothing?  Nothing - a billion nothing.  I will take it. You know what Julia? I will take it.  Okay. First quote - Luna and I bought a hamster today. Her name is Peanut Butter. John is not thrilled which makes me love her more. Who said that Arun and Sally?  Aunt Becky.   Oh my God. Is that real?  No. It is a wonderful talented model and a famous cookbook author who is married to a singer who is very active on social media.  Oh Chrissy Teigen.   Yes.  Nailed it with a thousand clues.  Yes exactly.   The clues are there to help you and support you. Yes Chrissy Tygen .  Oh sorry sorry. Excuse me. I am sorry OK?  Wait so she is wrong. I say Chrissy Tygen. I get it .  OK. No. No.  Arun gets the point.  OK half a point for each of you.  OK. Fair.  Half of nothing for you.  Yeah exactly.  Exactly. Yeah Chrissy Tygen and John Legend - they got a hamster. And the hamster's name is Peanut Butter. The hamster has like escaped multiple times. It is clear that like Chrissy is very excited and John is not thrilled about it which you know is like pet ownership and marriage and like families in general. Right?  The cause of so many things  I literally cannot think of anything more adorable in the known universe than a hamster named Peanut Butter.  Peanut Butter - oh also you love peanut butter right?  Love peanut butter.  I too like peanut butter.  Right? It is the best.  OK. So this - that question half a point for each of you and a point-and-a-half for Peanut Butter the hamster who is suddenly playing this game.   .  World's most famous hamster.  OK. Next quote - this one's tricky. Are you ready?  Ready.  It is like the Titanic voting for the iceberg to get out of the way. It is a big story that happened this week that is hard to understand.  The giveaway is hard to understand.  Uh-huh.  Brexit.  Yes.   Oh my gosh.  Ooh - Sals you are doing it.  I am on fire.  So the quote is from one senior EU negotiator who said it to describe the U.K.'s vote this week to block a no-deal Brexit meaning the U.K. cannot now crash out of the EU without a plan. So basically my favorite thing about this Brexit stuff is hearing the House of Commons like general yelling that happens because like you want to think like oh British people - proper - blah blah blah. And meanwhile they are like - the House of Commons is like oh every time. And then there is the one guy that is like  order.   The gavel.  Yeah.  I mean...  They go for it.  They are entertaining.  Yeah.  He is an inspiration that guy - the order guy.  That guy.  Yeah. Well Brexiteers we will figure it out someday.  Thoughts and prayers.  Yeah .  Indeed.  OK. The final quote...  OK.  Sally you have 2.7 points.  Seems rigged.  Peanut Butter the hamster you have half a point. Arun has just paid me 500000 so he has 3 points.  Yeah that is right.  Well-played well-played.  Thanks for that Venmo.  That is America .  Yeah. The final quote is I have not passed a physical note to someone since the fifth grade. Who said that?  Khloe ?    Khloe...   ...Just pulling a name out of a hat.  I would like to ding.  OK ding.  I am hitting my buzzer.  Sally yes?  This is from a story in The Atlantic...  Oh yeah.  ...About teens who are the best...  Yes.  ...Who pass notes using Google Docs.   I love it.  What? Who is this person to my left?  I mean - oh I mean Sally is - like she knows everything I guess.  Well that is the only one I knew without getting a ton of clues.   And that is because I think teens are the best.  None of the clues helped me at all.  Yeah.  Fair.  The quote came from Skye  which is a pseudonym for a 20-year-old who was asked about this trend by Taylor Lorenz in a piece that she wrote for The Atlantic about teens using Google Docs to pass notes in class. Basically they were using like the chat function of Google Docs to scam all of the adults in their life.  Amazing.  Arun are you having this moment of recognition where you are realizing that your daughter has been using Google Docs to like pass notes in class?  I am like why is she throwing her iPad across the class?   This makes no sense.  It is amazing though. Sorry - I am going to say...  Yeah.  They use the comment functionality and then they delete all the history so no one can see - so they just cannot see. It is just - it is brilliant and it is inspired.  Yeah. Teens...  No paper trail so to speak.  No paper trail.  That is right. It is just a harbinger of how like we think something like is not cool - like a word processing app? Ugh.  .  And they are like oh no. This is where we get all our goss .  This is how we thrive.  They are taking us into tomorrow.  That is right.  Yeah.  I will announce the results of the very stiff competition here.  You do not need to announce it. I think we can just kind of guess. It was sort of a tie.   Yeah it was a tie.  Yes it was a tie .  You both won. You both won and Sally won more. But you both won.  More of nothing which is worse than less of nothing.  That is actually true. It actually means that I have lost.  .  Congratulations to both of you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  OK. Now it is time to end the show as we do every week. We ask listeners to share with us the best thing that happened to them all week. I always end up getting a little happy cry about this and I encourage you all to get into that happy cry. Let us be vulnerable and open.  .  They all brag about the most wonderful things. Let us take a listen.  This is Blaine .  And Matt . The best part of our week is sitting here volunteering at member station KOSU in Oklahoma City for their spring membership drive.  We love all the KOSU staff and seeing the community support on this last day of the drive is amazing. Hope you have a great week.  Thanks.  This is Brenna  calling from Florence Ala. The best thing that happened to me this week is I published my first book.  My son said da-da  to my husband for the first time.  I finally got to see Hamilton and it was everything that I had been expecting and hoping and dreaming of.  I came in first in a half-marathon this weekend in just under an hour and 20 minutes.