 If I could do it all over again um I think that you know I would try and have the conversation before doing anything. To say like this is you know I am - I am really wanting to cheat and we need to talk about this and we need to manage this. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. We got an email in our inbox a few months ago. The subject line was Sugar babies cost me 8000 and my marriage.  It is really embarrassing I think. Um it is not uh it is not socially acceptable. This is Ethanthats not his real name. He sent us that email about how he used the website Seeking Arrangement to hire so-called sugar babiesyounger attractive womento go on dates with him and have sex with him. All while he was married. When he wrote us hed already confessed to his wife. His marriage was ending. And Ethan said he couldnt really talk about it with anyone in his life.   I have lost um most of our mutual friends. And I think that um so few people know the whole truth you know know everything. Um I have told people certain people that I have cheated. Um but uh nobody about uh um with the sugar baby.  Are you trying to like explain yourself?  Um yeah a little bit. Ethan also told us in his email that the first time he tried Seeking Arrangement was shortly after hearing an episode of our show. I did an interview with a woman who was working as a sugar baby in an episode called When Daddy Dates Pay the Bills. To be clear I am not proud that this story of the end of a marriage includes our show as a key plot point. But when Ethan wrote I saw it as an opening to hear what his thought process was as he was deciding to cheat and to understand what hard conversations he was trying to avoid. Ethan told me his cheating started when he was on a business trip.  I was a little bit intrigued um after listening to the DSM podcast. And so I went on and started looking around and started you know talking with people here and there. Um. And there was one person um that uh you know that we seem to click online and so and so yeah. We met up and uh you know walked around in a park for a little while and then uh went back to my place.  Did you have sex?  Yeah.  Had you paid a sex worker before?  No.  What was the number you agreed to?  Uh was 400.  What was it like figuring out how to negotiate the money?  Um. It was a little awkward. Um and um but it was liberating in a weird kind of way. You know the conversation was really upfront uh really from the beginning which that was um really a relief for me. You know I could sort of express what it is that I was looking for in an honest way and not feel judged for it.  Mmhm. And that felt different from your marriage.  Yeah for sure. Ethan told me by the time he cheated there was already strain in his relationship with his wife. We asked her about it too. She didnt want to be interviewed. She wrote in an email However he is characterized our marriage to you I do not feel the need to know or respond. She also said I wish Id had the self-confidence to recognize that our marriage would never work. Around the time Ethan and his wife got engaged in 2013 they moved for Ethans job far away from family and friends. And after their wedding was over Ethan says it felt like they lost their purpose as a couple.  You know I like to say that like we did not have a rough patch. We had a rough marriage. Um and uh things had uh our communication had really changed pretty quickly after we got married. I kind of um slowly just sort of absorbed the the idea the belief that um you know that what I felt was not okay - was not okay to express. Um and I think particularly around intimacy that was something that there had been a lot of conflict about but it was all really under the surface like we were not we did not have the tools to be able to talk about it.  Hm. Was it - was it that you wanted to have sex more or in a different way and she did not want to and she did not want to talk about it further?  Yeah - so yes to both more and and in a different way. And there was before we had gotten married there was a there was a lightheartedness to our sex life uh and that uh disappeared rather quickly. And um she was um dealing with depression as well during this time which of course you know I think um makes it difficult to want to have sex and then also to you know feel lighthearted about it.  Did it feel looking back did it feel like you uh it started with the mismatch sexually and then bled into how you felt emotionally? Or or like how do you think about the relationship of those two?  No I think they uh I think it was uh the sort of the distance perpetuated each other in both realms. So it just was became sort of this negative feedback loop. Like the less that we were able to connect um intimately like then the less that we were able to connect on a day to day basis and they just kind of fed into each other.  Were you making more money than her?  Yeah.  Like a lot more?  Yeah.  Uh huh. How do you think that played into the dynamic in your marriage?  I think that we um uh you know sort of fell into these into more heteronormative rules then than I necessarily would have liked? That it was it was easier for me to work more and then make more uh then um than it was for her. So then sort of the house duties ended up falling to her. Um she seemed to enjoy it. There were times when she was able to step back from her work um and um and that was something that she wanted at the time. So it was it was nice to be able to provide that for her.  Did it feel like you were in charge in your marriage?  Hm. In some ways? I think uh that there was um. There was a dynamic that developed not that I was in charge but that um I had the louder voice. I think just sort of you know I am I am naturally inclined to speak my feelings um out loud a little bit more than she and so then what ended up happening was I you know and I realized this after a few years where - that I ended up overpowering her like in conversations and discussions and decisions. And there was not any conflict resolution.  I hear you saying it kind of again and again in your marriage that you lost that you lost that ability to to hear each other and to be honest with each other. Um. I want to understand a little bit about how you think about your wife's depression playing into this. Like did it did it feel like she could not handle disagreements with you or you pushing back on her because of her illness?  I do not know if uh just because of um because of her illness or not but that certainly I could not rely on her. There was um I think one moment um early on in our marriage when um when I had had a really hard day at work. And then I and I remember going home uh and um you know starting to talk about my day and um. And she was um you know I think she was sad about something um I cannot remember what exactly. But I remember the feeling and I remember I I think I said you know can can I just be the one who is had the worst day today? Um and and feeling like I could not. Like that it was like even when I had had a really bad day um you know and and asking for you know some emotional support from her um or for her to like be the caretaker like for her to I wanted her to take care of me um and I was asking for that and she could not. Um and that was really hard and that really stuck with me um of that she cannot take care of me when I need it. Still though Ethan says the idea of divorce initially felt really dauntingseparating their possessionssplitting their lives. He and his wife decided to try couples counseling but it didnt last long. A few months after they stopped going is when Ethan had that first secret date with a sugar baby on his business trip.  When you come back from your work trip uh what did it feel like seeing your wife?   So I can be really good at compartmentalizing. Um and I think that was going on really strong. I um it actually you know it is really taken me our divorce um to realize um I think the the damage that um that I had done to our relationship. Um you know at first my mindset was um you know I just I am going to go and um and have a good time. And my justification for it initially was you know I am going to have a good time so that I can have more energy to try and fix my marriage. 'ecause I think you know when I first went on to Seeking Arrangements I was I was exhausted. Um but I was not ready to give up on the marriage yet.  So when you were telling yourself this is going to give me more energywas part of the calculus that somehow this would make you feel less resentful of your wife because you were getting other of your needs taken care of by other people?  For sure. Yeah. You know I think what one of the justifications that I had was I mean I think particularly since it was you know on Seeking Arrangements it was um it was a transaction you know to a certain extent. That um you know one of my justifications was you know I had I had a therapist you know that I went and talked to I had a massage therapist you know and I and I paid these people you know to to interact with me in a certain way. And so it was in that same kind of vein that um that I could that there was not any um any hints of this is going to turn into you know a longterm relationship. This you know that this is not somebody who is like secretly you know seeking um you know somebody to be their boyfriend or husband you know down the line. That this was it was it um. The fact that it was transactional made it easier to compartmentalize and say like this is this is cheating but in a different kind of way  And its self care. You were able to think of it as self care.  Yeah. Yeah. I was. At first Ethan would only hire women for sex when he was out of town for work. But then he stopped traveling as much and used Seeking Arrangement to find someone locally.  I had had such a good time uh when I was when I was traveling. Um and that was I do not know I guess it was addictive in a certain kind of way. I think it was it was something that um once it was gone for a couple of months then I was um. I wanted it back.  And when you would have dates how would you explain where you were going?  Uh I would um either working out or I am going to you know to read uh at a coffee shop.  To read!  Yeah I you know I think it it was it yeah it depended on um on the situation. Um but um or sometimes you know sort of blaming you know like um that I had to go work uh you know I on something for a couple of hours. You know like and so I just needed to be you know like out of the house for a little while to just like sit down and get something done. Um and then come back.  And was that always meeting up for sex?  No we um ended up uh would have lunch or coffee you know from time to time um sort of depending on on what our schedules were like  Did it feel nice to be with someone uh where what - what she needed from you was much simpler than what your wife needed from you?  Yeah for sure. I think uh that it was um yeah she was she was very independent um emotionally. Um and and so yeah that just you know like what she needed was um you know another revenue stream. Um and um. And yeah and then and then the rest of it you know was you know that the way that we interacted the way like we talked about things it was like clear that if she did not see me again like that would be kind of a bummer but not horrible.  And was that kind of titillating?  It was it was um you know I think it um probably activated some reptilian part of my brain of like Oh you know this person you know does not need me. Like how can I uh how can I turn the charm up to 11 to make her you know want to need me? Ethan says those coffees and lunches and meetups for sex went on for about a year.  Would you pay cash?  Yeah initially.  Initially and then what happened?  And then I used Venmo.  What would you put in the memo?  Ridiculous emojis. Um not all about sex. Coming up Ethan tallies up all the money he spent on those sugar baby dates after he decides to tell his wife hes been cheating on her.  She knew who I was at the best of times. Um you know and so she needed to she needed to know who I was at my worst.  Over the last week you have been filling up our inbox with so many complicated conflicted and detailed stories about money. We asked to hear what was worrying you in your financial lives and in particular to hear where youre feeling stuck and could use some help. We are working on something new that were designing specifically to help us all think about money with new tools and less shame. Well tell you more about that in a few weeks. It is going to be special. In the meantime we also want to hear from you about something else that youve told also told us is causing a lot of stress climate change. We want to know from you when you take a minute to slow down and force yourself to focus on climate change what do you think about? How do you feel? And then what happens next? Tell us. Write an email or record a voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Tell us when you dont look away from climate change what do you think about? On the next episode   Im not having sex because like the old Barry Manilow song the feelings gone and I dont know how to get it back. We revisit one of our favorite shows about all the reasons why youre not having sex. Im not having sex because men dont find me attractive. Because my bodys broken and it cant seem to be fixed. Im really terrified of men. Ive been celibate for about 14 years And the weird thing is that Im okay with it. I would rather read a book than be intimate with him.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. While Ethan was still having secret meetups with the local sex worker he says he and his wife decided to give couples counseling a second try. Ethan says it was his suggestion that they go.  When you think back on that the conversation where you are saying to your wife like why do not we go back to couples counseling? Like let us work on this with with somebody else's help while you are also having a relationship outside of your marriage that she does not know about. Um like how do you think about that?  Well I never well initially I did not plan on telling her um about um about me cheating you know since um I was viewing it as you know this yeah this part of self care that I am doing and that the goal is to to change my life to where I do not need that anymore. Um. And so um you know the goal was still to work on our marriage and be able to um you know communicate and and sort of you know rebuild um our our trust and our intimacy. Um and just and recognizing that we were not doing that um on our own that we needed somebody to to to help us along the way.  Mmhm. So you both knew that you were in crisis your marriage was in crisis that you needed some help. And what she did not know was that you had had figured out this other way um to help you cope with how stuck you were feeling in the marriage.  Right.  Um how how did you disclose finally that that you were having these relationships outside the marriage?  Um so the the um the topic of divorce came up uh in couples counseling. Um and that was something that we were grappling with whether it was something we wanted to do or not. Um I initially was ambivalent. And um the couple's counselor said uh she challenged me. She said you know are you are you really ambivalent or do you know the answer and you just do not want to share it? Um and uh and so then my wife and I continued talking. Uh and um we had a conversation and I um she where I said I was really feeling hopeless about um being able to uh to save the marriage. Um and she really wanted to try for three or four months and see how it goes. Um and then I just I realized and I this was I had been sort of this realization had been growing in me for quite some time um that she needed to know the truth before before we spend any more time together. Um and so so then I told her uh and uh and then and that was the day that um that we decided to get a divorce.  Did you know that when you disclosed that that it was going to be a deal breaker for her?  Yeah. And and I think partly that was part of the reason why I did it. Um like having sort of a nuclear option that I could sort of bring out at any time um was comforting in some kind of way I think?  That makes me um...that makes me uh...feel really mad at you.   You are not the only one. Yeah.  It feels very cowardly.  It does. It is. For sure. Yeah.  Like like that you were telling yourself when you were having these you know really satisfying dates with with these women who were not your wife that you were doing it to save your marriage. While you also kind of knew in the back of your head you were like collecting ammunition to just like burn it all down should you need to.  Mmhm. Mmhm. Yeah.  And I am not saying that to to shame you. I am I am more interested in just like how you think about that.  Yeah no I think um that um. I mean and a I mean yeah I do not think you are shaming me. I think you are uh you know speaking the truth. Um I ended things um with my sugar baby and I was not planning on um you know seeking anything else like six weeks before all of this happened. And there was I had this growing growing realization that what I was doing was really toxic. Uh yeah I think you know it ended up just like my wife needed to know the kind of person that I really was if she was going to spend any more time with me. Um you know and it took me it took me a long time to realize that um but that it was you know this toxic thing that was inside of me.  When you say like she needed to know who you really were like like when you say that are you saying that with a sense of like this is a part of me this is what I needed and I I sought it out because my needs were not being met in in our marriage? Or are you saying it like this is what I am capable of and it horrifies me in some ways?  Mm. Definitely this is what I am capable of. Um and I would not say horrifies me but um uh you know but disgusts me to a certain extent. I think that um uh and just um you know realizing how bad things were um between between us for me to do things that were um that was harmful. That was that harmful to our marriage.  I mean the thing that it makes me think of is like when you described telling your your wife that you were going reading or had work to do like I am flipping through all the times that my husband says he has to go work. And then I think liketo to have that realization that you are from your spouse that like actually that was a that was a total lie. Um and uh it is it is not just revealing how you you know who you were it is also revealing to her how you felt about her.  Mmhm. Yeah. And I did not I did not get the the weight um of that really until I told her. And uh and then um she told me how she felt about that. And um it really did not yeah. That part really did not hit me. And it was worry - it is been worrisome. You know how easy it was for me to lie. Um you know about all of those times. When Ethans ex-wife wrote to us the depth of that betrayal and its impact on her is what she wanted to make sure we understood. Maybe this is all an interesting story to you. For me it was more than seven years of my life she wrote.  It was finding out that in the end despite his reassurances to the contrary I was not enough for my husband. I am still living through the fallout. Ethans confessions to her came in waves first that he cheated then it was with sex workers. Then he says she demanded to know how much of their money hed spent.  She was uh worried that I um that I was had a credit card that she did not know about. Um I told her I you know I had sort of picked up some side gigs um to be able to uh to pay for it but that um she initially asked uh for the you know for the total sum she wanted to you know the um my my checking account my credit cards sort of annotated um over the past year. Um she initially asked for that but then decided she did not want that information.  Did you go back and look?  I did.  How much money did you spend on meeting up with women?  8000.  Does that number seem like a lot to you?  It does it seems like a lot.  Something I want to ask you about um having the experience of negotiating money upfront with someone that you are going to meet. Um for presumably sex. There is something very uh like money is not a subtext. Money is direct in a way that is unique because often in our romantic lives money is present but it is a subtext. Um what is it been like? Negotiating your divorce settlement and figuring out figuring out money figuring out like what you get to take financially from the marriage and what she will take financially from the marriage. What is it like to been like to look at those numbers?  Uh it is it is challenging. So I make more than she does and I am paying spousal support for a certain period of time. Uh and um and that is been been challenging I think. Um and I think -  Challenging because its money you do not want to spend.  Yeah yeah. And it also it it um I do not know. It I feel like it is in the same vein almost as you know paying you know sugar babies um in the same kind of way of like you know like that there is um I dunno that that there is money tied to this relationship you know in a in a certain kind of way. Um and so I mean I I I recognize it as you know I think that it is um. It kind of is what it is. Um you know I certainly want to be fair um uh to both you know my soon to be ex wife and me um for that. And I think you know the conversations that we have had um have largely been that have largely been fair. Um but she certainly has um she is only a couple of times thrown back in my face you know. What I was doing with uh with money um while we were still married and that she is she deserves a certain amount from me.  Something that I have noticed going through a divorce myself and then seeing friends go through divorces is like there is this interesting thing that happens where it is such a private thing that you are having marital problems. It is a secret between you and your spouse and then all of a sudden it is a very public thing that affects every relationship you have because your work colleagues know that you were married your friends knew that you were married and you have to have a sort of a story that you tell about what happened. Um what what is the story that you tell?  Um. I think that uh yeah. That we we just um we had a rough marriage. Um we tried um really hard to be able to communicate with each other. Um and we just never uh we never built the foundation that we needed. Um and we had given it enough of a time you know we had been married for just over five years you know that was sort of enough you know if we were not gonna be able to figure out that key part of our relationship then then then we were not ever going to figure it out. And and so you know we needed to move on.  What do you think is the story she is telling about you?  I think her narrative at least initially I think it is now become more nuanced than this but you know we are getting a divorce because I cheated on her.  Do you think that is a fair assessment?  I think it is one lens to look through. I think it is umand I would I would hope that you know that uh friends and family members and people she talks to you know sort of know know me and know life well enough that you know it is never that quite that simple. Um so it is it is a story. I dont think its the most accurate. Thats a listener were calling Ethan. He and his ex-wife recently signed their divorce papers. Ethan says he doesnt plan on using Seeking Arrangement in the future. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Ayo Osobamiro. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. And thanks to Akila Rice in Chicago who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Akila and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Ethan is starting to date again. He put up profiles on Bumble and Tinder. And he says if a relationship gets serious enough he will tell a future partner about what happened in his marriage. He says he might even play them this podcast.  So if I were listening to this as someone who was thinking about whether I want it to be emotionally vulnerable with you I would want to hear you say what you take responsibility for.  I mean I take responsibility for my actions uh for cheating um for knowing what it was doing to my marriage even though I um you know I put really big blinders on and I I had all my justifications but I knew. You know I have really come to come to believe that um t hat cheating on my wife was uh the worst thing that I did in my life. But I think it is also a challenge. I have to it is going to take diligence for me for it to remain the worst thing that I have done in my life. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.