  From NPR I am Sam Sanders It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today on the show Alex Blumberg and Zach Braff. You know Zach. He is an actor and a writer and a director. You have seen him in Scrubs a really great sitcom and in Garden State a cult classic of a movie. Now Zach Braff is starring in a family comedy on ABC. It is called Alex Inc. It premieres tomorrow night Wednesday March 28 at 30 PM. The show is called Alex Inc.    One month ago I decided at 37 with a wife and two kids now would be a good time to quit my job and start my own business. Who am I? And what am I doing? My name's Alex Schuman. And I am ruining my life.  That is Zach in the pilot of Alex Inc. And the business that his character is starting in the show it is a podcast company. And the podcast company is based on a real live podcast company that is called Gimlet Media. You may have heard of it. Alex Blumberg founded this company. And in real life he really did quit his job and freak out his wife and two kids and chronicled the start of this company Gimlet Media with his own podcast.   I would been recording pitches to investors difficult negotiations with my co-founder tense conversations with my wife. I am calling this mini-series StartUp.  So yeah in this ABC TV show Alex Inc. Zach Braff plays a character based on Alex Blumberg. We have got the two of them together to talk about how a thing like that gets made and what they both brought to it. We also talk about like the state of the podcasting industry writ large - a lot of good stuff in here. So what you are about to hear right now it is a podcast episode about a TV show that is based on a podcast a podcast that is all about starting a podcast company. Real meta this week you guys. Enjoy.   Testing one two three - fancy mic. I have to switch to my NPR voice.  What is your NPR voice?  You know it is very soft and...  Can you do Robert Siegel? He is like...  Yes I can.  And I am Robert Siegel. No oh wait. Yeah. That is kind of it right?  And I am Robert Siegel.  That was good. I am very bad at impersonations. I cannot do any of them. A.  Hello.  Hi. The Alex Blumberg? A.  Yes.  Hi. It is... A.  Hello.  Hi. It is your doppelganger Zach Braff. A.  Hello Zach Braff. How are you?  I am good. Good to hear your voice.  So how long since you guys last talked?  We spoke on the phone during production. And we met on - well you might want to save this for the show.  I think we are rolling. Tom we are rolling? OK. Alex you sync in? A.  I am rolling here.  OK. I must say I am really excited to do this because it is very rare that two of my faves get together to make a thing together.  Yeah thank you so much.  So Alex I want you for folks that have never heard the podcast before briefly describe it and then tell us what role you played in getting it to TV. A.  OK. So like you Sam I used to work in public radio. I worked at This American Life and started a show with Adam Davidson called Planet Money at NPR. And those were - I was seeing podcasting sort of like blow up in sort of this low-key way but in the way that was like oh look these things are going to be successful. There should be more of them. And I thought somebody should make more of them. And then eventually I felt like OK that person should be me. And then eventually I felt like OK I need to leave my job in public radio to do the thing that I sort of feel like needs to be done which is there should just be a place that has a lot of money and makes a bunch of podcasts. And so I made the crazy decision to quit my good job at NPR and This American Life and go and do that myself. And I thought I have to raise money. And so the problem was that I did not like - at This American Life and Planet Money there was like an audience of millions and this huge brand and NPR and there is all this reach and then I am out on my own. And I do not have a job or a salary. I had some savings. But I did not have much. And more to the point I did not have any personal brand. I did not have a Twitter account I do not think. I did not have really much of a presence on Facebook. I had no audience at all. And so I needed to do something that was going to be worthy of some kind of - some attention. And the only thing I had going on was like I was trying to start this company - and I never started a company before - and I knew something about how to make a radio story. So I decided to start documenting that process. So I just like hauled my recorder out with me. And when I went to interview the billionaire Chris Sacca I had my tape recorder with me. And I had like my microphone. And I had my earphones on.  A.  And I want to start a company that will create the content for all these people to listen to who are like moving into the digital futurepresent. Digital futurepresent? Who says that? And I just documented the whole thing. And we put it up as a podcast and partly as like a marketing stunt just to sort of like here's what we are doing guys like pay attention to us because we are going to launch a bunch of these other podcasts. But then midway through we realized oh wait this is an actual...  It is a show. A.  ...Really interesting show and like it is like touching into something that like is not really covered which is sort of like - when you hear about launching a business you think about like business and strategy and numbers. But really what it was for me was just like all about emotions. Like it is just terror and fear and anxiety and excitement and hubris and despair and anxiety and you know sort of like having really tense conversations with your family and - so all that stuff. So we were able to record all that and sort of put it in. Chris eventually drops the pretense that this is an actual investor meeting and just starts coaching me on my pitch feeding me questions and then correcting my answers.   And so what is it going to take to do it? A.  So it will take 1.5 million I think. And...  Take out the I think. A.  Yeah. It will take 1.5 million - I am looking for 1.5 million to 2 million in C-stage funding.  No no. You are looking for a very specific amount of money. A.  I am looking for ...  I was just sold. When I heard that - when I heard that episode I was sold because I was like this is so raw and interesting. And I think people - I just felt like it was access for everyone who does not know anything about business. And also I love how Alex did not censor moments where he looked...  A mess.  ...A mess. A.  .  Well there were some episodes where I was like Alex do not you do it. Do not you hurt Nazanin. Do not you do it. And we should say that is his wife. A.  Yeah.  To Nazanin's credit she was willing to be very raw.   It is hard being married and having two kids and doing this 'ecause there is - you just do not get - you do not get the like generousness of spirit and sympathy that you would get if we did not have a 4-year-old and a 2-year-old and I did not have a full-time job.  I feel like a lot of people might go all right I am going to fight with my wife I am going to turn this off.  You all kept it on.  But you all all kept it on.  N.  Do you want me to tell you what I think you should do? A.  Sure. N.  I think you cannot do this by yourself. A.  Yeah. That was the best - no 'ecause that is the only stuff that is going to be - like I know that from just my job in audio is that sort of like what works is like authentic emotion.  And everybody can relate. I mean I just felt like that is what is so - one of the things that is so great about the podcast and what we aspired to do in the show was you know Alex's particular story is about creating a podcast company. But I just felt like anyone going after their dream anyone who is whatever - it is like insert your dream here. People can relate to do I have the right to do this? Am I too old to do this? I am putting my family at risk. Are we going to mortgage our house? Is it fair to my wife? Like or my husband or whatever or my spouse. All of that stuff was so relatable even though in the micro it was really about a guy starting a podcast company. One thing that we tried to do that Alex did I thought really well was say yeah our story is specific but insert your own experience here. A.  Yeah.  Walk me through the backstory of like how this show came to be. Like whose idea was it first?  OK. Well I went to meet with a producer named John Davis who produced a lot of TV and a lot of movies. And I was actually there to talk about a film that we have together at Fox that we have been unable to get made and I had just made a movie called Going In Style and I had kind of - it was a studio movie and I kind of was excited to make another studio movie. So I was trying to rally him to campaign to get this movie going. And he said yeah yeah yeah. I sat down and I realized it was kind of like a trap 'ecause he was like yeah yeah yeah we will get that movie made but listen. We just...   ...We just optioned this podcast. And you know I was aware at the time that podcasts were starting to be - it was a little bit...  You do not say? Podcasts are a thing.  Well I knew they were a thing but I was really aware they were starting to be everywhere because I would been going out with other pitches for things and I was pitching a different TV show and while we were waiting for the executives to come in everyone there for the pitch was sitting around like eight people and the conversation was what are your top five podcasts you are listening to?  That sounds obnoxious.  And everyone just started like sharing and writing down. And I was like - and it was a moment that I had where I was like wow this is...  Yeah.  Anyway long story short - or maybe because we are here for this I will make it long - he said have you heard of the podcast StartUp? And I said I had not. And he said we just optioned it. It is amazing. It is fascinating. You will not be able to stop listening to it. It is so interesting. And we would love for you to consider playing the lead role in it. And I said I am not sure if I want to go back to TV yet. I am directing. I am really enjoying that. But of course I do not want to hurt your feelings so I will listen to it. I put it on on the way home and I just started bingeing it. I thought it was fascinating.  How did - so you start this podcast company with a podcast about you trying to start the company. The company Gimlet becomes this big deal that I enjoy and lots of folks do as well. How does it though end up becoming an ABC sitcom? Like... A.  OK. So that is  so that is the part of this - so Zach told his part of the story. My part starts a little earlier.  OK. A.  And I have - there was much less involvement from my end.  Really? A.  It was like early on. The company's just getting going. And it is like - wait. Do you guys curse on this show or not?  Do it. We will bleep it in post-prod. A.  OK.  I cannot wait to hear you curse Alex. I think it is the first time.  A.  It was a complete  show...  Oh my God. A.  ...As all startups are...  Yeah. A.  ...In the beginning. And like we are just trying to do - like 'ecause it is insane. You are sort of literally - you have to be a little bit insane or you have to be completely deluded to like start your own company.  You are saying you are a little bit deluded and insane? A.  Absolutely.  OK. A.  I think you absolutely have to be.  Then he had this enormous success. So I think that is what is so inspirational about it is like it is insane and you have to throw yourself off a cliff and you are going to argue with your spouse and mayhem's going to ensue. But occasionally once in a while you create this enormous company called Gimlet.  Yeah. A.  Right. So anyway but we are in startup mode. We are working out of this like - in this like crazy little incubator this like sort of like with this death-trap elevator. And like we have got like all these people. And there is like you know we are making all sorts of mistakes. And we just do not - you know we do not know what we are doing. And it is just all we can do to just get shows out every week. And then I hear like somebody's interested in optioning StartUp. And...  So someone just heard the show and was like this should be a TV show? A.  They reached out and I think it came to the contact at Gimlet or something like that. Like I do not even - I do not even know how...  I think it was someone at John Davis' company loved the show and said to their boss like you should listen to this. This could be a great TV show.  Hold up. Listeners you like this show. Let me know. You can have Idris Elba play me.   I will take it. I digress. Back to your story Alex. A.  So...  I think more of a Donald Glover. A.  Yeah.  OK. I will take it. I will take it. A.  So...  So they reach out. A.  They reach out. And then I was like yeah right. Sure whatever. And then we have this business development guy Chris who was like I think there is an opportunity here. I am going to like pursue it. And we were like OK. Fine fine fine. But do not spend too much time on it. This is never going to happen. This is like - people want to option stuff and like then it never gets made et cetera et cetera. Which Zach correct me if I am wrong. That is a true Hollywood story right? Like lots and lots and lots and lots of stuff gets optioned...  Oh my God. A.  ...That never actually gets made.  Well dude the story I am telling you is about a movie I had at John Davis' company forever. My brother and I wrote it. It is been sitting - like I was paying rent on an option like paying rent on a condo for your parents.  Explain that. What do you mean?  Oh so in Hollywood jargon when you - if you option a property you set up a deal saying for X amount of time I am going to pay you Y amount of money and I am allowed exclusively to try and turn it into something.  Gotcha.  And that might be for two years.  And you pay every...  Whatever the contract is.  Gotcha.  But - so I am for example the movie I keep referencing was a children's book. And I would - you would pay the option. And you would have two years to try and get the movie going. And then the option would lapse.  And you got to re-up.  And then you would have to re-up. And the person - depending on who the agent is or how much demand there is they might ask for more money. They - oh sorry lots of people want this now you know? So that is what options are. A.  Right. And so I was like yeah yeah but like do not get excited. And then every once in a while Chris would be like oh yeah I think this is happening and look oh and then - and then the name Zach Braff entered the conversation .  So you just got an email subject line Zach Braff.  And then stuff got real.  A.  But like people were like Zach Braff  is just sort of like oh my God that is going to be - like now it is going to happen.  So then you take it seriously. A.  So then I took it seriously yeah.  OK.  So then what had happened was we - I said to John Davis - because John Davis had a deal at Sony. A lot of these big producers and writers have a deal that specifics - their deal is at specific studios. And his deal was at Sony. And I realized that one of my favorite Scrubs writers sort of - Bill Lawrence created Scrubs.  Also shoutout Scrubs. That show is so good.  Thank you so much.  It is so good.  So Scrubs - created by Bill Lawrence but sort of Bill's second-in-command writer and the guy who wrote some of my favorite episodes was a guy named Matt Tarses. And I had a eureka moment where I went his deal is also at Sony because often they need to be at the same studio - complicated boring Hollywood stuff. And so I said hey I will tell you what John if you can get Matt Tarses to write this and be the showrunner I am very interested.  OK.  And so Matt listened. And Matt had the same reaction I did. He said oh my God I am in. And so then we went out - so Matt develops a pitch with myself and John's company. We always thought it was a broadcast show because one of the great things about the story is so much is happening in television but it is mostly stuff you cannot watch with a kid sitting next to you. All the stuff you love you are not going to watch with a 9-year-old next to you. And your kids have the things they love. So one of the things that I kept thinking was I feel like there is a space for more family comedy. You know I have lots of friends and siblings with kids and they say you know that time after dinner before you put your kids to sleep...  What are you going to watch?  ...We are like is there anything you can all watch together? So I really thought there is no reason that this needs to be anything but PG because it is about a family.  Which I found interesting because when I first thought about OK how would a podcast be made a TV show - podcasts as big as they are becoming they still are very niche - and I was like oh a podcast show will be like on Netflix or Amazon or Hulu. And you guys made the conscious choice to make it...  But I think what we discovered was the podcast is - it is a show about a family business. And the podcasting is their business. But it could just as easily be a show about a family that runs a bar...  Yeah yeah yeah.  ...And so we thought that the in to network was let us tell a family comedy story but about a family that goes after this big dream.  Yeah. A.  I have a question for you Zach if you do not mind me hijacking for a second...  Hey do it. A.  ...Which is like did you guys ever think about like not having it be a podcasting company that they were starting?  Never. We never did. I think somewhere along the line someone at the network was like why is it a podcast you know ? A.  Yeah. Why did you keep - but I do feel like - because I feel like podcasting it is not very visual. Like if you think about our actual job it is like a lot of us like - it is like everybody sitting on a Google doc typing and like - you know there is not - so why was it important?  I think well we wanted to keep the seed of what you made. I mean I want to say on my side of things and it is important especially for hardcore StartUp fans to know that do not come tuning in for like every single thing that happened on StartUp to happen. We really did - we really did take it as sort of a seed of a concept and ran with it. But we do... A.  Yeah. I do not think you are going to have a George R.R. Martin situation with StartUp although maybe. Who knows?  You never know.   But there are some key moments like your incredibly awkward pitch with Chris Sacca that we just completely duplicated. A.  To the actual Chris Sacca we should say.  Oh yeah. We should also mention...  Oh that is actually Chris Sacca?  Yeah. That is him.  Stop it.  Oh I should tell that story. We will come back to what we were talking about. So I - we are trying to - the pilot you know we shoot the pilot in Brooklyn in Manhattan. And we - you know Chris Sacca the real person is such a main character of the initial pilot.  He is one of the big funders of Gimlet to start.  Yes. He is one of the big financiers of Gimlet in the get-go and he is in the podcast as I keep saying. And so when we were trying to cast that we kept saying well should it be this - it is only going to - he will probably only be in the pilot and then we will talk about him a bunch. Should we ask a favor of some celebrity we know and do a cameo? Or you know Chris Sacca's been on Shark Tank so we were like well he is obviously OK in front of a camera. Maybe it is worth having him play himself if he would be willing. And through a mutual friend I got in touch with Chris. And he was completely into it. And he said - to his credit he was like - you know I was like oh my God is this guy going to be super cocky? And he said look I do not know anything about acting at all but I am a really - I am passionate about learning things. He came over to my apartment in Manhattan like the night before filming. And I like gave him a crash course in acting.  You are like running lines with him.  No I totally ran lines with him. I was talking to him about intention and listening. I like gave him like a two-hour - I summarized my Northwestern degree in two hours for him.   I would pay for that. It worked.  It was like - it was like a private TED Talk.  And he did it.  And he did it. And he was great. And we became friendly. And he is just a really really cool guy.  Yeah.  I forgot what we were talking about before that - before I digressed.  It will come back to you. A.  Whether the - podcasting company and like what the network was saying...  Oh yeah. I mean I think it was only one executive who said like I love it. I do not understand why it needs to be a podcasting company. And I think we were all like no we want to stay - not only do we want to stay true to the spirit of the show even though we are changing a lot of what happened. And I also felt like what more zeitgeist-y thing could there be in the world than podcasts which are just - were even at the time starting to appear everywhere. And I think you know we are a mixed-race family. We are going after the American dream. Podcasting it just felt - it all felt so 2018.   All right time for a quick break here. When we come back Alex talks about what parts of Zach's show are true to life and what parts are not - BRB.   You know speaking of you saying podcasts are everywhere I realized this morning getting ready for this interview we are taping a podcast episode about a network sitcom about a podcast about a guy starting a podcast network.  Yeah.  Are we totally at peak podcast?  I hope not. I hope not.  Like I mean Alex for you like does this signify in some way that the medium has truly truly truly arrived? A.  Well yeah. I mean I do not think we are at peak podcast...  OK. A.  ...Because - I do not know how much you want to get - me to get on my like sort of like talking on my book here. But I think podcasting is just sort of like the same force that happened in all of media which is sort of like all of media is going to on demand. It is happening in audio as well and the form that is taking is the podcast. And I think just - and we are at the beginning stages of it. If you think about like how long sort of like TV - like TiVos came out like 10 years before anybody started talking about bingeing.  Yeah. A.  You know what I mean? It is like the capability comes along and then the behavior follows sort of more slowly. And I think we are starting to see that. So I think we have - it is a long way to go before like everybody's listening to podcasts.  And I think I keep getting asked a lot like oh - you know because we are one of the first TV shows to come out of this. You know oh is this a new wave? And I think of - you know just we were talking about optioning. People option everything. They option magazine articles. They option obviously books and 60 Minutes pieces. And I think it is totally logical that there is all these amazing storytellers out there that everyone's going to start going wow that is a movie. Wow that is a cool TV show. A.  Yeah and that is exciting.  So not peak podcast yet? A.  No no. But it is like every - so I have watched the season or most of the season I think of like whatever you guys sent me.  It is 10 of the shows. Yeah. A.  Yeah yeah. And every time you say podcasting I just like have this little thrill because I am like Zach Braff on network television saying podcast.  Well I am so happy you liked it Alex. This is my first - this is my first hearing that you like the show which makes me very happy. A.  Yeah no...  See. I find this so interesting because like I would assume that the two of you guys were like talking every day swapping notes. But Alex...  No.  ...Once you say yes to the show you sign off on it and it is not yours anymore? A.  No no. Well so I think when you are letting your source material get optioned or however - whatever the proper term is - I feel like you can go one of two ways. You can be like yes we are going to do this and we want to be involved in every decision. And like you know John Davis if you are going to approach Zach Braff you have to talk to us first - or whatever - which seems like a very presumptuous way to go for us at that time where we were at that point. And also I did not feel like we had anything to add. Like I do not know anything about - like John Davis is the expert about making television.  So you were not really involved in like the creation of the show?  Well I think to his credit he was kind of like - I mean he was kind of an ideal partner. And in that he said look. I am excited and call me with any questions. But this is not my world. And also I have an empire to run.   I am busy. A.  Yeah exactly.  Yeah. A.  And so like Matt Tarses and I would exchange emails every once in a while. He would be like hey when you were in the booth what did it look like? And I would send them pictures back of like...  Yeah he literally sent us pictures of mics and stuff. A.  Yeah right. And...  Bone to pick though - that mic you all use in the show we do not use those mics. A.  Oh my gosh.  I know. I know.  That silver golden mic that is too much.   Well first of all we are talking into the very mic you are talking about. I know it is used for in-studio and not like running around but...  But the one Alex put on the kitchen table that is like shining bronze.  I know.  Come on.  What Alex sent us was like not as...  Sexy.  ...Was not as photogenic.  OK OK. A.  It is a little...  Was it a shotgun? A.  Yeah.  Or like a...  It was a giant shotgun.  Yeah those are... A.  It is a little too phallic for like network television.  I do want to talk about one part of the show. Well there is a few parts of the show that I want to talk about but we do not have time for all of it. But - so like in the show you use the same recorder the same headphones as we do in the biz but not the same mic. But one of the - the fake show that Alex's character leaves to begin his own podcast network called Cheer Up!  Cheer Up! Yeah.  ...which is as you describe it NPR on Prozac. What is Cheer Up! actually in the public radio world?  Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Let me just say one disclaimer real quick. This American Life which was the inspiration is - was way too cool. I mean it was - This American Life genuinely is...  It is a cool show.  It is cool. Everybody loves This American Life. So in the show we had to change it that it was not cool. He was doing sort of fluff pieces and he... A.  Right.  What he wanted to be passionate - he wanted to do something where he was - where he was making a Serial you know - as in Serial was sort of an archetypal example. A.  Yeah.  He wanted to do something that was that was making a difference.  Yeah. A.  Right.  And so we cannot say - we had to sort of dramatize it and have him quit a company that was not cool.  Yeah. A.  Right because - yeah - because why would I actually do the thing I actually did?  A.  It does not make any sense at all. That was actually a big story problem for me too which was sort of like why did I leave that job? It was like a lot - I had to do a lot of fancy footwork on the podcast itself to accommodate for exactly that story problem.  To explain that.  Well we had to figure it out in the show because we were like well the audience is going to - an audience for a show is going to go well This American Life is cool. Why did you - like why did you leave a really cool job?  Alex you have this successful podcast company that is doing well just doing podcasts. Are you worried as you do more of your... A.  Yes.  ...Other projects like TV shows that that affects the brand? How do you brand manage in a kind of work environment where you spin off tons of stuff? A.  You - so brand - yeah. I mean this is something that we think about a lot.  OK. A.  And - but I do not - but I do not think we think about it. I think we - I worry about it a lot.  OK. A.  And I do not know where I come down because I feel like worrying about your brand it is both the most important thing you can do and it can also get in your way. And it can inhibit experimentation. And it can inhibit innovation. Like if you are like oh that is not on-brand for us but then it could be a really cool thing. So I think a lot about like some of the most successful brands out there. There are certain brands that only do a thing like Pixar.  Yeah. A.  It is only Pixar movies. And you always know that like Pixar it is going to be a Pixar movie and that is going to be what it is. Their business model's really different though. Like they have to make a great thing and then people go and buy that thing in droves versus like if you are talking about like a media company like HBO like HBO is sort of aligned with quality but they also do boxing. They do like you know they do talk shows. They do sort of like campy you know sort of like B movie sort of sexy vampire dramas. You know so like I like the idea of like having our brand which I think we have done is like largely associated with quality. And that is important to us. And that will always go forward. But I also like our brand being associated with like trying new things...  I like that. A.  ...And experimentation. And I think that is the line that we always have to walk.  And it is like I mean like with brands when I think of like the most successful brand that I can think of it is probably Oprah. And like when the core of what you are doing is good - not saying that this will be a foul but you are like allowed a foul. Like Oprah as great as she is she also gave us Dr. Phil. She also made that crappy Starbucks tea. But she is still Oprah. And like I am assuming that should some of these other spinoffs that you do Alex not work you will just keep moving. A.  Yeah. And I think that is the thing is like people - like I was watching this Steven Spielberg documentary on the flight home the other day. Like everybody remembers like you know E.T. and you know Saving Private Ryan and like you know Schindler's List. And then they had this whole thing it was like do you remember 1941?  What was that?  That was his first bomb - pun intended because it is about bombs. A.  It was his first bomb. It was a horrible - it was like this like crazy - nobody remembers that. Like as long as your batting average is high like you just got to keep just swinging.  Yeah. I think that is a good lesson for creatives listening is that you just kind of keep making stuff. They are not all going to work. It is impossible. You have to just keep making stuff.  Yeah. On that note what is your biggest bomb Zach?  Well there is financial or to my heart.  Tell it all.   Well I made a movie called The Ex with Jason Bateman - listen to this cast - Jason Bateman...  Like him.  ...Charles Grodin... A.  Oh my.  ...Mia Farrow...  Oh yeah.  ...Amanda Peet...  Got stars here.  ...Fred Armisen Amy Poehler.  Wow. Why have I never heard of this movie?  Because it was a bomb. But I thought it was - I mean I think it is really funny. But it did not work.  Why not?  I do not know. I just think - partially the way it was released which you can always...  When did it come out?  I forgot the year to be honest. I have blocked part of it out. But I worked really hard on it. And I thought it was hilarious. And I thought it was going to be a big hit. And I still - when I catch a glimpse of it on cable or something I will watch it for a second and laugh. But...  Do you think it is good?  I think it is better than it got received.  OK. OK. I will leave it at that. All right. Are you worried about this show being successful?  I think all you can do is put everything you have into something. I mean you really have no control over - again once it is out there it is up to a marketing department and whether the fans take the time to check it out and time slot. There are so many variables. But I - all you can do is put something out there that you are really proud of. And I...  You are proud of this.  ...I am very proud of this. I think if you like the ABC you know family comedy vibe the Modern Families the Black-ishes The Middle Speechless the stuff that they do really really well which is something you can all watch together I think you will like this a lot. The Goldbergs I should say is another popular one.  Yeah. I also like how you are giving me - in the little comedic riffs you have throughout this show - giving me some Scrubs vibes again which I like.  Well there are certain aspects of my - what makes me laugh and of course Matt who was one of the writers on Scrubs you know we cannot go too far from what makes us laugh. And I should say because it is not quite in the marketing yet is that t