 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Just about the worst news a parent can get is the news the doctor gave my guest Emily Rapp when her son Ronan was nine months old. Ronan had TaySachs a disease that leads to the degeneration of brain tissue and results in the body's systems gradually shutting down. TaySachs is acquired genetically but only when both parents are carriers of the defective TaySachs gene. Emily Rapp has written a heartbreaking memoir about raising a child she knew did not have long to live. Her son Ronan died one month ago before his third birthday. Emily Rapp's first book Poster Child was about her own congenital defect a bone and tissue disorder that led to the amputation of one leg. She was actually a poster child for the March of Dimes in 1980. Now she has a pretty stateoftheart prosthetic. Rapp is a former Fulbright scholar a graduate of Harvard Divinity School and is now a professor of creative writing and literature at the Santa Fe University of Art and Design. Her new memoir is called The Still Point of the Turning World. Emily Rapp welcome back to FRESH AIR. I am so sorry about your son's death and...  Thank you.  ...a little later we will talk about the new chapter that you are beginning of life without him.  Yes.  But let us start with a reading about getting the diagnosis that your son Ronan had TaySachs disease. And in this part of your memoir you are in the doctor's office and you and your husband are in shock because you just got the diagnosis.   Well what can we do about it? Rick asked glancing between me and Ronan and the doctor. But I knew enough about TaySachs to know that there was nothing at all for us to do and that my life the life as a new and hopeful mother was over. The doctor looked at the two of us. No I am so sorry he said. There is no way to fix it.  They die I stuttered. I had the sensation of skin falling away from bone. I hugged Ronan more tightly. They die. I wanted to vomit and my grip on Ronan was scaring him. I loosened my arms slightly. What? Rick asked. Surely...  They die I said firmly in a highpitched voice and this time he understood that I meant Ronan that Ronan our boy our baby our child would die. The world was broken and the three of us  Ronan Rick and I  were falling into its mouth.  Nerve damage begins in the womb and progresses quickly leading to dementia decreased interaction with the environment seizures spasticity and eventually death paralysis blindness deafness loss of all faculties.  That is Emily Rapp reading from her new memoir The Still Point of the Turning World about her son Ronan who was diagnosed at nine months with TaySachs disease and died in February. Emily when you got the diagnosis like you know like you said like you knew babies with TaySachs die and that there was really nothing you could do to prevent that. There is no cure. There is no treatment. But there are things you could do to keep him as comfortable as he would be capable of being. What were some of those things you could do?  Well he loved  because as he went blind he sort of had an experience that was entirely somatic. He went on a lot of hikes. He went to a lot of parties. He...  When you say he went on a lot of hikes you mean you carried him.  Well I hiked him with. Yes. He did not hike. I hiked with him and we took him outside and a lot of walks in the stroller. And I sort of  the way that I processed his I think sort of regression into this state of nonmovement and noninteraction was to introduce him to probably as many people as I possibly could. So I invited almost every friend I have ever had throughout my life to come and see him and visit him and hold him. And he also loved to eat. He was really into food. And so he ate a lot. And you know very simple simple daytoday things that he enjoyed.  So you know parents always learn about developmental milestones you know at what age the baby usually starts walking and saying mama or papa or whatever the name is for their parents.  Right.  And you know when they understand that something is out of the room or in the room and all this. And you had to learn what the reverse milestones were going to be the signs of his regression of his slow shutting down. What were you told to watch out for?  Seizures first of all and those were controlled by medication. So that was one intervention that we chose. You know they just they stop  they just kind of stop. They stop at six months and then they sort of unravel from there. So you know and it happened over such a long torturous period that it is kind of difficult for me to remember when those things happened because it usually was not very dramatic. It was just a very very slow fade which is how one of the other TaySachs moms once described it to me was as a slow fade. And so you know but you are constantly  and when you have a child with a terminal illness part of the devastation of the caring is that you live with constant dread. And it is not just dread but it is dread that is going to lead to the most dreadful thing. So it is not  it is like a horror story in that sense. But being with Ronan was actually great because he was so sweet and fun to be around and everyone loved him and he was a gorgeous baby and snuggly and had his own little personality despite having TaySachs.  So excuse me for asking this but when you say he was fun to be around what do you mean?  He had just this amazing energy. I mean first of all before his illness progressed to the point where he was no longer interactive you know he would play with toys and he giggled and he would look at you and smile. I mean he was like you know a regular baby. So he was fun in that sort of sense. Later when he became less interactive he just  you know his presence was so  and I do not use this word lightly  I think powerful. I mean people really responded to him because he was just totally at ease if that makes sense. He was just quiet and peaceful and sweet and gorgeous. And so it was kind of  it was just a joy to be around him.  Emily you took your son to hospice and you got some very interesting advice from the hospice staff. And they talked to you about how you would have to make decisions about how far to go with interventions like you would have to decide if you are going to do a feeding tube or not. What were some of the turning points the people at the hospice told you you would have to look out for and have to make a big decision about whether to go on or let him go?  Well you know it is interesting because what is great about hospice is that they are really like moment to moment. So there would be a day when he was coughing a lot and I would  you know one of us would call and say He is coughing a lot but what can we do to make him more comfortable? Or it looks like he does not want to take food anymore. So it actually was not like they did not sort of plot it out for us because everybody is different and because they watch people and accompany people while they you know unravel into death which is sort of how it was described to me. Then there is no real  you do not  it is not so much looking out as it is just watching and just saying OK. What is today like? And not sort of fastforwarding into tomorrow which is really hard to do. But they were great. I mean you know they were available at all times and would work with all kinds of people to do things that are in their comfort zone whether or not that is you know at the end saying like OK. Give all the machines we cannot let him go. They do not have any judgment about those decisions. So I think that is a very safe place to be when you are asked to make bad decisions that people are not going to judge you for what you do.  When you say bad decisions you mean like painful decisions.  Painful yeah. I do not mean bad as in morally bad. I mean you know to have to make a decision about whatever it is what kind of seizure medication or he is having trouble doing this do we start to use the suction machine do we not how is that comfortable how is it you know increase his uncomfortability level. I mean all of those decisions are  sort of do not have happy endings in either case but there is not a right way to do it. And they are very adamant about emphasizing that.  You write that at each stage of potential intervention the hospice medical staff would say things like ask yourself What does this lead to and what is it for? Can you describe what that meant to you?  I just think it meant that you know getting a terminal diagnosis like TaySachs which has really no proven effective treatments and no you know no cure although people are working on that you know it is difficult to say well if I do this he is going to get another six months or whatever because he may not want another six months. His body may suffer more if he has that additional time. So it was really just saying OK. Well if we stop food or if we use this oxygen machine it is not making his life extend which is what we did not want to do. It was making it comfortable. So it is kind of hard to describe it because it is so unique to each baby and they are so adept at kind of leading you through and just saying well how is today? And what does it seem like? Taking his vital signs he seems great. He seems uncomfortable. What can we do? So it is just kind of you know seeing what happens on a daily basis. It is  I do not  it is really difficult to describe how in the moment it is.  So did you find yourself constantly having to think about what level of life was meaningful for your son what level of life was worth preserving?  I think so. I just  you know it was  that was the worst part was nobody wants to lose their child. I mean it is horrible. It is the worst thing you can imagine. But I also you know did not want him to suffer. And that was really the sort of  the primal impulse shifted from how am I going to launch this child into the world to how am I going to you know make it possible for him to have the most peaceful passing which is also  could be framed as a primal parenting goal. So that is a very big shift. But it is still a kind of parenting. You know Ronan was a very loved boy and I do not think he  I do not think he suffered terribly. I hope not. It is hard  of course he could not really tell us. But that is when the hospice came in and they would say well this is what happens when the body does this or this is what happens when the body does that. And so they were sort of the guide to when he would stopped having obvious clues or cues to how he was feeling.  What were the turning points for you where you had to decide is this is the end should it be the end should we do something that will probably help him live longer or is it time to let him go?  You know I think I will not talk about that just because it is  I do not really want to talk about his death so much. And those decisions were so wrenching and I am not sure I want them public if that is all right.  That is fine and I certainly respect that. Could you gauge his level of pain at all since his responses were not kind of typical responses and there was a limit to his ability to communicate?  Yeah I think so. I think so. I mean the thing about you know Ronan was that people were watching him all the time looking at him and touching him. So when there was a problem it was pretty evident I think. And it is hard to describe it to someone because the cues are subtle and people who cared for him on a regular basis would understand them and people who did not would probably miss them. But since he had sort of the same caretakers for most of his life we got it. But yeah he was  and most of the time he looked I have to say he looked so peaceful most of the time. He looked peaceful and he slept a lot and he loved to be held. And those are the kinds of memories that I try to focus on when  I mean obviously when I am sad which is all the time. But I like to think about him when he was just peaceful and happy and that you know now he is free of any of the suffering he might have experienced as now he is set free from that. And that is a relief.  My guest is Emily Rapp. Her new memoir about her son is called The Still Point of the Turning World. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Emily Rapp and she is written a memoir about her son and caring for him. Her son Ronan was born with TaySachs disease in January of 2011 and he died in February of this year when he was two years old. TaySachs is a disease that is progressive and the body and brain just start to shut down. You quote a lot of like fiction and nonfiction that you would been reading and that meant a lot to you during the period that your son was alive.  Yes yes.  And one of the things that you quote is Simone Weil and this is a quote about waiting for God and she writes Waiting for God not as a passive action but as a patient practice one that required concentration as well as stillness and a hope that refused to fixate on a particular predetermined outcome. Why did that quote mean a lot to you and what did it mean to you?  I think I like her thought process because it is very intellectually gymnastic. So it was a kind of distraction to have to follow the train of thought and at that time I really needed to be  I needed my mind to work on other things besides despair. I needed it to be busy. And I also  that particular passage that you quote is something I love because it implies that there is no activities to do in order to make things or to marshal things in a certain way that will fix your life or fix the situation that you just have to wait for meaning to reveal itself. It may never reveal itself. And I really did not want anyone to give me any hard and fast answers and she offers none of that in her work. It is all about just thinking deeply about difficult subjects.  So that quote from Simone Weil about waiting for God not being a passive action but a patient practice one that requires concentration as well as stillness and one that should not have a particular predetermined outcome that strikes me as a very Buddhist kind of approach.  Yes.  And you went to a Buddhist center for hospice workers and for others who are involved with endoflife care people who wanted to integrate a contemplative meditation practice with compassionate endoflife care or as you put it the ideas that a person who is hysterical is not the best companion for someone who is experiencing the final moments of life.  Yes that is true.  So what are some of the ways that this Buddhist center for people giving endoflife care was helpful to you?  I mean it was amazing. It was really difficult. It was called  or is called the Upaya Zen Center and it is Frank Ostaseski  I think I am saying his name right  and Roshi Joan. And they led the weekend. And first of all there is so much meditation which if you have never done before as I have never been a good meditator it is a lot of sitting. And if you are really in a bad mental state it is very difficult to sit for an hour with all those feelings churning and be still. And so that was challenge. And also at one point during the weekend  I think I talk about this in the book  we looked at people's death photographs which is something that Buddhists do or at least these particular Buddhists did. And some of them showed signs of struggle. There were babies. There were older people. There were spouses. There were pictures of the whole family sort of in the bed with the person who'd just died and covered in the flowers. And that was so difficult to see because just the idea of Ronan not being alive was so hard to even conceptualize. It was just so horrible that I did not want to imagine it. But going to that weekend was so helpful to me because it made me imagine it which made the grief worse I think for a while and then it kind of lifted. And it also one of the things about having a terminally ill child is that you start to understand and really absorb your own mortality and the mortality of every single person that you love and that is really terrifying. But it is the truth. So it was a very difficult weekend but hugely important. And also what was great about being in that community just for three days or whatever it was is that when you would say well why are you here people were asking and a lot of our meals were in silence but the group ones  and you know well I have a baby who is dying or we have a baby who is dying and nobody would get hysterical or react. There was no reactivity to that statement which is another difficult thing about having a sick baby is that you are constantly dealing with other people's freakout because of course when someone tells you that it is like the worst thing ever. But people were like OK. Well that is  well you know how is it and how is he doing? It was just nonreactive. It was very calm. And I found that pretty phenomenal and it really stayed with me.  So one of the leaders of this Buddhist hospice weekend Roshi Joan said I do not console. What did she mean?  I think she meant that you know there is so much about what we say to one another and to other people  it is going to be OK. You are going to be fine. And sometimes you are not going to be OK and you are not going to be fine. So she does not  and when people are dying you know and they are kind of where am I going to go? And she said I think she said something to the effect of You know we do not know. You know you die and you move into some other part of the universe. But you know Buddhists do not have a particular understanding of the afterlife in the way that Christianity would describe it right. She just you know I guess does not softpedal the fact that yes death is going to happen to all of us. And another thing that she talked about in some of the chanting that they would do after every meditation session  I cannot remember precisely the words  but was basically like do not waste your life. Your life is short and you do not know when it will end. Do not waste your life. I think that is one of the  I do not know for sure but I think that is one of the phrases that was repeated after a meditation session. So I think that influenced me in this idea of OK well life is short. And it is cliche but when you have a baby who is only going to live for three years it really comes clear. And so what now? So yeah. I am very very thankful that I was introduced to that those hospice care workers and heard their stories about how their clients or patients had died funny stories sad stories devastating stories. You know it ran the whole gamut of human emotion and it was very powerful.  Emily Rapp will be back in the second half of the show. Her new memoir about parenting a baby dying of TaySachs disease is called The Still Point of the Turning World. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Emily Rapp. Her new memoir The Still Point of the Turning World is about parenting a baby she knew did not have long to live. Two years ago when her son Ronan was nine months old he was diagnosed with TaySachs a disease that leads to the degeneration of brain tissue and is always fatal. Ronan died last month before his third birthday. So I know you do not want to talk about your son's death it is just too close and too personal now but tell me if you feel comfortable talking about this. You completed the book before your son died...  Yes.  And you sent it to your publisher...  Long before yes.  Yeah. And it came out it is so odd. It kind of  the publication almost perfectly coincided with your son's death.  Right. It is a lot at once. Yes. You know there was some when I was writing the book I very much wanted Ronan to be fully alive in the book and I wanted people to experience him when he was his most sort of active I guess able to self. And I really wanted it to which is sort of ironic given that I do not believe in heaven or really an afterlife as I have been taught to understand it I wanted it to end with an afterlifeish sequence. And I thought about that a lot in the months when he was deteriorating at a more rapid rate and I would try to imagine him sort of playing on the shore of a lake with you know grandparents I have never met and other TaySachs babies that I have met and who have since died. And which is so interesting to me because it is everything that I talk about being silly in the book. At the end those were the images that I was like yes he will be there and like my grandmother will be there. And so I think we want so badly to know that we are going to be OK after you die and that too was hard for me to just think you know you know and it still is that you know I do not think I will ever  I will not see him ever again and that is a huge hole. So you know I will say that I never actually wrote this intending it to be a book. I wrote it as a series of blog posts in the you know most of 2011  at least January to the end of the summer in a sort of fugue of grief and hysteria essentially. And I did it because it gave me something to do and I desperately needed that and I just felt like it was my only lifeline to some kind of hope. You know the readers were like my friends. My girlfriends basically were like make sure we know what is happening with you. Post things on the blog so we know what is happening with Ronan because I was not I did not want to talk on the phone all the time and it was really the only thing that gave me peace in those in that first year of Ronan's diagnosis it was the thing I wanted to do every day was to write and was compelled to do it in this way that I would never been before.  When your son was first diagnosed with TaySachs in January 2011 when he was nine months old among the many things that panicked you was the thought that maybe you had not gotten tested for TaySachs.  Yeah.  You thought you did but maybe you did not really. And it is you know it is a genetically passed on disease.  Mmhmm.  You were tested.  I was tested.  You confirmed that you were tested.  Yes.  And yet it was not detected. Can you explain why?  Yes. So TaySachs disease is commonly understood as a disease that manifests in Ashkenazi Jewish population. This has been the sort of standard genetic counseling advice and is  what people often say is when you stay TaySachs they say oh how can your baby have TaySachs? You are not Jewish. So there is a real connection between having Ashkenazi Jewish heritage and being at risk for TaySachs. So when I asked for the TaySachs test they said well you do not really need it because you are not Jewish. And I said I would like to have it anyway. But TaySachs has 100plus mutations genetic mutations and the standard prenatal test detects I think nine of them and all nine are common to the Ashkenazi Jewish population. So there is a whole other set of the mutations that are not detected by that test. So yeah I have a genetic mutation that apparently which was a shock to me  manifests mostly in people who are Moroccan. Who knows. Our genes are old and weird and mysterious so I did not know I had any Moroccan heritage but apparently my genetic code does. So that is why when I had the test I did not think I needed to worry. And also TaySachs is very rare. There is that too. So I you know I thought I was in the clear in that respect.  So you had a genetic test that did not show that you were a carrier for TaySachs.  That is right.  You have written that had you known from prenatal tests that you were carrying a baby who had TaySachs that you would have had an abortion you write without question and without regret.  Mmhmm.  Although this would have been a different kind of loss to mourn and would by no means have been a cavalier or uncomplicated decision or a heartless decision. And then you write I am so grateful that Ronan is my child. I also wish he would never been born.  Yeah. Yes that is true.  Can you tell us  and I know this would be hard to talk about  why you feel it would have been an act of love to have an abortion had you known?  I think TaySachs is  what is so devastating about it is there is just nothing to do. It is so hard to watch a baby begin a life of being a baby being a person and then just lose everything. It is I do not think it is  it is devastating to the child. It is devastating to the parents. It is just a death sentence. It is not a disease that is manageable in the sense that there might be interventions that would really increase quality of life. And I think if I had known that  if I could have spared a child the kind of life that Ronan had I would because he died. I mean he his brain did not function and he did not really have a chance to live in the world in this full rich way that I think is sort of  should be everyone's birthright in some respect. That does not mean that I think that if  I mean I have a disability myself so I have very you know strong opinions about the fact that bodies can be all kinds of ways and that there are all kinds of manifestations of physical ability. So I do not think  again I am not cavalier about that decision. But I would have yes because there would have been  it would have saved suffering on so many levels. And so I think that is that would have been my choice. I think other people would make a difference one and I think that is fine. I mean people can do that is why it is a choice why it should be a choice in my opinion. So yeah I also love that Ronan was my baby and I cannot quite imagine he changed my life so much that I cannot imagine not having had him or having had these years  as difficult and strange and wonderful as they were. But I do not think if I were sitting in a doctor's office and someone told me that I was going to have a child that would lose every single faculty and die I would choose to have it.  Is it hard to hold both of these thoughts at the same time...  It is.  ...that you are so grateful that Ronan and was your child and you also wish he would never been born?  Yes. But I think it is a kind of duality that can be held. It is not an easy thing to think about but it yeah it is deeply deeply sad and horrifying and hard to reconcile. And also I again really loved my son and I think people who read this book will understand that he was incredibly special and sweet and that he changed many people's lives. So I am grateful that he had the kind of  that kind of life and that his father and myself and my parents and my friends loved him in a way that allowed him to live as fully as he could have. But it still is not it is still not something I would have chosen for him.  If you are just joining us my guest is Emily Rapp and she is written a new memoir called The Still Point of the Turning World about her son Ronan who was born with TaySachs disease and died in February shortly before his third birthday. Emily let us take a short break here and then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.  OK.   If you are just joining us my guest is Emily Rapp. We are talking about her life with her son Ronan who was born with TaySachs disease. He was diagnosed when he was about eight or nine months and he died in February shortly before his third birthday and TaySachs is a disease that is progressive and the body and brain just start to shut down. As you mentioned you were born with a bone disorder which I think was genetic.  Yeah. Oh it is congenital.  Congenital. Yeah. Yeah.  Just a fluke in other words. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah. I am sure you have thought about this but the fact that you were born with one congenital disease and your child is born with another seems like lightning striking twice. You know like what are the odds...  Yeah it does not  it is not great.  Yeah. Right.  Believe me I have definitely thought about that.  And then it is easy to have this attitude well you you know you were dealt a bad hand when you were born with this you know congenital disease. What were the odds that your child would have you know a different and far worse one? You would think you would be spared that but of course you were not spared that.  Mmhmm. No.  And as you write in your book you know you suffer for one thing it does not mean you are going to be spared from suffering with something else.  So true.  You know just...  Nobody gets a free pass. Nobody gets one.  Do you spend a lot of time thinking about that?  Oh yeah I still do. I mean it really shifted my understanding of things like luck and what does it mean to be lucky and how do we judge whether or not someone is lucky or as a term we often use blessed in their life. And you know I had this period when I would go out in Santa Fe and this was like in the year that Ronan and was diagnosed and I had written something for the local paper about him and how grateful I was to the community for being so supportive. And people would say to me in the grocery store like you must feel cursed. And I would just be like A  that is not helpful and B so are you if you think about the fact that you are a human being and you never know when chaos will find you. So it made me just realize how deeply phobic we are of this idea that chaos is really a reality of this world it is the thing that can touch us some time in our life. And that that does not mean that we are bad people or that we deserve bad luck or that we are even unlucky. It just means that that is what happened. So when people would say to me things like  another helpful not comment that people often made was you know I would die if I was you if I were you. And I thought OK first of all no you would not. And secondly like that really does not help me at this moment.   That really is not something you say to a grieving person I would die if I were you. So I think people often use sort of people's disabilities one or people who have other sort of tragic body experiences or tragic experiences in general as a mirror for their own fears. And it is deeply isolating for someone who is grieving to have someone say I would die if I were you. I mean I do not know where to put that. I mean it is just pure pity which really is not very helpful. A more useful response would be wow that is really terrible like what can I do to help you? Or I just you know that is terrible and unfair. Just like speak the truth of it. And that to me as a gesture of empathy which invokes this reality that we are all going to be touched by something by some chaotic experience quote tragic experience and we are all going to experience loss and we are all going to die and that is sort of the fundamental truth of human life that phrases like well I feel so blessed try to I think sidestep a little bit. I do not mean to say that people should be grateful when they are happy but I do think when people would say that to me holding up this mirror or say I am so glad I am not you another helpful phrase I would think you know you do not know anything about my life. You know my life is really complicated it is really sad but it is also really beautiful and rich and has a lot of interesting things going on in it. You know we just do not know the full truth about what is going on with someone. And again these interchanges happening in the grocery store line are not exactly the opportunity for those connections to take place. But it did make me think about those phrases that we toss off all the time I am so blessed I am so lucky. Like I do not know what it means.  So can you talk a little bit about how your life is changing now?  Yeah I am on a book tour for this book which is strange and exhausting.  Is that a good thing in the sense that you know you just lost your son a month ago and...  Yeah.  ... being on a book tour is like an alternate reality be