 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest is David Sedaris. He has a new collection of personal essays called Calypso. As many of his fans know he is very funny. And he writes about very personal subjects sometimes the kind of subject bound to make readers uncomfortable like having an intestinal virus worrying about needing the bathroom while traveling on a book tour and having to be onstage. Alongside his essays in which he describes getting older and how his Fitbit has affected his OCD he writes about his late mother's alcoholism and his sister's suicide. After he became famous he moved from New York to Paris. Now he lives in West Sussex England where one of his obsessions is picking up trash from the road miles of countryside road. It led to a trash truck being named in his honor and to his invitation to Buckingham Palace where he was honored as a dogooder. Earlier this month he received a major literary honor the American Academy of Arts and Letters Medal for Spoken Language. He is been a regular contributor to This American Life. Now that he lives in England he is become a contributor to BBC Radio 4. Several essays in Calypso his new book were originally published in The New Yorker. David Sedaris  so good to talk with you again. So I want you to do a few short readings from your book but I want you to start with the very first sentence from the very first essay.   Though there is an industry built on telling you otherwise there are few real joys to middle age.  OK. So I am going to mention your age. You are 61. What are some of the things you are not enjoying about getting older?  Well I feel like if I robbed a bank...  .  ...This would be the perfect time to do it because when the police said  what did he look like?  they would say he had gray hair. That is all people see...  .  ...After you are a certain age is that you have gray hair. So that is part of it. And then part of it is just general achiness. But then part of it too is I feel like  you know when all those young people took to the streets against gun violence? I was not jealous of them but I just felt kind of happy for them. You know that time in your life when you are young like that and you really believe that you can make a difference? I am not saying that you cannot make a difference when you are older or that a person cannot make a difference. There was just a light coming from inside of them  you know?  like they were like lanterns kind of glowing with their certainty. And you lose that as you get older. And I had it when I was young so it is not like I had a chance to have it and then I did not. That is when you are bitter when you think  gosh darn it  you know I did not take advantage of that when I had it. I did. I just  I guess when you get further away from it it makes you sad I suppose.  Wisdom is supposed to come with advanced age. But I wonder if it does not drive us deeper into the groove of bad habits  instead. So what is the balance been like for you between feeling like you are learning more as you get older and are becoming wiser versus feeling like all the bad things are just getting more bad?  Well I am giving a commencement address in a few days. And so I tried to put my wisdom down on paper. And I thought  OK what have I learned? And it was really kind of sad because one of the things I have learned is you really need to be careful about scented candles. You know...  .  That was like one of my hardearned bits of wisdom. Another one was to always have a joke tucked in your back pocket because you  I had to accept an award about two months ago. And I got there and they said  are you going to read your speech or do you have it memorized? And I said speech? And they said yeah. And then I am looking out into this room. And there all these you know  it is all of literary New York in this room. And I reached into my back pocket  you know into my memory really  and pulled out the filthiest joke that I had at my disposal. And I got onstage and I told it. And I thought wow that is really good advice to have for people  is to keep a good joke in their back pocket.  I wish I could ask you to tell that filthy joke. But for obvious reasons I cannot.  I know and it is so good. But I just made a list. And I thought what do I really  what do I know? What has this advanced age gotten me? And it was not much really you know in terms of wisdom. But I am not  you know I might have said this to you before  and I am not looking for sympathy. I am not the smartest person. I am rarely the smartest person in the room. You know I have other qualities. But that is  like searing intelligence is not one of them.  We have spoken about your OCD before and how it affects your constant cleaning both of your home and also the cleaning of the road in the British countryside where you live. How has getting older affected that? Is that getting any  is it staying the same? Is it being expressed in different ways?  Well when I was young like any kind of OCD thing I would think  oh what is next?  because I would go from making little noises in my throat like   and you are in class and you are making little noises like that. And you cannot stop doing it  then to jerking my head or rolling my eyes back. And then I was able to kind of harness it in a way  you know like the picking up trash  right? I do not know? I do it anywhere depending on the season from four to eight hours a day.  Eight?  But...  Wow.  Uhhuh. Yeah. Now I go out again after dinner. And I will go out  I do not know  11 of the clock at night for another two three hours. And I wear a headlamp. You know any kind of  device you wear on your head just makes you crazier. And so I wear a headlamp 'ecause it frees up my hands. So I can have my bag and I can have my litter picker. And I am out there on busy roads after midnight because there is not as much traffic. But to me that is harnessing it for the good. Right? And it can be exciting to me to  because I do not know what is next. You know something else could come along six months from now.  Like what new compulsion is next?  Yeah. I mean for a while it was feeding spiders. And I knew  and I know by a feeling I get in my chest. And I think OK I am out of control. Right? I am obsessed and I am out of control. And there is a kind of an excitement that I feel. And maybe it is what manic people feel when they are high you know. It is not exuberance. It is tempered with something. It is  you are not in the driver's seat anymore. Something else is pushing you forward and you cannot stop. But like I said it is not like you cannot stop jabbing a butter knife into a light socket. Right? You are feeding spiders which you know that is making them happy. Or you are picking up rubbish. Or you are  like I said I do not know what could be around the corner. But it is sort of exciting I mean that it never stops. It is not like  that does not retire. That part of my brain does not say OK it is retirement age. I am turning off now.  Does that part of your brain ever turn against you into anxiety and obsession about your body physical ailments your future any of the things that plague us?  You know what I think? I think the iPod has saved me from so much of that because if I am alone with my own thoughts then my thoughts can kind of churn like that. But then the iPod came along  or the Walkman before that. And then I would listen to audiobooks. And now I listen to audiobooks and podcasts. And so I do not have to be alone with my thoughts anymore. I can think about other things. And that is really freed me up a lot because it...  So as long as your brain has something worthy to focus on you are OK?  Yeah. But I feel bad for people like you know in the Middle Ages or something who did not have   I guess you do not have to go back that far. You know you can just go back till like the 1970s really.   So you kind of refer to this in the book. But you know your mother died when she was 62 the age that you are going to reach in December. So how do you see her age differently than you did when she died?  It is interesting to me how much older people used to seem than they seem now. Like my greatgrandmother was maybe 80 when she died. But now I know 80yearolds. And I am friends with 80yearolds and they wear sneakers. Right? And my grandmother had hair to her waist that she wore in a braid that she turned into a bun. And she had wirerimmed glasses. Like if you looked in the dictionary under old lady or under hag...  .  ...You would find a picture of her.  .  So now it does not seem that old to me now. But my mother died when she was 62 years old and that seemed  I mean it did not seem  I knew she was young. But I think one thing with my mom is because she smoked so much and she did not get a lot of exercise that walking up the driveway would wear her out really. And so that was something that made her older I believe than she  than 61  I mean just her physical limitations. I think if my mother had lived another 10 years she would have had to have a  drag an oxygen tank behind her.  Right right. You gave up smoking right?  Well I quit  I quit in 2008. I quit and I never had another cigarette.  You just decided to quit and did. You say in the book you are good at quitting things when you need to.  I am. I am pretty good at it or  so I quit drinking and then I just quit. And then I quit smoking and I just quit. But quitting eating is a little bit harder. I do not need to quit. I just need to quit eating for like 10 pounds but that is everybody's story really. I talked to a friend of mine...  Boy the last time I saw you you did not need  to lose any weight.  Well now I have gone from being an envelope to a padded envelope and I was talk  complaining about it to a friend of mine recently and he  I said my shirts no longer fit. And he said call me when your socks no longer fit.  .  It is true. He gained all of his weight from his knees down and his socks do not fit him anymore.  Oh that might be edema. That might be swelling as opposed to like food weight.  Well made me feel good.  All right  I think you might have the wrong idea of what is going wrong.   So just one more thing about being 61  I asked you a lot of questions about it. Are you OK  are you comfortable with talking about age? Because we have been through so many periods where that was a kind of taboo subject. You had to appear younger you know and if you got past a certain age you were considered kind of like obsolete or something. Of course with Wikipedia  like everybody's age is out there. Like you know you do not  you cannot cover up your age. So are you into like just you know owning and accepting whatever age you are? Or is it something that you are uncomfortable at all accepting to yourself or talking about with other people? And I have to  I will preface this by saying 61 does not seem very old to me but I know it does to some people. And it is  60 for a lot of us it is such a turning point in life because it used to be  it is a big number. It used to be I think a bigger number.  Well I feel like just in terms of writing  right?  anything that I thought well maybe I will keep that maybe I will not mention that that is the sort of thing that more people can relate to when you do mention it. And it seems kind of  I do not know  pathetic to try to hide it or cover it up right? I mean I can think of so many actors and actresses who were older than me. And then they were my age and now they are younger than me right? Like if you look at their  you know when there are articles written about them. So no I do not have a problem with it. I mean I guess  I remember when my first book came out there was some quote on the back that said young comic  you know America's prickliest young comic. And I thought young? I was 35 and I thought young is like 20. You know it is not 35  so no. And you know one other thing I realized  it is just  someone said to me a while ago like oh what is the secret to getting older? And you know what it is? It is being rich. That is the secret.  .  Because...  Let us all try that.  Let us all do that.  Because it is just the indignity of getting older and then having to stand in line say you know what I mean? Like to beg to be at the mercy of people at that age. That  that is bad right? But  so I have it  I have it easy. I mean no matter how  another thing  I was in Chicago a few weeks ago. And I bought these new shoes and they put these inserts in the shoes. And they said wear them for two hours and then switch them out. So I was with my friend Dawn  and we are in Chicago. And Dawn says oh look there is a little park and you can sit on that bench and swap those things out of your shoes. So we open the gate and we go in this park and then this woman says get out. You cannot be there. You cannot be there. And we turn around and she is walking  she has a walker and she is with an aide. That is private property. That is a nursing home. You cannot be there. You cannot be there. And it is like  and so I put my  all right I stopped what I was doing. And I left the little park. And then I have to pass this woman and she says you are not allowed to be in there. You cannot  and she is an old person. You do not want to be rude to an old person right? But I just got up to her and I said just leave me alone. And it is nothing to be proud of and then I thought well what? She is 20 years older than me  all right?  20 years older than me so I am not going to feel that bad about  and plus I did not  I did not call her any names or I did not say leave me the blank alone or whatever. I just  leave me alone. And so that is a good thing about getting old too is old people now are just open targets for me. I can...  .  ...Talk back to them as much as I want.  All right . So I think we should take a short break here and then we will talk some more. If you are just joining us my guest is David Sedaris. His new collection of essays just published is called Calypso. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is David Sedaris. He has a new collection of essays called Calypso. It is just been published. So I want you to do another short reading from the book and this is about when you have guests coming over to visit what it is like for your relationship with your partner Hugh when there is somebody else there observing you both.   Guests usually take the train from London and before we pick them up at the station I remind Hugh that for the duration of their visit he and I will be playing the role of a perfect couple. This means no bickering and no contradicting each other. If I am seated at the kitchen table and he is standing behind me he is to place a hand on my shoulder right on the spot where a parrot would perch if I were a pirate instead of the ideal boyfriend. When I tell a story he has heard so often he could lip sync it he is to pretend to be hearing it for the first time and to be appreciating it as much or more than our guests are. I am to do the same and to feign delight when he serves something I hate like fish with little bones in it. I really blew this a few years back when his friend Sue  came for the night and he poached what might as well have been a hairbrush.   OK. I think I understand that need to like not disagree or quarrel in front of some  anybody else. What is it about that that makes you so uncomfortable to show that you disagree with Hugh on something or he disagrees with you on something or that you are not laughing at his joke or appreciating his story or vice versa he is not appreciating yours?  I have been around other couples when they are bickering and it just looks so bad. And you leave and you think oh my God that is what their marriage is like? That is what their relationship is like? And so I do not want people to leave the house knowing the truth. I want them...  .  ...Thinking  we  a write  there is a writer a fiction writer named Rick Bass  a short story writer  who came to our house in England a while ago. He was traveling around the world and he was cooking dinners for different writers. And so he came to England with his daughter and a friend and he wrote about it and he did not miss anything this guy. Like Hugh and I would exchange a look and he said Hugh's look  Hugh looked at David as if to say what are these people doing here? And it is exactly what Hugh's look was. And I looked back at him like we will get into this later.  .  And he  and it was good to read because it reminded me that you are not  people can  it is all right there for an observant person to see. I do not think that we are  we bicker or argue more than most people. It is just sometimes you are around somebody and you are comfortable with them and you let that show. And it  it is a  afterwards I pull Hugh aside and I say that cannot happen again.  What is his reaction when you say that?  You know what Hugh always does when you put him on the spot for something like that  well I am who I am and I cannot hide it. And it is like that is  well you need to learn to because we all need to learn to hide who we are.  .  I mean that is...  That sounds like great advice.  Be yourself.   But do you think having other people around can change how you relate to your partner?  I mean I think because you have got an audience and you are having to be kinder to each other and sometimes you  it makes you hear that person. I mean because sometimes Hugh does not really hear what I have to say. If it is just Hugh and I sitting around talking he does not hear what I am saying. That is the secret to being in a long relationship. And so you know I think it is important to pretend to listen you know to at least look like you are listening. But I do not think that you really have to  after a certain point I do not think it is fair of me to expect Hugh to listen after 26 years.  My guest is David Sedaris. His new collection of personal essays is called Calypso. After a break we will talk about why he and his boyfriend Hugh believe in marriage equality but have decided not to get married. And Lloyd Schwartz will review a new album that he says is one of the best recordings of Bach's partitas and sonatas for solo violin. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with David Sedaris. He has a new collection of personal essays called Calypso that reflects his dark sense of humor and his eccentricities. Among the subjects he writes about is his relationship with his boyfriend of 26 years Hugh Hamrick with whom Sedaris now lives in the English countryside. So I  you know I have been referring to Hugh as your partner because I cannot remember if you are married or not. You have an essay about your accountant telling you that once there was marriage equality in England that you really needed to get married for tax reasons and also for estate reasons like if one of you dies. And  but it is not concluded at the end. You ask him to marry you 18 times and he declines but I do not remember if you actually get married or not.  No we are not married. I just  I wanted gay marriage to become legal and then I wanted nobody to act on it. I thought that would have been perfect  to get the right and then to say you know what? We do not want that. I mean we want the right to do it. We want the right not to do it. That is what I want. I want the right not to do it. So I never meant  it never  plus I just always feel weird when somebody says this is my husband Hugh. I do not know. I just think ugh when somebody says to me.  Well what do you call him your partner your boyfriend your lover? I mean...  I like boyfriend. I like boyfriend. And I will take boyfriend to my grave. I really will. When people say well he is kind of too old to be a boyfriend I think well if you are too old to wear shorts you are not too old to be a boyfriend I think.  Well here's something. In a society  and I do not know how it is in England but certainly in the U.S. there is a lot of benefits that you only get if you are married. You can only get the person on your health insurance if you are married. There are certain hospital visiting privileges you only get if you are immediate family i.e. married and the aforementioned like tax and estate issues. And the whole marriage equality Supreme Court case was based on estate issues and all the inequalities when you have been in a relationship for a long time and it is not in the eyes of the law like a legit you know relationship. So like why not just sign up so you get those advantages?  Well I guess that is the thing 'ecause then you can always think well I will do it. You know? And you just do not do it. But you think I will do it. But as far as the hospital visits go I mean I saw somebody yesterday and his husband died horribly  they would been together for a long time  and died horribly for the last 18 months. And I always say to Hugh like I do not want  I would love to be forbidden to visit you in the hospital. Like if he gets like that I just want to wash my hands of him. I really  do. I have said that to him so many  from the very beginning. Like when you get sick or something or you are in a wheelchair you are on your own. I just want you to know that. And you are free to abandon me too.  Is that because...  I mean...  ...You are afraid to see someone you care about suffering or it is just too much of a burden for you?  I mean to tell you the truth like we have a neighbor in England and her husband got dementia. And I could not believe how long she kept him at home. And that is not an easy thing to do. You know when you think about the things that you know that that really involves I mean I was so in awe of how she cared for him at the end. And just I think it is easier to imagine our deaths than it is our decrepitude. You know to imagine like our serious old age I just do not think we are able to wrap our minds around that.  Well I certainly think that decrepitude is way more frightening than death is for me.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Well when you think about it when you think about being in a room and you do not know who you are or who anybody is and you are not dead for some reason and you are just sitting there in a room and then somebody puts you into bed and you know feeds you and oh my goodness. I just  and to think you know gee that is really right around the corner. I could not bear to see Hugh. I just could not bear to see him you know with dementia or Alzheimer's or suffering in a horrible way. I just I mean I  and so for somebody to say well I am sorry it is against the law for you to see it I would say OK. . I would say I do not want to see it.  Are you afraid to see suffering especially if it is somebody who you love?  People in my family yeah. I mean even my dad my dad is 95. And you know I have to admire him because he keeps so much to himself. I mean I would wager that when you are 95 even your hair hurts. And he does not ever talk about any of it. You know and then you will find something out and you will say you had an operation on your shoulder? And he did not even tell anybody about it. You know? He just does it quietly. And I really have to admire him for that.  Well let me reintroduce you here. If you are just joining us my guest is David Sedaris. He has a new collection of essays called Calypso. We will be right back after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is David Sedaris. And he has a new collection of essays called Calypso and he also just recently won or was awarded I should say the American Academy of Arts and Letters medal for spoken language which is a pretty big deal. And congratulations on that.  Thank you so much.  Yeah. So there is another section of the book I want you to read. And this also has to do with your boyfriend Hugh and this essay opens with you both having dinner after having been together for I do not know about 22 years or something. You are eating dinner spaghetti and sausage that Hugh cooked. And you have chosen this time to ask him how many men he slept with before becoming a couple with you.   Thirtyfive 36  every man ticked off on his fingers was someone I have been compared to at one point or another. Not overtly. He is anything but cruel. But surely it happened. Someone kissed better than I did. Someone had more stamina a more seductive voice bigger muscles. I am confident enough to compete against a dozen of his exes but he was moving onto the population of a small town. Thirtyeight 39. By what miracle had neither of us contracted AIDS? How had we gotten away? I do not just mean later when people knew to be safe but back in the days when it did not have a name and no one understood how it spread. One of the men Hugh had lived with a professor he had his first year of college had died of it in the late '80s. And surely there were others on both my side and his. Yet for some reason we would escaped had prospered even. Now here we were the shadows lengthening our spaghetti growing cold as he hit the halfhundred mark then blithely sailed beyond it  whore.   How are you at dealing with jealousy?  How am I at dealing with jealousy? I do not think I am more jealous than the average person. That said I would rather any other emotion. I would rather deal with any other one than jealousy. But that is a really great thing about Hugh is that Hugh and I both value fidelity equally. It is important to both of us. So we  that is something we do not have to worry about. Like I have never had to be jealous of another  Hugh with another guy. I have never never had to worry about that or he with me. And it just takes a lot off your mind I think. I mean you know every gay couple I know has some kind of an arrangement. You know like their  they can have sex with another person but they both have to be in on it. Or they can have sex with other people when they are on vacation but they have to tell each other everything. Or they do not say it. It has to be complete secret and they do not  and it is  only seems so complicated to me right? Like it is all I could do to just have one boyfriend. I really cannot  could never imagine  I do not know  the energy it would take to have two or three at the same time. And I do not know. I just  I never wanted that.  Do you think that the AIDS epidemic figured at all into your interest in having a monogamous relationship?  No I always wanted it. But when AIDS came along it seemed more important to me to not  it seemed more important to me to find somebody who thought the way that I did. And again I do not see anything wrong with people  whatever arrangement they want to make for themselves I do not see anything wrong with that. But I think the important thing is to find somebody  'ecause if you are with somebody and they say well I think we should have sex with other people and you do not feel that way then it is really diminishing to you  right?  to kind of go along with that when it is not in your heart I think. It really chips away at you as a person. So I think the important thing is to find somebody who wants the same thing. But I always liked what Chris Rock said about  you know he is one of those people that you have to get him  if you are going to quote him you have to quote him exactly or you are doing him a disservice. But it was something along the lines of a man's fidelity is in direct correlation to how many opportunities he has right? If people are throwing themselves at you it is a lot harder to  strength comes into it right? You have to be a strong person to resist them. But if no one's throwing themselves at you then it is not that hard.  No but that is the thing. You are the one who is out there in the relationship. You are the one who goes on tour who is on stage who signs a gazillion books every year. And you know there is a lot of people who idolize you. I know there is  I would guess that there is a lot of people who would love to have a relationship with you while you are passing through their town.  Actually no.   Actually no. One person in all these years  one person...  Really?  ...Has propositioned me  one. And maybe it is because I am very public about being with Hugh you know? So it is  I am not a person who is out there and saying well it is  you know reading about being single and being on the hunt for people. And Hugh is  you know it is not my idea that Hugh is handsome. Hugh was just handsome. Everybody says Hugh is handsome. There is no  not opinion; it is just a fact right? But he does not know it see? And that is what you want. You want somebody who is handsome but does not know it. And then Hugh is just so  I do not know. He is just a real standup person. So I know when people have thrown themselves at Hugh he just runs you know? And he runs you know back to me. And so I have been very fortunate that way. But we do not have to  I mean sometimes in a dream I will have sex with somebody else. And then even in my dream I think oh no I know I am going to have to tell Hugh. I cannot keep it a secret from him. My relationship's over. And I am asleep. I cannot even cheat on Hugh in my sleep.   Well there is something really sweet about that.  Well again I mean if it is something you both want...  Yeah.  ...And it is something important to the both of you  you know that is why I say to young people you should have as much sex as possible before you get into a relationship because you are going to need that to reflect upon later.  So before we have to end I want you read one more short passage from your new collection Calypso. And this is in response to a difficult question your boyfriend Hugh has asked you which is  well I will let you read the question.   Why do you choose to remember the negative rather than the positive? I do not I insist thinking I will never forget your giving me such a hard time over this. Honestly though does choice even come into it? Is it my fault that the good times fade to nothing or the bad ones burn forever bright? Memory aside the negative just makes for a better story. The plane was delayed. An infection set in. Outlaws arrived and reduced the schoolhouse to ashes. Happiness is harder to put into words. It is also harder to source much more mysterious in anger or sorrow which come to me promptly whenever I summon them and remain long after I have begged them to leave.  And is that true for you as a writer that  in your diary do you focus on the negative more than the positive?  In my diary  I mean nothing makes me more selfconscious writing in my diary than if I am writing about something good right? Like if I am writing about something that  a nice thing that somebody said to me or an achievement  right?  I just think God if anyone were to find this diary that would just  I would look so bad you know kind of congratulating myself here whereas if I am complaining about something I do not think twice about it. So I guess I usually lead with   not the complaint so much as just the no I am going to take that back. I mean if I see something I am more apt to write about bad behavior I witness than good behavior I witnes