 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. Whitey Bulger the Boston criminal that inspired Jack Nicholson's character in the Martin Scorsese film The Departed was captured in 2011 after 16 years on the run as one of the FBI's most wanted men. Two years after his capture he is facing federal racketeering charges including charges that he participated in 19 murders. The trial begins next week. Whitey Bulger's story is extraordinary in many ways. While he was becoming one of Boston's most notorious criminals his brother Bill was becoming one of the most powerful men in the Massachusetts legislature. Whitey ran guns for the IRA once firebombed JFK's birthplace to protest school busing in Boston and repeatedly took LSD in prison as part of a CIAsponsored experiment. What made Bulger's criminal career even more remarkable was his close collaboration with FBI agents who used him as an informant. Journalists Kevin Cullen and Shelley Murphy veteran reporters for the Boston Globe say this relationship became corrupt and that several agents protected Bulger from other investigators looking into multiple murders he is now charged with. Kevin Cullen is a Pulitzer Prizewinner and Shelley Murphy is a recipient of the George Polk Award. They are the authors of Whitey Bulger America's Most Wanted Gangster and the Manhunt that Brought Him to Justice. I spoke with them in February. Kevin Cullen Shelley Murphy welcome to FRESH AIR.  This book is just a great read I have to tell you so many terrific amazing stories in here. It is a story of you know a remarkable career criminal and a shameful episode in the history of the FBI but also a story of a city and a neighborhood. Tell us a little bit about South Boston and the Bulger family. Well South Boston is literally a peninsula and figuratively an island. It is a place set apart from Boston in Boston. It is sort of always thought of itself  we talk about American exceptionalism well there was Southie exceptionalism because folks that live in that neighborhood and that included me for a big chunk of my life thought of themselves as living in the best part of the city. It is not unusual for people to refer to it as God's country and it is a place  like I said it is set apart both figuratively and literally from the city and as a result people have their own ways.  So it is a tightknit community row houses primarily Irish back in those days or no?  It was  well it was heavily Irish but it was just very ethnic. There were a lot of people a lot of Poles there. There were people from Lithuania. There were Italians. It was a mix. But certainly the  it is not only predominately Irish it is Irish in ethos. If you are there you are almost Irish by osmosis in South Boston because even in the public schools kids would learn Irish songs. That is the kind of Irish ethos that ran through South Boston. And even the unofficial mascot of the town as natives refer to that neighborhood it is the Fighting Irish the leprechaun in sort of a boxing pose the belligerent boxing pose with his fists up. And it is a tough part of town and it always was. And Whitey grew up in a time when it was particularly blue collar and particularly rough around the edges and where he grew up it was particularly rough around the edges It was a housing project.  All right so let us talk about Whitey Bulger. His name was James right belonged to a big family. Did he get into crime early?  He did get into crime early. His first arrest was at age 13. He started you know with stealing tailgating you know hanging out down by the waterfront where they would you know steal products off the back of trucks.  Yeah one thing that struck that we found out in one of the letters that we reviewed Whitey talked about when he was 16 years old he was in the back of a precinct house in South Boston. And he said a police officer jammed a gun in his mouth and the police officer was leaning so close to him that he could smell the liquor on his breath. It was a really dramatic scene. But even at that tender age of 16 Whitey was you know clearly in the fast life and in the criminal life. And I think that sort of began that sort of confrontational attitude he had with authority right there. I mean he was somebody who was going to have situations like that.  So Whitey picks his profession early and he certainly stays with it. Bill his brother goes a different direction. One of you tell us about Bill.  Just the  I mean they call Bill The Bean because they could see  from the street below they would see him studying in his room above. And Bill decided at a very early age when he was in ninth grade he decided to  if he was going to get out of South Boston  or not even get out of South Boston but if he was going to make something of himself he was going to go to Boston College High School. And he more or less got himself in there. It showed incredible gumption. And Bill you know in our town you would call somebody who is gone to Boston College High School Boston College and then Boston College Law School a triple eagle. And Billy Bulger was a triple eagle.  And he went into politics successfully.  Yeah not unusual in that part of town. That is the other thing about Southie. The Irish learned very  the Irish were not particularly liked when they arrived in Boston in the latter half of the 19th century and they realized the way to really seize power was to take political power. And nowhere  and in South Boston that ethos was stronger than anyplace else. The politicians were routinely considered the most important people in South Boston and it was a great profession to get into.  Another thing that was very interesting about the Bulger household growing up is their father had lost his arm in an accident. And so he had difficulty finding work. So not only were they living in the projects but that money you know money was tight. And it seems you know according to interviews that we conducted that Whitey you know he wanted things and he was not  you know the way he got them was not legally. And he was frustrated at being poor. He did not like being poor. Billy describes his childhood in very sort of nostalgic terms. He talks about you know the good parts of Southie all these you know wonderful memories of families you know gathered out in the courtyard of the project in games of tag. Whitey talks about you know being beat by his father and always trying to escape to something better.  All right so as Whitey becomes a prominent criminal Billy does very well and eventually becomes one of the most powerful people in the Massachusetts legislature. But let us go back to in Whitey's criminal career. He becomes a bank robber gets caught and at age 26 gets a lengthy prison sentence ends up doing part of it at Alcatraz. He gets paroled in 1965 and finds his way back to South Boston. And you write about there had been some  a series of gang wars among the Irish criminals in the neighborhood and peace was made. And Whitey gets out and ends up becoming one of the most important criminals in Boston  Irish criminals in the area. He ends up establishing quite a place for himself him and a longtime associate named Steve Flemmi. They became important criminals in the city. How did he make his money then? What did they do?  Well you know timing is everything and when you look at it Whitey was able to emerge from prison to a very depleted underworld. There were over 60 people killed mostly Irish gangsters while he was away in prison. And so he was able to rise very quickly. And he asserted himself you know he had told everybody and a lot of people believed him that he was going to go straight. But we found in our research that you know he dove pretty quickly back into the underworld. And he became an enforcer for a group called the Killeen Brothers. They were the preeminent gangsters in South Boston at the time and they had a massive extensive bookmaking operation. And there was a lot of money to be made in that. And so Whitey became a protector for them. You know he would have been a strongarm guy. He would have been going around forcing people to pay their debts. And he had to do what he had to do to protect the Killeens. Now he kind of knew Flemmi because when he got out of prison one of the first things he did he went to this afterhours club in The Roxbury section of Boston outside of South Boston and he tried to basically get himself back in that life.  There is this fascinating episode when a federal court ordered the integration of the Boston school system which meant you know busing kids to achieve racial balance from one community to another and it meant some AfricanAmerican kids being bused into South Boston. Whitey Bulger really got involved here. How did he react to this?  Well he was furious. And you know there was a feeling in South Boston that they were  people were unfairly labeled as racists if they were  opposed busing. And it was really this anger that a judge a federal judge was telling them that your children will be bused out of the neighborhood across town to a neighborhood that is higher in crime with schools that a federal judge has already found were inferior. So there was this feeling of being put upon. And so while Billy Bulger became one of the most outspoken you know political opponents of busing Whitey was working behind the scenes his own little campaign to stir up trouble. And what we found from talking to some of his former associates is that one of the things he did is drive over to Brookline to President John F. Kennedy's birthplace and fire bomb his birthplace. And part of the motivation was that Ted Kennedy at the time was you know a very outspoken proponent of the need to desegregate the schools. He was very outspoken about it. And you know Whitey went over and he wrote in chalk spraypainted on the sidewalk bus Teddy.  I want to ask one other question about this Did he use his special talents as a criminal to help his brother's political career?  Well one thing we found in researching the book is that Whitey took great interest in his brother's political career and was thrilled. He was actually in Alcatraz when Billy was first elected to the state legislature. We found that there was one case that when a fellow challenged Billy for the open Senate seat out of South Boston Whitey went after the guy and really you know lit into him at least verbally. And Billy supposedly told him to back off. But throughout his career as a criminal Billy  I mean Whitey was very often working behind the scenes to target anybody that would be perceived as a political enemy of his brother Bill. One example would be Frank Bellotti who was the attorney general of Massachusetts. And he actually ran for governor and he pitted himself against John Silber  then the president of Boston University  and a very close friend of Bill Bulger's. And so Whitey and his henchmen were going around town tearing down Bellotti's signs his political signs and they actually were spraypainting stuff on buildings and walls reminding people of the very controversial case when a fellow that had been targeted for prosecution by Frank Bellotti actually killed himself. And so that is the level that Whitey  I mean Whitey was  like he did during busing this was all stealth but it was very very pointed.  We are speaking with Kevin Cullen and Shelley Murphy both veteran reporters whose new book about the veteran Boston criminal is called Whitey Bulger. We will talk more after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us we are speaking with veteran reporters Kevin Cullen and Shelley Murphy. They have collaborated on a new biography of Whitey Bulger. It is called Whitey Bulger America's Most Wanted Gangster and the Manhunt that Brought Him to Justice. Whitey becomes a very successful criminal. He makes a ton of money. He is a violent guy. But his personal habits are also really fascinating you know his diet his drinking his physical fitness obsession.  Well even from the time when he was a young man before he went to prison for bank robbery he was a physical fitness buff. He had a gym you know that he worked out on before they became popular. He liked to run. He liked to keep in shape. And when he came out of prison and hooked up with his friend Stephen Flemmi one thing the two of them had in common is that they did not drink. They took care of themselves. They saw drinking as a weakness a vulnerability. They did not do drugs. They were very careful. They prided themselves on being very smart. They read books. They were intellectuals as much as a guy in that line of business can be an intellectual. But they were very very concerned about being fit and being perceived as a threat. They were very intimidating physically and you know and with their reputations what they were willing to do.  And then there is his remarkable relationships with the women in his life.  Yeah that was  I think Shelley and I both agree that one of the things we really learned by peeling these onions back is that Whitey had this  it was sort of  like a lot of things in Whitey's life there is a contradiction because he was always seeking this domestic bliss and yet he kept two households. And so he  and when he came out of prison in 1965 he very soon got involved with a woman named Theresa Stanley a single mother with four kids. And Whitey insisted that  you know he more or less became a surrogate father to these children. And he insisted that they have a sitdown family dinner every night. And he would sit there and it was almost like Father Knows Best or Ozzie and Harriet. And Whitey would just lecture the kids about how they needed to stay in school and study hard and save their money and stay in great physical shape and stay away from bad influences. And after that he would you know wipe his mouth with the napkin he would leave and go out and do crime for a few hours and then he would retire to the bosom of his other mistress a woman named Cathy Greig. And the other thing that was interesting about this sort of love triangle is that while Cathy Greig obviously knew about Theresa Stanley and that domestic side of Whitey's life Theresa Stanley was completely in the dark about the relationship that Whitey had with Cathy Greig. And she only became aware of it in a very dramatic scene that we have in the book is when Cathy Greig called her out of the blue and said we need to talk. And this was...  And this is after decades of him doing this.  Yeah and he had been with Theresa Stanley for nearly 30 years and he had been with Cathy for about  almost 20 of those years. And Theresa was a very kind lovely woman. She lived in South Boston. And Whitey was very careful to keep her away from Cathy Greig who had also grown up in South Boston. And the two women could not have been more different. Theresa was very sort of traditional stayathome mom you know raising the kids. Cathy was very  you know she was very careeroriented. She had attended Northeastern University. She was working in the dental school there teaching students and had you know planned on having a career. But she met Whitey when she was very young and she basically gave up her career to take care of him. And he would come to her house at like two three in the morning and she would be there all made up dinner on the table and very  both women very very much crazy about him. And I think both were in complete denial that he was doing you know the things he is accused of doing.  All right so Whitey Bulger becomes a successful dangerous intimidating and moneyearning criminal. But this is a fascinating story in its connection to the FBI. There is this Agent John Connolly who has a long close relationship with Whitey Bulger. Tell us about him. How did he know the Bulger family?  Well it goes right back to that housing project where it all began Dave. It is  you know John Connolly grew up in the same housing project. And they grew up in this place in South Boston where loyalty was everything loyalty to your family loyalty to your neighborhood loyalty to your neighbors. And so Connolly actually  you know one of the important influences on his life when he was growing up was Billy Bulger because Billy Bulger he saw as you know that is what I want to be. I want to study I want to get ahead. And Bill Bulger was you know instrumental in pointing the right way for John Connolly. Go to school you know go to college. And so John Connolly went to Boston College and then John Connolly became an FBI agent. And when John Connolly was transferred back after a few years on the road to the Boston office one of the first things he decided to do was seek out Whitey Bulger as an informant. And the reason he did that is while Whitey was by this time one of the preeminent Irish gangsters in Boston at this time the mafia was the national priority of the FBI. The FBI did not take into account regional differences. They would not look at Boston and say well geez the Irish guys are just as bad as the Italians we would better take them both out. That was not what was going on. And so Connolly approached Jimmy Bulger as he would call him Whitey and recruited him as an informant ostensibly to help the FBI take on the mafia. One problem with that approach is that Whitey Bulger did not know much about the mafia how he could  the difference is Steve Flemmi his criminal partner really did know a lot. So they became you know two for the price of one. The FBI actually put them together. So they were a tag team. The two real main conditions other than he said he did not want his brother Bill to know this is Whitey said he would never give up his friends and he would never give up the Irish Republican Army. And as soon as Whitey agreed to become an informant for the FBI he realized what a deal this was because he immediately went out and killed a guy that he had been wanting to kill probably for a long time and then went to see his handler and give him the report that  you know and he would implicate somebody else in the killing. And then the other thing he did right after he became an informant he really stepped up his involvement with the IRA sending them weapons and that culminated with a  the biggest shipment ever sent from America to the IRA in 1984 which he had a huge role in.  You said that he killed a guy he would been after for a while and then reported that to Connolly?  Yeah one of the first things he did after he made his deal with Connelly and agreed to provide information is he set about going to kill a guy named Tommy King who had been part of a rival gang the Mullens but then had become ostensibly part of Whitey's gang. But Whitey always always wanted to kill him. And now that he had the cover of the FBI he was able to do that. And not only was he able to do that he was able to throw the trail off him off himself after he did the killing. So what he did was first he killed Tommy King then he killed another rival in the Mullens' gang a guy named Buddy Leonard. And then he went and sat  after he did these killings  he left Buddy Leonard in the back of a car but he secretly buried Tommy King so they could not find his body. And then he sat down with John Connolly his FBI handler and said Hey I hear that Tommy King killed Buddy Leonard. And so Connolly writes that report up and that report is disseminated to people in law enforcement including the Boston police who are supposedly out there trying to find out who killed Buddy Leonard. And then a few weeks go by and then you know Whitey meets with Connolly again and now the story is uhoh you know I heard that the  somebody's going to kill Tommy King because of this he brought too much heat on everybody. And then three weeks go by and then he sits down with Connolly again and now the third story is that well Tommy King's dead they got rid of him. So Whitey realized very soon in this relationship that he could use it to his advantage that not only could he settle scores and not worry about the FBI coming after him but that the FBI would become active partners in his disinformation campaign.  Kevin Cullen and Shelley Murphy will be back in the second half of the show. Their book is Whitey Bulger America's Most Wanted Gangster and the Manhunt that Brought Him to Justice. Bulger's federal racketeering trial begins next week in Boston. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in for Terry Gross. Our guests veteran Boston reporters Kevin Cullen and Shelley Murphy have written a book about the career of legendary Boston criminal Whitey Bulger who was captured in Santa Monica California two years ago after 16 years on the run. Their book called Whitey Bulger details his close relationship with FBI agents who used him as an informant and at times protected him from investigators looking into murders Bulger is now charged with. He is about to go on trial on charges he was involved in 19 killings. Jury selection begins next week. Bulger's closest criminal associate was a man name Steve Flemmi who was also an FBI informant. Fleming is expected to be called to the stand to testify against Bulger. There is a woman named Debra Davis who was killed. I mean there are too many murders for us to go into detail but this is an interesting one. She was a girlfriend of Steve Flemmi right?  Yes. She was a young girl. She was only a teenager working in a jewelry store when he walked in and she caught his eye. Beautiful gorgeous young girl who looked a lot like a young Farrah Fawcett. He started dating her. At the time he like Whitey had various women in his life. He already you know was living with another woman and had children by her. But he started dating Debra and this relationship lasted for about nine years. He was buying her jewelry and Jaguars and Mercedes and she was very happy for a while with that life. But at some point she wanted marriage. She wanted kids. She wanted a family. And he did not want any of that. She went on a vacation that he had paid for to Acapulco and met this wealthy businessman and fell in love. She came back and tried to break it off with Steve Flemmi. By this time she was 26 years old but unfortunately for her she knew about his relationship with the FBI. She knew that he had been having meetings with John Connolly. And Whitey and Steve Flemmi according to testimony in court decided that she was a liability that she knew too much to be able to walk away. So the way that Steve Flemmi tells the story is he told her that he wanted her to see a home that he had just purchased for his parents. Now this house happened to be right next door to Bill Bulger's home in South Boston. And on a night in September of 1981 26yearold Debra Davis walks into this home. And according to Flemmi Whitey is waiting and strangles her and Flemmi kisses her on the forehead and says you are going to a better place. They buried her body along the banks of the Neponset River just south of South Boston in Quincy. And her remains were not found for years but it is one of the 19 murders that Whitey's charged with and one of two women he is accused of killing.  Right. And you make a point in the book that Whitey denies ever having killed a woman. But Flemmi says he was there and did this. Now the important thing about her is this her mother Debra Davis the victim's mother believes that Flemmi was behind it all along and told the FBI this right? And how did they respond?  Well it was at a the time in the Boston office when they were starting to be some suspicion about the relationship by some agents about the relationship between Connolly and Whitey and Flemmi. And two agents interview Debra Davis's mother Olga and she talks about you know my daughter vanished. I believe that Flemmi is responsible. But the agents did not compile any reports. Now later they said they were concerned about leaving any sort of a paper trail. But it is very strange how this whole thing played out. You have this notorious gangster. He is dating this woman. She vanishes without a trace. And they did put a report in the FBI you know national computer database listing her as a missing person. And then mysteriously suddenly there is an update to that report that oh she is no longer missing. She is been you know spotted somewhere in Texas which was a complete lie. So you know someone in the FBI went into that database and altered the report. So her mother you know was really afraid. She did not really trust Flemmi. And now Flemmi's hanging around the house taking up with younger sister buying her a car and so you know I think it put the mother in kind of a tough place and nobody really investigated.  Right.  Dave you know it is very important the timing of this because the Debra Davis killing was one of several that followed in the next few years in which the FBI not only looked the other way but they actually thwarted the attempts of honest law enforcement officers to hold Whitey and Stevie Flemmi accountable for these killings. That is the most egregious act you will find in that book  in our book. I mean it is appalling the way this was handled. Because the reason the FBI was so afraid of doing the right thing then is because Whitey Bulger and Steve Flemmi were used as confidential informants to obtain the probable cause that allowed the FBI to plant bugs in the headquarters of the Mafia in Boston. And so they are looking at these guys as assets. So here's the FBI on one hand they are about to  in Boston  they are about to make the most important prosecution in the history of the office of the FBI taking out the leadership of La Cosa Nostra in Boston and the guys that helped them get this case are involved are implicated in a whole series of murders. So they did not just look the other way they made sure that nothing happened to Steve Flemmi and Whitey Bulger.  We are speaking with Kevin Cullen and Shelley Murphy. Their new book is called Whitey Bulger. We will talk more after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us we are speaking with veteran reporters Shelley Murphy and Kevin Cullen. Their new book about one of Boston's most notorious criminals is called Whitey Bulger America's Most Wanted Gangster and the Manhunt That Brought Him to Justice. This is an amazing situation where you have you know these two guys Whitey Bulger and Steve Flemmi committing murders and the FBI covering up for them misleading other authorities who are onto these murders while these same two criminals are getting at least at least two of these FBI agents gifts and cash and the bureau's kind of engaged in protecting them. And you write in 19  the late '80s the Boston Globe got onto this and started writing a story about Whitey about his brother who was at this point a powerful man in the Massachusetts law legislature and about Whitey's relationship with this FBI agent John Connolly. And Kevin Cullen you write that you were visited by an FBI agent while you were working on the story. Tell us about that.  Well I actually got a phone call.  OK.  Here's the background. John Connolly was my best FBI source. I mean John Connolly knew my family. It goes back to the Southy again. And he did things and said things that made me very uncomfortable. He just get praising Whitey and telling me how wonderful he is and you know and then my cousins are telling me that Whitey is killing people and that he is pushing drugs all over the town. So it really bothered me so I went to our editors in you know I think it would have been'87 or '88 when we first started planning the series. I just said I think Whitey is a rat. There is no other explanation for why he would be allowed to be out there. The FBI should have been going after him years ago. And so we began that process and we found law enforcement people who were able to corroborate that in fact Whitey was an informant. And about two months before we went with this series it was part of  it is called the Spotlight Team it is our investigative unit at the Globe; I got a call from an FBI agent named Tom Daly. He said that he had heard from one of his informants who was now in the witness protection program that we were going to do this story and that we were going to name Whitey Bulger as an informant. The agent told me that it is not true and he said that if you report something that is not true Whitey will not live with that. And he said he would think nothing of clipping you Kevin and you know you live there. So I lived in South Boston and I would be I would have been seen among our team as being the most vulnerable. We actually huddled as a team after that. Obviously I was a little disturbed by the phone call and we kind of decided that if the FBI was serious about this there would have been a formal notification process. That said you know I was shaken enough to that I would talk to other law enforcement people that I really trusted and believed in in the Massachusetts State Police and the DEA and let them know what the FBI said. So they would know. We wanted that on the record. And we ended up going with the series but as a precaution the Globe decided to put my wife and I up in a hotel outside of the city. And I told my wife that the concern was that maybe somebody would not like the series or the stories and then throw rocks through our window. I was not totally honest with my wife at the time. But...  You did not tell her about the FBI call? Yeah.  I did not tell her about that until much later after that. But you know we had a very nice week in a very fine hotel. And the state police had worked their informants during that week to see what Whitey's reaction would have been to the series. And the only thing that came back from the state police informants is that Whitey did not like one section of the series in which we reported that he beat up a wino in front of Teresa Stanley's house. He said that that was no wino. Apparently he thought that made him look like a bully if he beat up a wino. But he did not say anything about the informant part of it. Now obviously he was furious about it but he actually told the FBI after this was revealed in the Boston Globe that nobody would believe it that they would see it as just an attempt to get back at his brother.  Which is kind of what happened right?  Yeah. Exactly. I mean it is...  I mean people did not believe he was an informant right? Criminals.  Well you know one of the most incredible things that you see in the book Dave we ask Anthony Cardinale a very you know a very wellrespected lawyer who has represented some of the most senior Mafia figures in the country including John Gotti Tony Salerno and Jerry Angiulo here in Boston. And Tony asked them all separately how come you why did not anybody make a move on Bulger after the Globe put that in the paper. And they all said the same thing they said they did not believe that the FBI would get into bed with somebody as vicious and as venal as Whitey Bulger. So the Mafia actually had a higher view of the FBI than it deserved. I think it was both.  So it was not that the FBI was concerned about your safety.  No.  It is that they wanted to muscle you off the story?   They were not concerned about my safety. They were not concerned about anybody safety when it came to Whitey Bulger. So no they were not concerned about my safety just the opposite. I mean this actually became a point of contention during Judge Mark Wolf's long evidentiary hearing. By this time I was the London bureau chief for the Boston Globe and I got subpoenaed and had to come back and testify about this. And I spent three hours on the stand asserting what happened. And we had contemporaneous notes of that period. Because as soon as I got off the phone with  the threat  my editor Jerry O'Neil said write this 