 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Pulitzer Prizewinning writer Richard Ford has written a memoir in which he does the eloquent version of what we all try to do at least those of us who have grown up with our parents to reflect on their lives take their measure and attempt to understand how our parents shaped us and how our arrival transformed their marriage and their lives. Ford says he also wanted to reconcile his self back then when his parents were alive and his self now decades after they have died. Ford's memoir Between Them was written in two parts. The section about his mother was written in 1986 soon after she died of metastatic breast cancer. The section about his father was written recently. He died in Richard Ford's arms in 1960 after his second heart attack. Ford's novels include The Sportswriter Independence Day and Let Me Be Frank With You. Richard Ford welcome back to FRESH AIR. I am going to start by asking you to read a passage from the memoir. And I want to say this is the story about your father's death. You told a version of this story the last time I interviewed you. And that story really moved me. Nevertheless reading the story just really caught me up short. It just almost made me gasp. So I would like you to start by reading that.  I will be glad to. This comes from the second of these two memoirs which is about my mother. It is called My Mother In Memory.  Nothing was out of the ordinary. I watched Rawhide on TV. They went into her bedroom and closed the door. At some point later he went to bed. And then I watched television until midnight. And then I went to sleep. At 6 I was awakened by my mother saying my father's name Carol  which is what she called him. Wake up Carol. Wake up. What is the matter? Wake up. Then more loudly  wake up. I got out of bed in my pajamas went into the hall to the door of the next room which was his. My mother was leaning forward beside his bed over him. My father was gasping for air in his bed. His eyes were closed. He was not moving except for the gasps. He looked  his skin did  gray. Wake up my mother said insistently but different from that. Carol wake up. She held his shoulders put her face close to his and shook him but he did not move. Richard what is wrong with him she said. She looked around at me. She was about to cry and was becoming panicked. She was on the verge of something bad. It was February 20 1960 four days after my birthday. I do not know if I said I do not know to her question but I came forward got up onto the bed where he was and took both my father's shoulders in my hands and shook him very hard  not as hard as I could but hard. I said his name Daddy several times. He took a deep breath in and let it out strenuously in a way that made his lips flutter as if he was trying to breathe though I think he was dead. With my two hands I turned his face upward used my thumbs to pry his loose fleshy mouth and teeth open. And I put my own mouth over his and breathed down into him into his mouth and throat and I imagined into his chest. I did not know how to do this or if it made sense. I had only heard about people doing it. But I did it several times possibly 10. And the result of my efforts to breathe for him or to bring my breath to him and wake him up and be alive was nothing. He did not breathe again or utter another sound. After some time on my knees on his bed with him when I must have begun to conceive the thought that he was dead I got down and turned to my mother who had by then backed into the open doorway and put her fists to her temples watching all that was going on in front of her. I do not know that I said anything to her. I may have stifled some sound deep in myself but my mother said oh no oh no no no no no no. Which is when I went past her  and she was saying this  and down the hallway to call the doctor. His house was not far from ours. Such things the doctor coming were more usual then than they are today.  That is Richard Ford reading from his memoir which is called Between Them Remembering My Parents. Yeah that passage really got to me and...  Still gets to me.  Yeah I can imagine. Why did you think of giving your father artificial respiration? You had no training in it. Had you seen it on TV or in the movies?  It is likely I had seen it on TV because I watched TV a lot. And I  but I had you know I was a boy at the YMCA. And we had to learn about all those things. The Holger Nielsen method of resuscitation  it was just coming into existence at that time that you could breathe down into someone's mouth. So I probably saw it at the YMCA.  What was it like for you to on the one hand see your father dying and your mother going into a panic? And that image of her holding her knuckles to her forehead.  Yes.  Like I have seen that. I think we have all seen that or done it.  Yeah.  And that really stuck in my mind too.  Yeah because it sticks in my mind and was vivid so much that I recalled it so many years afterward because it was authentic. It was not a learned response to calamity. It was absolutely authentic with my mother. That is what she did. She put her hands to her temples because she just could not imagine it. What was it like? Well it was not like anything. It was not anything the likes of which I would ever seen before. And how I responded was in a way that I guess must interest me because I think about it and write about it  also quite authentic. I just did what I was impelled to do. I got up into bed with my father and tried to make him be alive again. And when I looked around at my mother and she was hysterical or maybe beyond hysterical I thought well this is life now. This part's over. And this part has commenced. And my mother and I at that point became bound to each other in a way that we would be bound to each other forever which was to say we had seen this together. We had loved this man. We loved each other. That is what life is going to be.  Did it mean a new role for you too because you had stepped in as the 16yearold son and tried to save him? And like your mother did not give them artificial respiration. She was not you know she was just shaking him. But you tried to take over and take command and bring him back to life. I mean you failed. He was dead. But it is the sense of like you were stepping up.  Well I always say about myself I am much better when the chips are down than when the chips are up. And that just may be my nature you know. And did it change my relationship in the family dynamic? Not particularly no. I went back to being a 16yearold boy. And my mother you know kept on being the authority figure in life 'ecause she said to me not long after that she said Richard she said you know you have been in trouble with the police. You have been a kind of oppositional kid. You just kind of have to quit doing that because I just do not have time now to come get you out of jail or get you out of trouble or go to the juvenile court with you anymore. Your father's dead. I have to get a job. Cut it out. So I cut it out.  What were you doing that might have landed you in jail?  Oh stealing fighting breaking into houses things like that just the usual kind of mischief. It was mischief more than it was true criminality although I used to hang out with a boy with whom I was mischievous and he did ultimately go to prison.  Whose houses did you break into?  Oh sometimes it was the houses of families where we had been to parties and found that the father of the girl or boy who we were visiting had a nice gun collection. So we would go in there and do that take that.  Take the gun? Did you feel guilty about that at all?  Guilty may not be the gene that I have Terry. I was sorry when I got caught that was for sure.  What do you think of that teenager when you look back?  Joan Didion says that we are all probably well advised to keep a nodding relationship with the person that we used to be. Well I have a nodding relationship to that 17 16 15yearold boy who did those things. I am glad he is not doing things like that anymore. But what he did he did and you might as well just  and I am not proud of it nor am I shamed of it. I just did it. And then  but then when my mother said to me you are really going to have to quit doing this the little boy in me said yes madam. And I quit.  Since the part of the book about your mother was written in 1986 and the part about your father was written just within the past couple of years...  Yes.  ...Is there a difference between how you perceive them now than you did when you were writing about your mother in '86? If you have gotten older time has elapsed memory does things to how we see the past.  Yes. In the end  about midway through writing about my father I tried to ask myself the question that you have just asked and asked before which was what is the premise for this? I mean I am always trying to say when I am writing something that I know what the premise is. And I thought the premise was to write about my father and after prior to that having written about my mother in a way of finding virtue being able to articulate or exemplify a virtue to them. And the virtue that I think I figured out that I did not know which changed the way I felt about them was that as much as they loved me an only child of childless parents for 15 years and how much they loved me and I loved them they loved each other more. And I realized that the fact that they loved each other more in a way that did not diminish me was wonderful that I grew up around two people whose marriage and whose affections and whose ferocity toward each other made me be third and that that was such a nourishing and sustaining thing both to know and to experience.  How come you do not feel bad about that? .  Well the same reason I do not...  That they did not put you first?  The same reason I do not feel guilty about breaking into those houses I guess.  .  If the chain's  not there then the chain's not there. Also you know the other thing Terry...  Yeah.  ...Is being a writer is not a way  a war against conventional wisdom or a war against received truths. And you have to in a way in a grainy way ask yourself do I feel diminished by the fact that my parents obviously loved each other more than anything? And you have to be willing to say no I actually do not. And then you are truthing  with somebody because then you are going against what people would suppose.  Are you OK with just having turned truth into a verb? .  Well that is what Mississippians do.   We turn nouns into verbs.  . Let us take a short break and then we will talk some more. My guest is Richard Ford. His new memoir is called Between Them Remembering My Parents and his other books include The Sportswriter Independence Day and Let Me Be Frank With You. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is Pulitzer Prizewinning writer Richard Ford. His new memoir is about his parents and it is called Between Them. How would you describe your parents' personalities?  Well my father was courteous. Now I am going to just say what I think. I am not going to reach for the 5 words. My father was submissive to authority. He was volatile. He was affectionate. He was not obviously contemplative. He was hardworking and dogged. And he was almost preternaturally skilless. He could not fix anything. He did not know how anything worked. He could not put up a boxing  punching bag for me to you know do what I liked to do which is to hit things. And I remember that he put up a boxing bag for me. And I hit it one time and it fell off the wall.  So that was who he was. And my mother was contemplative. She was profoundly protective and defensive about the things that she loved. She was also volatile. We are all volatile. She would you know  she was a person who when she would tell me Richard you need to go out and collect for your paper route and if I would say no I am not going to do that she would sometimes throw my bag of coins at me and  as a way of telling me that I needed to get out and collect from my peers. But she was also sweet and she was mirthful. And they liked to drink and laugh and told offcolor jokes. And they were perfectly suited for each other. As I said before I think when my father saw my mother he thought oh my God. And when my mother saw my father she thought finally.  Your mother's mother  your maternal grandmother...  Yes.  ...Gave birth to your mother when she was 14.  That is right.  That is so young.  I think it was even young in 1910.  Yeah. I was wondering. I think it is probably true that it was even young in 1910.   Yeah. And that had consequences in their lives ever after that. I mean I do not know anything about the circumstances of how that happened. I mean some of it was fairly selfexplanatory but my grandmother Shelley  Lessie was her name  or as she was also called Essie  was always jealous of my mother because they were more or less within one generation of each other you might say. And my mother was very pretty and my grandmother was also pretty. But then they got divorced and then she married this remarkable man named Ben Shelley. So when Ben Shelley came into the fray of their lives I think there was a little roostering  around with who was going to be you know most dear to him. And so consequently they sent my mother off to the convent of St. Anne's in Fort Smith and got her out of the picture for a while.  Do you think your mother was sexually harassed?  You know I do not think anybody has a right to say do I guess my mother was sexually harassed. So the answer has to be no. I would have to know that...  Yes  ...To say that...  OK.  And I do not know that so I would not say that. I mean he was a louche guy and a raffish guy and did like women. And my mother was very pretty and they were not related. So I will just leave it at that.  So your mother was sent to a convent because she was young and beautiful and maybe that could cause problems and maybe she was competitive with her mother. Her mother pretended to people like your mother was her sister...  She did.  ...As opposed goes to her daughter.  She did.  Yeah.  Yeah.  OK. So...  Not a very nice woman either my grandmother.  How well did you know her?  I knew her extremely well and she loved me a lot. And  because after my father died they  Ben Shelley and she Mrs. Shelley as she was only known by that time  took me up and took care of me. But I have to say she was a tough act. She was a very tough act. She is seen a lot of bad things in her life and she knew just exactly how not to have to see anymore.  Was going to a convent school good for your mother since she grew up in a home without a floor? Going to a convent school might have given her more exposure than she might have had at home.  Oh it was a godsend to her to go to school with the nuns. I mean they taught her and they disciplined her because she was an undisciplined young girl by her own description. And they borned  in her a spirituality which although she did not become a Catholic was a buoying spirituality throughout her whole life. And it also created in her a respect for authority a respect for ritual a respect for all of the things that practicing Catholicism does. She just did not quite stay in school long enough for that to make  get a full grip on her. So when she was 15 they jerked her out of St. Anne's and put her to work. So she never really got the whole treatment and gone through high school as she would have liked to do  taught her how to read taught her to appreciate literature taught her to appreciate culture in all kinds of ways I mean albeit you know the cloistered culture of a convent.  Your father sold packaged starch...  Yes.  ...Like laundry starch...  Yes.  ...For the Faultless company which is still in business. I went  appears to be anyways. I went online and there is ads for Faultless Spray Starch.  That is right.  Yeah.  He sold that. And they are in Kansas City Kan.  And he did that from 1938 until his death in 1960. He covered parts of seven different states...  Yeah.  ...In the south. And he was always on the road selling it. And before you were born  and you were born 15 years into your parents' marriage  your mother traveled with him on the road you know so he could sell starch. And she sounds like did a lot of the bookkeeping aspect.  She did. They were a team.  Yeah. And I guess I really wonder what it was like then to be  in the early days of the automobile to be a traveling salesman selling something like starch. It is not something anybody's especially passionate about.  No.  So it is not like I am sure  it is not like your father like really had a feel for starch  you know?  No he had a feel for a job that paid.  Absolutely and...  I mean I think that feeling that we have that we have to have a rewarding job and that our jobs have to sustain spiritually was something that either happened to him just by nature or did not happen to him and he never expected it to. But to wonder what their life was like which of course I did in writing this book I think their life was great because they did not have kids they did not have any responsibilities they did not have a mortgage. They were young and they were passionately in love. And they could live in the car more or less. They did not...  A company car.  Yeah. They did not sleep in the car. They slept in hotels. And they could go out to roadhouses and drink and have a good time. I just think they had the time of their lives. And by the time I came along in 1944 they were ready to change from one way of living to another way of living. And I fitted right into their scheme.  My guest is Richard Ford. His new memoir Between Them is about his parents. We will talk more after a break and he will tell us the sentence he most regrets having said to his mother. And Maureen Corrigan will review the new book by Elizabeth Strout who is best known for her book Olive Kitteridge. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Pulitzer Prizewinning novelist Richard Ford. His new memoir is about his parents. The first section is about his father who spent his life working as a traveling salesman selling laundry starch. He died in 1960 when Ford was 16. The second part of the book is about his mother and that was written soon after she died in 1986 of metastatic lung cancer. Hotels figure really prominently in your life story...  Oh God.  ...'ecause your parents when they were on the road selling starch lived in hotels. They had a rental place in Arkansas but they were rarely there. Your grandparents ran a hotel. They managed  your maternal grandfather managed the Marion Hotel which you know I looked it up on the Internet. It was a much bigger deal than I thought that hotel.  Six hundred rooms. Six hundred rooms.  Yeah.  It was the place in Arkansas where that  where all of the legislation got done in the smokefilled rooms. It was enormous. It was a whole world for me where I went to live after my father got sick in 1948. As much as could be congenial with school they would ship me off there because my father had to recuperate over a long period of time and was never completely healthy again. But I sort of was a growing up kid in that enormous hotel.  I am thinking that the issue of class must have been kind of confusing to you because you know your parents are on the road selling starch making a living but not a big living. Whereas your grandparents are running this hotel an expensive hotel. Politicians stay there. Prestigious people coming to town stay there. There was a hot springs nearby. And people came for you know cure  bathing cures there. They would stay at the hotel. So what was your sense of where you fit in in class since you were kind of like a resident at the hotel? People were paying you know a lot of money to come live there sometimes famous people. But like you were just there. You were a part  you were just like a part of the hotel so it was yours in some way.  It was all mine. And I treated it as if it were all mine. But it was so profoundly ambiguous that I cannot even tell you what the fallout of it was. I mean I was the manager's grandson. I was a little boy up until I was a late teenager. I had the privileges over the house. I saw all of the  all of the untoward and unseemly things that went on in that place. I mastered  or tried to  all of the skills that one could master in the hotel from the PBX to waiting tables to hopping bells to running  to working in the front office. I did all of those things so it was like I had a kind of mastery of things. And yet I was someplace amorphously on the totem pole but you could not have said where. I mean it is not being able to articulate that in a single sentence that probably makes such subjects the proper subjects for imaginative literature.  What were some of the things you saw other people doing? .  Well I saw them be dead. I saw that several times. It was important for my grandfather when someone killed himself up in one of the rooms to  because it was  the bellboys or the housekeepers would enter the room. And they would find some guy croaked there. And they would not necessarily call him. And if I was around he would always bring me with him. Open the door. There is the dead guy. It was a nonunion house. And the only way union organizers could get in was on the night shift the 11 to 7 shift. And so these union people  and this is  well I think it is entirely AfricanAmericans. The union organizers would come into the hotel sneak in late at night and have  try to give a speech to the people working in the laundry overnight. Then he would hear about this because somebody would say there is a guy downstairs in the basement doing this. He would put a pistol in his belt wake me up and down we would go. He would come down there and run the guy off. And he never pulled his gun. But he certainly let them know he had it. He showed them the butt of his gun stuck it in the front of his belt. I saw ladies from the Delta down in South Arkansas come in to have lesbian trysts. I saw them come in and ask for one of the handsome AfricanAmerican bellmen to come up and bring some quote ice endquote. I just saw all of that stuff. It made me understand that hotels are places where people go to do things that they do not want other people to know about. Not a bad way to become a novelist.  Honestly...   ...I am still trying to figure out why your grandfather would have taken you through the rooms where somebody had just like died. He was exposing you to things that a lot of parents would try to shield their children from.  Yeah. Oh my God. Oh yeah. Well he did not have any natural children of his own. My mother was you know his step daughter. So he did not have the typical kind of relationship to me that a father would have to a son. And I am sure if you had asked him he would have said well this is something a boy needs to see. You know like you need to learn how to shoot ducks or you need to learn how to ride a horse or all of these things. And I do not think he gave it a second thought. It was just an innate quality in him which wanted to say look at that. That is just how he was. And I have never regretted a moment of it.  You write that one of the saddest things in your memories is that after your father died his mother sent another of her sons to claim your father's body bring it back to Little Rock for burial there. They did not tell your mother they were going to do this.  That is right.  Your mother had hoped to be buried eventually alongside him and to spend eternity together. There is no room for her in the family plot that he was brought to thus depriving her of that sense that they will be laying beside each other for eternity. Did she talk with you about that?  No. My mother was not a great talker about much. She was not secretive. She just did not feel like there was much to be gained from selfrevelation. And it may very well be she understood that her vocabulary for such things would be inadequate to the experience. I do not know. They did not tell me a great deal.  But I am wondering feeling like you know that there is no you know afterlife no beyond what meaning would it have for you to have them side by side in a cemetery?  Oh only that it would have made her happy only only that. And I know through the 20 years that she lived beyond his death that she was not constantly thinking about that but in the understory of her consciousness there was that fact that she would not be lying beside him. Yeah I think  and it made her sad. And if it made her sad it made me sad.  So what did she want done with her body when she was dying?  Well I mean she is buried next to her mother and her stepfather kind of in her terms.  Oh God what does that mean to you metaphorically because she never even liked her mother?  Well that is a total act of irrelevancy. No she did not like her mother. And she was iffy about her stepfather. And I have come up to the issue because Kristina and I went to Little Rock found my mother's grave. I was there when she died of course and there when she was buried. And I kind of came up to the issue of well do I want to have my parents' bodies exhumed and finally you know rest? Forget it. I thought if she would know it I would do it. But I do not have any belief that she would know it. And so I  Kristina said you know sweetheart she said do not do that.  If you are just joining us my guest is writer Richard Ford. And his new book is a memoir. It is called Between Them Remembering My Parents. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Pulitzer Prizewinning writer Richard Ford. His novels include The Sportswriter Independence Day Let Me Be Frank With You. Now he has a memoir about his parents called Between Them. So another thing that stands out from your book the sentence you wish you would never said. And again this gets to death.  We do go there do not we?  Yeah. Well after your mother had metastatic breast cancer and she had one breast removed you were trying to convince her to move from the South to Princeton where you were teaching at the time.  Yes.  She like many parents who live far away refused to come.  That is right.  Until she would gotten sick an ambulance was called. And she survived that and started to spring back. But you said you know you really ought to think about moving to Princeton. And this time around she said what?  She said to me Richard if I get sick and it becomes clear that I am going to die I do not want you moving me up someplace and taking care of me. And she said because I took care of my mother after Ben  died. And it was the biggest mistake I ever made  taking care of my mother  because they just festered together. They were not happy. As you said before they were only 14 years apart. They did not get along with each other. And my grandmother was not a very nice person anyway. So I think my mother just saw that as a template for disaster. And so she said do not do it. And in the year when it was becoming evident that she was in serious decline she said to me again do not come down here and take care of me. So by God I did not. I stayed doing what I was doing. And she was in Little Rock. And this will make me seem heartless. And believe me do not think I have not thought of this. I was doing what she said. That does not authorize me. But I did what I was doing  writing a book living a life. When she got quite ill in the autumn then I fell in. I got in line and did it  whatever way I could take care of her. But I know you are heading toward this line in the book. She said to me she said  this is in October of 1982  she said well she said I do not quite know if I am going to be able to take care of myself soon. And I said well Mother if you get to that point where you feel like you cannot take care of yourself  remembering as I was what she said to me  I said then you can move in with us with Kristina and me. And she said  her eyes brightened. And she said oh. She said OK. She said I will start to think about that. And then a shadow fell over my thought which was you are not going to live that long. You are not going to be alive more than a couple more months. And I said to her  and these are the words that I wish I had never said  which is what a memoir is for right? Tell the unthinkable. I said well I said do not make your plans yet I said. And what I think I thought I was trying to say to her is you might get better or you might be dead. But I saw leave her eyes at that point some sense of possibility which I had put there and which I was then responsible for taking away. And I am sorry.  Do you think she interpreted that as like do not come because I am making the offer but I do not really want you?  No. No. I do not think she thought that at all. She knew I loved her. My mother and I were never in doubt about who loved who. We loved each other and we said it. I think that what she thought was that I knew and was accepting her loss of life her demise perhaps a little bit before she had. And that she was a little bit  I mean I can make this fairly melodramatic if you want to. I think she was clutching a little bit at some little tendril of hope which I was trying to both preserve. My motives like everybody's motives are quite complex. I cannot say that I wrote my mother off at that point. Part of it might have been that I did not want her to go through the whole rigmarole of trouble to move up to Princeton and then die. My motives were complex and not at all clear. But I am sorry I said it for whatever were my motives 'ecause I saw something pass out of her face that I never saw in her face again.  You know it is interesting that you say that you told each other you loved each other all the time. I think that was uncommon generationally. And maybe for...  I do not know Terry.  No?  I do not know. I just  you know being a novelist I do not think in terms of anything but particulars. I never think about what is generational or what is apposite for a period of time in the world. I just think that individuals  it is like Blake  says  if you are going to do good in the world you can only do good in particulars. So I think we thought we were doing good to each other in particular. I love you. It was natural to us.  You were born 15 years into your parents' marriage.  Yes.  And the title of your memoir about your parents is Between Them in part because you feel like you came between them. You know like instead of traveling on the road together when he was a traveling salesman your mother stayed home with you. And he was on the road five days a week. You feel like they loved each other more than they loved you. And you do not mean that in a negative way. You are glad that they had such abiding love for each other. You and your wife have no children. And it sounds like that was a conscious choice.  Yes.  Do you think that your feelings about your parents and how their love for each other that you in some way came between them that it interrupted their ability to be on the road together do you think that has anything to do with not having children?  It cannot have nothing to do with it. I mean I never thought that I had the capacities  psychic physical  to be a parent. I never had much affection for being around children. You know the