 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show - a check in on politics and later what life is like in a country that never went into lockdown. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners to my guests. I am so happy to have my two guests with me remotely this weekend because besides being amazing reporters they are good friends. Ayesha Rascoe NPR White House reporter and Susan Davis NPR congressional correspondent. Hello hello hello.  Hello.  Sam it is so good to hear your voice.  How are you all?  You know making it. You know? Being a - you know and Sue is doing the same thing. So being the full-time reporter mom. I am teacher you know wife. It is a little overwhelming you know I will just be real. .  OK.  Yeah.  It sounds like it would be.  I am every woman but this is a lot.   You are every woman but it is not all in you - is what you are saying.  It is not all in me right now.  Sue how are you?  You know I always say like I can complain but I will not. I mean it is the same thing. It is like it is tough. Like the days are hard but on the whole like I try to focus on the positive. Like my family's healthy. We are employed. We have got food on the table. My kid's great. But yeah like there are some days that you know it feels like we still have such a long road ahead of us. But if you could give me like some little trip outside of the house to look forward to I think that could carry me a long while.  I agree. I agree. So both of you as you said are working from home right now like a lot of folks while also parenting. As someone who is distancing alone in his apartment without kids I am that co-worker who is like I love it when the babies are in the video conference I love hearing them get on the call. But I am sure it is not all roses. I want to ask if you are comfortable sharing what is been the most embarrassing moment you have had so far in all this with your work and your kids colliding?  I do not know if it was embarrassing. My husband's work does - he is a journalist too. He works for CBS and his work does a lot more of their meetings via Zoom. And there is been a couple times where he is been at like the dining room table on like a Zoom work call and I have realized I am like over his shoulder like eating something or like getting out of the fridge or like peeling like fruit or just like doing something that you would not normally want like the staff of CBS to see you doing in your pajamas in the morning. And I feel like I would say that like - but my threshold for embarrassment though has gotten really low. Like in the beginning I was like oh that is some embarrassing I am in my pajamas. And now I am like waving to the staff at CBS in my pajamas.  Oh yeah.  People have seen me in all sorts of states of dress and hairstyles...  OK.  ...You know 'ecause my kids have like a million Zoom meetings too. So you have to deal - I have to deal with my kids' Zoom meetings. And they have - and like five days a week every - a kid has a Zoom meeting. And so I have been you know like get in the camera. Get over here to see the camera. And my hair is like crazy. I look at my hair and I am like oh my gosh I am in my pajamas. I am probably in the same shirt they saw me in 3 days ago. And yeah. And it is just like in my room my bed's unmade. But look I am just letting everybody in. Everybody can just see.  Let them all in.  This is the way it rolls. This is the way we roll.  So my new routine - and I do not know how it started but I am just going with it - I feel the need to tell my colleagues when we are on video conference calls whether I have showered yet or not that day.   It is really weird.  I think that is too much. You think that is too much information?  I am just like well I will shower later. I have found myself saying that a few times. I apologize to the It is BEEN A MINUTE team.  I maintain this - our first day back in the office I think should be black tie-optional.   I just think when we go back in like we should come in hard.  Make America dress up again.  Yes.  On that note let us talk politics. Sue Ayesha - you all both have been covering the Capitol and D.C. and the White House. And I want to use this time now just to have a check in on our politics. I feel like a lot of folks have not been keeping up with it as much because you know coronavirus.  Yeah.  So let us do that now. Let us check in.  Yeah.  Sue I want you to talk about Congress first and then we will do White House with you Ayesha. So Sue my first question to you - the Senate is back. They were in session this week. The House is coming back next week?  Maybe.  OK.   So as they start to return what does a socially distanced chamber look and feel like? And can they even pull that off?  Well first I will say I have not been up there. We have chosen as a Hill team at NPR we are going to stay off the Hill for a little while in part because our team all has small kids and the health risk of going up there is not nothing. Right? So this goes to your question of what is it like up there? From the public health perspective there is still a lot of risks in place. Even with the best practices - they are asking everyone including senators to wear masks if you are going to be within other people to social distance. So they are certainly making accommodations. They are making it work but it is a big risk. And there was this effort - you know the White House and the Health and Human Services Department offered to send up rapid tests the tests that can give you sort of instant results.  Well and to pause - and you know...  Yeah.  ...Most of the House and Senate they are in a technically high-risk population.  They old. They old.   They are real old. And not only are they old a lot of them have preexisting conditions or a lot of them have family members who have health issues.  And not to shame their age but to say this is a medical reality.  Yes you know I am not age-shaming. But they are older Americans. I was just joking around.  Yeah totally.  They are a high-risk population. And they are also engaging in high-risk behaviors like traveling in airports you know going into public spaces being around multiple people every single day. So the concern is you know if there is an outbreak on Capitol Hill what do they do about it? And I think though politically speaking - not from a public health perspective but politically - that was a risk that increasing numbers of senators at least felt they were willing to take because they just feel like they need to send this image to the country that your government is working.  And they turned down those tests from the White House though right? Like has there been any...  Yeah.  They turned down the tests from the White House yeah.  That is my question. If anyone would have access to rapid testing daily it would be the House and Senate. Why are not they doing that? Why are not they making that happen?  They were offered it by the Health and Human Services Department. The White House said we will send up hundreds of tests. And Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in a rare rare quick joint bipartisan statement said thanks but no thanks.  Wow.  I mean there was a sense that they did not want to look like they were getting something that the general public and the people they serve were not getting. But we - yeah. Is there pushback? Absolutely. We have already started to see more and more lawmakers come out and say like look we get that people do not want us to look like we are getting special treatment but rapid testing us is actually protecting the people. Right? Like if you are asking hundreds of people to come to Washington to gather and then literally fly back to every corner of the country you do not want them to become super carriers going all over the country. So I think we might see that change especially with the House maybe coming back next week. Like at a certain point you know they are politicians. But at a certain point they are also human beings. And I do not know if the public's going to be that angry about making sure that they are not spreading coronavirus all throughout our government.  Well - 'ecause we have seen the Capitol. We have seen those chambers. We see of the trolley. Sometimes it is as crowded and as busy as like Grand Central Station you know? Like it is...  Yeah. And I - you know I have a bunch of friends up in that building and I have been talking to them about like what it looks like. And they are like it is really hit or miss. Like Rand Paul who already had the coronavirus - he tested positive and went through it. Like he is not wearing a mask. So you see reporters sort of crowded around him you know? I think all reporters are wearing masks but senators can kind of make up their own mind if they are not wearing masks. They take them off to speak on the Senate floor. Like it is not an airtight ironclad safe environment.  So then no one's actually in charge of setting the rules for the whole situation. Like who gives the guidelines? Who enforces them? Is it all just consensus and do as you will?  Well nobody enforces anything with senators. Right?   Like they really run the joint. The people that advise them are the Senate sergeant-at-arms the Office of the Attending Physician and the majority leader. But all of these guidelines are just suggestions you know? You could bring - a senator could say all of my staff is coming back. I am telling all of them not to wear masks and we are going to try and spread the coronavirus among ourselves to get herd immunity .   Like there is no law. There is no...  But no one's doing that.  Yet. Yet - yet.  No one's doing that. I am just saying like there is no enforcement of these guidelines at least not as it pertains to senators.  OK yeah. Ayesha you cover the White House. I want to talk about what they are doing over there right now. But I think my biggest question for you is how is President Donald Trump dealing right now with this reality that he cannot be out campaigning? It seems like he likes to campaign more than anything else.  You know it - for him you can tell that this is something that he misses. And he is made clear that he misses the rallies. And he kind of was using - and he said this in an interview that he was kind of using those daily press briefings as a rally for himself. President Trump does not do that kind of what people call retail you know campaigning - that kind of...  He does not shake hands. He does not you know go to the coffee shop and sit there. He does not do that.  No he does not do that. He is not out there kissing babies. They leave that to the vice president Pence. He goes ahead of time and will go to these little places and stuff like that. That is not what Trump does. He does the big rallies. It is like a rock concert you know? You could feel the bass in your chest. And then he gets out there and he riffs.  Do we know at all yet from the White House anyone you are hearing from whether they will try to do some kind of socially distanced campaign rally any time in the next few weeks or months?  Well part of the issue is they want to get back out there. And they have started a bit of this. President Trump took his first trip to Arizona this week. And that was just to visit like a mask manufacturing factory.  A mask factory yeah - where he did not wear a mask we should point out.  Where he did not wear a mask. And so they have started it. Like they - and I think these are like trial runs to see - how does he get around? And I think they do want to try to figure out what they can do - maybe not any time soon - but to do a rally. The issue is - and I think President Trump talked about maybe doing them at like baseball stadiums like open-air things. The issue is that President Trump really does not like to see the audience socially distanced.  Yeah.  Like even at the White House they do do social distancing you know in his events now. They will have people spread out and he says he does not like it. He does not like seeing people all - he wants to see people back close again.  OK.  He says he does not think people need to wear masks. He tells reporters to take their masks off 'ecause he cannot - I mean that may be partly because he cannot...  I did not know that. He tells them to take their masks off.  Yeah.  OK.  Well he tells them because he says he cannot hear which - he cannot hear or cannot see their lips. He cannot understand what they are saying.  Gotcha.  Which may be the case. But it is definitely at the White House. And we see it over and over again where they do not want to wear masks. They do not - President Trump wants things to go back to the way they were.  Gotcha.  I also think it will be really hard to know if he can have these rallies because a lot of the places that he would want to go the battleground states - you might have statewide restrictions in place about large gatherings right?  Yeah.  Like he might not be able to on so many levels where places like Ohio or Pennsylvania might have a ban on large gatherings through 2020.  Last question for both of you - you know we know that Trump likes to campaign but he is still having to govern. How involved is he and his White House with whatever Congress is doing right now as they come back to the Hill?  Well the interesting thing at least in the previous negotiations he was largely absent from them. He really deputized Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to be the key point of negotiations on Capitol Hill and honestly worked pretty well. Mnuchin had a pretty decent working relationship with Democrats. He was able to cut three big deals. And it seems like the president is happy having Mnuchin be that man. I think the president's been pretty clear he does not like Nancy Pelosi all that much and the speaker's been pretty clear she does not mind not talking to the president and has been working fine with Mnuchin. But it is kind of a wild time to have the country in like such crisis and having the top leaders of the country essentially not communicate with each other at all.  Yeah giving each other the silent treatment. But President Trump - I mean it is - Trump is never really about the details necessarily. He just wants to you know get something - get the big thing get the big deal. He is though saying that for this next whatever they do he is demanding the payroll tax cut which he is been talking about for a long time. And so - and he always...  Which is moot for people who are not getting a payroll right now.  Yeah. That is a - yeah. So if you are not getting a paycheck it is not much help to you.  Yeah.  But this is something that he has stressed. And it is always interesting with these things that he will allow Mnuchin to go in and kind of do the negotiating. But then he has to be kind of sold on it on the back end because he can always throw that wrench in and say oh I did not like that. I did not sign off on that.  Yeah. Lots of more questions that will not be answered this episode. It is time for a break. Coming up we are going to go to Sweden. The Swedish government's approach to coronavirus has been pretty much telling citizens we trust you to do the right thing. No sweeping lockdown orders Most stuff is still open. I ask a Swedish resident after the break if it is working. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   Can you hear me now?  Mmm hmm.  OK. I am going to have you introduce the show. So what I want you to say when your mother gives you the sign is we are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE.  We are back. We are listening to .  .  That'ill do.  OK. Say we are back and we are listening to - you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE.  It is - we are listening to you and It is BEEN A MINUTE.  Yes. That is it. Thank you sir.  That works.  Does that work?  Tell me your name.  Oh you got to tell them your name. You got to tell them your name. Tell them your name.  I am Reggie.  Reggie thank you so much for your help with the show today. What a wonderful way to start this next segment.  Reggie's going to be an NPR host one day.  Reggie has to be. It is written. It is written. We are back with Reggie's mom Ayesha Rascoe NPR White House reporter and Susan Davis NPR congressional correspondent.  And big Reggie fan.  Big Reggie fan. Are not we all? Sue Ayesha - a thing I have been thinking about a lot recently is how differently the response to coronavirus is based on where you are. So I want to talk for a bit about a place in the world that has had a response that is entirely different than the response where I am in California - talking about Sweden. Since coronavirus hit Sweden's been allowing most public places to stay open. They have just been encouraging folks to social distance. And the country's leadership has said we are hoping to just wait this thing out and get herd immunity. It is all been quite fascinating. This week Anders Tegnell Sweden's state epidemiologist - he was on The Daily Show With Trevor Noah to talk about that strategy and whether it worked.   So I mean we calculated on more people being sick. But the death toll really came as a surprise to us. We really thought that our elderly homes  would be much better at keeping the disease outside of them.  So I wondered how the people of Sweden feel about that. And I called up a resident of Sweden to find out. Her name is Soffia Reynisdottir . She is an artist living in Stockholm with her two kids and her boyfriend. Her partner is actually a doctor who is been treating coronavirus patients in the ER. And I asked Soffia what it is like in Sweden right now for her and her family and what she makes of her country's pretty loose response to the virus.   In terms of your day-to-day life with you and your family do you still go out?  Yeah.  Do you still go to cafes? Do you go to - like what do you do in public outside?  Well I do go out. I do go to cafes. But we can - they have a system where you can have - you can buy coffee outside. And you have the...  OK.  ...Keep the distance so that we do.  OK.  Yeah. And also my 4-year-old he is in preschool. He goes to preschool. And me my 10-month-year-old baby we are outside. I mean we can still visit like the park. And yeah.  Yeah. That is a lesser response to the pandemic than other European nations a lesser response than the U.S. How do you feel personally about that kind of approach from Sweden - kind of just trusting the citizens? Do you support that?  Well in Sweden we have like a long tradition - like the Swedish people trusting the government. And - but also the government is not like so - they are like a nice parent...  Really?  ...Basically. It is like - yeah like a nice parent - like not too hard. But like they do kind of - we are free. I really think that it is a - we have a lot of common sense.  OK.  We have a tradition. Yeah like you have common sense. You have a free choice. We trust that you can...  OK.  ...Keep the distance that you are taking care of yourself...  Yeah.  ...And have respect for others. Yeah.  So you have a partner who works in a hospital has to treat potential coronavirus patients which puts him more at risk and puts you more at risk. How do you...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...Feel when you see other people still gathering in large groups or still going to bars or not following the guidance?  Yeah. Well that is of course very frustrating. We think that mass - I do not know the English word but I think mass immunity. Mass immunity will...  Herd immunity.  Yeah exactly. Exactly. So this is our strategy. But anyway I mean come on. When I see  crowds I am like OK well I mean please keep the distance. I mean like at least - at least.  Yeah. I want to go back to something you said earlier. You said the people of Sweden see their government as a nice parent.  Yeah .  Hearing you say that was like I do not think a lot of Americans say that. I do not think a lot of other Europeans say that about their countries' governments. What do you think makes Swedes feel that way about their government that they can think of it as a nice parent?  Oh like - I would say like add like nice and boring parent.  .  Like...  OK.  There is a sign they have always taking care of us. We have free health care. That makes us also - we have like - how to say? - restrictions how to buy alcohol. We have to go to a super - how do you say? - like a special store to buy alcohol but which is closed on Sundays. We have this relationship through our government who kind of - do not drink too much do not smoke. It is - and also like in this context with COVID is like OK this is happening. You can still do this some parts of course but take care.  Hearing you talk about this - I mean just hearing the way you are talking about all of this you seem really really calm. And a lot of people that I talk to here in the States they are really nervous and really worked up. Can you as a Swede give the rest of us some advice on how to be calm throughout all of this?  I think the situation may be kind of is different between the U.S. and Sweden. Here we kind of prepared. We had two or three weeks you know preparation. So we had intensive care places they build up tents. And the situation now is stable. We have a tradition also like that that the government will not scare us. It is not fictive .  You know hearing you talk about your government's response it seems like it is been one clear response from one core set of government. And I think the difference - at least it feels like for me here in America - is that there are several different responses.  Yeah.  And I wonder if part of the reason why it seems that America is more on edge about this is because there is just a lot more messages to hear about it from our leadership because we have so many different types of leaders over here.  Yeah. Yeah exactly. And we have one. And we have - like we have Anders Tegnell. I think also Sweden - now I will go back through the history of Sweden - but we are also be - we have always been quite neutral - quite like low-key. So I think you can see that syndrome now. We trusting like - what do you say? - science before do anything you know? And it is a small country...  Yeah.  ...And fewer people...  Yeah.  ...As well. yeah.  I have never heard Sweden described as low-key but that makes perfect sense. And I am plotting now in my head...   Yeah...  ...Like when this is all over I think I want to take a vacation in low-key Sweden. Sounds pretty fun.   Yeah you should do that.  OK OK.   Thanks again to Soffia Reynisdottir for talking with me from her home in Sweden. OK we are back with Susan Davis and Ayesha Rascoe both on the NPR Politics team. Hearing that interview I mean what do you make of that? I cannot imagine anyone here in the U.S. ever calling our government a quote nice parent.  No.  No. And that is to me one of the reasons why I think that kind of strategy can work in a country like Sweden that is pretty homogenous that has you know less income inequality that has quite frankly a better health care system. The satisfaction levels with their government and the trust in their institutions is so high - it is so dramatically higher compared to this country. Half of the country does not even believe what the government's saying on any given day. And so I do not think you could have that kind of strategy without completely roiling half the country here.  There is - I mean I think there are very real issues that come with not trusting your government and not believing - not having the shared set of facts that you are operating under. And I do not know how we overcome all of that.  I do not know either. But I tell you what after this next break we are going to lighten the mood with a fun game called Who Said That.  Yes.  It always makes me happy. So we will be back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. BRB.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two of the most hardest working folks in the biz Ayesha Rascoe NPR White House reporter and Susan Davis NPR congressional correspondent. You all want to play a game?  Oh I want to play.  Sure.  OK.  I am ready.  Let us do it. It is time for Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  You all have both played this game before. I forget who has a better record.  I am pretty good at this.  I think I won at least one of mine.  Ooh face-off.  Like I am competitive. I am competitive at this game. .  OK. OK. Well you all know how it goes. I share three quotes from the week. You got to guess who said it or ID the story that I am talking about. The winner gets bragging rights which these days means a lot.  I will take what I can get.  Yeah.  Also the baby can answer as well. I hear the kid back there.  I do not know why they have gotten so lively.  It is the lunch rush.  It is the lunch rush. There you go - exactly. All right we are going to break format for this first quote. I am just going to play some audio and you all tell me where it came from.   And what the FCC has said is that when...   ...The subject matter of the fault ranges in the topics  then the call is transformed. And it is...  Ah the flush heard round the country. I know this one...   The mystery justice who flushed the toilet during oral arguments this week.  Oh my God. So...  I have my thoughts...  I did not know that.  ...On who it is.  Wow.  I did not know that they were doing it this way. So because of coronavirus they have gone to completely remote oral arguments via phone. And because supreme court justices are just like the rest of us they also sneak in a trip to the toilet during a phone conference call. Someone forgot to mute this week. Do we know at all who it was?  All right. We do not know who it was 'ecause I do not think anyone's copped to it - because who would right?  Who would?  But I am just going to theorize - like I - if you really try to deduce right? So I am going to start at the top and say Chief Justice John Roberts who is got the most swagger on the bench because he is the chief justice. That is a power play. So I would start there and then work my way down the list.  Wow. Word of advice to everyone listening - check that mute button. All right Sue you got that first one. Next quote - and for this one tell me who is involved in these ambitious plans. The quote is we need popular media to inspire a new generation of engineers and scientists to make NASA's ambitious plans a reality.  Is this about the Space Force?   It is about a movie star getting involved with NASA to make...  Steve Carell.   No that is a different one. There is another one.  Dwayne The Rock Johnson?   I wish. Another classic action film star - one of the most iconic. He jumped on the couch before.  Tom Cruise.   Yes Tom Cruise.  Oh.  So this is a really weird story.  You mean Tom Cruise and weird? Go on.   So that tweet comes from NASA. And it was in response to a Deadline story which reports that Tom Cruise and Elon Musk are working on a project with NASA to shoot the first-ever film in space.  Oh wow.  I would really like to be in the head of the person who answered that phone call at NASA like what they were thinking when - like hey Elon and Tom here can we talk to the NASA administrator? We have got an idea.  No hear me out. Listen. It is going to be Elon Musk and Tom Cruise - but wait - in space.  Space.  But how can you run in space? 'ecause that is what Tom Cruise is known for. Can you run without gravity?  If anyone can figure it out it is Tom Cruise.  Exactly.  OK. I think the game is tied. This last one is for all the marbles. You all ready?  Oh I am ready.  Yeah.  Here's the quote X - the unknown variable. AE - my Elvin spelling of AI A-12 - precursor to SR-17. No weapons no defenses - just speed. Great in battle but nonviolent. A - Archangel.  Oh this is Elon Musk's baby name.  Yes.   It is so weird.  So backstory for those who were like what is this? This is the second Elon Musk-related quote. Elon Musk and his partner Grimes had a baby this week they announced. And the name of the baby needed to be explained. And so that quote was Grimes explaining the name in a tweet. The name is a series of letters and numbers and dashes. I will try to read them to the best I can. It is X-A-E-A-12.  The thing I think is really interesting about this too though is that apparently in the state of California you cannot have numbers in your names.  Oh.  So like they might not legally be able to technically file a birth certificate with that baby's name.  Oh my goodness.  But will that stop them?  Yeah yeah.  It probably will not stop them. And you can call your kid whatever you want. But like maybe they just have to write like John...  Exactly.  ...On the birth certificate and go by...  Just going to be X. Just going to be X.  Yeah.  All right on that note I do not know who won this game. We all won? Who won? Who was keeping score?  We all won. I think we are all winners.  You know it is just the friends we made along the way.  Yes.  All right. That includes Who Said That. You both get bragging rights. All right. Now it is time to end the show as we always do every week. I ask our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. They do and it warms my heart every week. Let us listen - Patrick hit the tape.  Hey Sam. This is Ali  from Springfield Va. And the best part of my week was learning that my best friend that I have known and grown up with since 1st grade is going to VCU which is where I am going to college next year. Well if it opens 'ecause you know like 'rona. But like also 'rona cannot stop us. Well I mean  she can stop the college from opening. But like online college - that is a thing.  Hi Sam. This is Abby  your fellow Texan in exile in Culver City Calif. And the best part of our week was adopting a 1-year-old puppy named Milo .  The week has just started - it is only Monday. But right now the best part of my week was seeing the Parks And Rec special episode that just came out.  So I am a nurse and I made your Aunt Betty's pound cake. And when I say my co-workers are all begging for more they are begging for more.  Hey Sam. The best thing that happened to me this week was I gave birth to my first baby Sparrow Luna . They say it is not like the movies but I do not know. This was pretty magical. We had Sparrow at home in the living room. And everything happened so fast that the midwives were literally running in to the door while Sparrow was coming into the world. And the sun was rising and the birds chirping. And then there were three deer on our back porch there to greet him. We are resting and nursing now and it is so great.  Thank you all so much. Peace and love.  Have a great week. Bye.  Take good care. Bye-bye.  Wow wow wow wow wow.  Wow.  That one had new babies new pets three deer in the yard and Aunt Betty's pound cake.  Yes.  That just...  That was...  Knocked me off my feet - all of that.  Welcome to the world Sparrow Luna.  Yes.  Yeah welcome to the world.  Thanks to those listeners - Rose Nadia Patrick Abby and Ali. Remember you can share the best part of your week at any point throughout any week. Just record the sound of your voice onto your phone and email that file to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. All right this was really the best part of my week. Ayesha Rascoe NPR White House reporter Susan Davis NPR congressional correspondent - thank you for being here this week.  Yeah thanks for having me. I always love to be on.  Oh it was great to be here.  Of course. Come back anytime with the kiddos.  Whether we want to or not.  That is right. That is right. This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Hafsa Fathima. We had engineering help from Patrick Murray and Sean Phillips. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman . Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners till next time thank you for listening. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.   Mommy Mommy.  Oh God.  All done  Mommy.  I am not done. I am not done yet.   She stinky.  She is stinky? OK. But I am not done yet. OK.  