 This episode - stories of perseverance in the face of a pandemic. Let us start in-house at NPR.  I remember the moment - it was one plant  that I saw while leaving the office. And so I walked past newscast on my way out and there was a single plant that was you know on its way out shall we say?  This is Bo Hamby.  I am Bo Hamby. I am a producer at Morning Edition and Up First.  And for the last two months or so Bo has been in and out of NPR headquarters in Washington D.C. He is on these two-week rotations and it is been a little lonely.  You walk in and you are used to seeing 300 people. And I walked in and saw six maybe.  How did that feel that first moment? Like what was your first...  It was bizarre. It was totally bizarre.  Then one day on his way out of the office Bo noticed something small. And it reminded him of what life used to be like in the office before the pandemic before most of the office got sent home.  Yep.  It was an office plant.  It is a sad thought.  Well a dying office plant.  You know just the sort of thought struck me - most people did not have enough notice to be like OK I am going to take all of my plants home. It was grab your laptop and whatever else you need to get work done and go. And so at the time I had only seen this one plant and I had just sort of mentally flagged it and then kept going. And in the elevator I was like it would be great to sort of go around the building and see what else is happening.  So the next day Bo walked around the office and took a photo of the plant - on crutches. And then he took a photo of another plant and then another plant. And he posted a few of them in a thread on Twitter as a tribute.  I basically knew that I would not be able to water the plants because you cannot use crutches and hold a pitcher of water or even a bottle of water. It just does not work. So...  So you were just going to be there to like mark the passing of these plants.  Yeah exactly. It is like sort of a journalistic joke that we are you know merely observers and we can never step in to help you know? That is not our job. And so I sort of took that to an extreme.  Yeah. What is the reaction online of this montage of dead or dying plants?  The original sort of reaction was why are not you watering them you monster?   Because I was there. But the second was just like a - wow like I did not think this would make me that sad. But it made people think about what their office life had been like and what they missed about it and just like sort of the new reality that this had forced them into right? Like this was a weird reminder...  Yeah.  ...Of like the time before.  And also like it is a reminder that offices have life.  Yeah.  Like plants is this really big symbol. But like there is a certain life you live around your colleagues in the office that we are all missing. And like it is important.  Yeah when we are not there it goes away right? I mean that is a very simple sort of equation.  Yeah.  But you know there are things that we miss and that - there are things that we will lose because we are not there.  Yeah - even if the show goes on even if the work is still done from home even if the show is still on the air.  Even if it sounds like everything is fine and the news is still on and you still wake up at 5 in the morning and you hear our voices things might not always be perfect behind the scenes.   From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. We are calling this episode The Show Must Go On. Coming up you are going to hear a few more stories like Bo Hamby's - stories about people whose lives and jobs could not just stop because coronavirus hit stories about what you can hold on to and what you have got to let go when a pandemic changes everything. Because even if you try to power through no matter what everyone right now is going to lose something. We will hear from a health care worker who has no choice but to keep working even as the risks of her job keep mounting and then a field organizer who all of a sudden had to take door-knocking and neighborhood canvassing online. And finally we will hear from an international student who lost her job and her home when her college shut down because of the pandemic. She will tell us why she chose to stay in the U.S. and keep going to school no matter what. All of that after the break. But first thanks again to Bo Hamby my NPR colleague in D.C. He told me there is talk of organizing some kind of watering schedule for those plants at NPR headquarters. I hope this happens. I hope those plants survive. OK. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   All right let us get to it. First Irene Hunt. She has a hard job.  I am a in-home caregiver.  She is based in the Pacific Northwest.  Eugene-Springfield area of Oregon.  This is her usual routine with one of those people she cares for.  He is an amputee. And this particular client I have to change him clean him and help him get out of his bed.  Irene says some days are harder than others.  If he is had a serious accident I have to try and get him in the shower.  If Irene does not see her patients things could get really bad really quickly.  I have a client who has no family - no kids no nothing. He can barely walk. He probably still should not be living at home but he is. I am his only source for anything.  You have got to be there yeah.  Yeah.  So she is kept going to work even as coronavirus has sent so many other people home. And since the pandemic hit Irene says her job has gotten a lot harder. Older caregivers at her company have tapped out of work because they are high risk. So Irene has taken on some of their work. She has 10 clients now instead of eight.   On top of that Irene has begun to reuse masks because her company is not giving her enough for her caseload. So Irene has this elaborate setup in her car to keep everything sorted from patient to patient.  I have eight paper bags in my car labeled. So luckily I have a big rig. I do not know how people are doing it with their small car if they have tons of clients.  The used masks go back in the right baggie after each house labeled and dated to be reused next visit. And Irene's routine for entering and exiting her patients' homes - that is also more intense now.  I feel like I am suiting up for war. I put my booties on I put my mask on. I have some Lysol wipes and I have hand sanitizer in my front seat and I Lysol and hand sanitize in between clients.  And at the end of those days - after the baggies after the booties after the Lysol wipes - Irene has another intricate process to endure before she will even enter her own home.  I feel defeated and exhausted every day.   When the pandemic became a big deal in this country did you ever consider stopping seeing your patients?  I did only because I have a 7-year-old daughter. And when the schools closed down that really affected me and my home because...  Yeah who is going to keep your kid? Yeah.  Yeah. And so my mother-in-law who is 70 she would watch her part time and I would pay a church day care for the other time. And she was laid off but she is 70 and she is a high risk. And I just dropped her off one day. And I broke down crying and said I cannot come back and get her because I have to keep you guys safe.  Wow. So how long has it been since you have last been close to your daughter?  Well we do the social distancing on the weekends. But it is not the same.  But when is the last time you touched her?  Oh almost two months ago.  Irene I am so sorry. I am so sorry you are having to deal with all of this. I mean to hear you talk about it so calmly it is a lot.  If I do not I will just break down. And I have my moments.  What do you do in your moments?  Try to kill my husband. No I am just kidding.   Yeah. Yeah. No but seriously though like how do you manage your stress right now? What can you do to feel better when you are feeling really down? What is your routine?  I personally have gotten some help. I talk to - it is called a Stephen Minister. And they do grief and loss counseling for free. And it just has helped me with stuff - you know? - 'ecause as caregivers not only do we deal with a lot of loss and grief from our clients but then we also have personal life stuff. And you pile that on top it is a very emotional draining job.  Yeah. Well because a lot of the work that you are doing when you are going in folks' houses to care for them is you are their counselor. You are the person talking with them about how their day went. You are the one helping them deal with their emotional flare-ups. You know - I mean so my mother has been pretty much bedridden for gosh 18 years. And at times I took care of her. At times other family did. But there were nurses and aides coming in all the time. And the thing that no one ever gets until they had to do this work is like it is like several jobs wrapped up in one. You are their doctor. You are their nurse. You are their counselor. You are their friend. You are their house manager because you are sometimes balancing their checkbook and getting their groceries. It is like seven jobs wrapped up in one. And the thing about caring for folks with needs like that is that they get stressed in these moments too. So a lot of times these folks that you love and you care for they are a little crabbier than usual in moments like this.  Yeah.  Like...  Mmm hmm.  I am guessing the mood of your patients has gotten worse as well.  Yes. The particular one that I was talking about that does not have any family - I see him rapidly getting into a very serious deep depression. And then I have a lot of clients who are just scared. And they - I have one client she asks me every time - so anybody you know are they sick?  Oh yeah.  It is not really 'ecause she is wondering. She is scared. So she is...  Yeah.  ...Quizzing me which is...  Justifiably so.  Yeah which is fine. I do not blame her. I think the thing that scares me right now the most in - I just do not understand why us caregivers do not have sick pay. There are so many caregivers that do not have any sick pay. And so what are we supposed to do? Go take a day without pay or choose to go to work sick and then get our clients sick and be responsible for that? That is horrible. I personally because I have a union have a little bit of sick pay. But I am a mom and I have used quite a bit of that already. So I do not have anything banked. So if I get sick because of rewed.  I want to ask about finances for a second. I take it you are taking on more hours during this time. But you are also it sounds like having to pay out-of-pocket for a lot of the supplies you need. Are you even making more money right now as you are working a lot harder?  No. No I am not.  Are you losing money compared to before?  I would say so mostly because I am...  Wow.  ...Trying to buy supplies. And I go and get my clients' toilet paper on my own time.  And that is you walking into a high-risk environment - a grocery store.  Mmm hmm.  Wow. For people not having to do this work right now and not seeing what goes into doing what you do right now what would you want to say to them - particularly as everyone across the country is figuring out how much to reopen the economy and what to do next?  That we are health care professionals and we work extremely hard and we are forgotten regularly. And caregivers should be at least making at least 15 an hour and get hazard pay for what we are doing. We are like literally front line but then some because we are the ones that actually go into the home and realize that our client has a fever.  Mmm hmm. You all are the first responders.  Right.  Do you think our society values folks like you enough?  No.  What would change that?  I do not think people realize that we are all of those things that you said before. We are the doctor. We are the nurse. We are their counselor. We are their confident . We are their friend. We are there when they die. So the biggest thing is how are you going to want to be treated when you are older? And the person taking care of you cares and loves you that much - would not you want to care and love them too? So...  Yeah. You have such a powerful story and I just am in awe of your strength and tenacity in the face of such a difficult situation. And I pray that you are able to hug your daughter soon because I think that would be really nice.  Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.   Thanks again to caregiver Irene Hunt.   And now a story about a type of work that has been totally remade in the face of the pandemic.   Megan hello. How are you?  I am good. How are you?  I am pretty good. Where are you?  I am currently in Miami Fla.  This is Megan Romero. She is a regional field organizer in Florida for a political advocacy group called Organizing 2020 . This job is still pretty new for Megan. Just a few months ago she was working on the presidential campaign of Pete Buttigieg.  Before this a day in the life - in January what my day would have looked like is door-knocking throughout the day come back by 5 p.m. make phone calls through 9...  Typical field campaign stuff - lots of face-to-face meetings lots of knocking on people's doors.  For a door-knocking day we are looking around 40 doors per person.  Wow.  Yeah.  Oh my goodness. Can you just give me the start of what you would say to folks when you would have a door opened?  Oh yeah. I have got the spiel down still . So they would open the door and you just confirm that it is them. So like hi is this Julie? - for example. They will say yes. And you will be like hi my name is Megan I am with - let us say - Organizing Together 2020. How are you doing today?  You have got it down like scripture.  Oh yeah for sure. And I can just like alter it per campaign. So...  Before she even began this new job with Organizing 2020 Megan was driving down to Florida to quarantine with her family. And while she was driving she was thinking about how she had absolutely no idea how all this was going to work.  And it was just kind of like a really big like internal conversation of me being like well what do we do if we cannot canvass?  Yeah.  Like what are our goals going to look like? Who are we going to talk...  Yeah.  ...To? How are we going to get...  What was your first answer to that question?  Probably just like a lot of phone calls. I was really concerned with how one-on-ones were going to look.  Yeah.  Like do we just get everybody to make sure that they have access to Google Hangout ? My grandparents on FaceTime is enough for me.  .  I can only imagine.  Yeah. So you get down to Florida. You are in your parents' house but you have to figure out how to be a field organizer a door knocker a phone caller while social distancing and being stuck in your parents' place. What did you figure out and what does your average day of work look like now?  Yeah. Well I actually - so I am the regional organizing director so I am in charge of about 11 organizers. So I definitely had to get like a good grasp of - on how to set up Zoom. And it is really basic stuff that we really would not have had to deal with before.  So you are kind of tech support now as well.  A lot of tech support - like a surprising amount.   Yeah.  Yeah. Like how - what percentage of your workday now is just that - the techy stuff?  Oh - easily I would say around like 90.  Ninety? Oh my God. I am so sorry.  It is OK. I got used to it.  I guess my biggest question - because it is like I have friends that have organized before and I just remember the stories of them talking about the knocking on so many doors - the knocking on so many doors. And it was the most taxing part of it but they also ended up loving it the most. How in the world now do you replace the knocking on someone's door without knocking on someone's door? What does that look like in quarantine?  It is a lot of just direct contact - try to like make up for face-to-face whenever you can.  So is it just phone calling now like phone banking?  No actually. So a lot of what is really really effective about door knocking is the face-to-face interaction. So just making sure that we can get people set up on Hangout FaceTime Zoom as much as humanly possible - whether that is like Zoom-wide calls with a group of volunteers whether that is like just one-on-one conversations. We just try to get people to have that face-to-face as soon as possible. It makes it easier to have those human connections and kind of like realize like oh I am interacting with a person.  One of the things I am wondering a lot about is who is left out when this kind of outreach moves online. There are a lot of folks who are not tech savvy. There are a lot of folks who do not have reliable Internet. There are a lot of folks who just are not Internet first. What happens to those folks in this kind of environment?  Yeah. Something that we really like to push - something that I am constantly telling to my team is meet people where they are at. So for example - just anecdotally one of my organizers ended up making a call and the woman really wanted to come to our event which is tonight. And she really wanted to sign up but she does not have access to a computer. She does not really know how to use it. She was so excited she just ended up like giving her her daughter's phone number on site.  Aw.  So the organizer just put it on pause called the daughter. She was like hey like you do not know me. But this is my name. I just spoke to your mom and she gave me your number. I am with this organization. I promise I am not sketchy. Just like this is what I want to set her up for - and just like really explaining to her what was happening. And the daughter was all here for it and she helped her set up. And they both ended up signing up for the event - so just kind of like situations like that - making sure that everyone feels useful kind of asking them who it is that they know who would like to get involved.  Yeah. When and if you are able to get back out there and knock on a door again what will be the first thing you say to the first person that opens a door?  Oh wow. Aside from like trying to fight back tears of joy...  Aw.   ...Probably like just be really grateful that they opened the door. Hi - yeah like just kind of give them the whole spiel.  Full enthusiasm...  Yeah.  ...I like that.  Yeah just making sure they feel the energy that I do. Just making sure that they feel like the energy. Like just being like I am really excited to be here...  No I like it...  ...And you should be excited to be here.  Let us go with it.  Yeah.  Feel the energy. I want all of us to feel the energy. This was an energizing conversation Megan seriously. I liked it a lot. This was fun.  Oh awesome. I had a lot of fun too.   Thanks again to Megan Romero. She is a regional field organizer with the group Organizing 2020. OK. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   For many of us in this pandemic we only lost one or maybe two big things - lost a job lost some money lost going into the office lost being physically close to loved ones. But if you are an international student right now in the last few weeks you probably lost all of those things all at once.  Like the last two weeks were the most hard weeks I ever had at college to be honest with you - emotionally physically mentally.  Martha Tejeda Montes just graduated from Wiley College in Texas. She is from Juarez Mexico right on the border next to El Paso. She is gone to schools in the U.S. since middle school and she is planning to go to grad school at Texas Tech this fall.  So I am kind of a Texas girl if I can say that .  Colleges across the country have closed their dorms because of the pandemic. Some have made exceptions for students who had nowhere to go - but not Martha's college. Like many international students in the U.S. right now she is without a permanent address. And she is not allowed to work even if she could find a job. And her family they are in a different country.  It was really draining and really exhausting just thinking about what was my next step. And you know being an international student it is hard. But with the financial situation that I have you know my family cannot afford to you know send me a lot of money or provide you know with like airplane - for an airplane ticket or something like that so it was really hard.  Yeah. So what did you do after they said you got to go? Were you living on campus and had to go somewhere else?  Yes. I cried. I felt the stress. And you know I am really emotional and I am a really sensitive person sometimes.  Yeah.  And that is how I...  It is allowed. Let it out.  That is what I did. But finding a place to stay - I met a girl that used to work at Wiley and you know I knew it was meant to be because a week before everything happened that is when I met her. And then we got along really well since the beginning. So I was telling her hey do you know a place where I can stay? - because the school was not given us any help regarding housing. So for me like I told you I could not afford to rent even if I shared the rent with some of my friends. I just could not. So I told her that and she told me that I could stay in her house right away. So that was my home for the past month. And now I had to move out.  Where did you go after that?  I am with a friend and her sister and her two sons - so - in a small apartment.  That is a lot of people. I will say hearing this Texans are good people. They are big-hearted. How are you doing with money? You lost your campus job.  Yeah. Well thank God because we got the check like the government check like the stimulus check because even though we are international students we still have - we are like in the system. And then our schools pay off the rest of our money.  Oh so the school paid out the rest of what would be your wages for the rest of the semester.  Yeah mmm hmm.  OK.  Yeah so that was...  And so if you do not mind me asking what did that total up to?  It was 700.  Plus the stimulus check - how much was that?  It was a thousand - 1200 I think?  OK. So you have been living off of a little less than two grand for how long now?  For two - like one month like or something? Like right after. But the thing is that I am trying not to spend a lot of money because right now I got accepted into grad school - thank God - but I do not have any scholarships right now. I mean I do have one small one but I am just saving in case I need to pay for something myself.  Yeah. So you are still planning to go to grad school this fall?  Oh yes I am. You know?  Have you ever thought about just saying this is too much? Life is crazy. I am going to go back home to mom's house...  No that was...  ...Across the border.  That was me Saturday to be honest when I was telling my mom - you know what? - I am not going to make it. You know I feel like I want to give up and I just want to go home. Yeah but you know something keeps me pushing and that is just like my education or give back to my parents or do something.  Yeah. So on that call with your mother this past Saturday what did she say to you?  You know she just told me like stay calm. And my mom she is like my best friend. So if - anything she says it is good for my soul. So what she said just hang out there. We are going to make it. You are really strong. And I am really strong and I am really mature. And I want people to know that Mexican people can be good and that Mexico is more than what meets the eye and you know be an example.  Yeah. I want to ask you some more about money.  Yes.  You said that you got a little bit of a pay-out from your college before they closed campus and a little bit of a stimulus check from the federal government. Once that runs out what happens? You cannot work right now. You were talking about saving for grad school. How can you save? And when you spend down the money you have now where will the next amount of money come from?  Come from - right now I do not know. I am just trying to - you know money I never grew up with money. I never grew up feeling how it felt to - you know having the newest everything. So for me I have been studying in the United States for 10 years of my life now I want to say. So money has never been an obstacle for me to get educated. It has never stopped me. I think that is something that keeps me going is going against all odds you know? Oh you are Mexican - oh you are international student. It is really hard and you are not going to get a job. I do not care about that.  Yeah.  My mind is just set on grad school and giving back to my family and that made me really strong. And that is what keeps me going.  It sounds like it. It sounds like it. So then it seems like all of your life has gotten really really different in the last few weeks. Have some things stayed the same? Do some things still feel familiar? Are there bits of routine that you have been able to hold on to?  Just - nothing really. I think everything changed.  OK. OK.  I mean I do not have a routine now you know? But it is good because I do not want to get used to something and then feeling like that is how my day should be you know? So I am just open to whatever life throws at me - you know? - and most of all be grateful for everything 'ecause I know there is people that have it way harder than me. And you know people are dying. And if you really think about it my problems are not compared to what someone in a hospital is feeling or you know how a doctor is feeling. There is nothing compared. Like my pain is my pain and I am going to feel it. But I am not going to diminish what I am feeling but I know there is people that have it worse than I do.  How old are you now?  I am 23.  Twenty-three. I will tell you what you got a bright future ahead of you.  Thank you.  It is rare you meet someone your age with this kind of perspective. It is - I am serious. You should be proud of yourself and how well you are handling this.  Thank you so much.  Yeah there is probably going to be a lot of people hearing this episode who want to stop because they are tired of the struggle right now they are tired of everything being so weird. To people that are considering giving up on whatever in this strange moment of the coronavirus what advice would you give to them? What would you say to them to keep them going?  You know just be grateful. Wake up every day with a grateful heart. And everything you are going through right now is going to pay off in the end. It may not seem like that. You will feel like you want to give up and it is OK to embrace what you are feeling. And as long as you have those feelings and you say OK this is what I am feeling you can move on and try to do better every day. So just be strong. And most of all be kind to people you know we do not know what we are going through in our minds. You know there is people that are dealing with mental problems. There is a lot of things going through everyone's mind and life. So just be kind to everyone and you will see the difference.  Oh my goodness. I am going to need you start a podcast so I can listen to it. That is what I want. I want to hear you giving me inspirational thoughts all the time. I love this so much.  Yeah I think just - that is why I say - be grateful be humble be kind.  Be grateful. Be humble. Be kind.  Yeah.   Thanks again to Martha Tejeda Montes. She just finished at Wiley College in Texas and her plans are to go to grad school at Texas Tech this fall. Martha we wish you the best. All right after all these stories of perseverance we want to make some time for a few of yours. Every week we hear you all sharing the best parts of your week and how you are finding joy and continuing to live your lives in the midst of all this. We are going to do it again this week with our listeners sharing the best parts of their week. Let us listen.  Hey Sam. This is Katie . I am a second-grade teacher in Fort Thomas Ky. And the best part of my week - maybe month quite possibly 2020 so far - was when my students and families did a car parade past my house. They honked. They hung out of their cars. And seeing their smiling faces in real life and not through a computer screen was just the best.  Hi Sam. This is Virginia  from Richmond Va. The best thing happened to me this week is that I turned in my final two assignments for undergrad. I am almost officially graduated.  Hi Sam. This is Emily  in Denver Colo. The best part of my week is that I passed my Ph.D. candidacy exam.  My son Shane  graduated from Keene State College with his degree in computer science.  Hi Sam. The best thing that happened to me this week was my niece Kaiyan's  first birthday. We got on Zoom and were able to wish her a happy birthday from Vermont Washington state Texas North Carolina - all over the country.  Hey Sam. This is Gray  in Austin and the best thing that is happened this week is our house has been taken over by Killer Queen. My son is 18. He plays French horn and is into classical music but recently discovered a video of some famous horn player playing the guitar solo for Killer Queen on French horn.   So he decided that he was going to learn on French horn too. And so we have been hearing the guitar solo for Killer Queen so many times...   ...Which is kind of awesome because now everybody's walking around the house singing Killer Queen. All right Sam. Have a great week.  Thank you so much. Love the show.  Thanks for letting me share.  Have a good one.   Thanks so much to those listeners - Gray Joe  Judy  Emily Virginia and Katie. To all you all out there listening you can be part of this segment as well. At any point throughout any week share the best part of your week with me. Just record yourself audio or video and send those files to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. This week the show was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Hafsa Fathima. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. Our big boss is NPR's senior VP programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners till next time. Thank you for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon. 