 Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. On today's show we are talking about the documentary RBG. It is all about Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg who talks to Betsy West and Julie Cohen. They are the two directors behind the film. And we also talked to NPR's very own Supreme Court correspondent Nina Totenberg because she knows a lot about the Supreme Court and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. So much so that she was also in the movie. This film it covers a lot RBG's entire life - growing up in New York being one of the first female students at Harvard Law School working on women's rights cases with the ACLU back in the '70s and arguing cases in front of the Supreme Court back then six times.   .  See? Everyone's singing. She is singing too.  Hi Nina.   We are here. We are here.  I love it. So we have Julie Cohen and Betsy West in New York. All right folks introduce yourselves.  Hi. I am Betsy West and I am one of the directors of RBG.  I am Julie Cohen and I am the other director of RBG.  And friend of the show Nina Totenberg in D.C. Hello.  Hi Sam.  I am in LA. So this is probably the most geographically diverse taping in this show is history. Thanks for making that happen guys.  Excellent.  So we are here to talk about a new documentary about someone the three of you know very well Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Julie Betsy tell me briefly about this film and how it came to be.  Well this is a portrait of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Many people know her as the notorious RBG because of the kind of stinging dissents that she is written and her Internet fame. But this is a complete portrait that tells the story of an extraordinary woman who through her facing personal challenges and professional challenges really changed the world for American women with her work arguing as a lawyer before the Supreme Court in the 1970s.  Yeah.  Let me just say something here 'ecause these ladies will not toot their own horn.  OK.  My husband saw this movie with me when it was finally together and he said it was the best documentary he would ever seen. What is unusual about it is its completeness. Ruth Bader Ginsburg did change the way the world is for American women whether they know it or not. Because when she began her crusade there were thousands literally thousands of state and federal laws that treated men and women differently. So that is the legal part. The part that is so sweet about this movie and so different about it is that they so perfectly captured her relationship with her late husband who died in 2010 I think. And it is a love story. And they managed to find early video of the two of them when they are in their early 20s that is just heartbreakingly touching and sweet.  Yeah. I want to ask one how much time did you spend with RBG and for how long? And what surprised you most about her?  I think we probably spent a total of about 20 hours with her between various events that she was at that we were filming and an interview and time at home and in the gym. I think the most surprising thing about her is her penchant for adventure and excitement maybe not what you picture in any 85-year-old woman but particularly a soft-spoken one such as her. Along with the riding the elephant scene which we have in the movie she also likes to parasail and whitewater raft. And her son said he has to sort of fight with her not to go horseback riding on vacation. So it sort of plays against the image some might have of Justice Ginsburg.  Why this movie now? I mean Ruth Bader Ginsburg has been in the public consciousness now for decades. Why now and what made you want to do it now?  Well you know Justice Ginsburg starting in 2013 2014 started to take on an enormous amount of Internet fame. Betsy and I had each interviewed her previously for other documentary projects and in early 2015 we just said someone has to do a full-dress documentary on Justice Ginsburg telling the full-life story and why should not it be us? I mean even some of her biggest fans some of the millennials who are putting tattoos on themselves with Ruth Bader Ginsburg's face do not really know everything that she accomplished for American women. And it just was a story that you know we wanted to tell.  Yeah. There are these moments you have in the film Julie and Betsy where you are playing this archived tape of Ruth Bader Ginsburg and her husband Marty. And Ruth now is watching it and you see such a beautiful overwhelming smile on her face. And you see the love that she still has for this man. And it is hard to not be moved to tears by it. What made you both want to spend such a good amount of time in the film focusing not just on her legal career but on this this true romance?  Well we knew that she would had a long and happy marriage but it was not until we began working on the film that we realized how important this marriage was to her both personally and professionally. I mean it is an incredible model of a feminist marriage. Marty Ginsburg was an extremely talented successful tax lawyer who happened to be married to a brilliant legal strategist - Ruth Bader Ginsburg. And when her career began to take off in the 1970s when she was arguing cases before the Supreme Court that changed the world for American women he began to take over more of the responsibilities in the house. And eventually when she became a federal judge he moved to Washington for her.  Yeah.  And then you know when there was an opening on the Supreme Court Marty Ginsburg who was a very affable well-connected guy campaigned for her to be considered to go on the Supreme Court. I mean what more could you want?  Yeah . You know I found myself watching the part of the film where you outlined just how hard Ruth was working. You know she was taking care of these kids. She was practicing law. She was caring for Marty while he was sick with cancer. She was averaging a lot of times like two hours of sleep a night. You know she was living this kind of Sheryl-Sandbergian  have-it-all life before we had a name for that. Was what she was doing really out of the ordinary or were there women always doing this and we just did not notice?  Yeah that is a really interesting - I mean she was leaning the heck in as you say before leaning in was a thing. I am not going to say that there were not some other women doing extraordinary feats but by any measure Ruth Bader Ginsburg is an extraordinary woman. During that period in her life you know when she herself is in Harvard Law School on the law review her husband who is also in law school has testicular cancer she is helping care for him and they have got a toddler. I mean it is - you know it is - feels - it sounds pretty superhuman you know? Looking back on it now she just says she was doing what she had to do.  Well there is this moment where she is talking about basically having to like leave school to go care for her young child. And I feel like most people would say yeah it tired me the hell out. She said no being at home with my daughter helped ground me and make me better in school. I mean...  Absolutely.  It is amazing.  It was a break yeah. I do not know. Other people who have taken care of toddlers - it does not always seem like a break. But she saw it that way.  Yeah yeah.  To know Ruth Bader Ginsburg is to understand that she really is a woman of unbelievable steel. I mean her mother died the day before she was to graduate from high school. And her whole life has been working unbelievably hard. She always looks for a way to do something. So she will say well no taking care of a child just made me better able to study until 4 oclock in the morning and then get up at 7 and - et cetera et cetera. So you have to - you get an idea of her determination and steeliness.  I want to ask Nina - you know there is a section of the film that talks about this really methodical well-thought-out legal strategy that she exercised in the '70s to push for the equality of women. And it was a grand plan that moved step by step case by case. Can you outline briefly what that strategy was and what Ruth was doing that was really kind of ahead of her time perhaps?  Well as she said in the film she sometimes felt a bit like a kindergarten teacher for the courts because they were almost all male. And on the Supreme Court they were all male. There had never been a woman on the court at that point. And she is trying to persuade them that discrimination based on gender is discrimination against women even when it is done for a good purpose - to protect them like you should not work after a certain time of night. Well that means you - a whole category of jobs just closed off to you. And so she often picked - not always but often picked male plaintiffs. And the one that Julie and Betsy talk about in the movie is a case involving a widower whose wife died in childbirth. And he is left supporting a child and he wants to take care of the child. And he does not qualify for survivor's benefits under the Social Security law. And his wife had paid into Social Security. She would been a schoolteacher. And he was not eligible for the money. So Ginsburg takes this case. It goes all the way to the Supreme Court. And in the end the court for a variety of reasons sides with the argument that she is making that this is discrimination against the man based on his gender. It is discrimination against the woman because she is not getting the same benefits for her child and her husband after she dies and that it is discrimination against the child because the child does not get the benefits that he would have or she would have gotten otherwise if the two parents were not treated equally.  Yeah. There was another case with a woman who had joined the Air Force and was married but she did not qualify for a housing allowance that her male counterparts got.   indeed Sharron Frontiero when she was a lieutenant in the Air Force as you say could not get the same housing benefits for a - as a married woman that a married man in the Air Force could have gotten. She thought the whole thing could not possibly be how it was. She just thought oh someone made it administrative error I will just get this all straightened out and was sort of horrified not only that she was denied the benefits but also I think by the condescending attitude that she was treated with which was kind of like hey you are lucky to be in the Air Force at all lady. And she just said forget it I am going to fight this - got a lawyer Ruth Bader Ginsburg who was then working with the ACLU Women's Rights Project took on the case. And she and the lawyer who had originally brought it together argued it before the Supreme Court and just starting off on Ruth Bader Ginsburg's path of making the case that men and women should be treated completely equally under the U.S. Constitution.  Yeah and so you know she ends up during this time period arguing - what? - six cases in front of the Supreme Court. She wins five of those six.  It is a very - it is so interesting because she is always so calm and self-possessed. But she said she did not eat lunch that day because she - her argument was the first one after lunch and she was afraid she would throw up in the courtroom if she ate lunch. Well you know there is one story I am going to tell. I first met her by phone.  Really?  And I was a brand-new reporter assigned to cover the Supreme Court. And I am trying to learn everything I can learn about the court. And of course I know next to nothing. And there is this brief and it is I guess - what? - 72. And it argues - it was the first sex discrimination case to go to the Supreme Court and it argues that women are covered by the 14th Amendment guarantee of equal protection of the laws. Now this is a post-Civil War constitutional amendment and so I did not really understand why this would apply to women why it would not apply to - you know it was enacted for the freed slaves. It...  It is funny to hear you say that 'ecause I hear equal protection now and to me in my mind it applies to everyone and everything. But it did not during that time...  It did not.  ...Is what you are saying.  It is - that is what I thought. So I go - I call her up. I - this - I look on the front of the brief. It is written by a professor at Rutgers named Ruth Bader Ginsburg. I call her up and I emerge from the phone booth like an hour later sort of like a goose who had been you know force-fed information for an hour to get me ready for - to produce my liver - in this case my story. And  what she said then was that the - first of all the 14th Amendment says all persons should be treated equally. It does not say all African-American and white people. It does not say all men and women. It does not - it says all persons. And there is a fair amount of legislative history so to speak that - about some people who were sponsors of the - of that amendment and what they intended. And she was able to present that and argue that and present it as - this is one of the reasons she is for - she believes in a living Constitution. And she did not argue that case. She wrote the brief but she did not argue it.  Gotcha. But that argument basically that the Equal Protection Clause applies not just to black people and white people but also to women - that was the foundation for all of those cases she was bringing up during the '70s right?  Exactly.  Gotcha.  Absolutely - and a body of law that Ruth Bader Ginsburg was really the champion of.  All right time for a quick break. When we come back we will talk about the discrimination that Ruth faced before she became a lawyer - BRB.   I want all of you to really talk about how her personal experience growing up as a young woman helped make her want to do the work that she did. You know she from the start was a young girl that wanted to be able to do all that the boys did like climbing garage roofs and such she said. But also she experienced discrimination before she was even a lawyer. There is this scene in the film where you talk about her being - what? - one of nine women in Harvard Law's class of like 500. And the dean has this meal for the women and at this dinner for them he asks them why they are taking the men's spots. Like this is the thing that she dealt with from the start. Was that as much a part of why she did the work she did?  You know I think initially fighting this kind of discrimination became her life's work but at the very beginning it was more she loved the law. And as she says in the film during the McCarthy era she had a professor who explained what lawyers were doing to fight that injustice. And she thought hey that is a good thing to do with your life that you could use your brain and your skills to help other people. And I think that was her motivation when she gets to Harvard Law School and she is juggling family and a sick husband and everything else and she is still excelling. And then you get out of law school and it is like no no sorry we cannot hire you you are a woman - you know that was the beginning of - certainly of the discrimination but it was really the women's movement at the end of the 1960s where - she credits her students with coming to her and saying we want to know more about women in the law can you research this? And she does the research which she says does not take her very long because there just are not that many discrimination cases. And that is when she sets on this path that you know ultimately addresses some of the discrimination that she experienced and you know helps everybody else too.  Yeah.  The other thing is the idea of law and rules really appealed to her. At one point in the movie she says you know well I do not march. I do not do that. Let me do the thing I can do. One of the areas of the law that she is a master in is civil procedure which - let me tell you as somebody who covers the Supreme Court - is really boring.   It is so boring.  Gee do you wonder why it is not in our film Nina?  Yeah yeah exactly right. And I should also say that you know the very first sex-discrimination case that she handled her husband actually brought to her attention because there was a tax case involving a guy who could not deduct the care of his aging mother under the tax code. But if he would been a woman he could have. And the two of them took that case together. He did it from the tax perspective and she did it from the sex-discrimination perspective.  Yeah. You all touched on it in the film but during the election season in the runup to November 2016 Ruth Bader Ginsburg made some uncharacteristically harsh comments about candidate - then-candidate Donald Trump. This was back in July of 2016. She told The New York Times quote He is a faker. He has no consistency about him. He says whatever comes into his head at the moment. He really has an ego. How has he gotten away with not turning over his tax returns? The press seems to be very gentle with him on that. She also said quote I cannot imagine what this place would be. I cannot imagine what the country would be with Donald Trump as our president. She later had to apologize for those comments. And it was thought by many that she stepped out of bounds and as a Supreme Court justice should not have said those kind of things about someone that could be president. Nina how much - how out of line was it? I remember when it happened and I said this feels weird. And it felt weird for her to do it.  It was out of line. And it was not - and she did it more than once in the space of three days. I think she did it three times.  Why'd she do it?  I have no idea. It is inappropriate. After the first time she did it it did not seem to get much attention. But once it was on the front page of The New York Times kaboom and she knew she would made a mistake and she made an apology. But of course that prompted Donald Trump - then I guess it was candidate Trump - to call her a loser who is lost it and all kinds of other things. But it was a mistake and there is no way you can take back a mistake like that except to apologize.  Does it tarnish her legacy?  No I do not think so. If she had kept it up it would have I think.  You know for Julie and Betsy how much did she talk about that moment? And what did she say was her mental calculus going into it?  Well she - after she did apologize she basically said I think it would have been best if I said nothing. And so she was not really going to elaborate. We did ask her about the idea that somehow this disqualifies her from you know sitting on cases involving the current administration. And she was very forceful in saying if anybody thinks that who I might have voted for as president is going to affect the way I do my job in interpreting the laws they do not understand how the - basically how I work and how the judicial system works.  Yeah yeah. You know I want to talk about the notorious RBG's place in the culture right now. You guys hit on it towards the end of the film. But this woman who has for her entire life been intellectual and quiet and focused is now at 85 a bigger star than she is ever been. Why? And why now? And why her? She is in a very unique moment that seems surprising.  Yeah we think that it began in 2013 with the Shelby County case. And...  What is that case for those that do not know?  That case is where the Supreme Court majority ruled that certain oversight of voting in states which had a history of discrimination against African-Americans could be loosened because our country has changed. And she wrote a stinging dissent in which she said taking away these protections is like getting rid of your umbrella in a rainstorm just because you are not getting wet. And a young law student started a Tumblr entitled Notorious RBG and it just - her persona just kind of took off. The idea of this small octogenarian grandmother who is speaking truth to power - I mean it is funny and it is inspiring at the same time and it just kind of grew from there.  Yeah.  Yeah. Basically every time that Justice Ginsburg would do something to put herself in the news if - any legal opinion that she wrote and any dissent in particular you know the Internet would just go wild. It is not what you think of when you think of social media but like that is how - you know Instagram pictures of her the merch that people started making...  The shirts and stuff. Yeah.  ...The phenomenon of tattoos the - you know there just - there was just something about the juxtaposition of a soft-spoken great legal mind and you know - and of course with the great comparison being made to the notorious BIG a joke that Justice Ginsburg herself seems to enjoy and amplifies by making the point that the two had so much in common because they were both born and bred in Brooklyn. You know it is like kooky and it is funny but there is like a kernel of real substance to it because people are seeing like this little fierce intellect is speaking up and there is hunger for that.  The seed for it I think actually was planted in 2008 when she wrote a dissent and voiced it from the bench in a major sex discrimination case that she lost five to four in the Supreme Court.  Which case?  It was called - it was brought by a woman named Lilly Ledbetter who worked in a tire factory in Alabama and realized years after being there - somebody sent her the statistics - that she was being paid like more than half less than the men who were doing exactly the same thing. And so she sued and won a judgment by a jury and the Supreme Court struck it down because they said she did not sue quickly enough. She did not - and Ginsburg wrote the dissent saying you know a lot of times you do not even know you are being discriminated against. You do not have the data to prove it and when you - and that is not what Congress intended when it enacted the Civil Rights law and it was a fiery dissent that ended by saying this is now - the ball is now in Congress's court - to fix this. Well that was an election year and it became a big campaign issue. Barack Obama used it crusaded on it and it was the first bill that he signed when he was president - was elected president - was the Lilly Ledbetter Act.   First of all it is fitting that the very first bill that I sign the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Restoration Act...   ...That it is upholding one of this nation's founding principles - that we are all created equal.  And so I think in some ways that - at that point she was the only woman on the court. Justice O'Connor had retired and she for several years was the lone woman on the court and was dissenting more and more frequently and especially on sex discrimination cases but also on other cases. And I think that that slow burn so to speak is why the Internet slowly slowly but more and more got to explode and then of course she was even a figure on Saturday Night Live which the - which - she would never really seen it. They showed it to her.  All right. So for our audience here's a clip of Kate McKinnon playing RBG on SNL. Quite funny. Let us listen.   You have no plans to leave the Supreme Court?   Colin the bench is now my porch. I am going to sit on it all day and scream no get out of my yard.   Come on. Realistically how long do you think you can hold on?   Oh forever Colin.    I am eating an apple a day to keep Ben Carson away.   In the movie you see her watching it - her watching herself. It was the best scene - her watching Kate McKinnon...  Yes.  ...Play her on SNL. She seemed to enjoy it.  Yes she did.  She totally did.  Both her children had said to us - you know we said what does she think of it? They said oh we do not think she is ever seen it so - because she does not watch television.  You know people think of her as a super - she would say as a sober judge you would picture her in her robes. She is soft spoken. She is serious but like has a great sense of humor. She loves to laugh and particularly seems to enjoy a laughing at herself and that image of the kind of enthusiastic raucous and raunchy dancing that Kate McKinnon does when she is doing very loose impersonation of her - she was - she really seemed to be enjoying it. And the raunchier the dancing got the harder she laughed.  RBG gets down. I love it. I love it. So you know you all mentioned earlier that you know people now share portions of her opinions and dissents through social media. That is got to be because the writing's really good. Nina what kind of legal thinker and legal writer is RBG.  Well you know she - she does work till 00 or 00 in the morning most times and what she is doing I think in addition to thinking about things and trying to get to five when she possibly can is to strip down the language as much as possible to make it as clear as possible. In a way what she does is very journalistic in the sense that she is trying to communicate - her first audience I guess we would have to say is the lower courts - and to make it clear what the Supreme Court is saying and to make it not fuzzy if you can avoid it so that they cannot get out of doing what you want them to do what is in this opinion. But you know it is - it is - she does not write copiously long opinions - not super short but they are very easy to digest. When she announces her opinions from the bench - and she was the first to do this - she then sends down to the pressroom a printed copy - and that they you know make lots of copies of - so that we can see what she has said from the bench. We have got her summary right there - what she thinks is important.  One more break here - when we come back got to ask would Ruth Bader Ginsburg have gotten approved to the Supreme Court today? You will find out after the break.   You know there are some parts of this film that I think some people - it might be new to some people like she is a big opera fan. She also was really really good friends with Justice Scalia who was probably just about as far to the other side of the legal spectrum as one could be. You know I knew that they were friends and I watched the movie and saw their friendship but I still was like huh how did that work?  I am going to take that one first...  OK.  ...Because I know her and I knew him as long - almost as long as I knew her.  OK.  And I really think that the best interview I ever did in my life was an interview of the two of them onstage just about a year before he died. And they were hilarious but they fought about issues that they cared about and they - and their views of the Constitution - Scalia's which was basically - it is dead I mean it is - you know we are stuck with what they - the founding - the framers meant at the time and hers that no they meant it to be a Constitution that would live and would it - it is words would change somewhat with the times that their meaning would change with the times. And as she pointed out then and often points out the people who wrote the Constitution they were white male property owners. They were not like most of us. They were not women. They were not people of color. And so it was a very - it was a wonderful interview. And you could see - and by the way they both loved civil procedure.  OK.   So it is a great moment in the film helping to illustrate what some think of as an unlikely friendship but in fact makes total sense. When you know Justice Ginsburg you know that she did appreciate Justice Scalia's love of opera his sense of humor. And it was a meeting of the intellectual minds. You know they liked to spar. They - and they both had underneath it all an abiding appreciation for and respect for the rule of law.  Yeah yeah. So Ruth is 85. She is still working. How long should we expect to see her on the court still? And as she - is she working at the same pace she was before you know pulling close to all-nighters all the time?  Well you know maybe Nina you can comment on that. Certainly from what we experienced she keeps a very vigorous schedule. She is doing her work on the court. She also travels and speaks to legal organizations and also pursues her love of the arts and opera. She seems to have a tremendous amount of energy wants to go out for dinner after an opera. When we went in to the gym with her trainer Bryant Johnson and he gave her the orders and she did all the pushups and the weightlifting and the planks and the side planks I mean it is pretty extraordinary. I think it is a testament to how determined she is to keep herself in shape for the job that she loves.  Well I think candidly here...  Yeah.  If Hillary Clinton had won I think she would be probably retiring right now. But Hillary Clinton did not win. And through some probably inappropriate comments that she made about Donald Trump we know how she feels about him so I do not think she wants to retire until at least there is another president.  Will she - I mean that is a few years from now maybe.  It certainly is. And I am not - you know you can never be sure that somebody who is 85 - you know their health can go south in a heartbeat. She has twice had serious cancer. Once it was pancreatic cancer. The first time it was colorectal cancer. In neither case did she miss even a day on the bench. And after the colorectal cancer she had chemo and radiation. That is pretty enervating.  Yeah.  And she just was not going to be defeated by it. That does not mean that she does not collapse. And as you will learn from the movie she does sleep in on the weekends. You do not call the Ginsburg household until after 1 oclock in the afternoon.  OK. I like that.  But that is - she recovers. But she perseveres. And that is her life. And since Marty's death I think her work has been even more important to her.  Why did not she retire when Obama was president?  I think she did not feel that anybody else could bring to the - she said this - could bring to the court what she did at that moment.  Is that a bit of hubris though?  It may be hubris but it may have also been true. The court was at that point very divided. And she is not an unrealistic person. After the 2012 election I think she thought maybe in 20 - if she would been planning to retire in 2013 or let us say 2014 I think she thought that Obama would have a very hard time getting somebody through who she would have approved as a replacement.  Would she have gotten approved - I mean like would she have gotten confirmed being who she was back then today? The climate's different no?  Mmm hmm.  Absolutely.  Mmm hmm. And I think it would very much depend who was in the Senate. But as you will see in the movie one of her big defenders was Orrin Hatch Republican of Utah...  Yeah.  ...Who thought she was a terrific judge and understood that she was going to be a more liberal presence on the court but that she was - that was in the days of greater - less partisanship. And so it is - you know she was approved - ladies I think there were three dissenting votes.  Right - 96-3.  Right. Hard to picture today someone who not only a card-carrying member but a longtime staffer at the ACLU and also speaking up forcefully for abortion rights during her confirmation hearings - almost impossible really to picture someone like that being approved 96-3 by the Senate.  Or the other way. If you mention somebody who worked at a pro-life organization being...  Fair enough. Absolutely.  Right.  So then does that mean in some ways that there might not ever be another quote unquote notorious RBG? The climate has changed such that the type of justices we will see on the bench on the Supreme Court now will not be allowed to be what she was?  You know we are at a moment in time. It is hard to predict the future I think. And so I would not - you know as I said it is interesting to be around Justice Ginsburg. She takes a long view - look at where we have come from. And who knows? I am sure she hopes that maybe some of her dissents will ring true in the future. It is just hard to know.  She likes to talk a lot about the pendulum swinging. And the pendulum swings in one direction and then perhaps it will swing back. So we like to follow her pattern of cautious optimism throughout her career. So I do not think there is any way to look at this moment and see how that - you know what that says for the long term.  Yeah. For all three of you to close it out what is the big lesson for younger people - any people - from RBG's life and her work? I mean for me the themes that I saw in the film were pretty evident but what do you all want the biggest lesson to be?  You know I think that when bad things happen to you when you are facing challenges and adversity to you know stop and think carefully OK how can I approach this? What can I do that is going to get 