Miracle Theres some days when Im like Wow Im the loneliest person on the planet! And theres some days when Im like Its okay Im single lifes great Im young I got all the time in the world! This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Its summer...and for a lot of single people thats prime time to look for romance. Ceci Summer is like a time of adventure. I want someone to adventure with. But dating takes energy Miracle God its so exhausting. And patience... Vicki Ive got a few things going on I think? But Im not really quite sure. And in the last few years a lot about how we date has been changing  and fast. Like where you meet people Dan Tinder... Jessie Bumble... Vicki Im also on OK Cupid. Louis You can literally be on these apps all day long... Thomas ...and then you do not get any matches. Deciding who picks up the check June Its an expensive hobby. Dan I pay for the first five dates always. Louis No ones ever bought me a drink! ...and then theres sex right now. Ceci There are guys like Well how do I flirt with you cause now its sexual harassment? Vicki I kind of play it a little coy. Thomas I have no conclusions other than read the other person as best as you can. And all that change is on top of the challenges that have always been there like the grind of putting yourself out there over and over again. Dan  Lots and lots of coffee. Lots. Of coffee. Jessie And then I will go through a phase where I am like ugh I cannot even. But even though dating is frustrating youre still doing it. And we asked some of you to let us follow along in real-time while you look for love this summer. Ceci All my experience tell me dating sucks. But I am a weird hopeless romantic and so Im always like chin up even though this date sucked youll go on another one and then you are like thats one less guy you have to worry about the next time. Louis Like who would have thought in a city filled with with gay men it would be so hard to just have casual sex? Louis is  33...he lives in Washington D.C. and hes been single since a three-year relationship ended last fall. For him even getting a first date...feels impossible right now. Louis You know I match with people um and then they will message me or I will message them and then they will completely ghost.  Huh. Louis People just flake constantly left and right.  Like flake at what point? Like after like initial messaging? Or like something's scheduled and then bail? Louis Both you know I have been- I have even been in a situation where you know someone's ready to hook up and they will give me their address and I will show up on their door and they just will not answer.  Oh my God that is so sad. Louis Yeah it is crazy. And I think too that there is some inherent racism that exists. I mean I find it really challenging me being an Asian man--an Asian gay man trying to date in D.C. because I think there are certain stereotypes that exist about Asian men in general that we tend to be--particular sexually we are seen as being very submissive. You know many people think we have small a small penis. Everyone assumes that we are you know a power bottom and I am not. You know. I am really none of those things.  And what are-- What are you looking for? Louis I mean ultimately I want a partner. You know I want someone that I can settle down with. Um that is sort of what I am looking for. And I have not found that person yet. And that to me is whats really frustrating is like I cant even get that first date.  When you do go on a first date what do you do? Miracle Oh God Anna I think I would just be so taken aback by the fact it was happening? Miracle is 25 and lives in Decatur Alabama. She moved back to her hometown after college and has decided not to use dating apps. Miracle Let us be honest Im going to get on there and Im going to see a bunch of people I went to high school with and it is going to be really awkward. She says there arent a lot of young single people around...so shes trying to be open minded about her options. Miracle A lot of my friends tell me I may be too nice...In my mind Im like you know if they put in the effort and he seems really nice and like they are not going to like drag me off and kill me and leave me somewhere then I mean I can at least give him a chance.  Thats some pretty low standards Miracle. Miracle  I know I know this is really embarrassing so this guy in particular um I met him at a gas station I was like trying to pump my gas and he like kept trying to get my attention and I kept acting like I didnt notice him. I was like Im just trying to get my gas and go get my gas and go and he came up to me and so I ended up talking to this guy for like 30 minutes and it was just you know I didnt know what to do. Then I was like here find me on Facebook so Im not giving you my number. So I mean thats also part of the problem is how Im finding these people and meeting them. Miracles also looking to date someone whos Christian like her. But so far her church hasnt been a great source of romance either.  One of the older ladies there tried to set her up with a guy Miracle And she was like can I give him your number have him contact you? I was like Yes sure. Why not. What do I have to lose? And so I waited and waited and waited and um the next Sunday I approached her and I was like Hey I never heard back from that guy and she was like Yeah he went on your Facebook and he saw that like you studied abroad to all of those different places and that you travel a lot and he got really intimidated and just said that he just thought he couldnt handle that and so he just didnt contact me. It was like oh well okay like great any more options for me? So it can be hard to even get a date. And then...when you do...theres the awkwardness of actually going on it. Thomas I do not really know the rules unfortunately. I have kind of been bumbling around... no pun intended. This is a listener were calling Thomas. I first spoke with him last year in our episode about break ups. At that point he was 25 and going through a divorce. Last summer he moved to New York City and went on his first date since he and his wife split up. Thomas It was definitely very clearly my first first date in a very long time.  How was it clear? Thomas It was very long...It was a good first date but it was very long.   You did not have an exit plan for... Thomas No no.  That is funny... Thomas There were stages and it kind of led one... it was it was a lot going in one thing and I know now that that is...even if you are having a good time sometimes it is best to just cut it while you are ahead. Thomas ended up going on several more dates with that woman but then she wanted to get serioushe didnt. So he broke it off. Thomas I did not want to... kind of... do what I did last time which I--the last the time before was Oh this is good you know let us lock it down and this time it was more of a... maybe I should not trust myself so much. Thomas does feel some pressure to settle down again. Hes from a conservative Jewish community where divorce isnt common and hes going to a lot of friends weddings right now. But hes trying to learn how to take things slowly. Thomas I have this tendency to just kind of latch on and not let go and maybe that is not necessarily so healthy and I need to consider whether or not this is good for me. Jessie  I feel a little tired. Thomas is curious about what hell learn by going on a lot of first dates. But for a listener named Jessie the whole routine is getting old. Jessie I feel like I go out on a lot of first dates and few second and third dates. Shes 36 and has been single since moving back to Montana three years ago where she works as a software developer. When Jessie contacted us she had just gone on a first date Jessie He was funny he was kind of outgoing but at the same time there were like a few signals that I was like Oh we are kind of different. Um he works as like a flooring installer and so we talked about how heavy carpet is...and I work in software development...  That is funny! Carpet is heavy is not it? it is like a funny first date question...  Jessie ... apparently it is even heavier than I knew because Ive never really lifted carpet before but apparently it is extremely heavy! Jessie said it was obvious she made more money than him. And that gave her pause. Jessie I go back and forth with it uhm intellectually there is nothing that I should feel insecure about uhm related to me making a good living. but I do think there is a little bit of weirdness there and I think that the weirdness gets amplified the bigger the discrepancy is.  What is happened since? Jessie You know he was gone for like I do not know maybe four five days or something and then we kind of have not got in... well he has not gotten in touch with me and I have not gotten in touch with him so... nothing has happened.  Does that feel okay? Jessie Feels fine to me because I felt like it was not gonna... it was not the right thing. Coming up a listener named Dan is dating again for the first time since his wife died and hes learning that the rules of dating have changed since the last time he was single. Dan I now have to go and prove that I am not a bad man. Every single date. Every single interaction. Every first interaction I have to now prove that I am not a predator. -- In an episode last month I spoke with a woman named Lizzie about going on dates with sugar daddies older men who pay her for her time...and sometimes for sex. A listener were calling Matt sent in a voice memo about being on the other side of that exchange. He started hiring sex workers after a divorce and for him the transactional nature of it is part of the appeal. Matt It honestly takes a lot of the performance anxiety away from me. And Ill do my best obviously to make sure were on the same page with everything. But thats never going to be the same thing as me trying to learn her desires and wants and satisfy her and pleasure her in the same way. Matt says he tries to be a conscientious consumer. He doesnt use escort services. Hes found women on Reddit forums in the past. He wants to feel as much as possible like the women hes with are not being coerced to be with him...and that theyre fully in charge of the money he gives them. Matt You and your partner dont have to have the same reason or desires or looking for the same thing out of sex to fully consent to it. So the fact that money is involved doesnt change consent in any way. But it does change the sex of course. Dont think for a second that sex with a sex worker is the same thing as sex with your boyfriend or girlfriend or wife or husband. If you want to share your thoughts or reactions to an episode send us an email at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode musician John Prine talks about performing and writing songs for 45 years...and what changed after he had kids. John Prine I got to say when I became a father the very first time I had no idea how much Id been flying around all my life. Just literally. It brought my feet right to the ground when I saw that baby boy in the hospital. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Dan is a 41 year old guy who lives in Seattle. Last year his wife had a massive stroke Dan After the official terminal diagnosis was given we had to say OK what do we do next? And so Kris and I were sitting one day in her hospital room. She said you know I want you to go out and find somebody again and I want you to get married again. But right now it is just I do not have the heart for that. And even though Dans not looking to get married again he has started dating. A few months after Kriss death he reactivated his OKCupid profile Dan I realized I had to be up front with my background. So I said My name is Dan. I am 41 years old and I am a widower. I am housebroken. I am employed. I solve my own problems. Clean my home do my laundry you know cook. I have a pony. And I have money.  Dan! You sound like a dream man.    I got an avalanche of interested ladies. I had never seen anything like that--there were so many women piling in that after a week I actually had to shut down my profile pull the list down to eight and put through them all on first dates because I could not keep up with it. And on those dates Dan noticed that things felt different than they did six years ago when he met his wife. For example he started seeing a woman...they had fun together. Dan And she was looking for a grand passionate romance where a strong man would come in and sweep her off her feet pursue her chase her and  with Me Too and Aziz Ansari I cannot do that anymore. And--  Wait tell me more about that. When you say with Me Too...what would you have done before and-- and what do you do now?  What I would have done before is I would have initiated physical contact and I would have kept going and if she said Whoa not this. I simply would have switched tactics. That is-- that-- I do not know how else to say it so I am just going to say it. That is standard operating practice. That is what being a strong man is. You pursue and you pursue and you are pursuing and pursing under the assumption that the woman is teasing to-- to lead you on until she can finally capitulate. And I had to tell her no that does not work like that anymore now. I cannot do that because that puts me at risk.  So you felt like she was asking you to sort of still be maybe the more dominant in-- in a-- in an intimate encounter?  Yeah.  And you were like I dont know how to do that and feel like I might not be breaking rules right now.  Correct. I have to read every single cue exactly right. And not just the verbal cues the non-verbal cues. If I do not get it right and hopefully the woman says Whoa stop everything stops. Everything has to stop. Otherwise you get into this grey area where I am suddenly at risk of doing something awful even if that is not my intention.  And why is it-- why cant you um like have you tried integrating like just like little consent things-- little consent questions in while-- to be sexy? Is it ok if I do this? Do you like this?  I do do that and it gets limited success. It is uh...some women that works really well with others get annoyed by the question because the question yanks them out of the moment. Ceci It comes from this weird idea that like I cant ask you something I cant ask like Oh! Would you like to date me? Would it be okay if I kissed you? Because thats not romantic right?  Ceci is 36 and is dating in Sacramento. Ceci And I dont know that anyone male or female fully grasps that weird grey area of how to be romantic while still being like appropriate. She goes on about two or three dates a month. And she says as much as shes hearing men talk about how they need to tread carefully now that hasnt been her experience dating especially online Ceci I still get at least once a week nice tits which Im like...depending on when I get that message there might be a full conversation there because I will respond back like Um Im just curious does that ever work?  Like has any girl been like Oh my God! Thank you! Please marry me right now? Like no but you know Ill get guys who will tell me I think you are very beautiful and Im attracted to bigger girls and you know my name is such and such can we talk? Can I get to know you? I like that!  And whats yourdo you have like a go to routine when you connect with someone online? Like what happens next? Ceci Yeah so I really would like to talk online for at least a week right? I want to make sure that this is not like just about hooking up because definitely my generation is hookup culture. So thats not me Im 36 I did hookup culture. Im over that . So I need to weed that out first. And then meeting up for coffee. And I like coffee because its public you know if you try anything funny theres like you know 50 other people drinking their Frappuccinos. They saw what you did...So I feel safe in that. And then if theres a connection there then we can move forward on other dates that might be like movies or dinner or  more private intimate settings. Ceci is looking for something long-term. But for others of you the goal of dating is not a relationship. Vicki Im not looking for a husband or someone to take care of me. Vicki is a journalist who lives in the Bay Area... Vicki And my age sadly is 61.  Why do you say sadly? Vicki Oh well that age came quickly and you know the slide from 60 to 70 doesnt seem like a lot of fun. Vicki got divorced 14 years ago. Since she ended a long-term relationship last year shes been using OkCupid and Bumble...but she says dating older guys does come with some hazards. Vicki There is a joke that you know at this age women dont wanna be the nurse with a purse um you know -  I never heard that before. Vicki Oh yeah. Its a thing. Weve raised children. We took care of spouses and a some of us feel like we dont wanna really get back into a caregiving situation again.  and so when you think about your  dating life and what whats whats in play right now and what you hope for this summer what do you hope for? Vicki Um well Im hoping I have a lot of hot sex.  Oh that is a really good goal. Vicki Okay I know I sounded sad about being my age but actually at this age you are so much more comfortable with your body and you know it better um what turns you on and youre not so shy about asking for things its kind of like just like this is the bone that was thrown to us like okay youre gonna be a little saggy and youre gonna be a little older but youre gonna have this going on and youre like yay! June My name is June and Im 21 years old. June is a college junior at the beginning of her dating life. Her first relationship was long...from high school into college...but since that ended shes been going on a lot of dates with both men and women. June Im very methodical. I mean I usually try and pick the same coffee place actually.  How many first dates have you had at this one coffee shop? June I would say at least six or seven probably.  I love that. June Yeah.  Im seeing this like montage of June with like a revolving cast of people on the other side of your table. June It does it does feel like that sometimes when theres like you know its its a different person every week. It it can feel like that sometimes but I like that its that my designated spot you know. I like that its my place. June uses Tinder to find dates and to scope out who around her is single. If shes out on campus or at a party and she sees someone cute shell get out her phone... June And Ill drop my radius to like one mile um and Ill just swipe until I find them and it has worked actually in the past. I have found people that way.  Wait so instead of like striking up conversation youre like let me just see if this person is available and looking? June Yeah I have done that.  And have you ever had an instance where someone is quite close you realize theyre on Tinder and then do you immediately message them? June No.  And say look look behind your shoulder or something. Im Im right over here. June Um no I havent done that. I think that seems creepy. Maybe the way I do it is also creepy but its more roundabout whereas that seems like too directly creepy.  They dont know how much youre creeping on them. June Yeah.  Does it also help you like if you see a woman that youre attracted to to figure out if shes into dating women too? June Thats yes. Thats definitely a big reason why I use it especially for women. When I talked to June she had a couple of dates lined up...including one that night. And after a recent birthday shes venturing out beyond that coffee shop. June Were gonna grab drinks tonight...so thats also a new fun 21 year old thing that I can do.  Oh cuz drinks are new! June Cuz drinks are new!  What do you think youll order? What do you think is your first date drink? June I love cocktails but I also really love beer and I feel like a first date drink should just be a beer so Ill probably Ill probably order something like that.  Yeah cuz you wanna like preserve the option of a second drink... June Right.  ...without getting totally hammered. June Yeah exactly. Thats June...one of the listeners well be following as they date this summer. And since dating is unpredictable this series will be too! All summer were going to be dropping short episodes into your feed with updates from these listeners Thomas Well that was interesting. Had a really tough conversation with a friend tonight. It turns out. Turns out we both have crushes on each other. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.