 Hi this is Eva. Elise is my mom. This week on the show NPR reporter Nathan Rott and the host of Greater LA from KCRW Steve Chiotakis. OK let us start the show.   Boom.  That was unbelievably cute.  She said my name right.  She just lost her front tooth last week too.  Aw.  So she is a little lisp-y.  Did the tooth fairy come?  Sure did.  How much?  Not that much.  .  Hey you all. From NPR I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here at NPR West in Culver City with as Eva said Steve Chiotakis from NPR member station KCRW. Steve you are also hosting a new show right?  Greater LA.  Greater LA.  Every day at 1 oclock.  Every day.  KCRW.  Greater LA every day.  Kcrw.com - sorry.  Also here with NPR reporter Nate Rott...  .  ...Who covers the environment and the West.  The West.  Maybe you East Coasters have heard of it.  It is a large bureau by the way...  Yeah. It is a province out here.  ...The whole West.  . Each week we start the show with a song connected to the news. This song is of course...  I Say A Little Prayer For You - Dionne Warwick.  Aretha Franklin sang this version.  Oh whoa.    I run for the bus dear. While riding I think of us dear.  Aretha Franklin is in the news because even though she died last August she did not have a formal will to decide what she wanted to do with her estate. So that includes the rights to her property her likeness her music. This week she is back in the news. Do you all know why?  It is getting ugly?   Good guess.  .  Those are three words too. It is getting ugly right?  Franklin's niece found three handwritten wills one of them under a couch cushion.  What?  Two others were inside a locked cabinet. They are from 2010 the third one from 2014. That is the most recent one. All three were filed in court on Monday. There is lines crossed out of them and revisions.  Whoa. Whoa.  Do they say the same thing? Like...  There is differences.  Yeah.  And so now as you said...  Lines crossed out.  Wow.  ...There is going to be some dispute.  That is a good reminder to all listeners.  Is that one of those things?  Have a will. Like maintain a will.  And maybe do not put it under your couch cushion.  There is like Cheetos stains on it.  But the line's crossed out. Like the - like you know oh Susan or whoever - you know it is like oh no. She - uh-uh. She is not getting my money right?  There is a story there.  Yeah you know there is.  Well there is a court hearing set for this on June 12.  Yeah.  What are you all going to do with your estates?   Oh estates - you are funny Elise.    To live without you would only mean heartbreak for me.  Well with that we are going to start the show as we always do. Each of us will describe some news of the week in three words. Nate you are up first.  Woo. Starting out hot - OK. My three words earth to humans. This is the earth kind of trying to send us signals that maybe not all is well. So I am going to talk about extreme weather because we have had a lot of it in the last week. There is more than a foot of snow in parts of Colorado. My poor little sister almost lost her car to a falling branch.  Oh.  I know.  Ouch.  That is real.  There were more than 30 tornadoes that touched down in Oklahoma Missouri the Midwest Southern Plains. You had storms causing flooding in those areas. Add that on top of all the flooding that is been happening along the Mississippi River for months now.  Geez.  Then you had the first named storm of the hurricane season Andrea. And bear in mind hurricane season does not start until June 1. All of these crazy events - you cannot say any of them are directly a result of climate change. But these are the types of extreme weather events that are going to become more and more prevalent with climate change.  Right.  So I think there might be a little bit of a signal there.  And when you go out and cover these communities that are devastated by extreme weather is there any more talk now about climate change and the possible connection to the weather events?  That is a good question. And I do not know that I could say yes. I mean I know that when I covered the wildfires last year in California the Woolsey Fire all those down in the south - southern part of the state some people made that correlation. I think generally when I have been to like these crazy events people are so busy trying to wrestle the giant gorilla...  Right.  ...Which is you know...  The fire or...  ...My house is threatened or I just flooded my entire - like my family. But there is polling that does indicate that people are now connecting these extreme weather events more and more to climate change. And so I think you know there is a connection there.  Grist.org the environmental publication calculated that ABC World News Tonight spent more time covering the birth of royal baby Archie in one week than the show spent on climate change in all of 2018.  .  I mean we are interested in what we are interested in right?  Right.  Yeah.  And it seems like as human beings and as news consumers we can more easily wrap our heads around hey new baby...  Right.  ...Than slow-moving planetary ruin.  Did any of the coverage of baby Archie be like here's the world baby Archie's going to be living in in 50 years ?  It is  - yeah. Shanghai will be under water.  She would rename it from climate change to slow-moving - what was it?  Planetary ruin.  Planetary ruin - maybe that would bring people in.  I mean that is an idea.  There is a debate right now that like - I know The Guardian put out a thing recently where they were not going to call it climate change anymore. But they were going to call it a climate crisis. And I think you know there is a debate to be had about whether or not changing the language we use around this would maybe bring some new attention to it because like so many things we talk about it. We talk about it. We talk about it. And I think you know people become conditioned to it where it just goes in one ear and out the other.  Well it used to be called global warming at one time right?  Right. Right.  That is what we used to call it - global warming. And then everybody - and I do not know how it got modified a little bit that - hey you know the climate changes. I mean we have been around for millennia right? So...  But it is proof that you can change the sort of naming - right? - the labeling around things.  Oh of course - of course.  Or branding.  Just ask CNN.  Yeah. I think the climate - I think climate...  Climate branding needs an update.  Climate scientists need to - yeah. We need some marketers in that space.  Slow-moving planetary ruin.  OK. So then follow-up question is how do you cope with this sense of helplessness around climate change right? How do we mourn the environments that we are losing and then adapt to the worst effects. Anybody want to take that?  That is a heavy question . I mean I do a lot of stories where I talk to people about like solutions that people are looking to to try to mitigate the problem of climate change. And what you often come to at the end is this question of well is that going to be enough? And the answer is almost always no which is yeah kind of a - leaves you feeling a little powerless. But two things - I do think it is important to stop and like take a second and grieve some of the stuff that is going away. Like where I grew up we have had pine beetle infestations that have totally devastated the forest that I used to hang out in. Wildfires have destroyed some of my favorite places to go hike around here. And look. These are natural things. They happen. They are not in and of themselves bad but the world is changing. And I think it is important to like kind of absorb that because I think that does lend itself to maybe feeling like you need to take action or feeling a little inspired in a way to change your own personal habits.  Yeah.  I am going to go next. My three words are yet another tragedy. The Trump administration was forced to admit a sixth migrant child died in U.S. custody within the past eight months. No migrant child had died in federal custody since 2010. This 10-year-old though - this case is a little bit different. I do not know how much you all have read about this. But this 10-year-old actually died last September. But her death was not reported until CBS News put out a story earlier this week and then the government you know had to back it up.  Yeah.  HHS Health and Human Services says the girl had heart issues and was quote medically fragile when she was admitted into U.S. custody in the first place. But the fact that she died in September and that the news just came out now - and this is days after a 16-year-old Guatemalan boy died in U.S. custody - made folks wonder could there be other migrant deaths that we do not know about?  Yeah.  I mean absolutely.  What do not we know? Yeah.  Right.  Yeah.  Democrats are calling for an investigation. So is there a sense guys that these kids are not humanized in the same way as American kids because we have fewer visuals of what is happening and these detention centers have been closed off to press? Like we are still outraged I guess as the public by these deaths. But do you sense that there is more distance between your receiving of this news and say you know American children's deaths?  I do not know how outraged we really are actually to be quite honest...  Yeah.  ...With you. I mean we hear about these incidents in the news. They are horrible. They are tragedies. And then it is like OK well it is just another story and a bad news day right?  Yeah.  And like you say what do not we know? What is not being reported? And we have just become so desensitized to this.  Sure.  Yeah and I think that you know it is something very - we just talked about climate change. We are very good at averting  and not looking at crises until they reach our front door.  And that is the thing. I mean there is probably a psychological link to climate change and migrant child helplessness right?  Oh for sure.  The fact that we do not have any way to personally change it or we feel like we cannot have an impact on the situation - is it sort of like that?  Yeah. And I mean you want to talk about connections. Like you think the migrant crisis right now is extreme. Like wait until...  Climate refugees.  Climate refugees.  Yeah.  You are listening to It is BEEN A ow where we catch up on the week that was on. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here with our guests this week - NPR reporter Nate Rott and reporterhost Steve Chiotakis from NPR member station KCRW. Steve you are up next - your three words.  Everything is old.   Except me.  Are you talking - is it your birthday?  No. Oh how dare you Elise?  .  I am kidding. I cannot believe you did that to me. We saw this week speaking of the Trump administration the president - and again there are theories abound in D.C. of whether this was manufactured or not but he stormed out of this meeting.  Oh right. He walked out.  Yeah.  There was going to be this great meeting on infrastructure. They had met several weeks before with Chuck and Nancy.  Oh good ole Chuck and Nancy.  Minority Leader in the Senate Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi the House speaker - and you know they were in the White House. And then he said I do not think we can do investigations and legislation at the same time. And you know time and again the administration has tried to pivot - right? - from scandal to script.  So there is going to be no legislative activity out of the rest of this Congress then? - because there are signs that things have ground to a halt. There are two White House aides who were liaisons to Congress that have quit this week.  Yes.  It is probably unrelated because I think they announced their resignations before that. But I think it is an acknowledgment - right? - that there is not going to be much movement on infrastructure probably.  And the president...  Was there much movement before that? .  No and that is what we are saying - I mean that every time there was - you know we are trying to pivot from scandal. We are going to put infrastructure back out there because everybody loves to talk about the crumbling infrastructure the - what is it? - obsolete bridges and things...  Yeah.  Sure.  ...Like that that need - functionally obsolete bridges that need....  Many people will be thinking about that this Memorial Day weekend when they get on the road. And you are like wow. Especially here in California some of our roads are not in the most pristine condition.  And then you have - as far as infrastructure goes you have Democrats who are I think split on exactly how to tackle this. Like do we go for full impeachment congressionally?  Right.  But then you have Nancy Pelosi and you have others in the Democratic leadership where they do not do it.  Who is saying this would be a political nightmare for us if we tackled impeachment. Just let the process happen. And maybe in 2020 the people of America will un-elect him.  And we should make clear that impeachment is not the same as removal from office that they could start this inquiry. This then becomes the political question right?  Right.  Like is this bad politics?  It is above my pay grade. But I mean I think what Nancy Pelosi and others in Democratic leadership are worried about is that if you make a move to impeach Trump's base will get you know it...  It energizes the opponent.  Yeah it is - you put people in a corner and then...  I do not know how much more energized they can get. I mean I - because they are really angry about a lot of things.  I think that is oversimplifying it because I think there are people that have - I have talked to many people in my reporting that voted for Donald Trump who feel like he is gotten an unfair shake and that from the beginning Democrats and everybody else have been obstructionist. They have just tried to slow him down which you know there is many people that voted for Barack Obama who could say the exact same thing just...  Sure sure.  Exactly.  ...From a different party. But I do not want to - I do not think people are just angry about that. I think people feel like you know what? I want my vote to feel like it mattered. I voted for this guy. I want to see him do what he is going to do and what he tried to say he was going to do and we will go from there.   OK. It is time for a break. Coming up you will not believe the VIP treatment some D.C. bigwigs get when they go out to eat in the nation's capital. Steve Nate you know the feeling - right? - when you pull up in your Ferrari to the valet stand...  Oh absolutely.  Oh absolutely.  But then the battery dies.  What?  Yeah.  So while you are in the restaurant sipping your 400 wine the valet guys just install a new battery for you.  Sounds like a Tuesday.  Sounds very nice...  Yeah...  ...Very beneficent.  Sounds like a Tuesday.   That is in a minute. I am Elise Hu and you are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here with our guests this week - Steve Chiotakis post of Greater LA from NPR member station KCRW. Hey Steve.  Hi Elise.  And here with NPR reporter Nate Rott who covers the environment and the West. Hey Nate.  'Sup?   Oh please.  'Sup?  Oh no.  'Sup? Hey dudes.  Hey.  So we are in LA. Guys...  Yeah.  What is your most memorable celebrity run-in?  Oh.  Wow. That is a good question.  I ran into Tom Hanks in church.  In church.  In church.  He goes to your church.  He does.  Wait you go to church?  Sometimes. I am one of those Christian - you know what do they call them?  Easter and Christmas.  Christmas and Easter Christians yeah. And so I on a Good Friday I went to church. And I was there in the lobby - took a friend of mine with me. And she tugs on my jacket and she is like somebody's in the lobby. And I turned around. And there he was. And she was like go walk up to him. He probably listens to you on the radio. And I did. And I said hi Tom. Steve Chiotakis. And he looked at me. And he said oh of course you are Greek.   He was actually the loveliest man...  He is so nice.  ...To talk - he is so nice. And he like talked for 10 15 minutes...  Wow.  ...To where the women in the front of the - and the men too but mostly the women in the front lobby of the church were like shh. Yeah it was one of those things.  Can you shh Tom Hanks?  I mean you know.  I was trying to do that to Spike Lee in our lobby.  Are you serious?  Yeah because...  You shushed him.  No no. I wanted to because I heard somebody loud-talking on his cell phone in that walkie-talkie style. I hate it when people talk on their cell phone like it is a walkie-talkie.  Yeah.  You know and I am like who is that guy? And so I just like swing around from my desk into the lobby. And it is...  Spike Lee.  ...Director Spike Lee.  Wow.  And I am like moonwalking back .  He was doing the Spike Lee joint right there in the lobby was not he?  Nate.  There is a lot of celebrities that come through here that you can sometimes just make idle chit-chat with. So...  Have you made idle chitchat...  Yeah.  ...With anyone in the kitchen?  So this is an embarrassing story because I love his music. But Kendrick Lamar was here when he was like - I mean I am sure he was already big and people knew who he was.  Yeah.  I did not know what he looked like.  OK.  And so here at NPR West we have like this bookshelf where there is books that get sent to us that people can take. And Kendrick Lamar was looking at the books.  .  And I was getting coffee next to that little book station. And  it was raining which is a very rare thing in LA. And so he would come in and he was looking. And he was taking off like a rain jacket. And I was like oh it is still raining out there. And we had this like 10-minute conversation about the weather.  And you had no idea who he was.  And I had no idea who he was.  You and Kendrick Lamar .  And I got done. And I walked back in to my desk. Someone was like what were you talking to Kendrick Lamar about?   I was like oh.  Well whether you recognize them or not when VIPs show up at restaurants you might wonder if they get treated a little differently.  And the answer is yes.   That is Jessica Sidman. She wrote about everything that goes on behind the curtain when it comes to VIP dining but not here in Hollywood. Jessica is the food editor for Washingtonian magazine in Washington D.C. where the VIPs are much less recognizable but still get all the perks that you do not.   You know you walk in and you get a glass of bubbly complimentary and maybe you get a little extra something from the chef. The biggest perk especially in Washington and really anywhere is just being able to get the table that you want on a busy night with no reservation.  Oh.  Just for those special guests.  Yeah I wanted to know. So if you are a maitre d' at one of these restaurants and your tables are totally booked how do you pull a table out of thin air for the elite?   They can work some magic. It does depend. There are some restaurants that will always have - you know some call it like a pocket table where they just keep it open just in case that investor or that regular comes in. Other times maybe you move some people around. Maybe you prioritize certain people above others. It is not always a fair system.  And your piece is really dishy with the perks. So tell us about a few of the more extreme examples or what was - what were ones that really struck you when you were reporting the piece?  Right. So it might be anything from you know the restaurant keeps a certain brand of tequila that you like just for you...  Wow.  ...And special orders it. And no one - it is not on the menu.  .  There is a very high-end restaurant in D.C. called Minibar from Jose Andres.  Right.  And the regular VIPs there have engraved steak knives. And every time they come to dine they get their special steak knife with their name on it.  .  One of my favorite stories - this is a little bit of an older story about a very old-school steakhouse called The Prime Rib. They had a guest come in one time a VIP who showed up in a Ferrari. And the Ferrari stopped working as soon as he pulled into the valet. So he goes off to eat dinner. And while he is in there the maitre d' gets his car fixed for him. And so...  That is insane.  ...By the time he is ready to go his Ferrari is ready for him.  My goodness.  .  How do these restaurants though - how do they even keep up with knowing who is who? And I ask this because I am based here in LA. And politicians do not exactly look like Reese Witherspoon you know?  .  So...  Exactly.  ...They are not instantly recognizable.  Right.  And then administrations change obviously every four years or every eight years. So how do these restaurants even keep up with knowing who is a VIP?  Right. And a lot - most of the VIPs are not famous faces we should say. Most of them are your everyday regulars. You do not necessarily have to be rich and famous. But restaurants keep insane amounts of information about their guests. On the back end of the reservation system - OpenTable or Resy or whatever it is - there is a place where they can keep notes. And those notes are very very detailed whether it is a preferred table preferred server favorite wine. Some will literally track every single thing you ate and what - if you made any comments about what you ate...  Wow.  ...Your spouse's name your children's name you do not want a straw in your drink.  .  And then a few restaurants in D.C. will have lookbooks maybe at the host stand.  Lookbooks like modeling agencies have?  Yeah exactly. And it will have photos of VIPs that they need to keep an eye out for.  .  So you know there is just a little picture maybe a note or two about things they like where they like to sit. Maybe it is updated when there is a new administration or it is...  Or after an election. Yeah.  Exactly exactly.  And what happens in cases when prominent Republicans and prominent Democrats come to the same restaurant at the same time? Because Washington D.C. as we know is not as genial and collegiate as it once was.  Right.  So do restaurants sit political enemies near each other? And what happens in these cases?  Right. So probably most restaurants will not care. They will seat them next to each other.  OK.  Whatever. But I do tell a story in the feature about Steve Scalise coming in. He is a regular at this restaurant near the White House.  And a prominent House Republican. Yep.  Exactly. So he is at his regular booth. And then Valerie Jarrett comes in.  Former Obama adviser.  Exactly. And they are about to seat Valerie next to Steve Scalise. And the maitre d' intervenes and says oh wait wait wait. No no no.  .  We cannot seat the - a prominent Republican and Democrat next to each other. We have to seat them on opposite ends of the dining room - not even that they would have any bad blood or be opposed to it but just in case.  There have also been restaurants that have created kind of tempests because they have asked members of the Trump administration to leave or occasions where politicians have been approached by other diners as you have written about. So what is the calculus like for restaurants when these types of things occur?  Right. I talked to one restaurateur who is hosted the likes of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and White House adviser Stephen Miller. And he said that he tries to seat them away from the windows so that people walking by on the sidewalk will not see them and get upset and create some sort of confrontation. It was a little bit of a problem with Stephen Miller because apparently Stephen Miller liked to sit in the middle of the dining room.  No matter what.  Yeah.  Yeah. OK.  Exactly. And this restaurateur actually did have an issue where he greeted Stephen Miller and another diner saw it and afterward was very upset that Stephen Miller was treated warmly and threatened to boycott the restaurant.  Wow.  So you know a lot of businesses are kind of on ice trying to figure out how to navigate this new political environment that we are in. And in that particular case after Stephen Miller had been in a few times the restaurateur actually did decide to broach politics with him and spoke his piece about how immigrants were important to his restaurant. And Stephen Miller listened patiently and said you know you are entitled to your opinion but has not been back to the restaurant since.  Did this story make you think about power and inequality in a new way? Because these folks that you are writing about specifically the lawmakers are really elected to represent the people right? They are civil servants. But they are living in this world that bends over for them in a way that most of us will never get to experience.  Yes and no. It is not always a democracy in restaurants. You know people do get treated better than other people. I mean as fun as it is to talk about rich and famous people the top VIPs are still the regulars.  OK.  And really anyone can be a regular. It is just a matter of going to your favorite restaurant all the time becoming a familiar face you know do not be a jerk. Treat the staff like human beings. Do not demand things. Definitely do not say do you know who I am? .  .  And tip well. And you too can be a VIP.  Jessica Sidman thank you so much.  Thank you.   Thanks again to Jessica Sidman for all that dish. Again she wrote about VIP dining in the nation's capital for the Washingtonian. You can check out her story online. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here this week with Steve Chiotakis reporter and host at NPR member station KCRW and NPR reporter Nate Rott. What did you all think hearing Jessica there?  I - Stephen Miller sitting in the middle of the restaurant...  .  ...Made wish I had a lot of money.  Yeah well...  Yeah.  Well there is that.  Welcome to public radio Nate.  Yeah.   With that...  .  ...It is time for another break. In just a minute we will play everyone's favorite meaningless guessing game - Who Said That. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. And we will be right back.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I Elise Hu in for Sam Sanders here this week with Steve Chiotakis reporter and host of Greater LA from NPR member station KCRW. Hey Steve.  Hi Elise.  Also here with Nate Rott who covers the environment and the West for NPR. Hey Nate.  Hello.  Oh he did not say 'sup  this time.  'Sup.  I could have said ahoy.  'Sup.  It is time for a game we call Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  The rules are simple. I share a quote from the week. You all have to guess who said that or at least the story it refers to. So if you do not know the person who gave the quote you can just refer to the story. The winner gets absolutely nothing.  Oh.  Ooh.  I knew it. I knew it.  A steak knife with your name carved in it.  And not even that right?  .  Yeah.  All right. First quote - already paid 13 million in scholarships have already put 400 men through Morehouse.  Ooh.  Oh that was the guy...  ...That is Oprah.   Bam.  This was...  Do you remember the story?  Yes. I am not going to remember the guy's name but super billionaire paid for like a bunch of college...  Robert Smith.  Robert Smith.  Robert Smith.  Good job.  Boom.  He said...  You get half a point for that.  Do I really?  Oh wow. Really?  Because I mean that is...  But no steak knife.  It is sort of related.  Yeah.  Anyway one point? Half a point?  So I am going to forget the name of the college but at...  Morehouse.  Morehouse.  Morehouse.  And told everybody there that he was going to pay off their student debt. And somebody added Oprah on Instagram...  Yes.  ...Or something...  Yes.  ...And was basically saying like hey Oprah. Why cannot you pay for a bunch of people's college? And she replied.  She clapped back.  Yeah. Also is - does that mean that Oprah is just like us? She is just like scrolling on Instagram looking through her comments?  Sure does. I mean she gets her replies too just like the rest of us. Just like you and me.  Yeah but a lot of them Elise.  .  Probably more than you or me or Nate.  Definitely more than me.  Yeah.  But she said she is already paid 13 million and put 400 men through Morehouse. So she is like - all right. Next quote - message to Amazon. Now that you have regular people making your home deliveries maybe they should wear a vest with Amazon Delivery on it. I almost shot an MF creeping up on my crib last night - just saying. He is on Law And Order.  Chris Meloni?   Nope.  Oh please. A buzzer?   Really? Oh. Ugh. I have no idea.  Ice-T.  Ice-T.  Oh Ice-T.  Yeah. In a tweet about Amazon Flex delivery after he almost shot a delivery man he said that. The official Amazon Twitter responded going thanks for the feedback and then escalated his feedback...   ...To the logistics team for review. Then Dave Clark who is a senior VP of worldwide operations at Amazon tweeted thanks for the suggestion. We MF-ing  love you...  Aww.  .  That is nice.  ...And our drivers. Lots of innovations coming on this.  Love Ice-T.  OK. So...  I would be a little more...  You are at half a point for Robert Smith. You are at a full point for Oprah. Final quote...  Duh-duh-duh .  You cannot catch up though huh? Wait no. You could win.  You could win.  I could win.  My math is awesome. OK.  Oh boy.  Again you do not have to come up with the person who said it. It can also be the story. Here's the quote - we try to stress that this should be a hobby they do for the enjoyment of making a video. And if they do it with the expectation of becoming rich and famous it will be a stress for the family.  Ooh.  What is the story?  Is this about social influencers?  Yes. You are in the right zone.  That is not half-point zone is it?  Oh Nathan.  Social influencers doing it for the right reasons...  Is it a Kardashian?  Oh is this have - does this have something...   No I was going to - this is - we are kind of getting to that season where people are going into like national parks and taking dumb pictures of themselves doing unbelievable stupid things like petting bears and stuff like that.  Petting bears...  This is - .  There is not really a good reason there.  I do not think a petting bear is going to be a good look on camera.  I have no idea.  Close. So The Wall Street Journal - this is from a Wall Street Journal story this week about YouTube camps for kids starting as young as age 5.  Wow.  YouTube camps.  That is right.  YouTube camps.  Tuition for these camps can range from the hundreds to over a thousand dollars a week. And they prep kids with technical tools like shooting and editing but also advice on building your own voice and brand.  Oh God as if being a kid was not stressful enough.  That is right.  Just let the kids have fun.  Social influencing though - I mean I get a half a point for that do not I? Come on Elise.  OK fine. You know what? I am going to give it to you.  You are.  You all are tied.  What? Wow.  Steve you have been a great competitor.  Well because you have just lobbied so hard.  Thank you so much Nate.  Let us just shake hands here.  Really? Really?  Yeah.  And both of you win nothing.  Nothing.  Wow.  This is the first tie that I have overseen.  Really?  And really the only reason you tied is because you really sort of pushed hard for that half-point.  I kind of forced it.  Yeah.  I forced the tie.  Let us get back to this real quick though. YouTube camps for kids. So you pay to train kids on how to shoot edit but then also how to be like an influencer.  Develop your own voice yeah.  Yeah.  You have to say something different and distinct like Olivia Jade - Lori Loughlin's daughter.  Right.  So that was a tie.  Yeah.  Congratulations to both of you...  No steak knives.  ...For have getting one point. No steak knives.  Yeah.  You win nothing.  I will cut you with my steak knife.   No I am sorry Nate.  There is too much stature in the podcast already.  The juices are flowing right now.  Oh I see what you did there. Oh my goodness. Juices - get it?  The juice got it.  Oh boy.  All right that concludes Who Said That. Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Each week we ask listeners to share with us the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage them to brag and they do. Let us listen.  This is Katie .  And Megan .  The best part of our week is after two years of planning and the completion of a master's degree by Megan...  We are currently standing in Amalienborg Square wh