 This is FRESH AIR. Fred Willard the comedy actor and improv comic appeared in hundreds of TV shows and movies over his lengthy career and in hundreds more talk shows playing even more characters and also being himself. He died last Friday. He was 86 years old. Earlier this week Jimmy Kimmel devoted an entire show to Fred Willard a favorite guest and sketch player on Jimmy Kimmel Live and noted how he had first been introduced to Fred Willard as I had by watching and loving Fernwood 2 Night the 1977 spinoff of Norman Lear's soap opera spoof Mary Hartman Mary Hartman. In Fernwood 2 Night Martin Mull played smarmy smalltown Ohio TV talk show host Barth Gimble and Fred Willard played his clueless sidekick Jerry Hubbard. In this clip he surprises the host by reciting some poetry.    Kids you should listen to this too because you will grow old. Remember me remember me when I have passed away. Remember that I lived and died as you will too one day. If I can write these few short lines it will not be in vain if after I am dead and gone you still recall my name. Remember me.   To follow up Jerry that is actually very pretty. Who wrote that?   Who wrote it? Oh I do not know. Who knows? It is an old poem. Probably some old guy dead and gone.   Fred Willard and Martin Mull would reteam two decades later playing a gay couple on Roseanne. On television Willard's other credits over the years included Emmynominated recurring roles on Everybody Loves Raymond and Modern Family and hosting Saturday Night Live. And we have not even mentioned Fred Willard's movie appearances. From Austin Powers to Anchorman he seemed to pop up everywhere good movie comedy was being made. That was true most of all of the largely improvised movies directed by Christopher Guest which took full advantage of Willard's improv days at Chicago's Second City. He played an Air Force lieutenant in This Is Spinal Tap a dog show announcer in Best In Show a folk group manager in A Mighty Wind and a TV entertainment reporter in For Your Consideration  very funny movies very funny performances. Terry Gross spoke with Fred Willard in 1997. They began with a clip from Waiting For Guffman in which Willard played a travel agent who with his wife is auditioning for a role in a new community theater musical. It commemorates the 150th anniversary of Blaine Mo. The director running the audition is played by Christopher Guest and Willard's wife and audition partner is played by Catherine O'Hara.    Ding dong. CATHERINE O'  Oh. I wonder who knows I am vacationing here at the Oasis.   Am I late? O'  You.   Surprised? O'  How did you find me?   I have my ways. O'  Would you like to come in for coffee?  You do not need to answer. There is no need to speak. I will be your belly dancer prancer.   And I will be your sheikh. I do not need a harem honey when you are by my side. And you will not need a camel no no when I take you for a ride. O'  We will need some coffee to with that ride will not we?   You are always full of surprises. O' .   But say I wonder do we have time for that coffee? O'  What time is it?   What time is it? Have not you been paying attention? It is... FRED WILLARD AND CATHERINE O'  ...Midnight at the Oasis.   Oh.   Thank you.   Good.   Would you describe your character in Waiting For Guffman?  Well I think I am a guy who has no selfrealization. He does not realize how overbearing he is. I am married to Catherine O'Hara. We are travel agents in the small town of Blaine. We are very good travel agents even though we have never been outside of Blaine Mo. And we have also been in some of the earlier amateur productions here in this town  for instance the musical version of Backdraft.  .  We are called into audition for it. And we go in sort of bemused by the whole thing because we know it is really just a formality that he is making us go through the tryout there because we know that we are going to be the stars of the show as we have been with the other shows. And so we try to put on that false humility.   And I say that in a nutshell is our  my character and I do not realize how overbearing I am. And I enjoy doing it because I guess there is also a little bit of that in me. I think if I were to just drop that little  you know open that little door in your brain that says do not do that or do not say that all this might come out.  It strikes me you have really made a career out of playing really square people.   I guess I have. I  you know I was born and raised in Cleveland Ohio. I went to a military prep school. I also went to  attended and graduated from Virginia Military Institute. So I can kind of relate to that mentality that very conservative square mentality which always amused me. And what you do when something amuses you like that you try to mimic it and dress yourself in that and do it on  in a performance. And it is always interested me. So I tend to  I grab on to those characters very easily. I was in Spinal Tap. I have one scene that a lot of people seem to remember. I played the sergeant who welcomes the hard rock group Spinal Tap to the Air Force base. And people said boy you just grabbed that character  because I can relate to it. I understand it. I have lived with those people. I understand their mentality. And I have always enjoyed doing it. As a result a lot of people think I am very square. I was in a comedy group called the Ace Trucking Company and we had some very colorful characters in it and I usually played the anchor guy. I was always the boss. I was always the guy who was trying to keep discipline. And we were in the dressing room one night about a Friday night and one of the guys in the other group started talking to me. He says you know it is taken all week for me to talk to you; I did not think I would like you because of what I see on stage . And it upset me very much and I thought gee that is what people are thinking of me.  Why do not we actually hear the scene from Spinal Tap?    Ah. The  Hookstratten. You are Spinal Tarp?   I am Jeanine Pettibone.   Jeanine.   And this is Spinal Tap.   Spinal Tap.   Yes.   My mistake. I am Lieutenant Bob Hookstratten. Welcome to Lindberg Air Force Base. Is this your gentlemen's first visit to a military facility?   Yeah.   Fine. May I start by saying how thrilled we are to have you here? We are such fans of your music and all of your records.   That is great.   I am not speaking of yours personally but the whole genre of the rock 'n' roll...   I can understand that yeah.   ...And so many of the exciting things that are happening in music today.   It is a great genre.   And let me explain a bit about what is going on. This is our monthly atease weekend. Gives us a chance to kind of let down our hair although I see you all have a head start on that . These haircuts would not pass military muster believe me. Although I should not talk; my hair's getting a little shaggy too. Better not get too close to you; they will think I am part of the band. I am joking of course. Shall we go in and I will show you around? Walk this way please.  I think one of the places where you perfected this persona of the square guy who really thinks he is happening and talented was on Fernwood 2 Night when you were...  Oh.  ...The sidekick for Martin Mull. And Fernwood 2 Night was this you know parody of latenight talk entertainment shows.  Absolutely. It was an improviser's dream because they gave me this character. I was supposed to have been the host the star of this small town Fernwood. You know the  I played Cowboy Bill and I probably hosted the latenight movie in the matinee and I had a  probably had a game show. And here's this new sharpie comes in from Miami who is Martin Mull and I am deflated. So it was a perfect character to play. You could be egotistical. You could pull out all the stops of censoring yourself. I was a bit stupid. So anything I said nothing could go wrong with what I said because it fit right into the character.  Since you have made such a career on playing square...  .  ...Can you give us some tips on how to be convincingly square?  I think you have to keep your eye on one object  that is let us get down to business. You can be amused at what is going about you in a very offhand  that could be one of the tangents yes. And if you are amused at something you let it be known that you are amused. You say yes I am amused at what you have said and I enjoy a good laugh as well as the next man but let us get back to the point in hand. You see the point?  .  You cannot ever  you actually have no sense of humor but the people who have the least sense of humor are usually the ones who are the first to say I enjoy a good laugh as much as the next man. And you know what follows that is but...   Right.  ...This is very serious. So that is it. You have got to strip away any sense of humor you have and just know that there is some bottom line there which I have never deciphered what the bottom line is  getting some job accomplished I guess. And I have always dreaded that  to be in that atmosphere. I have found myself in it. When I went to New York I worked in an office a credit office. It was a subsidiary of Dun  Bradstreet. And I for a couple of years had a boss who I kind of emulated when I have to play a boss or someone who is very strict  I kind remember him. He was just a big blowhard and you could see right through him. And I was on the brink of being fired for two years and every time I was ready to be fired someone else in my department would quit or leave and I would be back in his good graces. And I remember near the end I would come in  I remember one morning oversleeping and coming in like at 30 and walking into the office and my friends were walking out of the office. They were going to coffee break. I said where are you going? They said we are going to get coffee. So I turned around  and got coffee with them. So I said if I am coming in at 30 I might as well walk in at 11. Here's a hint for people who are working in an office and have one foot in the office and one foot out  when you leave at night leave your sport  your jacket there so when you walk in the door late you are in your shirtsleeves so the boss assumes that maybe you were there even earlier than him and he feels a little guilty that he  he will come in a little earlier the next day to see what time you actually did get in. That is just a little trick I am giving away for free.  Oh that is good. Thank you very much.  Yeah.  So how do you wear your hair when you are not on camera?   I think that is the strangest question I have ever been asked. I will have to remember that.   Oh I ask that to all my guests .  I comb it straight over my forehand like the famed Ish Kabibble from the Kay Kyser show. No I wear it pretty much the same. I have...   I did like my hairdo in Waiting For Guffman where I was playing what I thought would be Curly from Oklahoma in curls over my forehand. And I looked at that and I said my gosh I was trying to be funny but I look darn good there.  .  That is a style I ought to adopt.  So I have got one this question for you. How come I do not see you in more things?  You know   I will give you the phone number of my agent who calls me after every job and says how did you get that? You know I do not know.  .  I have  last year and this year I hit really a streak of gold. I was on Murphy Brown. I went to Family Matters. I went to Friends. I went to Roseanne. I mean I went like eight weeks in a row without missing a week of work.  Is Willard your real last name?  No my real name is Johnny Fortune. But the...   No. Yes it is. Fred Willard. Yes that is it. I am stuck with that. It is not the most glamorous name but it is mine yes.   Well Fred Willard thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you for having me on.  Fred Willard speaking to Terry Gross in 1997. The familiar comic actor from so many TV and movie comedies died last Friday. He was 86 years old. Coming up film critic Justin Chang reviews The Trip To Greece the latest talk and travel movie from Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon. This is FRESH AIR.  