 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest Pulitzer Prizewinning novelist Richard Russo is bestknown for his books Empire Falls which was adapted into an HBO series starring Paul Newman and Nobody's Fool which was adapted into a film starring Paul Newman and Philip Seymour Hoffman. We have lost both those great actors but the characters they portrayed in Nobody's Fool have been revived in Russo as new novel Everybody's Fool. It is set in the late90s 10 years after Nobody's Fool in the same fictional economically depressed workingclass town in upstate New York. Reviewing the novel in the New York Times Janet Maslin described this fictional setting as quote a town where dishonesty abounds everyone misapprehends everyone else and half the citizens are halfcrazy. It is a great place for a reader to visit and it seems to be Mr. Russo as spiritual home unquote. The character Sully who is played by Newman was described by Russo as a casestudy underachiever who is now in his early 70s and finds out he has a heart problem. Doug Raymer who was a cop portrayed by Philip Seymour Hoffman in Nobody's Fool is now the police chief a promotion that has resulted in boredom frustration and a few extra pounds from sitting behind a desk. Richard Russo welcome back to FRESH AIR. Let us start with a reading from the first paragraph of your book. And you are welcome to set it up for us or to just dive in  whatever you prefer.   Hilldale Cemetery in North Bath was cleaved right down the middle.  Wait I am going to stop you right there.  Yeah.  I love that you are starting with the cemetery. So just take it again.  OK.  I just want to point that out .  OK OK.  Hilldale Cemetery in North Bath was cleaved right down the middle its Hill and Dale sections divided by a twolane macadam road originally a colonial cart path. Death was not a thing unknown to the town's first hearty residents but they seemed to have badly misjudged how much of it there would be how much ground would be needed to accommodate those lost to harsh winters violent encounters with savages and all manner of illness. Or was it life their own fecundity that they would miscalculated? Ironically it amounted to the same thing. The plot of land set aside on the outskirts of town became crowded then overcrowded then chockfull and finally the dead broke containment spilling across the nowpaved road onto the barren flats and reaching as far as the new highway spur that led to the interstate. Where they would head next was anybody's guess.  Richard Russo thank you for reading that. That is from the opening of Richard Russo as new book Everybody's Fool. The cemetery is kind of a focal point in the book. I am always interested in what cemeteries mean to people and whether they want to be buried in one whether they visit relatives in one whether they feel particularly connected to the people who they visit in cemeteries when they are in the cemetery you know if it helps connect them to the past and to their loved one. And since you spent a lot of time in the cemetery in the novel...  Yeah.  ...I would love to hear what your relationship to cemeteries is and if your parents are in cemeteries if you visit them a lot there?  Actually despite the amount of time I spent in Hilldale in this novel I spend almost no time in cemeteries myself. I have tried on occasion to summon whatever it is that draws other people that I know and love to cemeteries. In the past when I have gone to visit the gravesite of people that I dearly loved in life  my grandfather is buried in the public cemetery in Gloversville N.Y. My grandmother right next to him. They were extraordinarily important people in my life. When I was growing up my grandfather bought a house you know not because he wanted to own a house  he had never even thought of that before  but because my mother and I were going to need a place to live. And he bought that house. And my mother went off to work every day and I spent time with my grandmother and grandfather. They were wonderful people that I think about a lot and have written about a lot. But when I have gone to visit their gravesite and I stand in front of the stone that has their names on it I just feel like an idiot standing there.  Why do you feel like an idiot?  Yeah I do. I mean and I say why am I here because I feel much closer to them writing a story about them that reminds me of them. And in writing about them I do not feel that way. I feel like I am bringing the best parts of them back to life the parts that I love the most. My mother's ashes are scattered actually in Menemsha Harbor at Martha's Vineyard. My father's ashes  and I am assuming that they are his ashes because he died at the Albany VA which is a huge  bureaucracy and his ashes were supposed to arrive at some point. And finally months after that I inquired you know saying where are my father's ashes?  And like two days later ashes arrived. And   but it made me suspicious that they were six months late but then two days later after my inquiry they arrived. I am sure I have somebody's ashes that are buried in a cemetery in Johnstown N.Y. And I have visited that site as well. And whether it is visiting Menemsha Harbor where my mother's ashes are scattered or underneath the flagpole in the veteran's cemetery in GloversvilleJohnstown visiting my father's grave I just do not feel like he is there. And if he is not there then of course I am an idiot. I am a fool.  If you are just joining us my guest is Richard Russo. He has a new novel called Everybody's Fool. That is a sequel to his novel Nobody's Fool which starred Philip Seymour Hoffman and Paul Newman. So in Everybody's Fool you return to characters from Nobody's Fool. Paul Newman starred as the character of Sully the main character in the movie adaptation of Nobody's Fool. Philip Seymour Hoffman was the police chief Doug Raymer  well he was then police officer. But in the new novel he is the police chief.  Right.  And Paul Newman and Philip Seymour Hoffman are both gone now both dead. And I am wondering how that affected your ideas about your own creations about those characters. For people who have seen that movie you know Newman and Hoffman kind of define those characters. You wrote those characters without knowing they would ever be cast in those roles. But still you must have been affected in some way by seeing them embody the characters you created. So...  Of course.  I am just interested in what it is like to revive those characters after the actors who portrayed them are gone.  Well it is both an exhilarating and a very melancholy experience as you might imagine. I made three movies with Paul Newman. There was Nobody's Fool of course and then he played Max  Max Roby in the HBO miniseries of Empire Falls and we did a detective movie together called Twilight as well. So you know Paul and I were not intimate friends or anything like that but I had a great deal of affection for him. I would like to think that he was fond of me too. He would always call when a new book came out. And he would say hotshot  and I...   I would know it was Paul. He would always say that by way of hello  hotshot good book. And so there was a personal relationship there. And you know they say about actors  about actors owning a role and I think there is a lot of truth to that. I think Newman owned that  owned that role. And when I heard him  because he did not physically look like the man that I had described in Nobody's Fool  but when I saw the movie I heard him say my lines and realized that he had found things in that character that I did not know were there which means of course that I now share proprietorship or ownership of that character with Paul Newman. And he would later of course do the same thing with Max Roby. So writing a sequel in Everybody's Fool there are now almost three owners to Sully because there is my father who the character was based on and there was the character that I created thinking about my man and then there is  and there is Paul Newman. So now I am kind of down to a third ownership of this character. But  and so I look upon Sully in the new book as a kind of collaboration  you know as opposed to an invention. And the same was true with Philip Seymour Hoffman. I mean I had no idea whether this book would ever be made into a movie. And if it did I would have no control over casting certainly. But in my mind I was thinking about Philip Seymour Hoffman. And I was probably 250 300 pages into the writing of Everybody's Fool and seeing Philip in my mind's eye and imagining him playing this character.  Again.  Again because it was a very small role but a much bigger one in this book. And I was imagining him sinking his teeth into a much more complex character than there was in Nobody's Fool  thinking about all of this when the word came that Philip had overdosed. And it threw me for as you might imagine a considerable loop  as I say not because I thought there was going to be a movie and he was going to star in it but I kind you know lost my North Star a little bit in writing his character and thinking about him. And my first thought was well I better  you know since he is not going to play the role maybe I should try to banish him from my imagination and from his ownership of this character and not be seeing his face every day. But he simply refused to go away. And finally I just made my peace with it and thought you know All right it is Philip Seymour Hoffman. And that is what I will write to. And if I am very lucky some other great actor will come in if there is a movie made and make the role his own and then I will you know then it will be another collaboration.  If you are just joining us my guest is Richard Russo. He has a new novel called Everybody's Fool. That is a sequel to his novel Nobody's Fool which starred Philip Seymour Hoffman and Paul Newman. Let us take a short break here then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is novelist Richard Russo. His new novel Everybody's Fool is a sequel to the novel Nobody's Fool and the movie adaptation of that starred Paul Newman and Philip Seymour Hoffman. So the character of Sully which Paul Newman played is based on your father. And I think several of the men in your novels have been based on your father's friends who you spent some time with when you were a boy. And we talked in an earlier interview about how you were not entirely sure why you kept going back to this world to your father's world and giving voice to some of the people from that world who you knew when you were young. Do you have  that was in 2002 when you said that  do you have a better idea of why you keep going back there now?  Oh I wish I could say I did. It would indicate some growth on my part.   If I were able to  you know if I were able to answer something in 2016 that I did not know the answer to in 2002 would not that be lovely? And I think that that is why I keep returning to my towns in upstate New York  my mill towns in upstate New York  is that I do not know there are still questions that I  despite the number of books that I have written  that I still do not know the answers to. And also I just love my parents' generation. I love that World War II generation. I love their optimism those men who came back like my father was a DDay guy. And those men came back having won the war that we needed most to win. And they came back to their spouses and they had the G.I. Bill and it looked like America would be theirs. It would be theirs. America was changing right before their eyes and it was theirs. That is what they felt like. The war that they had won entitled them to a piece of an America that  and I loved that. I loved their optimism their sense of a new nation.  So the character of Sully fought in World War II as did your father. Your character of Sully was on Omaha Beach. And he asked this question at one point in your new novel had he gotten off easy? During the war he would somehow managed to be standing in the exact right place while more talented men and better soldiers happened to be standing in the exact wrong one. Often that was right next to Sully. For a while there on Omaha Beach there had been a new utterly lethal lottery every few seconds. Did you often wonder how surviving affected your father and affected the life he chose to lead the risks he took his attitude toward life and death?  I have thought about it a lot. And writing that passage that you just read of course I was thinking about my father. My father was one of those guys that did not talk about the war much. And I had opportunities to ask him about it and most of those opportunities I neglected. Once or twice I asked him. And what he told me was pretty close to what I would just told you that it had  survival did not have really an awful lot to do with talent. It had an enormous amount to do with luck. Competence would help you to a certain degree but it would not get you home. For that you had to be lucky as well. For my father who made it from Utah Beach through the Hurtgen forest and all the way to Berlin I think it changed his life much as it changed Sully's life. There is an important scene in Everybody's Fool where Sully is talking to Ms. Beryl who does not want him to go. And she does not want him to go because she says it is going to change him when he comes  she fears that when he comes back he will be unrecognizable to himself and also to her.  And this is his teacher Ms. Beryl.  This is Ms. Beryl yeah. And he will be unrecognizable to himself. He will lose himself in the sense that he will lose his self. And I think my father came back a changed man. That is what the photographs look like. He was a young handsome daredevil when he left and he came back looking distinctly middleaged a man who had witnessed horrors. And I think that when he came back from the war he became  he became a gambler. And I think that sitting down in a little house with a mortgage with my mother and then of course I came along to live a suburban life an ordinary life was simply unthinkable to him. He needed the tables. He needed to play poker. And he played both sides of the poker table. He was a dealer at times and also a poker player. And I think the level of excitement  he just had to have it coming back from the war. He just was not going to sit down and be a father and a husband.  Which is probably one of the major reasons why your parents divorced when you were young.  Of course.  Yeah. So you know in the book you have to see the world from his point of view and have empathy for it. But that is the point of view that kind of lost you a father because he was there only irregularly in your life when you were growing up.  That is exactly right.  So is it hard for you the son to see the world through your father's eyes knowing that those are the eyes that kind of shut you out?  No those are the  that is the deal is not it Terry? I mean that is the novelist  that is what the novelist does. Novelwriting storywriting in general is an exercise in empathy. And it is helped me to understand my father in ways that I probably never would have. I might have  had I never become a storyteller had I never written novels and had I never invoked him in so many different ways out of a sense of yearning I never would have come to know him as well as I have. And so I view that as one of the great gifts of becoming a novelist. And learning to love him after my fashion and learning that he loved me after his has made me a better father. And I have not used my father  as much empathy as I have for him and as much  he was just a wildly wildly wildly entertaining man as I got to know as I grew older  I have not held him up as a study of  in fatherhood. And I have not modeled my own fathering with my own daughters on his example. I do not have very many rules as a father but the one is that I am always there. And in the Russo house when my daughters were growing up we had dinner together at the dining room table every night. If there were 12 nights during the entire time my daughters were growing up where we did not have dinner as a family that would have been a lot. So I show up in their lives and also try to be entertaining  to them. I hope that when I am gone that they laugh and remembering me that they will remember with a kind of  the kind of fondness in terms of my entertainment value that I feel   that I feel in remembering my old man.  I assume when you are gone they will not be visiting you in a cemetery that you will not be in one?  Well that will not be my decision Terry. It will be interesting to see what they decide. I have made my...  You are not going to leave your wishes behind?  I have made my wishes clear. But you know strange things happen after the fact. That'll be up to them.  Can I ask your wishes or is that too personal? It is fine.  I would  yeah. I  you know following what we were talking about earlier and you know the dead taking over and us being  I think we need to take up as little space as possible. So yeah I want to be cremated and returned to this earth in a way that does not contaminate it.  My guest is Richard Russo. His new novel Everybody's Fool is a sequel to his novel Nobody's Fool. After we take a short break we will talk about how he figured out that his mother had OCD and why he fears that in trying to help her he made it worse. And David Bianculli will review last night's series finale of the CBS series The Good Wife. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Richard Russo. His new novel Everybody's Fool is a sequel to his novel Nobody's Fool which was adapted into a film starring Paul Newman and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Russo as novel Empire Falls was adapted into an HBO miniseries also starring Paul Newman. Everybody's Fool like Nobody's Fool is set in the economicallydepressed workingclass town of North Bath a fictional town in Upstate New York inspired by the town where Russo grew up. The main character Sully the character Newman portrayed in Nobody's Fool is inspired by Russo as late father. There is a character in your new novel who beats his wife. There is a you know  a scene of that. And I am assuming you probably knew men who hit their wives or their children or both. And your novels are usually from you know the men's point of view. You did write a memoir that was a lot about your mother. But I am wondering if you got completely different views of relationships hanging out with your father and his friends on those occasions when you did but being raised primarily by your mother and by your grandparents who I am sure did not shrug off the idea of spousal abuse or of gambling or of being an irresponsible father.  Yeah growing up in my lower middleclass neighborhood in Gloversville N.Y. spousal abuse was not a thing unknown but it was in fact pretty much swept under the carpet at the time. And I remember stories of the cop car pulling up in front of the house and going inside and then the cops leaving again because it was deemed a domestic issue.  Your house or someone else's house?  Not my house thank God. Thank God no no not my own house or not anybody in my family. But I think when I was growing up in the '50s the right of a man to punch his wife that was seen as  if not a Godgiven right it was something that the police certainly did not interfere with. So it was not a thing unknown. I over the years as a writer have tried to look at both sides of you know  I have  I have written from the point of view of women and there are sections in this book of  Sully's lover Ruth has some extended sections in this book where she is talking about male behavior and where we get to see things through the female point of view. But Roy Purdy the character that you mention who beats his now exwife  despite the fact to my trademark I suppose in all of my novels is to try to feel a kind of empathy for my characters and figure out why they do what they do and to live in their psyches and travel for a ways down the road of life in their shoes. Roy Purdy I have to say tested the limits of my empathy in ways that maybe no other fictional character has. And when I finished writing the Roy Purdy sections of this book and then every time as I went through my numerous revisions being inside his head made me feel unclean. And I would shower after my sessions where I was dealing with that character not because he is the embodiment of evil  although he does incredibly evil things and takes enormous pleasure in it  but you feel unclean when you make something like that real because of course you find them in your experiences of life the things that you have witnessed. And that was not a pleasant experience writing about Mr. Purdy in this book.  So did showering help?  No.   Of course not.  Cannot wash it away can you?  That is not  there is no soap for that. There is no amount of hot water that cleanses you of that kind of you know knowledge of evil and its pleasures.  Did you feel sinful for creating this character and his sins?  Yes of course. No fun at all that.  Right. But he is not...  But then I was raised Catholic. I you know  I...   So I am used to that.  Right. OK. I know your mother who you wrote about in your memoir  I do not know like 3 years ago maybe...  Right.  She had OCD obsessive compulsive disorder. Was it actually officially diagnosed as such?  No. No it was not. And there are  if you were to talk to someone you know  other members of my family you know they might have come to a different conclusion. There is no doubt in my mind that...  What made you diagnose her that way since it is your diagnosis?  Actually I did not know that much about OCD. I knew that its symptoms  before I knew that there was a term for it  I knew that its symptoms had cut a wide swath through my family especially on the female side but of course I have inherited it from both sides. My father became a compulsive gambler after the war and kind of mastered it towards the end of his life. But the kind of ritualistic behavior that OCD people have to deal with has cut a wide swath through my mother's family and of course you know genetics the gift that keeps on giving  was already manifesting itself in my daughters. And I am not  I mean one of my daughters selfdiagnosed and immediately got treatment and is doing just fine. Thank God. But because of that because of her very smart selfdiagnosis and then going and getting help  because I was so fascinated by that I started reading books about obsessive compulsive disorder. And I was reading about my mother. That is what led me to the diagnosis was that I started reading about the disease and in doing so I was just like a stiff jab. Every page  every time I turned the page of the first book on obsessive compulsive disorder it reminded me of another of my mother's really uncharacteristic behaviors and something that I just  I never understood as a boy.  What were some of those behaviors?  Well I mean she had certain aversions. Most of obsessive compulsive disorder is  and I hope I am going to get this right because there are a lot of sufferers out there and I do not want to be wrong about this and I am not a doctor  but most of it has something to do with an idea of the possibility of contamination which is why so many OCD people wash their hands all the time. That is a very wellknown symptom but other people have other symptoms. And my mother had color symptoms. She hated the color yellow and could not have yellow flowers in the house or if for some reason she was at the grocery store and her favorite brand of toilet paper was available that day only in yellow she would have a kind of breakdown about that. And there were certain foods that she was convinced were corrupt in some way and that would make you ill. Olive oil  she could not bear to be around olive oil if you were using it to cook in a pan. Although she loved a spaghetti sauce which you cannot make without olive oil. If she did not have to be there in the kitchen and did not know that the olive oil  was in the sauce I mean...  This must have been really baffling to you as a kid.  It was absolutely baffling to me and yet you know when you are a kid and you have nothing else to compare it to  I mean normal is what you see every day and so that was normal. And I wrote the book trying to explain the difficulties in our relationship as being the result of our being so different. Only to discover of course by the end which I should have  had I been a little bit wiser or smarter  realized that I was writing a book not about how different we were but about how similar we were. I do not have the same OCD manifestations that my mother had but I have my own particular set.  What are yours?  Well I have managed  I think by stumbling on writing I have actually stumbled on an OCD manifestation that is actually been good for me. My ability to sit hour after hour turning over the same sentences 20 times because they do not feel quite right is the same basic impulse that some people have walking down the street and they have to touch you know the mailbox the railing on the porch. You know if they are going someplace there are certain rituals that they have to perform or their world is not right. For me  I mean there was a time where I thought I might actually turn out to be a compulsive gambler like my father. You know I hate to tell this story because it shames me even now but there was a time when I once gave blood in order to get into a poker game in order to have the stakes. But when I discovered storytelling writing became absolutely compulsive to me. It was all I thought about. It was all I did. And now what could have been unhealthy had it  had I turned to something else  drugs or alcohol or whatever  I now  I actually find draft 17 of Everybody's Fool quite pleasurable.   It is a living. It is a living Terry .  If you are just joining us my guest is novelist Richard Russo whose new novel Everybody's Fool is a sequel to his novel Nobody's Fool. Let us take a short break then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is novelist Richard Russo. His new novel Everybody's Fool is a sequel to the novel Nobody's Fool. And the movie adaptation of Nobody's Fool starred Paul Newman and Philip Seymour Hoffman. So do not take this the wrong way but  when your mother died  because you had so much responsibility for her for so many years 'ecause it was hard for her to take care of herself  and I just  I do not mean because of like declining physical health but because of her obsessions and compulsions and ritualistic behavior and other things you really had to  you took her with you when you went to college in Arizona. You took care of her a lot over many years. Was there some sense of relief when she died? Or let me put it another way because that sounds all wrong but...  Actually it is perfectly fine Terry.  Is it OK?  The way that you put it is perfectly fine. Anybody who has been a caregiver especially a caregiver over  over a long period of time understands that relief and will admit to it. It is terrible. It is a terrible thing to feel that relief. And it is made even worse by the fact that you feel so incredibly guilty for the feeling. So no there is nothing  there is nothing wrong with your question. There may be something wrong with my answer. I mean I believe in my heart of hearts that I loved my mother dearly and I know that she loved me. I was the apple of her eye. And because I also tried to keep her safe she felt the same sense of duty and love towards me that I felt and continue to feel towards her. And there should be no guilty  I mean I would not  looking back on it right even now knowing what I do about OCD I know that almost everything I did from the time that I was a child was wrong. If somebody could have  somebody with the right knowledge and understanding could have confronted my mother  you know this is treatable and it is treatable. It is just immersion therapy. Whatever it is that scares you you put yourself right up close to it and live with it until does not scare you anymore. That is how you get better.  What did you do wrong?  And  well I made her  when she wanted me to do something and wanted me to do it her way even when it made sense that is what I did. And so instead of forcing her to live in the larger world I helped her create a smaller one that she felt safe in. And it just got smaller and smaller and smaller. So I have a measure of guilt in knowing that over a very long period of time someone that I loved dearly and I owed a great deal to  I mean I would not even be a writer if it was not for her and her library of books which I had read just about every single one of by the time I was 18  but for her I would not even be a writer. I owe her an enormous debt but I also know that I did everything wrong right from the start. And it looked like I was relieving her suffering and her anxiety but I know now that I was doing the exact opposite. And so her death was a release from anxiety. And we always hear people of people being at peace. And I think that for a lot of people that is just language. But I do not think it was for my mother. It was finally a surcease of anxiety. And the relief I felt was partly an acknowledgment of that but also a release from my own complicity from  because by that time I was beginning to understand that instead of relieving her suffering as I was trying to do I was in fact the cause of most of it. And so you know nothing wrong with your question...  It does not sound like you were the cause of it.  There was  .  You unknowingly maybe enabled some of the anxiety but you certainly...  Yeah that is a good way...  ...Does not sound like you were the cause of it. And let us face it people did not know about OCD like they do now. I am not sure there was a diagnosis when you were young.  No there was not...  Yeah so...  There absolutely was not. And really not  as I say I was still basically ignorant on it even though  even at age 60.  How old was she when she died and what did she die of?  She was in her late 80s and she died of congestive heart failure.  I want to quote something that the police chief Raymer thinks and this refers to something you would said earlier. Raymer had always been tortured by selfdoubt allowing other people's opinions about him to trump his own so thoroughly that he was never sure that he actually had any. As a kid he would been particularly susceptible to namecalling which not only wounded him deeply but turned him imbecilic. Call him stupid and he suddenly was stupid. Call him a scaredycat and he became a coward. So I am quoting you there.  Yes thank you .  But I feel that way myself a lot. Like I...  Of course do not we all?  Like if somebody gives me positive feedback I feel like yeah I am really OK. Give me feedback and I think like oh my God I am such a failure. I am so horrible. And I think...  Yeah.  ...Some people more susceptible to that effect than others  people are always showing you who they think you are. And I think some of us are more susceptible than others to believing that mirror that other people hold up. Where are you on that scale? .  Well and this goes back again to what I said earlier about being raised Catholic. I  being raised Catholic I am fairly high on that scale. And because I listen to you Terry every night  o