 We have all found different ways to deal with this pandemic different ways to practice self care in these unprecedented times. For some it is been baking. For others like me it is been bingeing TV shows - so many TV shows. I think I am almost out of TV shows. But for my guest today it is been something else.  Oh man - sitting in the tub for three hours this morning just...  Three hours .  Oh I take...  Yes.  ...Long baths. Like I take naps in the bath. I listen to a whole entire album. I write. Yeah my fingers are just now coming back from being scaly.  .  But no. If you think about it it is like - because you have candles and then like there is a window but I like to keep it dark. And you can think. Like you can just - I do not know. I think really well with water and like no one else around. So it helps me just like reset.  OK. Do you write jokes in the bathtub?  Oh I write jokes in the shower. Jokes definitely come to me in the shower 'ecause I am like...  OK. Well OK.  ...Looking around.  Explain. OK so it is...  Yeah.  ...Different vibes in the shower. OK.  Yeah there is a different vibe. Shower jokes are funny because you are just like ha and then - because you can act out. So like I am in the shower and I am like moving around whereas the tub is like - I hear from God in the tub. I am like ooh.  Oh.  That is a good one Holy Spirit. Yes.  OK. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders and my guest today is actress comedian and lover of baths Yvonne Orji. You probably know Yvonne as Molly BFF to Issa Rae's character on the HBO show Insecure. That show is in its fourth season and it finds Molly and Issa's friendship pushed to a breaking point. Later on we will talk about a fight those characters had on the show and lessons that fight can teach us all about knowing how to maintain or when to end a relationship. Yvonne also has a new stand-up special coming out in June. It is called Mama I Made It. In the special she talks about her strict family and Nigerian American upbringing and a whole bunch of other stuff. We will get into all of that and more in this interview including what kind of stuff you hear from God in the tub. OK. Let us get into it. Get the water running light those candles find those essential oils and enjoy my chat with the hilarious Yvonne Orji. Watching you on Insecure the past few seasons I would bet a lot of folks given that role would not maybe right off the bat see you as a comic but you are.  Well the funny thing is I started in comedy. So I was a comedian before I was an actress and like that is how Issa first met me - as a comedian.  Yeah. Yeah.  And so I think it is going to be funny to reintroduce people to who I have always been.  Yeah. Now if I recall correctly from my reading up on you you first did comedy as a talent during a pageant you were in.  Yes that is correct - the...  Oh my goodness.  ...2006 Miss Nigeria in America Pageant.  Oh...  True story.  ...My God. I need you to tell this whole story play by play detail by detail because I am just like this is gold. I mean I cannot even imagine someone getting their comedy debut at a Miss Nigeria pageant. I love it already. Tell us the whole story.   Well so I did not clearly read the rules because I was in the middle of getting my master's and I was just you know busy tired. And two weeks before they were like hey we got your application. We are very excited but you did not list your talent. And I was like because I as not got one. And I was just like what are we - I was like is not a pageant just like come do a walk change outfits a couple of times and answer a question about how you would change the world if given...  Yeah.  ...The opportunity? Like I got this. Come on. Give me - ask my...  Bathing suit and world peace - that is it. Yeah.  So she was like yeah no. You need a talent. And I was so mad because I was like this is a pageant for Nigerians - right? - because they know the only talents Nigerians have are to like excel at school. How are we all going to do that on stage? Like you know what I am saying? Like...  I will take the LSAT on stage .  Girl I was like you ask me any question about covalent bonds I got this. Like come on.   And so I was just kind of - literally I had nothing else to do. Yo when I tell you Sam I went to my room and prayed - I was like God I am not about to look...  Wow.  ...Like a fool in front of all these people because Nigerians are the toughest crowd.  They will clown you.  I mean...  Yeah.  You know how like - so you know as a comedian you have different groups of friends that you can bring out to shows right? You can have...  Yeah.  Like your white friends are super-supportive no matter what. It is like hey guys.  They are going to laugh and clap. Yeah. Exactly.  Like we really just - hey guys. We are just here to support. Your black friend like she better be funny. Like it is just like...  Oh yeah.  ...'ecause I do not want to see her  if she not funny you know? And then Nigerians are like if she is not funny can we go? Like It is just - it is like we are not...  They will just walk out.  We do not want to associated with this crap. Like just get - and so I...  Oh my goodness.  This is like - there is so much riding on this moment. And if it does not work out it is going to be a problem. So I rehearsed my jokes Sam like I was like an actress. Like I did not leave any room for laughter because I did not know if there would be. So you know I felt like this is my script and I am...  So it was like a monologue. You were just getting through your copy.  It was a monologue. I felt like it was a one-woman audition. Like let me be.  .  Like let me be . But to my surprise people were laughing. And I was kind of mad because I was like you messed me up. I know this is what you supposed to do but you messed me up.  The laughter was annoying to you. The laughter was annoying to you. Wow.   Clearly I did not know the ins and outs of comedy.  Tell me one of the jokes that you said.  Oh my gosh. One of the jokes - I did a joke about how  African parents specialize in the two-day delayed backhand hand slap. And you got to understand because like they will not - you will do something and they will not immediately discipline you. They will wait till you least expect it. Like they will look at you in the moment like look at you . And then like when you are at the grocery store and they are like can you hand me the grapes? The grapes? Yeah. And then as you are reaching for the grapes you get a backhand slap. You are like what the heck happened? Two days ago I asked you to do something. You are like what the - like this is the moment?   Yep. Well I found that my mother growing up she would love to save a spanking or whatever she would love to save it for a public setting. She was like...  .  ...She was that mom who was like wherever you show out that is where I am going to show out. And like I will never forget it was in sixth grade. Everyone in class had been cutting up so we all got pink slips. And my mother was determined to give me my spanking in class. And the nun had to be like you cannot do that madam. You have to go home.  Oh yeah.  Leave.  My mom - I remember the most gangster discipline was when she showed up in class. And I was like talking to a boy by the locker. And I did not realize that she had been waiting in the car for like 20 minutes after working like a full shift. Baby - she came with that full anger. And I was like oh this is not going to end - it is not going to end well for me. It is one of those moments you are like hey guys. If you do not see me tomorrow just tell my daddy I love him you know because Mama is going to take me out tonight.   I love it. I love it. You know also before we you know move on to other stuff I totally forgot to ask you when one prays to God asking for a talent portion for a Nigerian pageant when God says do comedy how does God say it? What were the words that were delivered to you from high?  The exact words were do comedy. It was not even - that was like a full sentence. It was like - I always know when something's God versus me because it do not make sense.  .  Like I have more questions. When it is me I am like yeah I got all the answers. Then it is like just probably hey slow down. When it is God I am like so you are doing this on purpose? You are strategically not giving me all the answers so I can just come back to you. And basically he is like I know you are always going to need me. You are always going to need me with this comedy thing because it was not your idea. And I am just like oh this guy. He is actually pretty smart. Get in on it.  Keeps pulling you back. Time for a break. Coming up we chat about Insecure and the fight. You know what I am talking about. BRB. You know thinking more about your mother who just seems like - I do not know I want to meet her. She seems delightful and hilarious. She is kind of into the life you have chosen and the career you have chosen a bit more now than she was before. You know there is the whole immigrant parent be a doctor be a lawyer. But you are saying now she will tell folks that you are on Home Box Office. You are on HBO. She is proud of that. Like has she accepted Yvonne the comedian and the actress?  She has in a way that what most immigrant parents like want to do. They want to be able to like one know what their child does and be proud and like share it with the community right?  Yeah.  It is like if your child is a surgeon it is like he just did surgery on twins and they separated the hearts. You know it is just like wow that is important. Like heartbeats were separated? How do you do this thing? It is a way for us to brag right? But when I say oh Mom I tell jokes for a living it is like so you are a clown. You are a jester. You are just like - what does that mean? Like I cannot brag about this. I do not even know what to tell my friends. And I think now that like I think her friends are like we just saw Yvonne on X Y and Z. It is just like oh wait. Other people are seeing my daughter. Other people approve of this situation. Let me take a deeper look at this. And because the community has received it I think they can now receive it as like oh yeah we are proud. We were tripping. My bad. We are proud. The community knows. It is all out in the open. Everyone's good. Everyone's happy.  Yeah. They want the bragging rights. That is really what parents want.  It really is. It really really really is.   Which is harder for you stand-up comedy or acting?  Stand-up comedy.  Why?  Acting someone else is writing these lines. You know you got a whole group of writers who are just creating the character. You have everything working for you. You got lighting. You got gaffers. You got a scene partner. You know it is all of these things that are working in your favor. Comedy it is you a microphone and maybe one light. And you got to galvanize everybody. You got to use everything on the inside of you to make this entire room at the same time laugh.  Yeah. It is true. And it is like you are on the hook for all of it for that entire set. Like on a show your lines are not the entire half hour. It is a little bit of it you know? And it is like you do not have to carry the whole thing.  Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. No for sure. It is like you will see Molly in a 28-minute episode for like maybe 15 you know? Keep it moving.  Let us talk about Molly a little bit if you are cool with that.  Let us do it.  Let us do it. This has been a season. I want to talk about the really big fight between your character Molly and the character Issa on the show. They have been best friends since the start and now we find ourselves in the situation Season 4 where they have had this big humongous fight that could mean the end of their friendship. It surprised me to see the fight. Did it surprise you to see it in the script?  I mean this whole season surprised me. Like Issa and I genuinely love each other like in real life. So when you see our characters like fighting you are just like oh so we are not going to be friends? This sucks.  Yeah.  So before Episode 5 you know any time we are on set you know the energy is off because we are not supposed to be friends. But then also we are not on set at the same time this season specifically because she had Condola in her world. You know her world was existing without Molly. And so it was kind of like so I am not going to see you. And then when I do see you we beefing?  That is hard.  Who wrote this you know?  Yeah.  It was kind of hard. And then when we get to that moment it is kind of like oh I do not like the fights. I mean the first one that really rocked me was Episode 7 of Season 1 at the fundraiser. And I do not know why Molly be choosing real public places to have beef with Issa.  You all do do that. You all really do do that. And it is a look.   It is not a good look but it is a look. It is a look. It is something.   Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah. So she definitely - that one was the one that rocked me because it was like the first dramatic - kind of really really dramatic moment for us. Like the earlier fights I would end the scene and be like girl I am sorry. You know I do not mean that. Like you all wrote this. Like you know I love you. After this one - and I think this season was also a lot for a lot of people because we have all had friendships that break up. And I know personally I told Issa I am like man I am reaching into the well of friendships dead and gone to to play this.  So you were channeling other friendships ending to really pour it into this scene.  Yeah. No that fight was probably things I would have wanted to say to people could never say to people. So it was it was like I do not like this but I get this.  Yeah. How many takes did it take you all to get that scene right?  Oh man. It took a couple. And each time it was silent. I remember it just being silent in between the takes because it was very needy. It was very much like we do not - this is the moment where she says I do not - that like led to her saying I do not F with Molly anymore. And I remember that - this particular fight scene feeling very different feeling like oh it has - have we gone too far? Have we gone too far?  Yeah. It felt like it was going too far. And like I as - I mean like you know you get invested in these relationships in these shows. I was like taken aback  watching it. What do you think watching this whole thing is going to do for fans of Insecure? Like what do you want them to take from this season and this fight? What is the lesson in it for folks and also a lesson in it for you?  Use your words. The lesson is use your words because we could have avoided so much of this if we just talked. So many - like if we talked at Thanksgiving we could have avoided this. If we talked after the grocery store if we - like if we talked during the lunch that Condola invaded we probably could have gotten to a better place. But now it is just like...  Yeah.  Good luck.  It is also all about timing. There were multiple moments where one of you all was ready for the conversation and the other one was not. And it is so important to have these critical conversations when both people are in a place where they can have them. And often that is just as much of a challenge as having the right words to say.  For sure. For sure. Like I think - and sometimes you do not know the word but you know the feeling if that makes sense. Like I do not know what to say necessarily. But I feel - and Molly then like I feel used. And Issa's like I feel like your boundaries are stupid. But it is just like basically I feel let down is what Issa - you know? It is like you were supposed to be my ride-or-die. And I feel like you are now my die and not my ride. So yeah for sure finding the right words the right time it is all - man this is - adulting is hard. They do not teach you this in kindergarten. They tell you to take naps.  . Time for another break. When we come back how Yvonne Orji was bamboozled - that is right bamboozled - by God - bamboozled into the dream life she has now. She will explain. BRB. I want to ask you a few questions if I can about your upcoming book.  Sure.  OK. I mean I am so intrigued by the title. It is called Bamboozled By Jesus How God Tricked Me Into The Life Of My Dreams. I am going to need you right now to give me one example before this book is even out of at least one trick that God played on you that turned into a dream . Please tell me.  Man God's been bamboozling me my whole life. He bamboozled my parents with me...  .  ...Because I was born holding my mother's IUD. And it was basically like...  Shut up.  Oh I promise you. In 1983 in late - in Port Harcourt Nigeria I came out clutching the thing that was supposed to prevent my conception. And I was like are you all looking for this?  Wow.  You all thought you could keep me out?   Take that.  Real talk. So I think God was like oh I am going to send her off on a path from birth. And so he bamboozled my mom then. And then he bamboozled me like I know you thought you was going to be a doctor. You not. You not. But do not worry. Just - it is going to take about eight years for you to make it. And it is going to be long. It is going to be rough. But hey stick with me kid .  OK. Yeah .  You know that - like that is how bamboozling works. Like nobody would choose to get bamboozled.  .  But you keep going and you just keep saying yes and you just keep trusting and believing and having faith. And then you get to the promised land. You like Jesus knew what he was doing. That - you know I rock with Jesus.  Hearing you talk about this what I find really interesting and probably really hard to do for like people who are looking to a higher power for guidance you know - when you say to yourself I am going to let God trick me you have to admit two things. You have to admit that you think God is smarter than you and knows more than you do and that you are not the smartest. And you have to kind of say I am not in control either. And those can be two hard things to do. It sounds like you have been listening to God and letting him bamboozle you for a while. Was it always that way for you? Were there moments where you did not want to listen where you just did not?  Well I grew up Catholic. And then when I got to college I became a born-again Christian. And I remember being like so let me get this straight. We can have a personal relationship with God. Like we can talk to him. Like he is the homie. Cool cool cool cool.  Yeah. Yeah.  Well this seems pretty you know if I - input-output.  .  And I think I was just dumb enough to take - you know what I am saying? I was just dumb enough to take God at his word. And like well I mean either he is right and I am wrong or the opposite. And I think he is been doing this longer than me. So I am going to go with him being right. Like I know personally when I am not in the sweet spot with God. Like it is like that is when I need to go back in the four-hour tub where it is like oh my bad Jesus. I left you a long time ago. Talk to me again.  Yeah. How have your conversations with God in the bathtub changed since the pandemic hit?  I do not think they have changed. I think they have gotten more frequent...  OK. Same here.  ...Because you know when we were outside you know we were too busy for God. It is like oh yeah you good. Like God you know I am on tour. God you know I have got to work on my special.  He knows my heart .  God you know what I am saying? God you know where I am at. You see how busy I am. And he is like OK cool cool cool. I am going to just shut down outside so I can get your attention.  Yeah. I have also found that like just you know not even just in prayer but just like in life this is - the last few weeks - the last few months of like lockdown if you sit still quiet enough in your own house you start to just like also hear your past a lot more. I think so much of our life pre-corona was like what is today? What is happening right now? What is on my calendar today? And something about the last few weeks where we are just out and about less - I do not know. You start to hear ghosts from your past and have to grapple with that in a new way. And you have more stuff to talk to God about in terms of all that old stuff. It is been...  Yeah.  ...Quite interesting to me.  You know my friend Devi Brown who is doing a lot of work with Deepak Chopra - she was saying that this is a divine time out. And she called it like our time to like excavate things in us. And I was like ooh excavation. I was like dang. Are you digging...  That is heavy.  ...With a shovel? You know excavate this...  It is a violent act. Oh my goodness.  Get the shovel. This is coming out today. We as not got time for this. And you know I think we have let things kind of simmer for far too long. And this is why God's not playing games with us no more - is we got to...  Yeah.  We either got to get better...  Excavate it.  ...Or get left.  Excavate it. Yeah. I am curious because I was raised PentecostalApostolic. How born again are you? Like what kind of church you talking about - like tongue-talking shouting in church kind of stuff? Like tell me.  I speak in tongues pay tithes you know praise and worship.  OK.  You know I am sold out for Jesus.  Soul sister.  I love...  I am connecting to you right now. I am the son of a church organist a Pentecostal church organist. I am in...  Listen.  ...There with you girl.   The only man who could ever love me was the son of a preacher man. I do not know why I did - broke out into the song. I apologize.  I loved it. No that stays in. That stays in. That was gold.   Just horrible. Just - I mean...  It sounded good.  God said make a joyful - he said make a joyful noise. And I believe I just made noise.  As long as you felt joyful it is joyful.  Listen. Listen.  He did not say it had to be good. He said noise. It is noise. It is fine.  I mean you all go and take this noise and add a tambourine to it -  get your tambourine on.  That is - come on.   Get yourself a whistle. All the - all like...  .  I combine Eve and like a gospel. So like I was just - I would...  Yes.  ...Be like  the Lord is good. Get your tambourine on. Get yourself a whistle. It is like OK - copy copy boom.  And I would twerk to that song in church. I would. I ask about your faith background because you know it is still in 2020 a rarity to see folks working in your industry talk as candidly about your belief as you do. As you navigate the industry and the world of comedy and TV and acting do you see your faith and your career intertwined or do you see them as separate? Is there some stuff you just leave at home or in the bathtub and do not take to work? How do you live your faith in those spaces?  For me it is intertwined because like I do not know how to take him off - you know what I am saying? - because it is like I - like I do not know how to take my Nigerian-ness  off you know? Like and I would not.  OK.  And so it is like in the same way like I cannot take my blackness off.  There you go.  There is aspects of me that is just like - I cannot take my gender off. Like I - when I show up I show up as what you see. And so when I open my mouth I also show up as what I believe. Now that does not mean I am like hey you got to believe the same thing I believe. That is not it because that is not even what Jesus came to stay and do.  Yeah.  But it is like hey if there is anything in me or on me or of me or about me that you like here's really why you know? Like here. I am an amalgamation of African immigrant parents and the Bible and you know like and - literally. And...  Yeah.  Two degrees - like everything about me that you see and love this is why.  Thanks again to actress-comedian Yvonne Orji. Insecure Season 4 is out now and Yvonne's stand-up special Mama I Made It airs in June. You can find both on HBO. Listeners if you enjoyed my chat with Yvonne about faith and spirituality and God and bathtubs please tune in next month. The theme for all of our episodes in June is faith and belief. We are going to talk with different actors and musicians and writers about their faith and how it keeps them going in this really weird time. You will hear from the likes of Nicole Byer Hasan Minhaj Kirk Franklin James McBride and so many more. I am really excited to share it with you. It is all the feels and I think you will like it. Before that we are back in your feed on Friday with another episode and for that episode of course we want to hear from you. We ask our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week every week. You can be part of that. Record yourself and send that voice file to me at samsandersnpr.org. I should also point out here we accept audio and video and pictures of pets and kids and babies even cats. You can send pictures of cats. It is fine. All right. Until Friday thank you all for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon. 