 Three things my wife hates uh as you know  Me.  Yeah. You.  Yeah.  Uh your stupid face.  Yep. That is two.  I cannot remember what the third one was.  Um -  Me wearing cowboy boots was pretty bad. This is Death Sex  Money.  Well I would prefer not to talk public publicly about any of those three things.  Yeah!  So why do not we go do all three. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. I am Jason Isbell in for Anna Sale. And today I am talking with my best friend Will Welch who also happens to be the editor-in-chief of GQ Magazine.  One thing that is funny that we do encounter is people think it is weird that we are friends.  That is true.  It is partially chalked up to like what people perceive as like you know a Nashville -  Man who used to be -  folk Americana singer-songwriter  Yeah.  and a guy who is like the editor-in-chief of the place with the fancy suits and the shiny shoes. Will recently became GQ's top editor after years of working his way up the ladder. But when Will and I first met he was just getting his start in the magazine world and I was finding my footing in the music world too. He wrote a profile about a band I used to be in The Drive By Truckers.  So it was 2004 I believe and we were in Muscle Shoals Alabama.  That was probably the lowest point of my life um because I was in the middle of uh separating getting a divorce um working uh in a creative environment that was stifling difficult contentious for me you know.  Yep.  Due in no small part to my own behavior um as as problems usually are for me uh -  I certainly did not know when I met you that I was dealing with a man at the bottom.  Oh good.  Well I do not know that you necessarily knew that either obviously.  Yeah not at that point.  Um but uh I specifically remember we went to a meat and three -  Hollywood Inn.  Hollywood Inn.  Hollywood Inn Soul Food across the street from Bunyan's Barbecue.  The reason I did not know that you were at the bottom is because you did not have dessert.   I did not.  I was like this this is a man on a diet. He is not at the bottom he is saying no to this peach cobbler that looks so good. I was like this is a man on the rise!  You know you were there with Danny Clinch photographer.  Yup.  And if Danny's around I do not get dessert because I am in in the back of my mind -   You are like I need to have my photo taken.  Yeah. This is gonna make a huge difference in the photo.  Yeah.  The the the six ounces of peach cobbler that I may or may not eat today are going to make the photo good or bad. You know?  Yeah. Suddenly these pants are gonna fit.  Yeah. It is not the last eight years of drinking. It is the it is the peach cobbler. Since then I mean it is been pretty much constant contact.  Yeah pretty much daily. Part of me suspects that um the the long distance nature of our friendship is uh appealing to you on some level.  Um -  You are just not a guy that likes a lot of people in his face all the time.  Yeah it is true. It is true and -  Just like as a blanket statement not because you are you know a well known rock and roller or for any other reasons it is just like the nature of your personality.  It is true. My my my therapist tells me that I am uh an introvert but I have been forced to uh portray something different.  An introvert with extrovertic tendencies.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah. Um and that may be true -  I mean you like having your wife and your and your baby girl Mercy Rose Isbell in your face but otherwise -  Yeah. And you know I need I need time away from them too.  Yeah.  And they would they would tell you the same thing you know. Um all the relationships that I have had that have worked on the long term  Yeah.  have been relationships that you know had periods of of not constant contact.  Right.  Or or you know not being around that person all the time.  Yeah.  Um uh so what do you think the longest we have gone without speaking to each other would be?  Couple weeks?  Yeah probably when I was in rehab.  Yup.  I think that was it because I did not talk to anybody. Seven years today I went in and and -  Hey.  I have been sober seven years today. So there we go.  Where is the tattoo parlor?  I know. Let us go.  Jason has - can I speak on your tattoos?  Yes. Yes please do.  Jason has notches for his sobriety years.  Yeah.  And um so another notch is due.  We need another.  I believe them to be on your right forearm but I could be wrong.  They are. Yeah they are on my right forearm.  See?  I started down by my wrist so hopefully I will go all the way. If I get -  If it wraps around your shoulders and goes down your left forearm then you know -  Then I am getting drunk. Yeah they are small. So if it gets  Yeah.  if it gets to my like armpit then that means I am about 112 and I am getting hammered.  I should say I have I have uh five years but no notches.  Yeah. You you have you have mental notches though.  Yeah.  And and you uh getting sober was a big deal for me.  Yeah.  It was a really big deal for me.  Yeah.  Um obviously it was a huge deal for you and for everybody else in your life but it was  Stratosphere. Yeah.  it was like the first time in my sobriety that I felt like oh shit somebody somebody needs me and I can help.  Yeah. Well I have very specific uh memories of uh exiting my you know walking out of the building where I worked at the time. It was in Times Square and I was standing on 43rd Street and I was like I do not know man this is not working this is really not working. And um you kind of walked me through some options but what was nice about it is you were not offering I would not even say you were offering advice. It was just kinda like well let me tell you my experience. Uh I obviously knew your experience but you sort of walked me through some aspects of it that might apply. Um and then I had a totally different approach but felt completely backed up -  Yeah.  - and you know knew that I could and often did call you to to talk about it or text you about it or whatever.  Yeah. And it is always like like I never feel more confident in the stability of my sobriety then when I am talking to somebody else about it. And it does not have to be it can be me saying I need help or somebody else saying I need help or you know uh every time it is like you get another power up  Yeah.  you know when you just get it outside in the room.  Well what I value about those conversations uh over the years um is that they very rarely uh they are kind of like rooted on a foundation of sobriety. But basically have nothing to do with using drugs or alcohol or any of it. So it - it - it immediately becomes a conversation that is much more about um what is going on with us emotionally how we are connecting with people or not what is going on in our respective marriages and it all feels like in a way we are talking about sobriety but we are actually never talking about like drinking. We are not like Man I am really white knuckling it right now.  Yeah.  There is mini bar in this hotel room!  Yeah. Tell me it tastes bad man. Tell me it tastes bad.   Um.  But yeah it is like - it is like - it is like a song. Like somebody asked me you know what is the song about? And it is about everything. It is about writing a song.  Yeah.  It is about being a person.  Yeah yeah yeah.  It is just all about being a person and sobriety is to me about being a person  Yes.  and growing up and becoming more adult and and more aware.  Yeah.  And you know that awareness I think is the is the trick to almost everything for me. Because when you are aware you are you look around and you are like man I have got it really well.  Yeah.  Let us count the things that are going right. And sometimes we do that. Sometimes we just talk and we count the things that are going right  Yeah.  in a roundabout way.  And and you know and sometimes what is going right um uh especially we are or you know both in our - well I was about to say we are both in our thirties.  Uh huh. We are not though are we.  We are not.  Thanks brother. Thanks.  Jason's newly 40.  Newly 40.  I am I am deeply into my thirties um but you know we have both been working our working really hard and having some success and sometimes it is really there is nobody to talk to about like aspects of success that  Yeah.  where you do not feel like completely embarrassed and like um -  Very often there is no right answer to How are you doing? You know if you go back home and somebody's like Man how have you been? There is no  But -  there is no right ans- you need somebody who knows you and somebody who is -  Yeah and most people do not want to like hear about like you know something really exciting happened.  Yeah.  And I need to share about it and I could use a little bit of help like figuring out how to navigate it. But it is basically like some form of brag.  It is always.  You know.   And if you are complaining they are like Yeah let me tell you about my life asshole.  Yeah. Exactly.  You know we got to talk about money because that is one of the words.  It is.  We gotta talk about death and sex and money. So let us talk about money.  Alright cool.  Um this is a good introduction into this conversation. I - I just bought a guitar and I bought a guitar that is like you know saying I just bought a guitar is understatement to the point to where it almost makes me an asshole just saying I just bought a guitar. But um you know it is a very famous guitar and it is - it is a 1959 Les Paul Standard sunburst guitar. It was owned by Ed King formerly of the band Lynyrd Skynyrd. Ed came up with the riff for Sweet Home Alabama and uh he passed away last August and Sharon his widow brought uh a lot of his guitars in to uh Carter Vintage Guitars in Nashville which is my local guitar store.  Yes.  And in Nashville your local guitar store you know is - is like I - I - I dunno I dunno how to say it it is just like it is it is it is a dangerous dangerous place.  I was gonna say.  It is dangerous. And they had this this Les Paul sitting there and I pick it up and I have always told myself I am never going to own a 1959 Les Paul uh Sunburst -  You mean because you were just trying to get used to the sound of your own voice acknowledging the fact that as much as you would like to it is just not gonna happen.  It was yeah it is out of my reach and it is not feasible. But I picked it up and it immediately felt and sounded different from any guitar that I have ever picked up before I plugged it into an amp or anything. And I - I became obsessed with it. Uh so I obsessed about it and you know I called my accountant and she said no of course not that is ridiculous -  You absolutely may not -  No no sir you can not have that guitar.   - do the crazy thing that you are thinking.  Yeah. So I called my manager and - and I was like we have to find a way for me to pay for this guitar without affecting the people around me the people who work on the crew the people in my family you know I can cut back however I need to for however long I have to but this is something that is really important to me. And she said we will take some extra gigs we will make it work. And so we did. And you know I took it home and and uh it it did a thing for me. You know it took me to where my priorities were long ago which is like I really love to play the guitar and and so I - I justify it in that way. Um.  Right.  But I cannot completely justify it. I cannot completely justify any of it. It all seems like a ridiculous privilege to me you know just to be able to take a taxi in New York  Right.  rather than walking or rather than taking the subway or you know and - and how do you feel about those kind of things? Because both of us are in a very very fortunate position.  So uh I I basically feel as though I live extremely modestly.  Yeah.  I actually have a tattoo on my hand that says Want nothing which did not get there by accident. Um and I think it is also good in relationship to my job which has heavy elements of being like about fancy things um to just have a really careful relationship with fancy things.  Uh huh.  Uh I also though you know fall in love with beautiful things and recently that has like moved into some uh I would say you know pretty - pretty modestly priced art and I am always trying to feel out like how impulsive is this you know.  Yeah.  And recently you know I often am like this is impulsive and I am going to ride that and it is okay. You know?  Yeah. And you need it. If you are like me the impulse is going to rear its head somewhere.  Yeah.  I know I know this about myself man.  Yeah.  I have been you know.  So let us consciously choose the impulses that we allow to come to fruition instead of having them just leap out of us.  Right.  Like we both used to be outrageous risk takers of a largely unhelpful sort.  It is comparatively it is a safe risk.  Yeah. I have to say something.  Yeah.  So and I and I think this is like true to the way that you and I speak to each other. I have just like been noticing my experience through this entire money part of the conversation I am just like completely uncomfortable.  Yeah me too.  Saying into a microphone that like I have been buying paintings in a very like entry-level way  Yeah.  just makes me completely uncomfortable.  Me too. Me too. The guitar thing. Totally. It yeah.  So anyway.  And why? Let us figure out why that is.  Um well I think it is because we are both hyper-aware of matters of um of matters of privilege and um and both are people who when we are talking cannot help but understand the way other people are hearing us.  Right.  And so I am constantly like trying to figure out how any of these personal things we might be saying sound. And I feel just uncomfortable about the way the idea of like buying an expensive guitar or an expensive painting sounds.  Yeah uh yeah. Me too. Me too because I - I look at the guitar or I mention the guitar and I think about the kids that I grew up with that you know had holes in their shoes and then I think about the fact that they were doing really really well compared to somebody else somewhere else you know.  Totally.  And and yes it does make me feel like a real serious asshole. But at the same time when I was a kid you know if rockstars did not get to have 1959 Les Pauls you know I do not know if I would have wanted to be one.  Yeah.  And like watching Jimmy Page  Yeah.  he had a 1959 Les Paul you know.  Yeah and and Jimmy Page did not come on WNYC and cry about it.  Hell no! Coming up Will and I talk about mental health masculinity and why Will recently went public with his cancer diagnosis.  And I did think about that before I published it you know.  Yeah.  Like do - do I want people to who Google me Well what is up with the editor and chief of GQ Style? Like well he has one testicle.  Earlier in this episode you heard Jason and Will talk together about their sobriety and about the day Will realized drinking had become a problem for him. Were interested in hearing your stories about drinking and how its working or not working for you. Has the way you drink changed? Has there been a particular moment that made you worried? Record a voice memo and send it to us at death sex money at WNYC dot org. We will not share your recording or your name without getting your permission first. And to hear more about Jasons early days of sobriety -- listen back to the first time he was on our show in 2014. He and his wife musician Amanda Shires talked about how their relationship was affected by Jason going to rehab.   He was writing letters because they dont let you talk on the phone. He said nice and sweet things like wait to see the progress and all this kind of stuff. Drew pictures.  During that period was it your impression that your relationship was in jeopardy?  I knew it was in jeopardy but Id been after her for a long time. A long time. So as nervous as I was and as scared as I was that she might not be there when I got out some part of me thought it would be alright. But I didnt know for sure. Listen to that episode by texting Jason to 70101. On the next episode Al Letson who hosts the podcast Reveal talks with investigative reporter Nikole Hannah-Jones. She won a MacArthur Genius grant two years ago and around the same time got the name of her hometown tattooed on her wrist.  I call it my You came from the dirt to the dirt you can be returned tattoo like never start thinking too much of yourself. Like you you can be humbled. And you know I live in New York I work at The New York Times. I get invited to all of these elite spaces. I know a lot of prominent folks but those people did not contribute to making me who I am.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Jason Isbell in for Anna Sale talking with my friend Will Welch. I met my wife Amanda around the time that I first met Will. Then the same year that I married Amanda Will married his wife Heidi. Soon after our weddings Amanda and I went to visit Will and Heidi at their home in New York. And at the end of the trip I almost destroyed my friendship with Will forever.  We were talking about wedding gifts  and uh getting married and all all this and somebody had given us a SodaStream. And I went into a bit which I often do uh to my own chagrin later on I hate that I went into a bit but I went into a bit about the SodaStream. And my argument was you know SodaStream might be healthier. It is certainly less expensive but who cares that much about soda? And I went on for a long time because I was cracking myself up and you know I got a couple of laughs out of everybody else.  And you do this. You get rolling downhill on something and the bit the bit grows the bit flourishes.  It does.  That and that one flourished.  And it flourished and it felt good at the time. And then on the way to the airport from your apartment I thought dear God Will and Heidi gave us the SodaStream. And I turned to Amanda and I said Did Will and Heidi give us the SodaStream? And she said God they did. They did. And both of us were like -  Turn this cab around!  Yeah I mean we were almost in tears  Yeah yeah.  like on the way we are like oh my God we cannot go back in person we are going to miss the flight and we are like we have to call. So we call nothing ha-  you know you guys did not answer. You guys were you know having like we had just left.  Yeah yeah.  Why would we be calling? Um - turns out you did not give us the SodaStream.  We did not yeah.  Uh but we were both completely convinced that you had. Whoever did I am sorry. It was a great gift. It was just a bit you know. Uh but has there in your opinion been a time when we have been at odds or distant?  No I mean I think there were there were times where you know we were not capable of communicating with each other in the way that we are now. And that like um you know when like you were going into rehab  Yeah.  there were things that you told me after that I did not know were going on with you.  Yeah.  And I felt like - like oh man I did not I did not know you know that is my friend. I did not know he was struggling with that.  At the time I thought that it was you know the bad thing to do uh would have been to tell you all those things  Of course. Yeah.  that goes on with me. But the opposite turned out to be true so. Yeah it is been -  Yeah. I have never been angry at you.  I have never been angry at you either.  Yeah.  Not at all. Not not even when I used to get angry at people.  That is because you largely act right.  Well -  In regards to me anyway.  At the very least I think we we understand each other's motivations.  Yeah.  You know I - the the the male reflection of depression the - the grumpiness is something that will get a hold of me very quickly. You know I I have uh probably a shadow of depression not not a full on uh you know chemical situation with it but I fight that more frequently than I fight anything else. Because just getting sober did not make me all of a sudden happy. Everything the world did not change.  Yeah it does not fix you. Yeah.  The world does not give a shit if I am drunk or not you know.  No it does not.  It does not.  There is a uh I recently as you know wrote a feature I profiled for GQ Style uh this guy named Ram Dass who is a uh famous psychedelic explorer and then spiritual guru. But one of the many things that has really will be with me forever is this idea that all thoughts words and actions are an offering to God. So I have tried over the last year or so to make that just a constant presence in my waking life. So I am at work and something tricky is happening and somebody comes into my office and gives me some news I do not want to hear. How do I react?  Your yeah your reaction is yeah.  Is an offering to God. React accordingly you know what I mean?  What is a way that you would respond now uh with that type of awareness that that you would not have five or six years ago?  Well in in the way that you get grumpy I get snappy. So um you know -  We are like the seven dwarves of male depression.  We are yeah.  Grumpy snappy  Yeah.  shitty.  Just between the two of us we are the  Dopey.  we are the seven dwarves.  Self-aggrandizing. He is the worst dwarf of all.  Mouth breathy. My spirit dwarf is mouth breathy.    You are too tall for your sinuses to work right.  That is true.  It is not your fault dude.  That is absolutely true. So um anyway I fail every day at this but essentially what I try to do in moments where I feel overwhelmed where I feel snappy or I feel - grumpy I do not relate to on the on on the same level as you. For me it is more about this like Grr! this reaction. Um you know you try to like take a deep breath and - and bring in generosity. You know?  Yeah.  And like I am receiving news that I was not expecting and do not welcome. Maybe do not welcome is not the right start to receiving this news.  Right.  So hopefully over time I can get to a place where I no longer have to feel the snap rise  Yeah.  override it call in genero-  do all these things but it is more of a natural way of being.  Yeah. Let us - let us talk about your gig. Because it is very interesting to me uh the job that you have uh now. You are the editor-in-chief of GQ Magazine.  Yep.  Um. How do you navigate running a men's magazine right now?  Well for me you know it was interesting when I got the job there were a handful of people that were like Congratulations that is the best thing that is ever gonna happen to you which I do not necessarily agree with  Yeah.  but I appreciated their sentiment.  A little little backhanded. Yeah.  Yeah and there were other people who were like Yikes.  Yeah.  Woah. A men's magazine in 2019. Good luck with that. But for me it just felt like pure opportunity because um you know I guess I am like comfortable as um comfortable as like a leader and -  Yeah you can handle it.  Yeah.  You you would rather drive than ride. I am that I am that way too.  Absolutely. And and so for me it is like this incredible opportunity to participate meaningfully in the conversation that is happening right now and it is a conversation that I think is um exciting and important and necessary and tricky. Um but I am not scared to look it in the eye I suppose.  Right. Where I grew up the - the masculinity thing was - was - was it was severe. And it is like a thing that now I feel like in some ways I am I am on the other side of that kind that idea of masculinity and and looking at it and thinking like you know there is a lot of things that you can be called on the internet and every once in a while I see one of them and I go Oh man! But it is never one of those you know guys that is calling me somehow less of a man.  Yeah.  Those do not even register. Those are just funny to me because I know -  Maybe even sometimes feel good?  Yeah. Oh totally totally. Yeah.  Yeah that is like a compliment. Yeah.  Yeah and it also makes me sad for them.  Right.  You know uh uh in a way because it is like yeah fuck that guy. But still I wish somebody somewhere had managed to get through to him  Yeah.  that that is not how you do it.  Well if he is you know hitting you back on Twitter that means he is engaging with your uh content  Yeah.  and that means maybe there is a glimmer of hope for him.   Sir please continue to engage with my content.  That is right.  I am not going to block you  That is right.  I am just going to mute you  Yeah.  So I have to talk to you about this uh recently you you had uh testicular cancer.  Yes.  And you chose to talk about that. What what made you feel like you wanted to open up about that?  It was um interesting basically what happened is I uh I was traveling for work. I noticed a lump on one of my testicles and I was like that is not normal. I need to have that checked out as soon as I get back to New York and yeah in the past I do not - I probably would have like noticed it and just buried that information. Um but essentially I got back I went in uh to see the doctor and I thought it was gonna be just like this is no big deal. Something really normal is happening to you. And it became very - the word cancer was he put it on the table  That was there.  very fast.  Yeah. I remember you called me and I could tell that you were scared.  Yeah.  I was scared. You know and it was a few days there that that it was tense.  Yeah. And it was basically a six day stretch that ended in me having uh surgery to have the the testicle in question removed and along the way I had to write an editor's letter and I was like either I can lie and write about something else and say Did you see the pretty pictures on page 163? Or I can deal with the thing that is occupying 97 percent of my brain and basically process through writing and sharing.  Yeah.  Basically I made a couple of corny like dad-like ball jokes.  Gotta do it.  Yeah. Um just to like keep things light and I basically just shared what I was going through. And a lot of what I was going through was um it was scary enough that I was able to ask myself if everything is not all right is it still all right?  Yeah.  And the answer to that question was yes.  Yeah. I could I could hear that.  Even if this goes the worst way it is alright. You know.  Which is the best I think the best thing you can hope for as an adult human  Yeah.  person is like you know yeah. One day I am going to be gone.  Yeah.  Okay.  Okay.  If it is today alright.  I do not need to go bungee jumping.  Yeah. Bungee jumping's pretty awesome though but -  I have not done it.  It is - it is pretty awesome. But still yeah. I mean -  Super scared of heights.  Like I am not I am not uh I am not you know if I had 24 hours I do not think I am making a bunch of phone calls.  Right. Yeah.  You know uh I do not I do not think that is how I want to uh that is how I want to spend it you know. Uh I think everybody knows you know and I felt like that with you. Like you know yeah. If if if this went completely sideways and there is no more Will Will did a good job you know what I mean?  Yeah and I would you know if that is how it went I would be very grateful for the last five years especially. That is my friend Will Welch who is now cancer free. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. If you are not subscribed to this show what are you doing? Make sure you hit that subscribe button because this is a really good podcast. If you are new to the show they have even got a starter kit of some of their favorite episodes just for you. Find it at deathsexmoney.org. You can follow me Jason Isbell on Twitter and Instagram. I think I am also on Facebook. My latest album with my band the 400 Unit is called Live from the Ryman. And I hope you will catch me and my band on the road. Check my website jasonisbell.com for a tour date near you.  Ultimately what we are really trying to do here is promote our wares. So  Yeah. If you want to know the secrets to the friendship between two grown men who share three testicles please buy my records and a copy of GQ Magazine.  Many copies. All the copies.  Yeah all the copies. I am Jason Isbell and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.