 Hey before we get going I just want to let you know that suicide comes up in the conversation you are about to hear. If you are struggling please ask for help.  People get too like sad about it. They get too like Oh no  Yeah.  you suffer from depression. Oh Trevor  Well it is it is com -  oh let me hold you.  We think we are being empathetic.  Oh let me hold you. Oh child. Oh child.  We are giving and we are being empathetic!  Yeah but what we do is we create a stigma without realizing it because we feel pity for people.  This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. I am Tressie McMillan Cottom in for Anna Sale. And I want to tell you a story about the very first time that I met Trevor Noah. I am a sociologist a professor and a writer. And a few years ago I went on The Daily Show to talk about one of my new books.  ...and I go home and of course everybody you know is amped and is like oh my God how is it? Everybody wants to know how you smell. I get that question a lot actually. It is very strange.  How I smell?  Yeah no serious. How good does Trevor  Wow.  does he smell good? Does Trevor smell nice?  Well I have never ever thought of that as a thing. I mean I I try to smell clean but I have never wow.  I know. I have been on the show again since then to talk with Trevor about my newest collection of essays Thick. But when we sat down for this interview it was the first time that I was the one asking the questions.  this is where I get to be a diva. Once the thing is running I can kind of do whatever I want.  That is that is the job.  Right?  That is the power that comes with being the interviewer. Now Trevor's only been an interviewer himself for the last few years. Before landing The Daily Show gig he worked primarily as a stand-up comic with sets that focused heavily on his life growing up in apartheid South Africa.  And so this world is awkward for me growing up because I grew up in a mixed family...what with me being the mixed one in the family. My mother is a black woman and then my father's Swiss. My mom was arrested for being with my dad. She would get fined she would get thrown into prison for the weekend but still she would come back. She is like Wooo! I do not care I do not care! Come tell me who to love I want a white man! Wooo! That is from Trevor's 2013 comedy special at the Apollo Theater. And in the six years since then he has been busy. In addition to becoming the host of The Daily Show he is continued to tour as a comedian and then he found time to write a bestselling book about his family and childhood called Born A Crime. Much of the book is about what it was like for him to grow up as a perpetual outsider. And I wanted to know if after the last few years that feeling has changed at all.  Do you feel like an insider anywhere these days? Does any place feel like home?  Once you accept that you may not necessarily fully fit in anywhere you go then home is where you are. But I am still as much like what is strange is if originally my my outsiderness was defined by the color of my skin in a country that defined you by the color of your skin now fame has replaced that. So now  I was thinking -  fame has made me an outsider in a different way.  Yeah.  So now I do not have my anonymity when I go home.  Right.  People are glaring at me. They are like there he is there he is.  Uh huh.  And so in a way I have become an outsider again in a different manner.  Has that made fame stranger or more familiar to you? 'ecause I actually I think fame is actually one of the the strangest things.  Yes.  Um and I think especially for someone like you who likes to talk to people because it feels to me like it is that is one of the first things it takes away from you.  It does. Celebrity removes your anonymity  Uh huh.  Like sometimes it is the weirdest thing people will literally stop being themselves when I walk into a room if they know who I am.  Yeah.  You know I I was in a I was in a Duane Reade one time and two guys were packing stuff on the shelves and they got into a fight about it. And I just stood there and I was like oh shit this is gonna be funny.  Yeah it is going down. This is good.  This is gonna be funny. You know? And they were just going through an argument. It was like Man I told you you you cannot put that Man do not be Man do not be -  and then the one guy literally stopped and turned. He is like Oh oh oh oh aye aye aye aye. He is like yo yo it is Trevor Noah man.  Aye yo man.  Cut it out cut it out and then they just stopped.  Yeah.  And I - I could not believe that my my world stopped being as normal as it would have been because people knew who I was. That feeling of sticking outis all too familiar to Trevor. It was illegal for black people and white people to marry under apartheid in South Africa. Trevor's very existence as a child was literally a crime. While he occasionally saw his white father he spent most of his time with his mother.  I was raised in the most powerful matriarchal society ever.  Yeah.  You had a country where most of the men who were fighting against the apartheid government were either imprisoned or were fleeing to exile or were were were were in some way ostracized from from engaging in normal society.  And the women were holding it down.  The women were holding it down. And so I grew up in that culture. I grew up in a culture where my grandmother was raising a family. My aunt was raising her family. My mother was raising her family and all of these women raising their families single for different reasons but raising them single nonetheless. So in my world genuinely I grew up I grew up with a warped sense of what the world actually is.  Yup.  And -  It must have been so bizarre for you to leave that bubble  Yeah -  and see that the rest of the world did not see this at all.  Yes it it it constantly is. You know my mother is fearless she is fierce. She believes what she believes in. So my mother would tell me Oh I am going to dress sexy or oh I would you know she would tell me Oh baby before you were born she would be on  Uh huh.  I would be on the back of a motorbike with my ass out and living my life and what and I just I just I just understood that this woman was comfortable with all aspects of being a woman.  Yeah.  And I envied that in her. I still envy her til this day you know because I did not grow up with the same level of confidence. Um you know I - I was plagued by self doubt my entire life and so my journey is constantly trying to be comfortable in the space and in the body that I am in.  Do you think of your mom as your friend?  Definitely.  Yeah?  Definitely. My mother and I have we we have many different roles in our relationship and I think it is very important for a parent to have that. She never wanted me to be a mommy's boy my entire life. And she always used to say to me she said The one thing I never want to do is create a world where you are one of those men who is married to his mother.  As a black woman who often dates black men you know on occasional Tuesdays it is it is interesting we have that narrative about you know mother - mothers raise their daughters and love their sons.  Yes.  And what your mother wanted to have happen here is she was not going to create that beast that she had seen happen for other women.  Yes yes. It was never a love that was devoid of criticism. But one thing that I always loved about my mom I mean I hated being disciplined as a kid but one thing I loved is she never made me feel like the discipline or my punishment diminished how much she loved me. You know my mother would say to me I discipline you because I love you. I will tell you that you need to change these things because I love you. But oh when it came to praise my mother just praised me for existing. She would just go like Look at you!  Oh.  I walk into a room and she is like Who is this boy? Who is this? Oh who is who is wow who is his mother? Who is his mother? She is like Man his mother must be hot. Look at this handsome face.  I was about to say I think that was as much about your mother loving herself  Definitely oh definitely.  as it was about loving you. Of course you were amazing! She had made you.  Exactly.  Now if your mother is your friend do you have a crew?  Very close crew. Yes. Yes.  Yeah. What does this crew look like? Like you all out playing basketball or - ? I do not know. I am trying to -   No. Um  It is like Entourage?  most of them are from South Africa.  Ok.  Most of them are in South Africa. And thanks to technology we speak every single day multiple - like what is great about technology is genuinely I will not be in South Africa for a year. I will go back and we continue a conversation. There is no Oh so you did not know this happened in Tressie's life and -  no. It is literally like So tell me about this guy Tressie. What happened on that date? We just go we just go straight into it which I love. And like we we have these sessions where sometimes we will sit down with each other whenever we have had a trip or a vacation or a group of us have been together for awhile and then we just spend a moment being like Hey I am grateful for you because of these things that you have done in my life and these are the things that I have seen grow in your world. This is how I have seen you change. And these are a few of the things I think you can still work on as a human being. And then it is just like Yeah man I love you give each other hugs and then it is like alright the trip is over and then we go back to our lives.  Are you serious?  Yeah.  Well you are going to live forever. You know that. Because I think that kind of social network - what we know is that especially black men in almost every culture by the way  Yes.  do not have those social connections. And we think that is why you know they are more they die younger they have poorer health they are unhappy. Um because there are some things that you cannot get from your family  Yes.  you cannot get from a romantic relationship that really does have to come from someone who sees the world the way you see it? Um and what you just described sounds like it is well oh well it is just going to keep you alive forever. Your blood pressure must be amazing.  Yes. It is actually very good.  See?  It genuinely is.  Science.  I am very calm as a person.  Is your biological clock ticking?    You do not give a -?  And I 'ecause I can see you doing your mom's thing and going  That is funny.  Of course you are amazing. You are like you are me.  That is amazing. Can I can I be honest with you? I think what one thing I am enjoying right now and maybe it is it is the the the silver lining of social media I choose to see but I am loving how we celebrate that now with men. You know you see them like celebrating dads who who are who are being what people would have considered a few years ago extra as dads you know?  Yeah.  Playing with their daughter's hair and dressing up with their daughters and dancing to Beyonce's routines with their daughters and -  Oh yeah. Oh you are gonna be so good at doing hair.  Yeah are you kidding? I am not I am gonna be I am amazing at doing hair.  Shut up. What can you do?  I am amazing.  What can you do?  Girl you want a blow out that'ill blow your mind?  Actually yes I do.  Yo Tr- you must understand something about me. First of all first of all I had a giant Afro. I had cornrows. I have relaxed my hair. Like -  I did see this in the book. You had a bad relaxer.  Let me tell you something let me tell you something now if you want to relax your hair which I would not recommend but if you do and you want someone who is not going to burn your scalp  Yes.  you come to me.  Shut up. Coming upTrevor on living with anxiety and depression at home and at work.  The head writer at the Daily Show Dan Amira? I told him one day I said Hey buddy you are going to struggle to see me at work on time in the mornings. Sometimes I will be on time sometimes I will be early sometimes I will be 15 minutes late because I am suffering from depression and sometimes I do not see the purpose of getting out of my bed or living life. And he was like wait what? --  Hey this is Anabel Bacon--Im one of the producers here at the show. We first had Tressie on Death Sex  Money a few years ago...for a project we did about student loan debt. You told us how much you owe... I am about 88000-- 10000-- 241000-- One-three-four-zero-zero-zero-- Thousands and thousands of dollars into student debt. And how those numbers impact everything else about your lives. My own husband he has no idea. I have blatantly lied to my friends about student loans. I carry guilt but mostly embarrassment In so many ways I felt embarrassed. I feel like a big fat freakin' loser. Theres four episodes in that series--two featuring your stories and then two live shows with experts and calls from listeners around the country. Thats where youll hear Tressie talk about for-profit colleges and predatory lending practices. To get a link to the first episode text the word LOANS to the number 70101. And you can find the entire series...plus some resources...at deathsexmoney.orgstudentloans. Were always working on big projects like that...and right now the thing on our minds is drinking. A few weeks ago we asked you to tell us about the role alcohol plays in your life...for better or worse...and youve already sent in some really interesting voice memos.  My mom was in rehab when I turned 21 so theres always been this weird kind of dichotomy of--this is the substance that she had been using to try and kill herself. And this is the substance that all of my friends use to have fun and dance and flirt. Tell us about how alcohol is...or isnt...working for you--record a voice memo and send it to deathsexmoneywnyc.org  -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.  January 5 2016. I am Tressie McMillan Cottom.  From Comedy Central's world news headquarters in New York...this is The Daily Show with Trevor Noah. Trevor became the host of The Daily Show in early 2016 when he was just 31 years old. At that point like a lot of people he thought the next few years were going to look very different. Right before the 2016 election he told a reporter from The New Yorker that he was looking forward to being done with Donald Trump jokes. Of course he did not get off so easy. And the upcoming election is something that both of us are thinking about a lot these days.  I think it would be harder to get a woman than another black man.  Why?  Misogyny's a hell of a thing. Like a friend of mine was was asking me yesterday he said Hey do you think uh do you think America is ready for Pete Buttigieg? Do you think America could have a a gay president? And I was like yeah because he is gay in a way that many people in the country do not mind. It is like gay not in my face gay. You know so people are like Yeah I heard he is gay but whatever.  Right.  It is whatever. But women man I remember when Kamala Harris was on the campaign trail and she went to meet with business owners. There is a street in in this area she was in and it is predominantly women who own businesses.  Okay.  And so while she is there she was like I am going to buy something for the pride parade back home and now she is doing it. But she is engaging with the people there. And then all the news outlets went with Kamala you know decides to go shopping.  Oh go shopping. I do remember this. That is right.  Yeah. It was shopping. 'ecause that is what you women do Tressie.  Because you know men's clothes fall from the sky.  Yeah you go shopping.  Right.  But they did not even treat it like a campaign event. They did not even treat it like being on the trail. They were like she is shopping when she should be campaigning to be president. But -  So you think it would be harder for a woman?  Definitely.  White woman or non-white? Can a sister do it if a white woman cannot?  Wow. That is a really interesting one.  Oh oh oh.  That is a really I - I - I do not know. You know what I find fascinating especially in America is the dynamics of how it like it is like it is like um it is like rock paper scissors of like race and gender.  Race class and gender. Yes it is very much so.  It is like okay so this beats that. But then that beats that  Right.  and then that beats that.  Yeah.  Because here's what I find interesting and maybe you could help me with this. Here's the reason I genuinely think it would be harder for a woman to be president in America.  Okay.  Is because at the end of the day when it all comes down to it men stick together.  Yes.  And I will be honest with you one of the hardest things I have been struggling with in my life recently is trying to make sense of the fact that women are some of the biggest roadblocks to other women.  Yeah.  I had a close friend share a story of sexual assault with me and I could not believe this had happened to her. And then she told me her best friend told her You wanted it. That is why you dressed the way you did.  Yeah.  And that you  Yeah no.  serves you right for always thinking you are hotter than all of us. This was her best friend.  Yeah.  I remember watching footage of women in the 2016 campaign saying I do not know if we can have a woman as president.  Right.  Women are so emotional.  Right. Well there is just so much currency in being the woman who is emotional. I think the difference is men do not benefit from um - when men lose in a conflict they are judged on yeah but you fought.  Okay.  Right. So their sense of self worth and their participation in the group of men does not hinge on whether or not they won or lost the conflict it is that they just engaged in it.  It is how you fought.  That is right.  That is interesting.  Hey he just went in. He took his hits right? He took his licks. Yeah he got his ass kicked but look  Yeah.  he took his hit. For women we are judged on the winning or the losing and so there is so much currency  Oh wow.  in just not being in the conflict that I think that we there there is too much to earn from turning on each other in a way that is not true for men. Yeah. Because I one I cannot believe that it is that women hate each other. It is like me understanding that black people internalize racism absolutely  Right.  and enact it on each other but I fundamentally cannot believe that black people hate themselves and each other.  Right.  I just do not think that is how we are made up as people. I think the same about women. I do not think we are made up -  That is interesting.  So it must be an incentive that is just so strong  Yes. That makes sense to me.  that it overrides your basic human nature to uh take care of each other. Yeah. That is what I think.  Wow.  Yeah. I know that makes us feel good. Right? You would vote for a woman you would vote for a woman?  Yeah. Easily. Having these kinds of political conversations publicly? That is just one of the many things Trevor's had to get used to as the host of The Daily Show.  I have never had a job that starts at a time.  Oh.  Ever.  So you never did like uh KFC? You never were fast food?  No I - I worked at an arcade but the arcade had weird hours. Which was good and bad for me because they say when you one of the best things to do if you suffer from depression is have routine. My entire life was not routine.  Right.  So this The Daily Show was the first time I had a job with a routine.  How was that?  Fantastic.  Yeah?  It is beautiful. It is a because I no longer need to think about what I should be doing I am just doing it. My brain has no time to worry about what could be  Yeah.  and what was.  The unstructured time this is why it gives you such a difficult -  Exactly. Everybody's depression and anxiety has different triggers I have found. And so I have to remember what my triggers are. I have to so for instance one of the weirdest triggers for me if I have an extremely productive day I have got to be very careful because the next day I might be depressed.  Actually I I think I get that. But why do you think that is?  Because what happens is I I can achieve so much in one day that then when I wake up tomorrow and there is nothing to do I just feel like it is - it is my mind starts spinning and I go well what am I going to do? Then I go what is the point of any of this? Where does it go? What are we doing? And I always say to my friends like I have I have friends who we talk about you you know depression with. Um many comedians suffer from depression  Yes. Yep.  and I do not know if depression is what makes you a good stand-up or good stand-ups end up becoming depressed. I do not know which way it goes. And one of the the things I - I - I have I have noticed I always tell people this I am lucky because I am I suffer from depression but I am an eternal optimist.  That is not totally at odds though. Right? Yeah.  Right. And so what happens to me is I have been thankfully spared from any ideas of suicide  Uh huh.  because every time I think to myself I cannot go this is too much  Right.  I just want to end it all I always have this thought Tressie and I go Alright if you think you are going to end it all what would you do before you end it? And I go okay first things first you got to finish all your money.  You gotta go to the -  Second of all you got to go and tell all these jokes that you have been too afraid to tell.  Uh huh.  And what you should do is tell everybody how you feel about them and then you should go on TV and also tell people everything you think about politics and what is going on in the world and then I get excited. Man I should just do those things regardless! And then I have come to realize for myself depression and anxiety occupy two states that are permanent when they should not be. So when I am anxious what I am doing is I am dwelling in the future a future that may not come to pass.  Right.  When I am depressed it is because I am dwelling in a past that is no longer the present.  Did you ever worry that uh the permanence the the the feeling of depression in the moment that permanence um was real? Were you did you always have the optimistic uh side to it?  Yes.  Even when you did not have all the money and the fame?  Yeah no I have been -  'ecause it seems easier to be honest.  I actually think it is harder when you have that stuff. Because you can no longer tell yourself lies about which um which material things will get you out of the ruts.  Yeah.  Because sometimes if you are depressed and you have nothing you go If I can just get a bit of money then maybe I would not be depressed. You know if I just had if I just had a girlfriend or boyfriend maybe I would not be depressed.  Right.  You know if I was famous maybe I would not be depressed. Imagine having all of that and being depressed. And one thing that is wonderful surprisinglycontrary to what many people will believeis being comfortable knowing that you you have it. It is like having a bum knee. And I think that is how we need to treat mental health. If somebody said to you Oh man I got a bad knee. Then we are just like Oh so what do you do about that? Ah I do not squat as hard and I try and do exercises to stabilize the knee.  Yeah.  And I think that is what we need to do. And so for me what is liberating is telling people with a smile Oh I suffer with depression. And then people will say to me -  Oh that radical honesty though is not that a trip?  Yeah and then people go You do not seem like you suffer from depression.  Yes.  And I go No you are mixing up sadness with depression. I did not say I am sad I am happy. I am happy and I am optimistic.  And depressed.  And depressed. And that is a contradiction many people do not understand. That is Trevor Noah. Catch him hosting The Daily Show every weeknight on Comedy Central and believe it or not he also spends his weekends doing stand-up on his Loud and Clear tour. Find a show near you at trevornoah.com. You can follow me Tressie McMillan Cottom on Twitter tressiemcphd. And check out a couple of my other recent audio projects! I was on another podcast called The Stakes talking about black maternal mortality rates. Listen to that at thestakespodcast.org. And I now host my very own show with my friend author Roxane Gay. It is called Here to Slay and it is available on Luminary. You can go subscribe today. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote the theme music. And if this is your first time listening to Death Sex  Money you should add it to your regular lineup! Go to deathsexmoney.org to subscribe and click on the button that says Starter Kit to see some of the episodes other listeners think you should start with. If you have already got a big crush on Trevor after listening to this episode I have got news for you. Not only is he successful and adorable and perhaps one of the best male feminists I have ever sat down and spoken with. But the man is also handy.  I have been to a hardware store at 2 AM in New York City.  That is and that should never happen.  I had a toilet seat that was wobbly  Yes.  and then I realized there was like a screw that was loose and I was like I need to get the screw and then I Googled hardware store and then I went and I got00 AM!and the guy at the hardware store was not like Hey man why do not you wait till the morning? He was like Yeah aisle four. Let me help you.  Yeah. Got that. I am Tressie McMillan Cottom and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.