 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show from NPR member station WBUR in Boston senior producer and host Ben Brock Johnson and reporter Zeninjor Enwemeka. All right let us start the show.   Betty got it.  Yeah.  She was thinking about it.  Yeah yeah. That was good.  She works hard.  I appreciate the effort.  Yes yes.  She struggled with mine clearly.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend from Boston where I am this weekend. So excited for a Boston WBUR takeover of the show today. Both of my guests are BUR folks - Zeninjor Enwemeka reporter at WBUR covering biz and tech and Ben Brock Johnson host of the WBUR and Reddit podcast Endless Thread all about fun Reddit stuff.  Yeah. Fun not fun scary intriguing.  So we are joined in studio today by the Rolling Stones and their song Start Me Up.    You can start me up. I will never stop. I have been running hot.  Not just because it is a great song but because they are in the news this week. Have you heard the Rolling Stones news?  No. What is the Rolling Stones news?  That Keith is still alive?  They are all still alive and very much alive. So the band was set to have this big stadium tour and then they had to postpone it for a while because Mick Jagger the lead singer - he actually had heart valve replacement surgery at 75. But he says we are still good to go. The tour is back on. They are doing 17 stadium stops later this year.  Wow.  Oh my God.  That is dedication.  Right? And so he posts this video that I want to try to find for you all where he just shows himself dancing wildly to show that he is back at it again.  Oh my God.  He is never going to quit.  Oh my God.  It is insane.  Who is his doctor? Someone should interview that person.  .  They just updated his software. It just took a little while.   Living his best life.  It is fitting though because this song Start Me Up the lyrics say start me up I will never stop. That is true for Mick Jagger. That is true for him. Mick keep dancing.    If you start me up I will never stop never stop never stop never stop. You make a grown man cry.  All right. Let us talk about news news.  Oh yeah the news.  News news.  Anyway every week we start the show by asking my guests to describe their week of news in only three words. Zeninjor you are up first.  Yeah.  What are your three words?  Thanks trade war.   It is a trade war guys.  With China.  Exactly. You know this back-and-forth between the U.S. and China - the latest round the Trump administration slapped new tariffs - 300 billion worth of goods from China. China of course responded with its own tariffs. But did you guys see the list of the Trump tariffs?  I started reading it and I just got depressed.  Yeah it includes...  All the things you love.  Yeah yeah.  Yeah. I mean it includes so many things. We are talking about everything from live animals to lacrosse sticks. Another thing that I thought was interesting on the list is something that everyone buys which is shoes.  Really?  Yeah. I did some reporting on that this week. And did you know that most of the shoes sold in the U.S. come from China?  I do not doubt that now that you say it.  I feel like everything comes from China so I do not - it does not surprise me.  Yeah. I mean in some way or other you are probably right.  Yeah.  But it is something like 69 of shoes sold in the U.S.  Whoa.  So will these tariffs make my shoes cost more money?  They are going to make your shoes cost more money.  Like how much?  Let us say you have a sneaker.  Yes.  The sneaker right now maybe costs about 160.  What are these sneakers?  Hey you know you got to get your - you got to - you know you got to step your shoe game up.  The Yeezys.  All right.  Yeah maybe the Yeezys maybe something else.  OK.  But let us say you got some sneakers that right now cost 160.  Yes.  With the tariffs they would cost somewhere around 200. And we are not just talking about like the high-end shoes. We are talking about across every price point.  Really?  So even your cheaper shoes would cost a little more.  So my question though in the year of this trade war this back-and-forth between Trump and China he is been doing things to offset some of the impact. So a lot of the agriculture tariffs...  Yeah.  ...Have been offset by direct subsidies to farmers. Is there a possibility for like a shoe subsidy  or something like that?  Maybe. I am sure - you know I am sure some of these companies are really - are looking at that.  Yeah.  You know I think even with - on the agriculture side there is - you know some of that is still pending. A lot of people sort of submitted to kind of get a little bit of a reprieve from those tariffs. So we will probably see some footwear companies trying to do the same thing. But again this is a long list of a lot of things.  Yeah.  So there is going to be quite of a line of...  Yeah.  ...Different industries trying to maybe get some bit of a break here.  Yeah.  This makes me think about when I was 11 years old and I really wanted the Nike Airs.  Yeah.  And my parents told me I had to get LA Gears.  I am so sorry.  Oh my God.  The light-up? The ones that lit up? The light-up LA Gears?  I just - I remember they had a lot of very bright shoelaces.  Oh. There are two kinds of people in this world Nike Air people and LA Gear people.  I was an LA Gear person. And it is interesting right? You have to think about like I can buy stupid expensive shoes if I really want to but I feel like this is going to really impact people who are buying shoes for kids...  Yeah.  ...People who are on the line of like being able to buy those shoes. And that makes me - I do not know. That makes me sad still I guess.  Yeah. But it feels like overall when I talk to people in the world no one's really buzzing about this trade war. For whatever reason it has not really felt like it is hit our pocketbooks yet.  True.  Do - does this new round in any way seem to indicate that it might start to actually hit us where it hurts?  It might.  Yeah.  I mean we are talking about all sorts of things. I mean right now we are focusing on shoes but it is like you know spices meat - all sorts of things - electronics toys you know speaking of you know things that you want to buy your kids. So it is going to impact a lot of different items. And you know we can expect that the companies are not going to eat those costs.  Yeah.  The companies are going to...  Pass it on.  ...Pass it on to consumers.  Of course.  My question and my - I kind of marvel at Donald Trump's skill at this. Like when you hear farmers and folks in the Midwest who voted for Trump and support him they will be asked over and over again how do you feel about these tariffs?  Yeah.  They will say it is hurting my pocketbook. It is losing me money. But I still support Donald Trump.  Totally.  Because his heart's in the right place and someone needs to get China. And he is managed to make this issue that could be purely economic and just about your pocketbook - he is made it emotional and visceral.  That is true. Hearts and minds.  If the - yeah. Like he is winning these hearts and minds in a way that is - I do not know - kind of amazing to behold.  Yeah.  Anyway my three words are to the courts because we have seen several laws be passed in statehouses across the country that will most definitely end up in court. I am talking about new abortion restrictions in states like Alabama. In that state this week their governor Kay Ivey signed a bill that would ban nearly all abortions in the state. And it makes it a crime for doctors to perform abortions at any stage of pregnancy unless the mother's life is in danger. There is no exceptions for rape or incest. The law is not set to take effect for several months but there is already folks on the right who say this might be too much. So Pat Robertson famous televangelist he opposes abortion. On his show The 700 Club he said quote I think Alabama has gone too far. He said the law was extreme and says he thinks this law would lose at the Supreme Court. So the question with this is if you have people on the same side saying this might be too much what do these lawmakers hope to accomplish with it? I am not sure yet.  It is really interesting too to see just the number of personal stories that pop up when this larger debate starts to happen.  Yeah. Yeah.  Like you know I was scrolling through Twitter last night as you do and just seeing a lot of people tell personal stories about this which I think is always helpful to me because it - I do not know - it makes me understand the issue better.  Yeah.  But it is also interesting that there are people on the right who are like this might go too far.  Yeah. Well and you have not just Alabama passing laws like this. Missouri this week passed an abortion bill that bans abortion at eight weeks of pregnancy. Georgia Mississippi Kentucky and Ohio have also passed laws that ban abortion after a heartbeat is detected. And a lot of folks are saying all of this is happening right now because after decades of trying the GOP has succeeded in packing a lot of courts all throughout the country even the Supreme Court with conservatives.  Oh yeah for sure. I mean I think - yeah. There are many people who believe Roe v. Wade is settled case law. But clearly there are many Republican lawmakers who are pushing for these bans who you know they are looking at the Supreme Court and saying hey we have a conservative majority. Now is the time to take a shot at it.  Yeah yeah. Well and this is like the culmination...  Yeah it is like 30 years in the making or something. Yeah yeah.  Yeah. So I mean for decades across the country the GOP has been really focused on winning statehouses and winning court seats.  Yeah.  And so when you do both of those things you can pass a law that might be out of the mainstream but can rely on it possibly moving through the courts and being upheld.  Well yeah it is interesting. I mean I am curious to see how this plays out with other states. So we have already seen other states following Alabama. Will more follow? But then on the other side the blue states will there be sort of a pushback to that? I mean we are already seeing here in Massachusetts at least there is a bill basically looking to sort of strengthen the laws here.  Yeah.  And so I think we might even start to see some of the more liberal areas blue states start to...  Oh yeah. We have seen states like New York...  Yeah.  ...Vermont Rhode Island...  Yeah.  ...They have gone the other way with abortion.  You know I think this is definitely going to roil the 2020 race for sure.  Oh yeah.  And it will be interesting to see how that plays out.  Yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders in studio with two great guest - Zeninjor Enwemeka reporter at WBUR covering biz and tech and Ben Brock Johnson host of the WBUR and Reddit podcast Endless Thread. What are your three words?  Face-based race.  Say that 10 times fast .   So this is the story. This week San Francisco has become the first U.S. city to ban the use of facial recognition technology by the police and local government agencies.  When I saw this I did not know that people were doing this already.  I know.  Oh yeah. It is been happening for a while.  It is crazy.  It is been happening for a while. And it is also in the...  Especially within law enforcement.  Really?  Right. And it is really interesting because we do not have a lot of transparency with how police departments across the country are using this technology. And you know big picture I think the facial recognition story is about how our behaviors around technology as consumers - basically like buy now ask questions later - is influencing sectors that are not consumers at all right?  Yeah.  Law enforcement basically opting in to stuff that we do not really understand fully how it works yet. And it is been...  And they do not tell us they are using it.  And they do not tell us they are using it or how they are using it. And this is like so scary and fascinating for a lot of different reasons.  Yeah. So San Francisco's Board of Supervisors they say all right no city agency or department including the police can use this facial ID technology.  Right.  SF Police had not started using it yet but they were about to.  Yep.  So they stopped them from doing it. But like I also wonder how much corporate interest used this as well. I remember reading gosh a few months ago that when you went to Taylor Swift concerts they would facial scan you.  It is everywhere. I mean airlines are experimenting with this.  Yeah.  Which airlines?  I am going to...  JetBlue.  JetBlue. I was going to say JetBlue.  Yeah. Yeah they are doing that here in Boston.  Ooh Jet who? Jet who? No more .  .  And it is really scary and especially this idea of data discrimination right? This idea that these algorithms these forms of software that are being built - and this is something called computer vision which has been really in the works for a long time essentially teaching computers teaching machines to get really high-level data from visual information. I talked to a venture capitalist like four years ago now and said what are you interested in? What are you like investing in? And he was like computer vision man.  Yeah.  Really? Really?  I am all in on computer vision. And it has these - it has applications that I think have a lot of promise right? This idea that - you think about license plate scanners right?  Yeah.  And yes it is nice that I do not have to stop at a toll booth when I am driving on the highway necessarily. But at the same time you have to think about data storage. You have to think about who has access to that information and for how long. And there are a lot of police departments that are thinking about using this in the same way that China is using it just sucking in all of this information publicly while you are walking around in the world.  Yeah.  So not actually trying to match somebody's face against a database of people who have already had run-ins with the law which is also problematic in some ways...  Yeah.  ...But actually sucking in data on your face and like getting a profile on you when you have done nothing wrong and you are...  So...  ...Just walking through the city.  But here's my question Ben.  Yes. Yes.  So Facebook tries this little facial ID stuff with me in photos that I have.  And they...  Yep.  ...Make it real cute too.  Yeah.  And it mixes me up with every black friend I have.  See?  I know.  And that is the big issue...  Yes.  Right?  ...Where it - I mean with a lot of this technology there are so many biases that are being programmed into it because of who is programming it. It is largely...  White dudes.  Largely white dudes.  Yep.  Is there a reality though in which these police departments get it right and say we can do this fairly and we can trust it and say this could be good?  Right.  Or no?  I think potentially. I mean in the San Francisco case - right? - part of the idea of stopping use of this technology now is let us wait. Let us figure out how to use this. Let us figure out how to build this technology so that it works first before we deploy it.  Yeah.  And again I think it has potential. I think - you know you look at - any one of us I am sure can look at recent history and be pretty skeptical about how police departments might use this technology effectively or not. And also like you are being conditioned to accept it by your devices and by these tech platforms.  Because your iPhone scans your - does it scan your face too the iPhone?  I do not know because I am an Android.  OK.  But...  Yeah me too .  Yeah.  But there are - apps are already doing this right? I mean...  Yeah.  ...You have seen like Snapchat put filters on your face.  Oh yeah.  And like - you know like I think this technology - we are already sort of...  And they make it fun. So you...  Yeah.  ...Do not even think about what else it is capturing about you.  We are getting cozy.  Snapchat made me a lady last week. I was like oh I got it.  .  It is nice right?  Speaking of scary tech stuff you have a recent episode all about scary tech?  .  Or...  Yes.  ...Scary things tech does to us?  Yes. Well Endless Thread the podcast that I make with an excellent team here at WBUR has a series all about - it is called Infectious The Strange Past And Surprising Present Of Vaccines - And Anti-Vaxxers. That is what our latest episode is about.   All right. Time for a break. Coming up we are going to talk about the most bonkers singing competition you have probably never ever watched. It is called the Eurovision Song Contest. After the break we are going to tell you why you should watch and how this show this competition is equal parts American Idol and Model UN. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders in studio with two guests - Zeninjor Enwemeka reporter at WBUR covering biz and tech and Benjamin Brock Johnson host of a WBUR and Reddit podcast Endless Thread. I am not going to say the whole get it wherever you get your podcast. Well duh.   It is an unnecessary statement.  Just like this one.  Exactly.  .  Hello.  Yeah.  The one you are listening to right now.  .  Yeah. Same way you got this go get his.   All right. I want us to turn now and talk about a very big - very very big event happening this weekend. It is a competition that pits nation against nation a battle that most Americans will not watch and probably have never even heard of. I am talking about the Eurovision Song Contest.    I am not your toy not your toy you stupid boy stupid boy.  What you are hearing right now is last year's winning song by an artist named Netta from Israel. It is called Toy.    Not your toy.  And the finale of this year's Eurovision Song Contest is Saturday around 3 East Coast time. But you can still go back and find clips. It is worth checking out. Basically this competition pits 42 countries against each other in this singing competition that is watched by hundreds of millions of people across the globe. Aside from like the Olympics and the World Cup it is one of the very few monocultural events that we have left in the world. It is a big deal. And I feel like because most Americans do not know a thing about it I want them to. So I asked Eurovision expert and NPR Pop Culture Happy Hour panelist and writer Glen Weldon to join me to give you all a Eurovision Singing Contest 101.   Glen hi. How are you?  Hey. Very well thanks.  I want to jump into all of this Eurovision chatter with you a Eurovision expert. But I realize that we have to start by clearly explaining what exactly Eurovision is for a lot of Americans who do not know and how big of a deal it is.  There is a formula. So you take American Idol. You multiply that by the Olympics...  .  You sprinkle over a whisper of RuPaul's Drag Race and then you divide it all by Model U.N.  .  This is huge. What I love about this competition which involves 42 different countries each selecting a song that competes head-to-head against each other...  And it is new songs right?  New songs. They must be - it must be a new song they must sing it live. And once the songs are over which takes a lot of time then the voting starts. And the voting is needlessly complicated but here's how it works.  .  Every country gets a panel of five judges who are in some way associated with the music industry plus viewers vote. And then - so there is a voting window that closes. And then my favorite part of this thing is this process of tallying the votes which a lot of people hate but I love because it is so awkward Sam. So what happens is the hosts stare down the barrel of the camera and interview representatives from all 42 countries who then tell how their jury voted. And that all happens over - you know there is always a satellite delay. And the representative of the country is usually a local celebrity who wants to do a bit.  Oh ...  And then their popular vote is released. Now you can come into this...  Wait. There is like an Electoral College and the popular vote for Eurovision.  Exactly. Exactly.  .  So you get part of like a constitutional convention. It is like the proud state of Montana casts all its vote for blah. And then the popular vote comes in. And there is this ranking that you can see. And what I love about it - even a cynical jerk like me goes into this thing by the end of it is so exciting Sam because if - these rankings keep shifting. So there is no sense of inevitability like this guy's going to lock. You always are surprised. There is - it is volatile until the very end and it is hugely exciting.  Does it like actually launch careers? Like is the winner of Eurovision this year going to be Europe's Kelly Clarkson?  It is huge in Europe because it has been around for 64 years now. And that is something - I think it is hard for Americans to wrap their heads around how big this is there. I mean this is something that they take enormous pride in. There is great nationalism about it but it is kind of nationalism with a dance beat - you know fun nationalism. And it is culturally inescapable for this - what is called the Eurovision week. And people gather in their homes they go to bars to watch and vote. And here's what people like me react to - this kind of eager unapologetic fully over-the-top cheesiness. So when you watch - you will see pyrotechnics glitter elaborate light shows. Some countries will come out in traditional costumes a lot will come out in fetish gear. About three-quarters of the songs this year are in English. That is pretty much par for the course. And then with the bread and butter of Eurovision is is dance pop. So if you can imagine stumbling onto a dance floor in Ibiza or Mykonos and hearing the kind  that is...  That is...  ...What Eurovision is all about.  So - OK. There are - I have heard reports anywhere from 200 million viewers worldwide or more. That is enough to talk about with Eurovision. But on top of that the contest itself is always really really political - even though the organizers say it is not supposed to be.  Of course. And the biggest controversy I can remember is in 2016. The winner was Jamala from Ukraine. She sang a song called 1944 which was about she said the ethnic cleansing of Crimea by Stalin in the '40s and Russia complained. Russia said this song is a political statement. It is about our recent annexation of Crimea. There is a lot of back-and-forth a lot of saber rattling. But in the end the Russian representative congratulated her for winning. This year Ukraine has withdrawn from the competition because the winner the person who won their Ukrainian contest did not cancel - refused to cancel any date she had in Russia. And Ukraine said we are not going to send you if you do not...  Oh.  ...And so they pulled her from the competition.  Yeah. Well this year the big political - not scandal but the big political dispute with Eurovision is where it is being held.  Yeah.  So every year the winner of the previous year that country hosts the whole contest. Last year's winner is from Israel. So this year Eurovision is happening in Israel. But a lot of folks who might be competing say we do not like that. And they are urging boycotts of the competition.  Yeah.  Palestinian singers protested by performing on the rubble of a building destroyed in fighting in the Gaza Strip. Other nations have threatened to boycott the location as well. There are some reports and some analysts that think that Eurovision being in Israel this weekend has led to a recent uptick in violence along the Gaza Strip. It is kind of bananas. Does that kind of underlying tension ever at all affect the actual singing of the songs and the pageantry you know the day of Glen?  They certainly try to keep it out of it but it is impossible that it does not. I mean I think the Icelandic group - they have gone out of their way to say that they support the Palestinian cause. And so that will come out in some way. The thing about this contest is that it is a very unserious thing that people take very seriously. And last year when Israel won the big thing was - it took a while for us to know whether they were going to hold the contest in Jerusalem or Tel Aviv. I think cooler heads prevailed and it is in Tel Aviv not Jerusalem. Jerusalem would just add fuel to that fire even more.  Yeah. So then do we ever see when Eurovision deals with these geopolitical conflicts that in some magical wonderful musical way Eurovision itself helps to soothe some of these tensions? Or are we asking too much of a show like this?  Sam you are adorable. Aw that is so sweet.  .  No. No it is...  Can music bring the world together Glen?  No it cannot. No. But...  OK.  But it can be this huge spectacle that four - I was going to say for two hours. It is more like four .  Oh my. Oh my.  The world can gather and drink and look at spectacles. And if you are looking out for this year here's a couple things I want to watch out for. Cyprus has a mid-song costume reveal which is a lot of fun. And that is what I meant about that little sprinkling of RuPaul. Sweden has this weird gospel-inflected thing going on.  Here for it.  But if I had to pick one it is San Marino who has a song called Say Na Na Na which is a kind of club banger. And it is quintessentially Eurovision. It is a middle-aged dude - and I can say that I am a middle-aged dude - who stands pretty much stock-still while these two dancers are doing very athletic things all around him. And...  Sounds like a Mariah Carey concert.  Absolutely. That gives you...  .  It gives you some Mariah vibes. And the lyrics are like - do not forget my number call me anytime be the hero be the rainbow. Life is beautiful and fine. So be the hero. Be the rainbow.    Be the hero. Be the rainbow and sing na na na. Sing na na na.  Thank you Glen. Talk to you soon.  Thanks man.  All right. Bye.  Bye.    Na na na na na na. Na na na na na na.  You would think Americans would know more about Eurovision because it gave us not just ABBA but also Celine Dion.  Oh.  Oh I did not know that.  I did not know that.  Yes.  Fun fact.  She was Canada's?  No. She entered for Switzerland.  Oh.  Yeah.  Interesting.  Whoa.  Yeah. But like I do not know. Like that is - that is bigger than Kelly Clarkson.  Yeah.  We just do not care though. We need to care. We need to care.  Also I disagree with Glen. I think music should potentially...  Bring the people together?  ...Bring the people together.  OK.  .  I believe like you do.  I want it to happen.  Yeah.  I will say listeners even if you miss the finals just go start Googling Eurovision videos. You have got to watch it. This stuff is wacky. Also speaking of big cultural events do not miss Glen Weldon's recap for npr.org of the Game Of Thrones finale. He will also be on a Pop Culture Happy Hour episode all about that show finale as well. Bigger question from all of this - do we think the monoculture is going away? And by monoculture I mean cultural events or things or trends that basically all of us consume together.  Right.  Oh.  This is a great question. I saw this piece on I think The Ringer that was about how Game Of Thrones is like the last piece of monoculture.  But a lot of folks do not watch that show.  Yeah. Is it?  You do not say?  I feel like there is so many communities around TV shows. I mean I personally know so many people who are very upset to hear that you know there is going to be a one-year break for Insecure. There is plenty of...  Wait. There is going to a one-year...  Yes. I know.  No.  Oh.  But you know what?  I mean you know Issa's too busy.  'ecause she is making movies.  She is making movies.  Yeah.  She is doing a lot of good things.  That show as great as it is the viewership per episode is like less than a million people...  Yeah.  ...Which is fine. That gets you what you need. But it is not you know monocultural.  Right.  Anyway it is time for a break. When we come back my favorite game - Who Said That. BRB.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here this week with two guests - Ben Brock Johnson host of the WBUR and Reddit podcast Endless Thread and Zeninjor Enwemeka reporter at WBUR covering biz and tech. Time for my favorite game - Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  You all know how it works at this point I think. It is pretty straightforward. I share a quote from the week. You both have to guess who said it or get the story that I am referring to or get a keyword. I will probably give you a hint because I am nice. The winner of course gets absolutely nothing.  The fight was so bitter....  The satisfaction.  ...Because the stakes were so small.  That is it. That is it.  .  All right. First quote - ready? It is fire. I am hyped.  Oh.  This was an...  That is a good quote.  ...An actormusician...  Oh no.  ...Who is going to be on the big screen this spring very soon.  Oh my God.  Actormusician...  Actormusician.  ...Big screen this spring.  Oh God.  It is a he.  Right.  He raps and he acts.  I was going to say Kanye just because it seemed...   Not Kanye.  No? OK.  But another rapper.  Raps and acts.  Raps and acts - the original rapper-actor combo - come on you all.  Will Smith.  Yes. Say it louder.  Oh Will Smith.  Will Smith.  Will Smith - yes.  I already got it wrong so I figured I should wait.  Oh.  It is OK.  Sorry Zeninjor. Sorry.  It is OK.  It is cool.  So this week - so we all know that Will Smith is going to be in the live-action remake of Aladdin.  Yeah he is the genie.  He is the genie.  He is the genie.  Yes.  And we just saw a few months ago him in all blue which scared the heck out of me.  Yeah.  But now they have released some audio and video of the film. And there is this clip of Will Smith as the genie singing the classic Prince Ali. But everyone kind of hated it.  Oh no.    Prince Ali - fabulous he - Ali Ababwa. Show some respect. Boy genuflect down on one knee.  Who asked for it?  .  I heard some auto-tune. I feel like I am hearing some auto-tune and I do not like it.  .  I am like waiting for him to say welcome to Miami.   Here's my thing - and I have railed against this before on the show.  Yes.  We do not need all the reboots and the remakes. Sometimes the original is fine.  This is proof that Hollywood is out of ideas.  Yes. And...  This is what I am saying. We got to get more people in there who have other stories to tell.  Yes.  Come on.  Yes yes.  Ben you whispered to that point.  Yes.  But you have one point right now.  Thank you very much.  All right.  Next quote. You ready? You are not children anymore. I did not mind explaining photosynthesis to you when you were 12. But you are adults now. And this is an actual crisis. Got it?  Ooh it is got to be about climate change.  It is. Who rails about...  Oh.  ...Climate change right now?  Is it...  One of the world's most famous scientists.  Oh.  But not...  Bill Nye.  Yes.   Oh.  Oh.  Oh I am doing so bad .  It is OK.  That is...  It is OK.  ...Bill Nye of Bill Nye The Science Guy fame going off recently.  Also not a child anymore himself.  Not a child anymore.  Yeah .  So he was on John Oliver's late-night show a few days ago. And he was talking about how mad he is about how dense us folks can sometimes be about climate change. We have the tape.   What I am saying is the planet's on  fire. There are a lot of things we could do to put it out. Are any of them free? No of course not. Nothing's free you idiots. Grow the  up. You are not children anymore. I did not mind explaining photosynthesis to you when you were 12. But you are adults now. And this is an actual crisis. Got it? Safety glasses off .  .  Whoa.  Does this actually...  I was not ready for that.  Yeah nor was I. But also bigger question does this move the needle at all - Bill Nye yelling at folks?  He is not wrong though.  Yeah. He is not - has Bill Nye the Science Guy ever been wrong?  Probably not .  Yeah. Yeah. Anywho third quote. You ready? Guess the business that said this. I am giving you a hint already. The quote is so pack your swimsuit mark your calendars and start the countdown because the Bell is about to make all of your taco dreams come true.  .  Who said that?  Taco Bell.   .  All right. You both get that point.   So there is going to be a new Taco Be