 You know suddenly you get a phone call from the agent who says I hate to tell you this but you are over. Its done. I went back to Michigan cause I didnt want to be one of those guys. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. For the last 30 years Jeff Daniels has been a Hollywood actor working from a home base in the Midwest.  Where it gets hard is when youre sitting in Michigan when Michigan becomes Siberia. You see actors that you know youre better than they are and theyre making 15 million. And theyre getting away with the same bag of tricks. And - and youre worried about whether youre going to get a job in the next four months because you have to. You have to do something because you have got a family and a house that has a mortgage and you are living in the middle of nowhere. There was a time when I couldnt even watch the Oscars. Id try for ten minutes. And then Id - I had to leave the room. Id get so mad.  Mad?  Yeah. Yeah. Maybe its competitive or maybe its you know - you - you want to be appreciated for that thing youre able to do. And thats - thats where the business doesnt care. Jeff is 61 years old...and on screen hes perfected a particular brand of white American male that is not altogether likable. Hes been the principled yet insufferable anchor on The Newsroom the snobby intellectual father in The Squid and the Whale....  Ivan is fine but he is not a serious guy. Hes a Philistine.  What is a Philistine?  It is a guy who does not care about books or interesting films and things. Jeff was also the cheating husband in Terms of Endearment...  You wouldnt try to look so innocent unless you were guilty.  Youre going to have to take my word for it. You have no other choice. But Jeffs also done lovingly stupid in Dumb and Dumber and Dumb and Dumber To.  Why dont you roll me inside? Well get the nurse to take the catheter out of me. I wanna see if my lizard's still spittin' straight.  We do not need nurses for that. I know how to do it.  But do not you have to - Throughout most of his career Jeffs lived in his hometown of Chelsea Michigan population 5000. Its about 15 miles west of Ann Arbor. Growing up Jeff's dad ran the local lumber yard.  I was the oldest son. I was being groomed. I took Trigonometry. I took Algebra. All those subjects that you need to know if youre going to work with houses and building and - and I was horrible. Horrible at it. But performing on stage Jeff could do. All through high school he did plays and musicalsand he studied theater in college but dropped out and moved to New York City.  September 1st two oclock in the afternoon 1976 I drove through the Holland Tunnel.  Did your dad help you out financially when you first moved here?  He gave me the last year of college. He was paying for college at Central Michigan University. So he gave me a check for 4500 bucks my senior year and said Thisll get you started. But if - if its over if you have to come home then youre going to work at the lumber company to pay for your last year of college on your own. But I never got any money from him after that. And immediately got commercials started getting commercials which paid rent. And that gave him the freedom to audition for plays...and to take acting classes at the Circle Rep a prestigious theater company.  Did you feel like you fit in?  No. No and I was painfully quiet and - theres a play that Lanford Wilson wrote called Fifth of July where I play the lover of a character named Ken. And Im the gardener Im the botanist Im the silent one standing in the corner while all of his friends show up at our house. That was Lanford observing me for two years of Circle Rep.  This is the role that you can really nail.   Yes. Yes. Well we think he can speak. We have to force him up in front of the acting class to do any kind of exercise cause hed rather just sit against the wall and just watch. I just felt like I didnt know anything that they knew. They were interested in that psychological thing thats deep inside you that you need to take out and pour onto the table so that we can see it. And that - that was intimidating. Being emotionally vulnerable... was not part of the way Jeff grew up.  It was Protestant Methodist Midwestern. You know the joke is Sit around the table and you know dinner conversation was Pass the peas. You know. But it wasnt. My dad was an entertainer. He was - he was - he could be the life of the party. Without alcohol. He enjoyed people. He - he brought out - he was a great listener. He brought out the best in someone. Got them laughing. People loved being around him. My mother was the quiet one the shy one. And I always remember just watching him. In front of five or six people and everyone was laughing and he was telling another story about the time that Jerry - Jerry remember when And he was - he was that guy. After several years in New York Jeff had his own family to support. Hed reconnected with a woman from home...  She wrote me a letter and I went back and looked her up and you know as we tell my daughter Wait until you feel the flutter. They married in 1979 when Jeff was 24. His wife Kathy was just 20. She moved to New York to be with him. They had their first child five years later but decided they wanted to raise him back home in Michigan.  I was doing well. The phone was ringing. But I didnt trust that it would continue to ring. It would end next year or five years or ten years from now. And I wasnt going to drag her through that life because I didnt love the life enough to do that. So that drove the choice. And I will sustain the career from the Midwest for as long as I can. And that became the business plan for us. And - and it worked for quite a while. This business and an artistic life its up and down wild extremes and so I think part of the move to Michigan and uh why the marriage has lasted so long is that theres this - this consistency of tone or of understanding of that it doesnt - it isnt wildly fluctuating. Thats what you work to hang onto anyway.  And she wrote you the letter.  She wrote me the letter yeah.  So she went after it.  She asked for this. So we chose family over career and -  Is that how it felt?  It - it felt right because I had such a fatalistic view of the career. Not of the family but of the career. The family and where I was living and where I was from and what I consider to be home which was Michigan and the Midwest was consistent. The career is inconsistent. Fame is fleeting. Its true. By the time Jeff was in his 40s he had two more kids and his chances to play good roles were slowing down. He opened a local theater in town wrote songs and played guitar and produced plays that he wrote himself. He still got acting offers...but he said no to a lot of them.  I turned down TV series and long runs in Broadway plays. Said no to movies that shot in Bulgaria for six months or Thailand for four months. I cant - Im not going to be away. Im not going to be that. So Ill pass. And Ill take the supporting role and Ill do a more commercial film. Arachnophobia. My Favorite Martian. Dumb and Dumber you know in 1994 to kind of you know get back in the game.  I will do it if you will Lloyd.  Okay. You go first.  No unh-uh no. In Dumb and Dumber Jeff played opposite Jim Carrey and got paid a fraction of his co-stars pay 50000 compared to Careys 7 million payday according to the directors. The movie is chock full of toilet gags and body humor like this extended joke about hot sauce  Its not so bad.  More tingly then hot.  It was an enormous commercial success. But afterward Jeff had a different problem finding roles.  That took me out of the serious actor category. Um and which I was warned about. And the guys - the agents that said that where - you know in the end they were right. But it took ten years to kind of have people stop writing me off simply because Id made a comedy that made a lot of people laugh you know.  It strikes me that during that period that you wrote a play about a man getting a vasectomy.  Yeah.  So you are about 45 years old...  Mhm.  Why do you think that you wrote that play at that moment in your life?  There was an incident. I was getting a vasectomy at the time. Ill never forget this. And I was getting the vas- we had had our third kid and I had watched her go through childbirth three times. I said There is no way I am going to force you or ask you to do anything. I said Im the one. Ive gotta be the one who gets fixed. And I remember laying there and he had just snipped the first tube vas deferens tube whatever. And you could hear it Snip.  Oh you heard it?  Oh you hear it. And then you hear the burning of the flesh. You hear where they get the - its like a noodle. They pull it out and they snip it and theres two ends and they literally zzz zzz. And it goes -  Were you watching?  You could if you liked. You could - you could - youre on your back you could lean up and look down if you chose to. I chose not to. And there is a - and I smelled it and my wife is sitting there trying not to laugh. And I just turned to her and I go I know what my next plays about. Coming up Jeff talks about the inner voice he heard 10 years ago that told him it was okay to have a drink  Go big or go home. Crack a beer! even though hed been sober for years.  In acting we call it fire the judge. Its the devil on your shoulder. It is the judge where you - you go out on stage to - and right before you are going into the big speech that voice says You are gonna screw this up. You gotta fire him. And I didnt fire him that day. -- We have been hearing a lot of stories about addiction from you including porn addiction. This listener who asked to remain anonymous says he is been married for 7 years and addicted to porn for 20. Listener I needed to not have sex with those images in my head from my years of looking at pornography. Last year he says he had what he called a sexual reboot. He stopped watching porn entirely and stopped having sex for 90 days. But he says the urge to seek out porn is still one he struggles with. Listener It is hard as fucking nails for me to want to not do anything about it. Hearing this message made me wonder about your experiences with porn. How has it impacted your relationships in good or bad ways? Tell us your stories about porn by recording a voice memo on your smartphone and email it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode Tasha Taystee Jefferson ...Call me Taystee because my pussy be delicious like an apple is nutritious like a Clinton is ambitious... 26-year-old actor Danielle Brooks. She grew up in a religious home in South Carolina but she tells me about the freedom she now feels to talk about her body and sex including her very first time. Danielle Brooks So I did not lose my virginity until college but like I just remember being there and the lights dim and saying to him with just my underwear on I was like Just be gentle.  And then like once we got into it you would have thought I would had sex for years the way I was talking! -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Jeff Daniels was nominated for a Tony this spring for his role in the play Blackbird. It is his second nominationhis first came in 2009 when he returned to New York to star alongside James Gandolfini in the play God of Carnage. Jeff credits that role for helping him land The Newsroom. In Blackbird Jeff plays another character with questionable moralsbut this one is to the extreme. His character Ray is a middle-aged man who had a sexual relationship with a 12-year-old girl. The play takes place 15 years later when the now-grown girl confronts Ray at work. He tries to explain himself.  You were on my mind all the time. I could not get you out. And I gave in. I gave into it. Everything. Every day was about how I could see you. Its an intense performancebrutally unforgiving is how Jeff describes it. Jeff first did the play in New York in 2007. But he felt like he needed to try again.  It is like you need to come back. You cannot sit there in Michigan. You need to do Blackbird on Broadway.  So what have you done for the second run to get deeper and more connected to this character?  I didnt understandI dont know if addiction is the right wordbut the pull the power of...in this guy's case having a sexual relationship with an underage girl. You dont - I mean there are a lot of sick sick people out there. And they - I wanted to know why. And I didnt - I didnt fully investigate why. And one of the things Ive found is that during this play hes been in denial. Denial. And then she walks in. And I liken it to alcoholics and the powerlessness that you have over something like that. And you find you know - I quit drinking I dont even know when. Its been years. And I went to a couple meetings. And one of the things you find out is that thats the first word you hear is youre powerless. You think you can beat it. You think you can outwait it outlast it. And then you find out one day you cannot.  When did you stop drinking?  I stopped a couple times. The second time was Id say ten years ago. Just beer. But you know -  Enough that it was time to stop.  Enough that you know Well Im not going to do it tomorrow. I just - I wont. And then at 11 in the morning psh popping it. And youre going Ahh.  Did it change your marriage when you stopped drinking?  Yeah.  In what ways?  I just wasnt asleep on the floor at 7.30 at night and the kids are running around and she needs help. Yeah. It just was - it just didnt need to be a part of my life. And I was - I was - and then you get unhappy. And you know the career was also at a point - thats when I started up again. And I thought I was just - just to take some of the stress away. Just to relax like you would with anything.  So your kids were nearly grown when you stopped drinking finally.  Yeah first time they were younger and the second time they were older yeah. Second time I had just turned 50 which is a - thats a speed bump at 80 miles an hour. And - and I had been - I didnt - I wouldnt like - I hadnt drank for like jeez fourteen years. Cold just cold turkey. Just quit. It was This is stupid. Im done. And I was two months into 50. And I was checking into a hotel room in some city. Im throwing the suitcase on the bed. And I hear a voice behind me. And its me clear as day say Dont you think youve punished yourself enough? And I stopped. I didnt turn around. I knew it was me. But it was as if I were - I said Yeah. Yeah I have. Minibar. Pff. Here we go.  Wow.  Three months later I was done.  Done drinking.  Yep.  So it was a three-month period of drinking.  Uh yeah I mean where you were consistently -  Where you allowed yourself to drink -  Well Ill just do a little I wont do much.  But its interesting that you think of your sobriety as still very two discrete periods when it was still just a three month - fail.  One was try to do it on my own and the second time was you cant do this on your own. You need help. You need some people who have - who know a hell of a lot more about this than you do Mister Smart Guy. And its - its in my family. Its in my family which I came to learn. And Im going Well okay. Okay. Jeffs children are adults now but his family life is still centered around Michigan. His oldest son is a musician there and Jeff has toured and played with his band. His middle son is there too where hes an actor and filmmaker. And the youngest his daughter is a junior high school teacher in Michigan. Jeffs younger brother now runs the family lumber company. He took over when their dad died in 2012.  Whats your adult relationship with your brother like? Hes running the family business. You are famous.  Yeah. Its a burden.  Wealthy. Have moved home. What - whats that dynamic like?  Um its good because you lose...fame - one of the things fame does is it eliminates people in your life because they cant compete with that. And its in the room every time youre in the room. And - and friends that I used to have become known as Oh youre a friend of Jeffs? And thats the label. And its unfair to them and - and thats one reason why you dont move to Michigan. You live in New York in an apartment building with other famous people or you move to LA and get up on Mulholland Drive and move in next to Nicholson you know. But I didnt do that. And so that was one of the - the big negatives. And there are a handful of people that can get past that. My brother is one of these guys that um was able to do that. Im still his brother. And I am still there. And when he has a tough time with something you know like hes been through a marriage or two Im there for him. You know Im not there as the guy whos famous. Im there as the guy thats just a sounding board that you knowespecially now since our dads gonethat - that you can just be there for each other. And its nice to know that that relationship is still - were still - can be the two guys who shared a bedroom downstairs.  Thats interesting that you say moving back to Michigan you felt in some ways more socially apart than had - if youd stayed and continued to live where there are more famous people.  Yeah. I - I - I went home and found out I was an outsider.  Your kids are now grown. Do you wanna leave Michigan?  I dont think so. I wish I were there more than I am. I didnt think Id be running around doing television series and Broadway plays for months and months and years at a time.  Do you get itchy if you dont have something to do?  I think so. I think I get...um...unhappy. When I am not working on something new. And that can be a song guitar writing a play for the theater company or a new role. I always have to have something in the air. To feel alive. And theres part of me that just wants to sit on the porch and play the guitar and - and look back on a career ya know. And Michigan would be the place that I do that.  You are very busy for having said how you wanna stop working so hard.  I know. Get some therapy. I know. I know. Jeff Daniels. Hes starring alongside Michelle Williams in Blackbird which runs on Broadway through June 11. He told The New York Times hes going back to Michigan right after in time for baseball season. Hes got season tickets for the Detroit Tigers. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein Hannah McCarthy and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And subscribe to our weekly email newsletter. Go to deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter to sign up. Jeff Daniels won an Emmy in September 2013 for his lead role on The Newsroom. That was 34 years after he drove through the Holland Tunnel...and one year after his father died in Michigan.  I wish hed seen that. Hes the one who said you know I dont know anything about your business but... I think youre gonna grow into your face.    What the hell does that mean? I just think youre gonna become better-looking as you get older and that youll grow into your face. Maybe I do not know what I am talking about... And then he would go off. And then of course the third act of my career is you know hes exactly right. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.