Hey it is Anna. Before we get started I want to let you know that this episode includes some discussion of suicidal thoughts. It happens about 40 minutes in if youd like to skip.  I really think that chronic illness can really make us our best selves. It softens us and gives us so much empathy.  You feel like that right now that you are the best version of yourself?  Yes probably but people who have been sick much longer than me say Yeah I felt that way for about the first three years. Now I just do not care and just do not want to be sick anymore.    It is just like Yeah you know I am kind of starting to see that a little bit. The gratitude is like the initial chronic illness phase apparently. I am I am on the tail end of it I think. This is Death Sex  Money the show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. Mason Earle spends most of his day in bed. That is where he was when I reached him over FaceTime.  Hey Mason how are you doing?  Yes I am all right. How are you?  Good. You might notice this is like a party. Mason is 32 and he has a chronic illness called myalgic encephalomyelitis or MECFS commonly called chronic fatigue syndrome. MECFS is a complex illness with a wide variety of symptoms including muscle and joint pain memory issues trouble sleeping and extreme fatigue. There is no known cure.  I am just going to let you guide me on how you are observing your energy level and when you want to wrap up and then we can pick up again tomorrow.  Yes I have usually got a pretty solid 30 to 40 minute window where I can be myself and use my voice and all that good stuff. Before Mason got sick he was a professional rock climber. He climbed all over the world was featured in major climbing magazines and was paid by corporate sponsors including Eddie Bauer. But today Mason spends most of his time at home. He lives in Reno Nevada with his wife Ally. He cant climb anymore. He cant do much of anything. And while theres still a lot that medical professionals are learning about MECFS people have noticed its similarities to long-haul also includes chronic symptoms like fatigue and brain fog. Mason has been dealing with these symptoms... for the past three years.  Are you in a comfortable position now? Are you ready to go?  I sure am. Yes I am laying down on my side with the phone resting on my ear with an eye mask on.   It is funny because when we start talking you bring the phone and I can see like I am going into your ear. It is as if we are entering your internal monologue a little bit.  That is perfect.  Which is like it feels spot-on. It feels just right. About how much time do you spend in that position a day?  Um it varies. Uh yeah at sort of the you know the peak severity of my illness you know probably 20 22 hours thereabouts.  22 hours of a 24-hour day?  Yeah yep. Um but right now um probably closer to uhI am spending maybe 16 hours a day in bed which feels like freedom comparatively. But still not al I would not call it acceptable not an acceptable amount of time out of bed so. I just uh with MECFS such a big part of it is this sort of sensory overload um you know being really hypersensitive to noise and light.  Hmm. And I imagine it can be hard to put words to it but if you were to describe what it feels like to have light come in in a way that feels uncomfortable what is the feeling the physical feeling that does not feel pleasant?  I mean if you have ever had a bad concussion or a hangover that sort of similar the sort of the post-concussion phase is probably the closest where just you know your brain just cannot handle it. You know it is it can be quite excruciating the same with noise. Like right now um you know I will I will be sitting in my living room and I will see my wife outside and I will know that she is about to open the door but it still cannot prepare me. The second that door opens and there is a bit of a screech and that noise you know it is like this little moment that my body goes into shock. It is just like the nervous system being totally overwhelmed um or something. No one's quite sure.  Yeah it just feels like too much. It is like  Yes it is too much. Mason spent most of his time outdoors before he was diagnosed with MECFS. He first started rock climbing as a kid growing up in Massachusetts but he didnt get serious about it until he moved out to Colorado for college. Eventually Mason dropped out of college to focus on climbing. He worked at Yosemite and took on odd jobs so he could climb as much as possible and his dedication paid off. At 23 Mason was signed by Eddie Bauerhe laughingly called it a gravy train that paid for his climbing trips all around the world.  From about the time I was 18 to um 29. Um you know a solid 10 years. Um climbing was my life. Um yeah. You know I really something I am grateful for is that I really got to live all my climbing dreams.  What for you... when you were climbing what drew you to it? Why did you want to dedicate so much of your life to it?  I am not really sure. I think um you know it is a lot of things. I love being outside. Most of my climbing that I did was in the Utah desert. And I remember the first time I went to the Utah desert and seeing that red sandstone and you know the junipers and the pions and the ephedra and the sagebrush and the cactus. I would never you know it was almost this religious experience. I have never been somewhere like that. Immediately I knew Wow this is the place that I need to spend some time here. I quickly started climbing more and definitely had a natural talent for it and so that also made it really appealing. Oh wow for once in my life I am good at something.   Really is that how it felt? Were there a lot of things growing up that you did not feel like came naturally?  Um I I was always a really bad student. And so there was kind of this uh this um this need to prove myself. Like you know I am not worthless. I want to show the world what I can do.  What was the specialty that you really developed as a rock climber? What did you become really good at?  My thing's crack climbing which is uh exactly what it sounds. Certain types of rock granite sandstone mostly um will form these perfect cracks in them that um will go from the ground and soar up hundreds of feet sometimes thousands of feet. And when you are crack climbing you are just using your hands or your fingers or your fists or even your whole body sometime to wedge into the crack depending on how big it is. And you use that for uh to hold yourself onto the wall.  Would you wear the same kind of ropes and safety harnesses when you are crack climbing?  Yeah. I mean I have done plenty of free soloing as well but that that was that is you know a rare treat.  It was a treat?  Free soloing?  Yeah no I know but for you it felt like a treat?  Yean I mean it just takes everything to the next level obviously because the stakes are extremely high. And you only do it on terrain that you are extremely comfortable on.  And for you when you would choose to free solo when you were like I am going to have this special treat like was it because... like when would you notice that you wanted to push yourself to do that and take it up? Like what was the motivation?  To be honest sometimes it just comes out of a place of boredom and having nothing better to do. I I can think of plenty of times I was hanging around Yosemite Valley no one to climb with that afternoon and I think Oh gosh I should go run a lap up Selaginella. That would be nice.   I am struck that you said when you were bored you would do it. Like you would ratchet up the risk and do this thing you know um that isHow do you think of that now? What used to be boring to you?  Yeah. Um you know I was so desperate to fill up every minute of my day with excitement and productivity and doing things. Uh downtime just seemed like a waste of time. Um obviously I am getting getting a heavy dose of that right now. You know actually kind of an interesting thing that I have noticed with this illness is that it has in a way satisfied this craving that I had. With climbing um I always craved this experience of you know the ultimate climb where you had to fully commit and and relinquish all control. I could just never quite take that next step to have a climb like that. It seemed like too much for me. And in a lot of ways this... experience of being sick has um kind of satisfied that craving because this is the ultimate experience of commitment and not having control and the only way out is through. Mason started feeling sick in the spring of 2018. He was about to turn 30 and was planning his wedding to Ally later that summer. He was on a trip to Yosemite with a climbing friend and he started feeling off. He told me it came on suddenly that it felt like the flu but without coughing or congestion. At first Mason was not worried. He thought he get better once he got home. But then he did not.  The first few months of being sick I was still able to limp along through life. I was not I recognized that I was not able to exercise that exercise had pretty extreme um consequences which was you know terrifying to me. But I still had all my cognitive function and I could socialize and you know go out to dinner and work on projects around the house. And then right around my 30th birthday my condition became much worse and kind of more or less what it is been like since. It was this this uh this several-week period that was um it was awful. You know I went from you know sitting in my living room all I can do is sit here and watch a TV show toOh my gosh I cannot look at my computer screen anymore. It hurts my eyes too much. So then you know I was reading a book. And then all of the sudden I realized I cannot look at these pages anymore. I cannot read another word. My brain feels like it is about to explode and I had to put my book down. And that was sort of this moment that I felt like I was kind of leaving... uh very much leaving life as I knew it behind and sailing off towards the unknown horizon.  It is really striking to me. You know you have this moment that you can remember as a very clear before and after of when you sort of um... surrendered to what your constraints were.  Yeah I do not know if I surrendered exactly at that moment because I never felt more terrified and hopeless. Um it was the first moment in my life where I really felt there was no safety net underneath me. I grew up in you know a uh nice suburb of Boston Massachusetts. I grew up with um you know was never scared of not having enough never afraid that I was not going to be able to receive good uh medical treatment if I ever needed it. All of a sudden here I was in a situation where there was nobody who could help me. There was not anybody I could turn to and say I am out of options. I need help here.  How do you remember your wedding?  Um it was actually right just about three or four weeks before things start getting really bad. And it was this really melancholy time for me because I knew I was really sick and it sort of prevented me from really kind of being myself at the wedding. And um we had an amazing wedding. You know we were Ally and I were there with all our best friends and family on a beautiful summer day in Utah. And.. the the way I describe it is I sort of felt like I was getting to attend my funeral. Like there were all the people that I love most in the world and I was you know felt myself sort of slowly turning into this ghost.  Did you discuss at all when you first got sick whether delaying the wedding or delaying getting married or not getting married?  No. Yeah because we just assumed I was going to get better and I was not that sick. I was well enough that I knew I would be able to pull it off but you know I crossed the finish line on that in a flaming burning wreckage.  You mean flaming burning wreckage like your youy body was just wrecked after? Is that what you mean?  Yeah yeah. My body was wrecked after.  It strikes me like as you have talked about sort of the realization and the ways your illness came on suddenly and then the depths of your illness kind of hit you I am I am... it sounds the way you are telling me I am picturing you kind of alone like alone putting down the book alone um the sort of going internal as you are absorbing this.  Yeah.  What was it like in your marriage as you were realizing how this illness was going to change your life?  Um you know in a lot of ways it is brought us closer because we have sort of had to endure this awful thing together. But it is still awful. And it is obviously different for Ally because she is still healthy and able-bodied but it is been horrible for her. She lost her partner. And... now she has to take care of somebody. And I cannot always be there for her. Um obviously not physically but more so emotionally. Like if I am too crashed out and cannot really talk you know it is only a very small little tiny piece of her former partner that she has now.  Uh a different partner.  Yeah.  When you say she takes care of you what does she help you do?  Um you know she she cooks dinner. She drives me to  I am just going to have a sip of my tea.  Sure sure.   Hey.  Hi. What kind of tea do you drink?  Oh tea is like one of my big things.  I do not drink the same tea twice in a week it is always something different. Ginger peppermint puerh turmeric. Um yeah you know I am able-bodied enough that I can get up and go to the bathroom and even put something in the microwave and that sort of thing. Helping around the house doing the laundry you know she has to do all of that. I am probably forgetting a million things that just go completely over my head at this point. And meanwhile she is in grad school getting her PhD so it is not like she already does not have a lot on her plate.  Do you find like have you... is there a certain time of day when you all spend time together or does it vary? Like does she come in and lay down beside you when you talk... or how do you stay connected these days?  Lately we have beenEvery night at dinner we sit at our table and we watch an episode of Jeopardy.  And it is been like the most fun that I have had in years.  And it turns out we are actually both pretty good. We both know a bunch of random worthless information and that makes it really fun. Sometimes we will go on like a little evening drive around the neighborhood. Um she will just drive me around when it is dark and my eyes can relax and we will just drive around for 15 minutes and look at the trees and the houses and the lights. Trees get me really excited these days I am all about trees. And Nevada's Nevada's biggest tree is this giant sequoia that is just down the street from us in this person's yard. So we go down to this massive tree and we get out of the car and go up feel the bark and look at its massive limbs. And yeah that is something.  It is not it is not climbing El Cap or uh you know Ally and I flying our paragliders side by side way up in the mountains but it is it is something.  Well I am going to let you get back to your day. Um what are you going to do next?  In life?  No like today. Like after we hang up what will happen?  Oh! I um  I have a urology appointment. I am going to go get catheter-ed.  Oh!   Is that too is that TMI for this podcast?  No I like it. Does that happen often? How often do you get a catheter?  No this is this is not part of my usual um uh programming.  Yeah having some lower body issues that may or may not be associated with my illness or I am not really sure and trying to figure that out. I mean a lot of my time is spent on research and medical investigation is where a lot of my cognitive capacity goes towards because I cannot keep living like this. I cannot do it. My wife cannot do it. It is awful for her. You know both our lives have been shut down. And so we are doing everything we can to try to figure it out against the odds.  Well I hope today's appointment is uh it feels like it is a useful one for you.  Thank you. Yeah it is certainly not going to be fun.  I called up Mason the next day. I asked him how his doctor's appointment went.  The yeah the doc recognizes. He is like Yes you are having problems. Like that is Yes I know. Thanks for confirming that.   Let us pick up where we left off yesterday if that sounds good to you?  Yeah!  And we will just do the same thing. Just kind of go until you start to notice that you are ready to finish. You are ready to be done and do not feel like you have to push beyond what is comfortable.  Yeah no worries.  Are you in the same place where I talked to you yesterday?  I sure am.  Yeah it is funny. I was literally just thinking. I have been on podcasts before for climbing and whatnot. I never thought I would be taping a podcast while laying in bed.   I know. It is very intimate right?  I guess that is just how life goes.  Um I wanna before we move on from um your time being an elite rock climber which we talked about some of you sort of the way you look back on it with seeing it differently than it felt at the time about the risks you were taking. Um... before you got sick did you think of yourself as someone who was a risk taker who enjoyed pushing the limits and and the thrill of danger?  Absolutely yeah. Uh a lot of climbers really dislike being labeled as adrenaline junkies but I I for sure was an adrenaline junkie. Um you know I loved doing big rope swings you know jumping off of cliffs. Um I flew paragliders and speed wings soaring down a mountainside at 40 50 miles an hour.  And did you push out the possibility of death when you were doing that? Or were you at peace with it when you think of your mindset back then?  I uh back then I would have told myself Oh I am at peace with it but I was just completely oblivious to it. Because... when life is just sort of going your way at every single turn when there is no big bumps in the road you start to think Oh gosh you know this this is pretty great. I am in control here. I am I am in charge of what happens. And uh that is just not the case. You know and I do have this complicated relationship with climbing at this point. Several of my very best friends have died climbing in recent years. And so it it is not what it used to be for me. It is not as it is not this innocent kind of fun thing that we are all doing. You know when I was 20 I would have thought like you know Oh yes climbing is worth dying for. But after... after losing my friends and being with their families and seeing how hard it is I am like Oh my gosh. That is that was not worth it. There is so much so much more to life. And it is a bigger wager than I thought to go out climbing. And not coming home at the end of the day is not acceptable. I do not know. I think I am a little cynical too from sitting on the sidelines as well but  yeah.  When you say several when you think of your very close friends who you have lost how many?  Um uh one two three four five. Five close friends.  Mmm. I am really sorry.  Um yeah. It is uh these things have risk it turns out. I am really sounding like a curmudgeon are not I?   No I think you are sounding like someone who is gone through something very intense that has changed your perspective and also on what is precious and what is worthy of protection.  I will say that I think maybe the biggest lesson that being sick has given me is that it is just how precious life is. Life is so so precious. I feel like I have that perspective because I have really lost most of what life was for me. You do not have to go from being a professional rock climber to this level of function to to have lost everything. Even someone who... was not athletic at all and you know maybe just had a normal job and and did everyday things going from that to what life can be like with MECFS is is just as massive a loss. 'ecause you know I cannot go for a walk around the neighborhood with my wife. I cannot hang out with friends more than you know maybe one night in a month. You know I do not want to sound like Oh gosh. I was I was a hotshot climber and I cannot do that anymore. So for me it is really bad. And you know that is not the way it is at all.  I know you do not sound like that. And also I just want to give you permission to be as curmudgeonly as you feel like it as you feel like.   Yeah I sort of err on the curmudgeonly side these days. Coming up one more phone call... with Mason from bed.  I have definitely accepted the fact long time ago that I am now a disabled person. I have a disability. I am not able able-bodied. But at the same time it is um it is not acceptable. It is okay that I am not okay  but we are going to keep working to to make me okay again.  Last weeks episode brought up a lot of things... for a lot of you. It was about deciding to become a parent or not especially as it relates to creativity and ambitionand featured conversations with artist Julie Mehretu writer Maria Housden and comedian Margaret Cho.  The idea of FOMO for motherhood just fucking pisses me off and Im not gonna listen to the rest of this show. This listener named Judy-B sent in two voice memos responding to the first part of the episode which is a conversation between me and the host of The Cut podcast Avery Trufelman. Avery is not sure if she wants to have kids and worries that shell have to give up too much of herself in order to have them. Judy-B is 54 and definitely did want to have kidsbut it never happened for a number of different reasons.  Underneath the anger at hearing your conversation is grief... that I felt coming up as I heard you talk. I I felt sad for myself. We also heard from listeners who wished wed framed the episode differently like Dr. Jessica Moorman a media scholar who wrote on Twitter This week's episode of deathsexmoney is another data point  the post-Census discourse of anxiety about Whiteness class and fertility. Can we talk to literally anyone other than White or wealthy women about their decision making regarding childbearing and fertility? And we heard from people who did have kids who appreciated hearing about ambivalence even after you make the decision to become a parent. Like a listener named Rachel who didnt really like her first several years of being a mother. She wrote us Now that my child is almost 8 I can honestly say I am loving parenthood for the first time. She continued But people should know that if they decide to have a kid they may hate their life for 7 years. Thats what happened to me. Thanks to all of you who sent in your reactions. As always we want to hear what you think about episodes and what you want to hear next our email is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode I talk with graphic novelist Alison Bechdel who told me about going through menopause and how that made her feel about not ever having kids.  I think what I was feeling was... I am really the end of this line. There is no one coming after like that like there is something really profound about that genealogical cul-de-sac you know? That is what was hitting me.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. During my second conversation with Mason Earle he told me that these days his community is largely online. Mason can tolerate short spurts of screen time during the day. Through social media he is been able to connect with other people living with chronic illnesses. He told me his friendships from his life before he got sick especially with other climbers have changed.  I get together with friends now my climbing friends and I love them and I love being with them. My life is just so so different than theirs right now that I cannot I cannot I cant get into and interested in all the old things that I used to talk about. I cannot to a certain degree but my illness in my life right now... it is all I want to talk about because it dictates every moment of my life. With chronic illness friends you know they have all had some similar type of experience and and that can be the foundation of of our friendship. And I have I have friends that have had ME since they were you know nine years old and they are in their 40s now. I have friends that that were so severe that they literally did not use their legs for three years. Stories that that make me feel like I have been on the on the light-duty pleasure cruise version of MECFS. Uh yeah all sorts of different experiences.  When you think about how you got through that period of that firstthe heaviness and the darkness of facing how your life was changed um do you remember what helped helped you sort of move through the intensity of that realization?  It was not a graceful few weeks. I mean I was kicking and screaming and literally crying with using any extra energy I had. Um yeah I guess probably crying was my my uh best survival mechanism and still is.  Yeah yeah. Is it hard to cry? Does it exhaust you?  Uh yes. It is exhausting but it is therapeutic. It is the the release valve when you just cannot take anymore.  This is also a hard question. If you do not want to answer it that is okay. Have you had thoughts of suicide?  Yes I have yes. I have been sick for a year. It was spring of 2019 and I was sort of getting a little better and I was thinking Oh maybe I am getting better and then all the sudden in April of 2019 things got much worse. All of a sudden I was more severe than I had been yet. It came down on me so hard and this realization that this really is that this really might be my life now. I remember just a few days that I was not I did not know if I could take it for another second. It just did not seem possible that things were going to get better. And when you have no hope... just just existing is is is agony. I do not know how close I was to actually taking any action but that was you know by far the closest I have ever been to not wanting to live anymore which before I was sick healthy Mason never could have guessed that that things would be like this. Healthy Mason who always had everything go his way and... had an had an even keel.  Do you talk about healthy Mason a lot? Is that a term you use?  Yeah My life is so clearly divided in these two chapters healthy Mason and sick Mason.  Have you um has mental health care been a part of your health care? Have you had professional help?  Oh yeah oh yeah yeah. I still see a therapist almost every week.  You know Mason I do not have a sense about your health insurance and your medical bills. How are you taking care of your medical life?  Um well thankfully I am married to someone that works at a university.  So yeah I definitely had I have had a safety net there the whole time. Um but I mean to be honest most of this journey you know there has not really been much that you know the Western medicine has not had a whole lot to offer. Actually you know so the healers and those types of people that I have been seeing which you know um provide a lot of comfort um at points you know none of that is covered by insurance. So it is uh whatever savings I had have been pretty much obliterated by this whole experience.  It is helpful and not covered by your health insurance.  Yeah that is just how it goes. Like well you will prescribe me Xanax but I cannot you know go see acupuncture lady who makes me feel all warm and fuzzy.    Mason thanks for talking to me again.  Yeah absolutely. Gosh I used to love talking so much. Now it is it is uh a special treat.  Aw. Like a free solo.  Yeah. Mason and I talked one more time about a month later and he told me that he would been feeling a bit better. He had a spinal surgery last year that for him seems to be helping with some of his symptoms. Mason told me hed even recently felt well enough to travel with Ally. Ally is also a rock climber so they drove out to the desert and Mason was able to watch her climb for the first time since 2018.  I was definitely sort of very um very much like a house cat first time leaving the house very unsure of the world and scared of everything.   Wow! I can picture a house cat in a desert being like totally freaked out.   Like whoa! What? This is not the living room.   And did you feel um jealous watching your wife climb?  Uh no. No I do not... I think to miss climbing I would have to be healthto really miss climbing I would have to be a lot healthier. 'ecause right now it is nice to go out and I can sit and be outside for a few hours um but what I miss is feeling good. I mean when I like think of my healthy daydreams like what healthy life looks like it is like me and my wife and our house and a little vegetable garden that I am tending to um... drinking a bubbly water on the back porch with some friends. I mean that is... I think back on healthy life and actually those things were the best things I ever got to do.  You know it was not um some godforsaken cliff in some godforsaken part of the world. Um... yeah it was these smaller moments you know pruning a plum tree in my backyard. Um that is as good as it gets let me tell you.  Uh yeah. Maybe having a kid or something I do not know. That is certainly off the table at the moment.   Pruning a plum tree maybe having a kid.  Yeah. I hear it is you knowthat is sort ofthinking about that it makes me feel sad that any sort of dream of starting a family is completely out of reach at the moment. Maybe we have already talked about this. I forget but  No you can tell me more about that. Does it feel it is on like it is an idea that you have just had to put on pause?  Yeah it is definitely just on pause. Definitely it makes me sad to think that um that at least at the time being that is not um in the cards. Anna Something we have not talked about and it might be too private you just tell me but um what have you noticed about when and whether it feels good to be touched by someone else? Mason Um... um you know at the moment it is quite... it feels good and it is nice. And you know hugging my wife is something that I will do at least once a day. Um but I think back to when I was my most severe um touch is actually it is it is uh a lot of times can be too much sensory input um and can result in overstimulation pretty quickly. And that is a really... it is just I mean that is horrific. But uh yeah right now my sensory sensitivities are much better.  When it was so... during that horrific period as you describe it did you still... did you long for touch and also feel revolted by it both?  Um yeah I would not use the word revolted by it. It is more like um... you know I will be laying there and you know my wife would put her arm on my shoulder and just her putting her hand on my shoulder would send me into a brief period of shock almost Like Whoa whoa. Um it is just insane.  Um for you did it feel important to figure out how to continue to have uh to have sexual intimacy? Was that something that was a priority even if it was changed to to to not have it go away completely?  Yeah it is something that I have been willing to um to sacrifice my um you know small amounts of health for. It is it is worth it to maintain you know that deeper connection but um not everybody with MECFS is as lucky as I am. You know there is people that are so severe that that is just completely off the table.  Do you look at your body in a full-length mirror?  Yeah it is uh yeah I look like a ghost. Um it is sort of interesting... to look at myself in the mirror and um just kind of be in awe of um how different my life is and everything I have lost and everything I have learned. And I think of this these years of illness of being a transformative experience sort of like a rebirth like a shamanic death um kin in that vein. 99 of the time it is been really horrific and awful and feels like a prison. There is been a lot of suffering but you know through all that I see life through fresh eyes I guess. I am finding I have an enormous capacity to enjoy life.  I do not need much at this point yeah  Oh I love that! You are discovering your capacity for joy. That is really cool. Can you give me an example of something you noticed of like Wow this feels amazing?  Uh we were out in the desert a few weeks ago and I got out of the car and you know kind of legs barely working but um just pacing around the parking lot a little bit. And there was uh this little black beetle on the ground and I was just like Wow look at that. It is a beetle. And I put my hand down and it crawled up on my hand and I just let it do sort of like a the beetle treadmill around my hand for a while. These are all things that I did not really notice so much um in life. Like being out in the desert the only thing I would notice are Oh where are the rocks? Where are the good rocks? I want to find some rocks.  And now I am looking at everything else.  I mean hearing you describe this like uh sense of wonder it reminds me of walking back from the playground with my two-year-old.   Yes yes!  She cannot walk three feet without stopping and staring close-up at something. And I just like Come on. Let us go home. I got to make dinner but she is like Look at the ants! Look at this blossom! You know it is just...   You know not to brag but I am on that level right now.  That was Mason Earle. Since our last conversation in March he told us that things have been pretty much quote status quo. He recently posted on Instagram about another outing with Allythey went out to gather some plants for making tea. Death Sex  Money is a listener supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Afi Yellow-Duke. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein Yasmeen Khan and Andrew Dunn. Special thanks to Sara Luterman and to Mardy Harding one of our incoming summer interns who pitched this episode and introduced us to Mason. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music and theres some original music by Cam Thompkins in this episode. I am on Instagram annasalepics that is P-I-C-S and the show is deathsexmoney on Instagram Twitter and Facebook. Thank you to Lenet Rivas in Decatur Georgia who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Lenet and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate.  I like thinking about you and my daughter Eve looking at bugs together.   Yes we have got some good bugs in our yard.  Cool! Well uh thank you Mason. I really appreciate it. Um you have quite a way with words. Yeah.  Thanks.  They are going to stay with me.  This has been a realit is been really nice to kind of get to let all this out. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.