Mathew Hi Amanda. This is Mathew in Boulder Colorado. From Death Sex  Money this is Financial Therapy. Im Amanda Clayman. Mathew is 40--and also thats not his real name. Mathew And two years ago I left a job um really because of money and how it was being used against others that I just did not agree with and did not want to stand for. So he quit...on principle. And he struck out on his own to start an independent consulting business. Mathew So for about a year and a half I was under employed and brought in um about 90 less into the family than what I had in the years prior to that. But there were bright spots. Mathews wife was still employed...and they decided to leave the Midwest and move with their three kids to Colorado. They bought a house. And eventually towards the end of last year Mathews consulting work picked up. Mathew And it was a great six months. And then COVID hit and everything stopped. So people that I had worked for were slow paying going six eight weeks between invoices. And I was back to the point of not knowing how I was contributing to the family while at the same time we were undergoing a major renovation that had spiraled out of control. So now without this earnings we are dipping further into savings. I have had to take out additional loans. Um I have tried to get unemployment unsuccessfully. Finally was approved yesterday for a PPP loan which feels great. Um but it is a point of real insecurity and not just today but really like what does it look like to recover? How do I get that control back that I felt like I had but also feel like has just dissipated so quickly? And I think all of that is um... all of thats scary. Coming up in just a minute...my session with Mathew.-- This is Financial Therapy from Death Sex  Money. Im Amanda Clayman. During this shutdown money is top of mind for Mathew. And as we started our session he told me that that is a familiar feeling. He experienced a drop in income two years ago...when he left his last job. Mathew I was one of the executives running one of the marketing divisions. And um I had been there almost a year at that point. I have really enjoyed the people I worked with. I enjoyed the level of responsibilities that I had. Um and the only thing that I ever had as my concern was I did not agree with the way that we treated the employees and feeling that people were under appreciated and constantly had money held against them um or kind of like held over them. So low pay but there was also a really high termination and turnover. And so it was a way to kind of control people people that did not feel like they had empowerment with money. Um but I did. I had the benefits of the financial security. And as I stood up for them and fought for them I went in one morning and the CEO essentially said like you know you are too uh you have too much empathy. And that tells me you uh are not a great leader. And I do not know if you are the right person for this. And I am going to demote you. And in the midst of that discussion I just said like I cannot-- I cannot work at a place that does not act in a way that is consistent with my values of how we treat people. Um so I think it is best that I just that I just leave. Amanda It is really important to you when you see people being hurtful or even abusive especially with money that that is something that really...it does not sit right with you. Mathew It does not sit right! And in my...for me I have seen money be this...this... it is control. It is power. It is something that I too often have seen people in my personal life. specifically with my dad who was the breadwinner in our family. Um and how he held money over my mom throughout our life. And then when they got divorced he would not pay her the alimony for the kids. He would only pay it directly to the kids so that we knew who uh who was in control and who the money was coming from. I just watch money be this lever of power and when it is been used against me I just feel so ugly inside that I told myself when I was in a position of having control and power I was going to be the advocate. And I got to that and that advocacy has almost gone in the opposite way? Like I feel good about what I did but nobody's better off as a result of that. It was like this emotional decision that I am proud of and it was true to my character but it is had no tangible benefits to it.  I think about like where my family is now compared to where we were and in a pure dollars and cents we are not at all where we aspire to be at this stage. And that is a result of my of my move. The people that were left behind at that company some got fired. So then they are in a harder place. Like I... Amanda Like what was it all for? Mathew What was it for? And so you never quite know the risks you are taking until you are...until you are down the path a bit. And I knew I had the regular safety net that they tell you to have and be responsible and have your six or nine months of earnings and all of that kind of stuff. And I was ready for that. I never expected it would go this long. And so I think there is a bit of your best laid plans are still not something that you can control. And even when you feel like you are coming out of it you um you can get hit--you can get blindsided by something that you would have never expected. And that is what this is. You cannot--you cannot predict the future. Amanda Well lets try dropping down a level and pulling back a little bit from from trying to understand what is happening and be in the experience of what is happening. So can you like why do not you just describe for me what this uh shelter in place or this quarantine period has been like for you and your family. Mathew So we have three kids um of uh different ages from um early elementary into late middle school. And um we are all home.  Uh so the kids have adjusted and are doing the homeschooling. My wife and I she um has been working out of the home um since we moved out here. I actually have been working in the basement in our guest bedroom and she is maintained the office. And then you know for the few hours a day that school is happening the kids are there. And they have been they have been great but you know they finish school so fast and uh it is amazing how much they accomplish in such a short period of time. But suddenly they want to be entertained! And you know my job as a consultant is I only get paid when I work and I only work if I can find clients and when business is down um money is down. So it is my job to sit there and without a regular committed salary I have to go earn it. I have to go find it. I have to um I have to--I have to make the numbers work. So there is that level of stress that I feel when uh when we are all in these spaces and trying to not be at each other's throats in any way but trying to be supportive and uh at the same time accomplish things that are hard to do. Amanda And what was it like for you when you first noticed that your income was going to go down for a period? Mathew Umm... it was almost a can we just call it a shell shock I guess? Um and a real disappointment. You know have I have I put the efforts in the right place? Have I protected the family in the right way? Have I done what I could do in order to to withstand this and do we have enough there to withstand another hit? Um which we have definitely taken financially over the last couple of years as a result of my decision. Amanda How do you usually make decisions? Like you have had some big pivot points in the last few years. And and I am curious about the process. You know everybody sort of navigates uncertainty in their own unique way. So if you were trying to bring me inside of understanding how you make decisions like can you walk me through that process? Mathew I am pretty methodical typically especially on major decisions. Um you know I am definitely the type that has a budget for the year. And my wife and I sit down and we talk about all the types of expenses that we are expecting not just in this year but in the years to come. And I do a monthly you know cashflow uh management of that and building in a bit of you know um I will call it the oh no money. Just like did not expect that did not see that coming. Did not realize somebody was going to throw a ball through a window and have to replace that. So we we you know we we have had the luxury of being able to plan in that way. The first time I have ever really taken--that WE I guess have ever taken such a big risk and jump was when we decided to move. And that came really on a whim. Uh we were on a vacation and just kind of said like what are we doing? Why why not shake things up? Why not make a move? And we have been fortunate to be working with a financial planner for a number of years and um you know went to them and just said like This is what we want to do. And they said you are okay. Go go take the risk. If you want to go go. And that kind of gave us the confidence. We almost needed somebody else to validate whether we were going off emotion or um the cognitive like the analytic part. And once we got that green light then we jumped and we went um... Amanda Have there ever been any decisions that you have made that were unusual for you? That were not methodical? Mathew  The you know the day that the most the biggest emotional one that I have made is is when I left that job. That was such...that was one of the more emotionally driven decisions I made. Cause typically I would try to step you know step away from that and just think about it and try to handle it in a different way. Amanda Mmhmm. One of the reasons I am so curious to know more about the time when you acted sort of more outside of your general way of navigating your life--like you described yourself as as more methodical you like to look at the long term um you even said when you were describing the decision to move that you wanted to make sure that it was not an emotional decision. Um...and I am going to take a minute with this question so I will beg your your patience here! You describe an experience where emotions were so present and what you needed to do in that moment was so emotionally clear to you that you overrode your more methodical wanting to to sort of plan things out nature which is you know prioritizes safety and being able to make sure that a decision makes sense before you move forward with it. Um and now one of the ways that you are describing the experiences is like this descriptive list of what is happening. But when I ask you questions about how you are feeling about things then I hear you switch into a different voice. Like when I asked you about like how was it when you first looked at your income dropping and you said um It was a shell shock. It was a disappointment. As opposed to a different way of saying that which is you know I felt shellshocked. I felt disappointed. It is like there is an analytical filter that the experience goes through before you will sort of let it get into the emotional piece of it. And that when you are struggling to feel more sort of grounded and present in this moment I think one of the like key functions um that is not being really tapped is that emotional experience. Mathew Um you know it is really funny. Like I I do not maybe I have got a wall up against some of the emotional pieces because the truth is it was so draining for me leading up to this and I needed to continue to find this energy to get up every day and to not fall into a level of depression and to be engaged and happy and not make my kids feel like you know the world was ending because their dad um was not able to get a job. And you know they they all of that that it was just that was so hard on me that I think there is a bit right now that I do not know how to--I do not have more of an emotional feeling other than the unknown. I have not necessarily tapped into the fear that is out there. I have not tapped into the um the uncertainty I guess too much. Um I do not feel anything other than we have a problem that we need to solve it. And this is the thing that we have to do to try and get through it. Amanda What if we were to just take a look at the fear that you just mentioned and and try to give it a little bit of um a voice or or at least hear what it is that fear wants to say. Mathew Okay. Amanda  Because that is one of the the first things that that you have expressed in terms of a feeling really really clearly. Um so I just want to to follow that. And just to sort of see if if there is anything when we sort of open up that piece um that might help you feel a little bit more like life makes sense. Because not everything you know one of the lessons may be that that life throws you curve balls right? And you have a really wonderful way of coming up--I mean literally I bet your plans are beautiful. I bet you are good at spreadsheets. Are you a person who is good at spreadsheets? Mathew It is possible I may have a few in front of me.  Amanda Of course you do! I am sure your spreadsheets are lovely. But I am feeling like there is so much clarity and even power that can come from being able to integrate the two sides the analytical side and then the emotional side. Um because right now now there is a lot of feelings stuff that I suspect is coming up for you um and it is going through the analytical processor and it is not making a lot of sense. So with all that in mind we can listen to what our emotions are saying um and feel them without letting them run the show to the extent that we just act out on them. Mathew  You know...like I am I am hearing what you are telling--like I am hearing what you are saying. I am hearing your words. And I am trying to internalize that and then see if I can turn that lever in order to figure out what that emotional feeling is. And honestly the only one that um...the only one that I can kind of tap into in the moment is this...um...this this feeling of like what good am I? And what abilities do I have to help get us back to that place of safety and security. I felt like we were making these decisions that were allowing us to finally recover and to feel this level of stability and get back to what I would say is our normal. And it was just like starting to come out of this rut um that COVID hit. And this kind of throws that back in the air and some of the risks that we took--and I am relatively risk averse when it comes to financials--now all feel like they are blowing up. And so there is a part of me that feels like you know I had this chance to take a risk and things were um were failing. Like you know I was not able to get hired by a company and I have applied for so many jobs that I am qualified for and I cannot get hired. And then I could not earn consulting business. And then I am draining uh you know savings. And then we go and we make this decision to buy cause we are feeling bullish again. And we start to do a renovation and then this happens and now we have like less and less and less...and it boils up this place of insecurity with me?  So I guess in some way there is a feeling that I have right now of this uncertainty that I just do not have any control--I have so little control. And the things that I need to do to get us out of the place that I put us into is um is to force myself out of my comfort zone. But yet...can I? Like is there anything special or capable in me to get us out of it?  And that is the sense of responsibility I have as a husband and a parent and a colleague that I hope that people that I have worked with respect. And are probably confused by where I am at this point. And a bit of shame I guess that I also have in that. Amanda And and I do not know if you can tell but like you are right there. Like like is it okay if I repeat back to you what I hear you saying to me in different language? Mathew Absolutely. Amanda Like you said um I feel like I have little control over what happens next. And I wonder what it would feel like to just say I have little control over what happens next. Just like that to me how would that feel? Mathew Um. I have little control over what happens next. Amanda Anything at all? Mathew Um...my leg is shaking. I dont like the way it feels. Um I feel like this coward in a way. And I do not want to say a fraud cause that is not it is not a feeling that I have but sort of! If I could find the right word I mean it is in that space. Um you know my wife and I both feel this immense responsibility to to show. And I know that theres a show for the kids that is um they need to see their parents as real because they have feelings and they need to sense that as well. But I also recognize that they they have a very strong reaction when they see me as having a vulnerability or a weakness. Um and how much that shakes them more. And so like I I want to get there and I hear like I hear what you are saying. I am I also have--my instinct keeps me pulling back a little bit. Amanda Yes. I hear the fear in that statement. I do not want to do the wrong thing and hurt my children. Mathew Yeah. Amanda I want to protect them and be a good dad. So so I think fear is actually...we want to give fear a new framework or a new job here. Um which is that fear is is telling you that you are showing up emotionally for something. Whether it is it is thinking about how important your family is to you and therefore how much you want to support them. Whether it is thinking about how important it is for you to do work that matters and has impact. Like maybe fear is showing up there not as a sign that something needs to be controlled more in order to be safe but in terms of sort of pushing out the boundary of what it means to be safe such that you do not have to be in 100 control in order to know that you are okay. Does that make sense? Mathew Uh it does. I mean it I do not know what it is--I do not know how to act on that. Um other than just putting myself in a place where I recognize it and I overcome it and then all of a sudden that that that boundary moves further away. Amanda I think it is truly beautiful that even as I am describing this you are like That is fantastic Amanda. Okay but how can I control that what is my plan for that?  Mathew So it sounds like Im doing a great job!  Amanda I mean you get it you get it. No it is--I am joking cause it is totally that silly. It was exactly great. It was exactly great. Um so this I just want to sort of pause and check in because I feel like we we kind of took off from a place and at the beginning of this conversation and we are in a different place than we started. It is not that scene from Good Will Hunting you know in terms of like the breakthrough of your life. But I am sensing that there has been some kind of a shift for you in terms of your sense of um groundedness and where you are right now.  And I just want to check in and say like how are you feeling in terms of where you are and how grounded you are in this moment? Mathew Um Im fidgeting a lot here and I am trying to find that...I am trying to find the words to kind of um...like I want that control. So I still am fighting a bit of that shift. I think that you know you talked about the safety and you are right. And where I go to and I guess the best example like as I sit there and think about even the last couple months um I have had a list on my desk of steps I needed to take to reach out to people for building of the business and kind of fostering relationships professionally and asking for business and I have done none of it. I have done none of it. I want to know that I have checked all the boxes and I feel safe and ready and secure and well thought out and well planned. And that discipline is something that I do take a lot of pride in and it aids me in the work that I do and the way that I come across. Um and it it is really hard for me to sit there and imagine that that is also the thing what holds me back. Um but it does. Most of us perceive our problems that relate to money as being solved by money. Especially in a time when we are super vulnerable because you know right now there is just absolute crisis all around. And for many of us it hits very close to home. And when more money is not easily available and we cannot solve the problem that way I think we become aware of some of the other parts that are there. Because if you think about it a lot of us spend a lot of time distracting ourselves with with feeling good about being a good provider or a good earner or a good caretaker. And when we cannot fill those needs and step into those roles by providing financially how do we see ourselves? I personally really identify with this. I once had a therapist tell me that I had two categories in which I saw the world one category were things I could control 100 and the other category was disaster. So as Mathew is sort of wrestling with this idea of all the things he wants to do perfectly or all the things he has to do right Im trying to open him up to the idea that he does not have to be the one perfectly in control making all of the money doing everything right in order to still be okay. This special series was produced by the team at Death Sex  Money Anabel Bacon Anna Sale Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Krystal Hawes for her work on this episode. Additional editing by Jenny Lawton. Original music by Isaac Jones. Im Amanda Clayman. You can find me on Instagram amandaclayman and on Twitter mandaclay. For more honest conversations about money...and all the other things that are hard to talk about...subscribe to Death Sex  Money wherever you get your podcasts. And if theres something going on with your money thats really weighing you down...send me an email or a voice memo to financialtherapywnyc.org. 