Dale Hi this is Dale in Knoxville Tennessee where I normally run an event venue um but have not been running an event venue since the beginning of the COVID crisis. From Death Sex  Money this is Financial Therapy. Im Amanda Clayman... and my job is to help people work through their feelings about money. Dale I think if I have a goal in life it is to facilitate everyday joy and fun. Dale is 35... she wrote in from Tennessee where she lives with her husband...no kids. Dale In normal times probably 70 of my job is managing an event space that my husband and I own. And then I also have a small food business where I make um hand pies out of that same building. But of course...times are not normal right now. Dale We still do not know when it will be safe for us to gather you know even as some businesses are opening up here in Tennessee it is still pretty unclear when it will be safe for large groups to gather. And so that is hard to deal with. Just having really... no clear answer about when we can operate again. Both Dale and her husband are taking home about a third less than they normally would and their savings can last between six months and a year depending on how tightly they squeeze their budget. And so right now while Dale can sit home and know shes safe her mind is already casting forward to whats next and wrestling with the idea of how theyre going to open safely and what she wants her business and life to look like after this initial crisis has passed. Dale And so yeah that is the looking forward anxiety. But honestly I think a lot of it is almost like the looking back at what it feels like we have lost already. Coming up in just a minute...my session with Dale.   This is Financial Therapy from Death Sex  Money. Im Amanda Clayman. Dale Hello? Amanda Hello! Is this Dale? Dale Yes this is Dale. Amanda Hi it is Amanda! A few weeks ago I gave Dale a call and we dove right in. Amanda So before this pandemic happened and all of the shutdowns started occurring what did a good month look like for you guys? Dale I would say you know the past year or two we have really kind of hit our stride in terms of most weekends you know being pretty fully booked with with private events. Um May this month now was going to be our busiest month to date. It went from something like over 20 to zero. Um and the events can vary in terms of what we make per event anywhere between 300 for a really small event to um you know around 2000 for a bigger event. I mean it is a substantial amount of money that we thought was going to be coming in and it is not. So right now it is like in some ways.... we are able to sort of just hunker down and do it but the busy months in the spring and summer are kind of what get us through the leaner months in the winter. So it it is almost like it is going to kind of hit us possibly later. Amanda And so how has that impacted your budget? Dale Well um... we have less money!  So we are able between my husband and I we have you know we have certainly curbed our spending and we pay ourselves a little bit lower of a salary than we did in the past. I have also been able to kind of supplement some of what I would have been making with events by doing a lot more of the pie making and shipping them out. And those orders have gone way up just 'ecause there is a lot of people at home bored and hungry. And so I have sort of shifted into this like pie factory which--that is a little bit challenging because I was actually before all this planning on scaling that way back. Like I was going to stop shipping the pies at all because I do not particularly like the process of packing them and shipping them. So that is been particularly frustrating 'ecause that was a piece of my work that I was working towards not doing. Um because I had built up the event business enough that I thought I could stop. And so now to just be back. only doing that is hard. Amanda Mhmm. And so what does it feel like for you to lose business? Dale It really varies. Sometimes I feel pretty accepting of it because when things are beyond my control you know there is not... if I had done something to lose all of my business I would be really upset with myself and really frustrated but because it is something that I have no control over and because being closed is kind of like it is the good correct thing to do. There is a way in which that I can feel really okay with it. Um it is really when I start calculating you know losing you know now it is somewhere between 1000 and 20000 like that...that is a significant portion of what I make in a year. Then it starts to feel um sad honestly. Amanda Yeah. Dale Then I feel it as a loss you know even though I never had that money um... Amanda So it is looking at the number like the cumulative effect of it. Dale Yeah. Amanda And I would love to make sure that I understand that correctly because you one of the things that I listen for with people is the way that they interpret numbers and kind of the story that they tell themselves about it. So when you are looking at the money that is been lost in these events like how are you--what is the story that you are telling yourself about that money? Dale I think I am telling myself that like that would have made us feel safe. Or um.... hmm. Yeah. I guess I just I think of the things that that would do you know it um it is money that could go into our savings it is money that we could travel with. It is money that I would have you know safely in an account if we needed it. Amanda And how does your husband feel about it? Dale Um that is a good question. He is much less uh you know we own the venue together but it is definitely I am the one that kind of manages it and deals with all of the day to day pieces of it. Um so in a way it feels like I am on the hook for it more than him even though I do not think he feels that way. He is also self-employed. He is so he is a photographer and so his work shut down as well. So both of us were sort of looking at this unknown amount of time where we would not be working very much and you know we we have savings. And I kind of kept saying that we can fall back on that you know for a while. Um like if it is for any time at all it is for this. And I think he was just like if we can not touch it let us not touch it. So I think that is maybe a little piece of it where I feel like...that I should be still making money to not to not be touching our savings. Because if we are going to be making less money anyway let us not also have to... you know come out of this much much worse than before. Amanda And when you guys are are trying to make a plan then cause I I guess that is one of the things that is on the horizon right. Is when you are starting to think about reopening the business how are the two of you going into that decision making process? Dale Well it is a little I mean it is interesting because it is like when we have talked about it an interesting thing can come up for me where on the one hand I do not want to feel like I am alone in making this decision. You know I already feel like um I do not have enough guidance from government. I just do not have enough information um as a person who throws parties and makes pies for a living to be making you know a decision that affects public health. So I do not want to be alone in making that decision but I have had the reaction at times where like if he has an opinion that is different than mine it is like well I am the one who runs the business! I am right! You know. And so on the one hand like I really want other input but I think I can be a little bit like territorial about the decision making. Amanda Hmm. That feels big to me as you describe that. Dale Yeah. Amanda Because on the one hand when we want to maintain control over something usually that is coming out of a need to feel safe and being hesitant to let people be with us when we are in a vulnerable place. Um but on the other hand that can be a very lonely feeling or we can feel kind of burdened with that at the same time. It just can be something to think about like as your your finances have shifted with the shutdown in the business like is risk evenly distributed? Or is one of you sort of feeling more of the consequences of this shutdown than the other if that makes sense. Dale Yeah I think that is very true for me. Um and kind of the way that we have set it up is you know our we have our business kind of accounts and we just have an agreed upon amount in normal times that we just pay a salary. We each you know pay a salary into our joint account and we have a household budget. Um so you know normally that that works kind of great and we do not really have to bother each other about money all that much. Um I do think then yeah like when times like this come up things are a little bit different and we are both anxious and honestly like we are anxious at different times I think and for different reasons. And we are maybe not used to um having to even talk about it all that much. Amanda Because it just kind of works. Dale Yeah usually it does. Amanda Until like the ground shifts underneath you. Dale Right. Amanda And do you talk with each other about how you are feeling when you look toward the future? Dale We do. I mean I think I am a little bit more um of a talker and an emotional processor for the most part. Um when he gets anxious I think he is much more thoughtful and um quiet and reflective and I am much more very quick into action let us make a plan. Like I think it was like the first day we closed down the business. I was like okay we are gonna change this public event we do where people gather and we are going to make these mystery boxes full of like local art and products from Knoxville. and we are shipping them out um as kind of like a replacement for the gathering piece of it. And I mean like it was three days from when we shut down to like launching that. And I think there is a way that action can feel really good and it is sort of like okay I have got a plan. I am going to do this. I am going to succeed at this pandemic. Um like as if a pandemic is something to succeed at instead of just sort of survive. And I think that that is comforting to me. It makes me feel in control it makes me feel you know and people will validate that you for that as well. You know people like Oh my gosh you are doing this great thing and look at how fast you responded! And I think I liked that feeling of being super proactive. It is super self-sufficient and like I got this. Um but then I think it can also put me in the position of like well when I do not feel that way and I feel like I do not got this and I need help I think sometimes it can feel like it invalidates that I am this like strong capable person. Amanda You would much rather be in the like pandemic inspo category than... Dale But not even really! Like I do not even believe that that should be like any measure that anyone should measure themselves up to. Like I really do not believe like I am a better or worse person if I am kicking ass and do not need any help in surviving this um versus someone who like is really struggling and needs help because I am really both of those things alternately. Amanda I hear you getting it. Like when you look at it you completely understand what the pieces of this experience are and how those pieces need to fit together. Um but experientially when you are when you are sitting with the feelings that are coming up and you are really present with them. It feels like you have a very strong go-to coping strategy to dive right in look for what you can do and that that is usually how you you move yourself through uh a situation. Um and so I can completely sympathize with how uncomfortable it is then when you are in a situation like this one where we are kind of stuck in place in time um we are waiting for something to shift in the external situation so you you do not have that preferred coping strategy of activity available to you in the way that it normally is. And so on the one hand intellectually you can see like okay then my job here is to just kind of sit in the feelings. But when you do it it is like every fiber of your being does not like that pushes back against that. Dale Yeah and there is a piece of it too where in the beginning you know there was a there was a feeling almost of like we really are all in this together and everyone was sort of reaching out and did not really you know we knew we were just stuck at home and I do not know I felt this like immense sense of community and I did still feel really connected with...with the community you know of our venue of the people who come to our events and support us. And I really felt that in the beginning. It is been harder honestly as things have kind of moved along and it feels kind of both more normal but then lots of people are going back to work already um and starting to kind of get on with it it feels like? And I still feel like I am like stuck behind but without the community kind of there with me. I feel like I oscillate between feeling like um oh I am particularly affected by this in a way that other people might not be. But then I will say no but look at we are fine. We are we are not starving. We are doing okay. We you know we did not have to lay off a million people. Like we are so lucky. Why should I expect someone to feel bad for me? Amanda It is so disorienting. You know everyone's affected but we can all be affected so differently. I have a friend who said we are all in the same storm but we are not in the same boat. And so it is such a confusing thing sometimes to to try to figure out like how how do we need or how do we deserve support and validation for the things that we are going through that are hard when we know that other people are also going through hard things... and also struggling? Dale Right. And also I think there can sometimes be a little bit of a tension between like trying to stay in the gratitude of what we do have because things could be so much worse. Um but then there does need to be space within that to to just like it is okay to be struggling. Um I intellectually know that. I think you are right. I do have a difficult time um just like voicing that. Amanda It is hard you know our our brains want to put things into categories like when we were talking earlier about telling ourselves a story putting that story together can be really difficult when the pieces do not all line up really neatly. Um so when we are telling ourselves a story about where we are struggling um or where we are suffering. At the same time we can also feel deeply aware and maybe more aware than we were before of all of those things that give our lives great joy and meaning and may even--!here's a sticky one!--some things that may even feel better or happier in this time being and what do we do with that? Dale Yes I have definitely experienced that. Um I mean running two businesses is a lot. Um and so as business with the venue has pretty much stopped. You know I am I am doing more work with the food business but I am still working fewer hours than I was before. And boy just really enjoying spending so much time at home. Um you know and as much as I love gathering people and you know seeing my community and hosting events for people I think I am much more introverted than I realized because just the amount of um I do not know I feel like... an open space in my brain and in my chest not constantly interacting with people and worrying about you know if everyone has what they need. Um and I think that is even another piece of the anxiety about opening back up. Like there is a I mean as much as financially like we need to open back up at some point. There is a part of me that is just like but I am so happy just being at home. Amanda And being able to cocoon and sort of have have that nest of safety around you. Dale Yeah but I think that I have been hesitant to like really like lean into that as a source of comfort because I am like well that is you cannot get used to that. You cannot just not work that much. So do not. like get used to it. Amanda Yeah what I am hearing in that is is... there is a quality of it being hard to sit still. Like even though the future is kind of out there and we do not know what it looks like we also know that the present is not going to last forever. Dale Right. Amanda And so it is almost like you are conceptually in these two different places at the same time. Dale Yeah I mean I think there is like a part of me that worries if I like let myself relax too much. I will just like get too used to it and like it too much to never want to go back to work like normal. I do not think I am like that money motivated. Um it is more reactive. My work is pretty reactive. It is sort of like I just work the amount of work that there is. You know same with the pies. Like I make the amount of pies that are the orders that I have and I ship them out. And so I am just going to work the hours that it takes to finish that. So it is almost just like the more the better. Does that make sense? Amanda It does. And I think that is how a lot of us approach work especially if we are self-employed. Um we try to keep up with the opportunities as they are presented to us. Like if you were to not just think of all of the things that the business could be but like really if you had your ideal amount of time that you were able to devote to the business and then to have for you personally and creatively. If you were to back that out into what that would look like the money it would take to support it that can be a place where where we can actually kind of like play and explore. Funny enough money can be one of the things that helps move that from an abstract place into a more concrete place. It can serve as a really helpful guide in in at least giving you a framework for like ooh am I spending more time but I am getting this amount of money is that worth it to me? Do I want to use this information maybe to try to push up when the time is right some of the rates that we are charging for our services or our space? Because that money directly translates into my own quality of life. That is where money can actually be a helpful tool in doing the the more personal work. Dale I do think that there is a little piece of it that has like made me think about my identity a little bit because a lot of what I do you know collaborating with people and interacting with people is a big way that I kind of create for myself like value. I think I put a lot of value on connecting with people in community. Um so it has been a little bit... uh I think it has rocked me a little bit um noticing how comfortable I am being alone and thinking maybe I need to incorporate more of that. Maybe I am like putting a lot of pressure on myself to constantly be interacting with people because I see value in that but it may not be what I need all the time. Amanda Is there a way that you can take that thought into a next step? Dale Well it is it is hard to make many next steps right now um because things just feel so in limbo. Um but I do think like  thinking about like what my metrics are for like what in a given week like am I measuring this based on how much money I make? Am I measuring this based on just how many hours I was in my office at work? Am I measuring this based on what I accomplished? Like thinking about how I am measuring work and what what is important to me. I think it is definitely helpful for me to realize like that I like I I do not ever put a limit to the amount of work that I do. Whereas if I was working for someone else that would absolutely tell them no I have worked too much come into work and again on a Sunday and I worked you know 60 hours this week. Like I have literally never like had that thought like Oh maybe you should have some boundaries. That was where Dale and I left it on the question of worklife boundaries and how she might want to think about them going forward. And about a week after we talked I heard from Dale. She said shed been thinking about our conversation... with her husband. Dale You know he was asking me how it went. And we actually ended up having like a really great hour-long conversation where we talked about a lot of stuff that like we had kind of skirted around the edges of or talked about vaguely. And one of the things that hit home that made me really want to have that conversation was I had not really thought about the way that there may be ways in which I am I am carrying some feeling of risk that you know I am not voicing so I am feeling alone in. 'ecause there've been times where I have just been a little burnt out just only making pies. And he was just like you know you do not have to keep it doing that forever. Like we we can figure different things out. Like we can maybe take more out of savings than we have been instead of being so strict about not touching it. And so that that was really really great um to be able to have that that language to have a conversation. A lot of us are taking in a lot of new information right now and reflecting about how we used to live our life and how we are thinking about living our lives moving forward. And for those of us who get sort of anxious about letting other people in the trade-off there is that when we make decisions by ourselves we might feel safer but we also feel more alone. You know we are we are vulnerable when we do not have other people that we can trust to bring into some of the weight and responsibility of those choices. And so for Dale having this conversation with her husband is not only a way to make sure hes on board with any changes that she might want to make its also a way for her to feel seen and heard by her partner. And a lot of us are learning right now that sometimes we just need support because we need it. We do not have to think about it we do not have to analyze and weigh whether we deserve it. We just need to start owning that and sharing it with other people in our lives before we start to edit and judge ourselves about whether or not its ok for us to have that feeling. This special series was produced by the team at Death Sex  Money Anabel Bacon Anna Sale Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn with additional editing by Jenny Lawton. Original music by Isaac Jones. Im Amanda Clayman. You can find me on Instagram amandaclayman and on Twitter mandaclay For more honest conversations about money and all the other things that are hard to talk about subscribe to Death Sex  Money wherever you get your podcasts. And if theres something going on with your money thats really weighing you down send me an email or a voice memo to financialtherapywnyc.org.