 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show how the economic impact of coronavirus affects different generations. And later Sam talks to New York Times bestselling author Samantha Irby. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend. So this week as Aunt Betty said we are going to talk about the economy. But trust me dear listener. It is going to be a chat that is ultimately uplifting in spite of all the numbers we are all seeing. As I am sure you know by now those latest numbers are staggering. As of the end of this week more than 1 in 4 U.S. workers have lost their jobs since coronavirus shut down most of the economy in March - 1 in 4. Altogether since this whole thing started more than 40 million people in this country have filed for unemployment. Those kind of numbers show that obviously this pandemic is hurting all types of folks from all walks of life. But a question I keep asking and a question I keep hearing other people ask is who is getting hurt the most - particularly younger folks or older folks people at the start of their careers or in the middle or nearing the end? Jill Schlesinger thinks about this stuff a lot. She is a certified financial planner and she is a business analyst for CBS News. I called Jill up this week to ask her how this economic crisis is affecting different generations differently and we ended up talking at length about how maybe those divisions - right now at least - are not good for us at all.   Jill hi. How are you?  I am fantastic. How are you?  I am good. I am doing that thing I always do when I get to talk to anyone who covers the economy who thinks about the economy who is smart about it. My first and often only question in this coronavirus moment is economically speaking just how bad is this ?  It is the worst I have ever seen. And I am an old fart and so I have seen a lot. And it is by far the worst deepest recession meaning the economy is shrinking at the fastest pace it has ever shrunk since the Great Depression. So 2008 2009 was kind of a warm-up for this. This is awful.  Wow. I want to talk about a thing that I have seen surface in some of the commentary around how this pandemic is affecting all of us economically. There is a certain level of - and I cannot tell if it is just joking or not. But there is a certain level of generational warfare I see happening - boomers saying we are getting hit the worst millennials saying no us and then recent graduates saying I will not have a job to walk into. And so I want to talk about to the best we can how this crisis is affecting generations in broad strokes. But first I want to talk about how maybe the biggest dividing line in all of this might be what type of job you have and what type of industry you work in which is a proxy for class. You and I are both talking to each other as we work from home and we have been able to work from home in a pretty uninterrupted manner. And we will be fine because of that in many ways. But for people who cannot do that it is totally different right?  Absolutely and I think this is one of the factors that really freaked out the Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell. And when he went before Congress and he went on CBS 60 Minutes one of the things that he kept stressing was that this crisis is disproportionately hurting people at the lower end of the income stream. And as you say you know here we are talking from our homes. But if you are somebody who makes less than 40000 chances are over the last few months you have a 50-50 chance of having been sidelined from work. That is an insane...  Fifty-fifty chance.  Yeah. That is insane.  Do you hearing yourself say these numbers - does it blow your mind still too?  Well you know I have been known to really love these kinds of numbers. You know I am a total math nerd and - but...  Yeah.  I also sort of understand the scale of that. And one of the things that strikes me is as you are talking about the divides what this pandemic has done to our health is that it seems to disproportionately hurt people who are fragile right? So it is - at the low end you find that you know black Americans and Hispanic Americans and poor Americans and old Americans - they are at risk health-wise right?  Yeah.  And what we...  Yeah.  ...Now understand is there is a similar kind of pathway from the economic impact that we certainly know that black and Hispanic younger Americans and those who earn less money are disproportionately hurt economically by this crisis. That is the financial fallout that is so intense. And age is a problem frankly because you know obviously many new entrants into the workforce do not make a lot of money. And even if you went to college and you were on a path kind of like the last in first out - a lot of companies are like eh you know what? We do not need those entry-level people. We will hire them back at some point.  Yeah.  That is tough man.  Oh yeah. It is tough. And I am sure that there is a whole crop - everyone finishing high school trying to go into a job right now or finishing college trying to go into a job right now. There are just literally millions of fewer jobs for them to walk into and when you start your working career like that it will probably affect your earnings for the entirety of your working career.  I was just looking this up because again pointing to the fact that I am a ridiculous geek - that I was looking up this research by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the thumbnail sketch is that if you are unlucky enough to graduate into a recession you make about 10 less for the first 10 years of your career.  Wow.  Now the bigger problem is that in this crop - I will call it the people who came out of college probably since about 2007 - that these kids - you are all kids who are listening you good kids - and that - that you are saddled with more debt than previous generations when it comes to student loan debt. And my concern has been that I feel like millennials have just had bad timing. And that does not make you a bad person.  Listen. Let me tell you.  It is bad luck.   It is bad luck. Well because - OK. Like just for me personally my senior year of high school the twin towers fell. I walked out of graduate school into the working world in 2009. This was like peak recession. Thank the Lord NPR hired me. And now literally the year I am like thinking about like should I buy a house and save up and do this and do that global pandemic. And let me be clear and say I am very lucky in very many ways. But I cannot help but thinking even as someone who is quite fortunate yeah bad luck horrible timing.  Yeah.  Thanks economy.  And you are allowed to sit on your pity pot and feel that way for some short period of time. I will grant you that position. Do it. Do it.   Yeah.  And you are because you know I always find it a little bit annoying with my cohort. You know I am in my mid-50s. And you know we were lucky. It was kind of like you were a moron if you could not get a job when you graduated in the '80s. You know really it is like that - like everybody got a job. Nobody - and yes you know I graduated in 1987 so that meant - and I worked on Wall Street and so I lived through the crash of 1987. But it was oddly short-lived you know? And that was the weird thing about my generation and even the boomers that the cyclical bad stuff that occurred - it occurred and we came out of it. It was OK. And so I think that sometimes people confuse good luck with wisdom and smarts. You know I am sure everyone my age is really smart and they are wise and all that. But you know what? Mostly we had the good fortune of graduating into a good economy of graduating into a good housing market.  Yeah.  Like economists hate when you say things like that but there is just dumb luck.   Yeah. And I do not want to act as if everyone over a certain age has just been lucky economically. I mean I think of people in my life who were looking forward to retirement when the last recession screwed that up for them. And now as they start to get things back together those same 401Ks have just been hit. Big picture for the boomers and those older - like how bad is it for them?  I think they are OK. I think they are worried about their health. I think they are mostly OK. Here's the...  Really? OK.  ...Advantage - yeah. And do not send me hate mail boomers. I like you. I am not part of your generation. Stand down.  .  Here's why. It is the old story of those with the gold rule. That is the golden rule my father used to teach us. You know like a lot of those people already had accumulated assets OK? Now what is the benefit of that? Those with assets are not just able to weather the bad times but they have money that is already set aside. The market craters in March. It starts to come marching back. Maybe it will go down again. But if you already have saved the money chances are you are going to be OK. Here's the problem with somebody who is a boomer who maybe sort of has really thought like I really want to retire soon but I need six more years to get money into my retirement accounts. And you just get laid off. That is a danger.  You know one of the things I was thinking in prepping for this interview and all these generational questions and commentaries we got from listeners and just all across the Web - what is it about America and Americans that we so lean into this idea of generations almost being pitted against each other? It cannot be this way all over the world but like everything that happens to us in this country we find a way to make it - oh no it is millennials' fault. Actually it is Gen X fault - actually the boomers. Is that uniquely American or just the nature of people at different ages?  Well since I have lived abroad for exactly one semester and four months I - let me speak freely as an expert on - you know I think it is a capitalist system that has shredded the social safety net in many ways. And the difference of not having security not having access to education that is affordable or not having access to health care or not having a government that will swoop in and say you know what? Forget about unemployment insurance we are just going to take over the payroll for all these companies and just pay 80 during the pandemic. And that is what we are going to do. Not having that kind of robust safety net does tend to make it feel like a Hunger Games. And in a Hunger Games you are like freaking fighting for your own and you are looking for the enemy. And as - again like sometimes bad things happen and it is not anyone's fault. And it is not the boomers' fault and it is not the millennials' fault. And it is not the Gen Xers' fault. And that feels very much like a dissatisfying answer to so many. And I think that if we felt taken care of then I do not think we would turn against each other as much. I know that you are probably thinking I am some sort of weirdo socialist and I am not. I really love capitalism.  No it is...  I really - I do. But unfettered capitalism without having companies take a more active role in putting their employees before they put their shareholders - those are the kinds of things I think that have really made us so cynical. And on top of that which I know you know about your world of politics is in - if you are cynical about your work and you are cynical about government and you are cynical about life then you are just going to blame whoever's there.  Cynical about everything - exactly. You will blame and folks will exploit that blame. And then everyone's just unhappier.  I know.  Totally. You know it is so interesting thinking about what the storylines will be about this latest wrinkle in all of our economic stories. And what I hope does not happen is that like one generation's bad luck becomes a narrative about them. Like do millennials continuing to stumble into recession after recession - does that end up becoming a value judgment about millennials?  Yeah. I have really become a student of that. It is not - it is not natural that you take your disdain for a group and spread it out over all these people. It is - just have a little compassion and have empathy and understand that your first impulse of blame is probably the wrong one.  I like that. Let us not make this The Hunger Games. Bless the Gen Zers. Bless the millennials. Bless Gen X. Bless the boomers everyone in between. I like the message of this chat.  It is pretty good.  Thank you Jill.  My pleasure Sam.  Thanks again to financial planner and CBS News business analyst Jill Schlesinger. All right. Time for a break. Coming up we are going to have a little fun. I am going to reconnect with a friend of the show Samantha Irby. She is the New York Times bestselling author of a new collection of essays called Wow No Thank You. We will talk about that for a bit but also Samantha will tell me about a daily newsletter she puts out about something you would never expect - a small-claims court reality TV show.  Yeah. He is like a curmudgeon. He is from Detroit. He is grizzled old black man who like tells it like it is but it is all tough love. And the cases he gets are all - I mean...  Bananas.  Yes.  That is after the break. We will be right back. We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. Question for you - have you ever watched Judge Mathis?   I believe in tough love with emphasis on the love.  Yes Judge Mathis the daytime court TV show where the claims cannot be more than a few thousand dollars but the drama is priceless.   I do not know how big you are in your house but you are very small in the eye of the world today.  Well I have watched Judge Mathis.   I became a judge to make a difference.  And so has my next guest. She is actually watched that show a lot.  So I have a daily newsletter called Who is On Judge Mathis Today?  That is friend of the show Samantha Irby. She is a comedian a blogger and a New York Times bestselling author - No. 1 bestseller - of her latest book Wow No Thank You a collection of essays. But all those jobs - they pale in comparison to the Lord's work that Samantha is doing right now. She is writing daily recaps of Judge Mathis episodes Judge Mathis cases as if she were his personal court stenographer. So dear listeners right here right now on week 3047 of this pandemic Samantha Irby is going to explain to you why maybe what we all really need during this time are Judge Mathis recaps.  I take a case. And I being generous transcribe what happens in the case with some supplemental color commentary and anecdotes from my own life. Sam this was a bit. Like this was a Twitter joke. I was - so I have been watching Judge Mathis since he came out. I have - when I lived in Chicago I probably went to like seven tapings.  Wow.  And I am...  And we should clarify right here. Judge Mathis is in the vein of...  Oh.  ...The Judge Judy daytime reality court shows.  Yes.  He is in my opinion the spiciest and most lovable of the daytime judges.  Yes. Yeah. He is like a curmudgeon. He is from Detroit. He is grizzled old black man who like tells it like it is but it is all tough love. And the cases he gets are all...  Bananas.  Yes.   Defendant Tanisha Tarver  says when she first met Elvie  he tried to impress her by showing her his credit score and salary. And the reason she ignored him on their second date was because he was intoxicated.  Even the ones that are like kind of normal because he - and here's where I think he is different. I cannot believe I am talking about this like I have studied it. But where I think he is different from the others is he is very good at weaving a narrative because not everyone is a storyteller. Not everyone is compelling. So he gets these people. And even the ones where it is like oh my God she is hopeless. She cannot tell us what this case is about...   That she had ha-ha-ha bad word saying good luck getting...  He helps to kind of craft the narrative while also being the judge and he is so good at it.   It was only my name. She did not have...  Was she on it with your approval madam?  Yeah.  That is what I asked you.  I am obsessed with him. So I made this joke on Twitter where I was - I said who would be interested if I wrote a recap of what is happening on Judge Mathis right now? And many - a surprising number of people responded. And so now I have done over a hundred of them.  You have thousands of subscribers at this point.  I have like 7200 subscribers.  Oh my God. I want you for those that are on the fence about subscribing to your Mathis newsletter read one of the intrographs  to any of your entries of your choosing. They are all good. I was reading the one the other day where the woman ends up having her daughter sleep with her boyfriend while she gets locked up 'ecause they tried to get her locked up. Oh my God. It was drama. But anyone you want to read can be good.  OK. This is from Issue No. 100.  Plaintiff - Lauren  from Fairburn Ga. Lauren is gorgeous. And you know I love watching pretty girls fight. If you squint she kind of looks like Gina Rodriguez - I mean not really but a little. Anyway she is wearing a fitted black skirt suit with an extremely snatched waist. I am talking 18th century steel boned corsetry. And her skin is blushed and bronzed. And whatever she wants to sell me I am buying it.   So what happens to this to our hero in this episode?  So Lauren hired a woman to throw her a 30th birthday party. The woman she hired was named Jaja Casanova .   Defendant Jaja Casanova insists she did everything Lauren hired her to do.  So she sues Jaja for almost 5000 for a birthday party Jaja was supposed to organize for her. But Jaja - this is my favorite kind of twist - had a video of the party.   All right let us look.  Because I have all of that.  Lauren looked like she was enjoying herself and Jaja had built a custom casket because Lauren wanted a death to my 30s...  Oh my God.  ...Birthday party . And there is a picture of Lauren twerking next to the casket. I mean it was incredible television.   So you have been recapping at this point more than 100 of these types of episodes. What big trend lines have you seen from all this Mathis content in terms of like human behavior? What does it all say about us and who we are?   I will say that a thing that is surprising to me and almost uplift makes me hopeful is that people do lend people lots of money and try to help them a lot more than you would think right? I watched this case yesterday where this woman went to the bank and got a loan. Maybe she did not go to the bank because it was a high interest loan. So maybe it was like maybe a payment loan . But she went and got this loan for this guy she had been dating for three months. And you know I could be cynical and say you fool. You barely know him. Of course he did not pay you back. But I am choosing to be nice and think that is a very nice thing to do for a man who met on plentyoffish.com.   There is good somewhere in there.  Look at me being an optimist.  Come on I am here for it. We need it right now.   All right time for a break. When we come back we play my favorite game Who Said That with Samantha Irby. BRB.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders here with the No. 1 New York Times bestselling author Samantha Irby. Hello.  Hello.  We just talked a lot about Judge Mathis which was delightful but we are not done with you yet. Will you play a game with me?  Yes.  Thank you. It is my favorite game. You have played it before on this show years ago. It is called Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Oh my God. I did terribly at it. I am going to try to do better this time.   Well this is a weird week to play this game because it is like a fun quiz game about the week of fun wacky news and the news has just been really depressing this week. So we went out on the lookout for just really benign foolishness. And we found some. And I am happy to say it is going to be a few minutes of not nasty news from the world this week.  Oh thank God. OK I am ready. I love wacky foolishness.  There you go. There you go. Then this game is for you. All right first quote I can name a list of 100 things more important right now than fixating on how much money I have. Who tweeted that?  Oh this - OK I am obviously too online because I know that it was Kylie Jenner.   Oh my goodness. You are quick because that story just came out.   Apparently I follow all of the wacky foolishness people online because that is been in my feed multiple times .  It is really amazing. So that tweet comes from Kylie Jenner of the Jenner-Kardashian clan. She was responding to this Forbes article that says she is not as rich as everyone thought she was. Now we all know that Forbes magazine itself declared her the youngest self-made billionaire like ever because of her lip kit cosmetic line that really went gangbusters. She was on the cover of Forbes but now Forbes has investigated and says the math does not add up. She is not actually that rich. When you saw that were you like sounds about right or whoa?  I was surprised only because as a like regular person who has had some articles written about her I have been like fact-checked into the ground. And so I thought it was weird that Forbes did not do the math. Like I am never answering another fact-checker question again.  Oh yeah because you do not have to.  Yeah why?  Just - OK. Let us call it right now. Samantha Irby you are a billionaire too.  I am. A self-made one at that.   Exactly. Yes. This next quote is also about a very rich person. The quote is This is not a 'Harry Potter' spinoff. Who said that?  J.K. Rowling.   Yes. I just love how no one can say anything bad about her. Everything she does are you are like yep you are right you are great you are awesome. Stay rich.  Is she writing another book?  She is. So she tweeted this week about writing a new standalone fairy tale. It is called The Ickabog. She wrote it 10 years ago and then hid the manuscript away in her attic. She wanted it to just be personal and for her family. But now she is going to release it to kids - or to all of us - for free on her website during the lockdown. She will release a couple of chapters every week and she began doing that this Monday.  Wow. Imagine if you even can being a writer who can afford to put an entire manuscript away.  Give away a book for free.  Like I do not know. I do not care.  Yeah.  Every - I would try to monetize my tweets if I could. I cannot imagine having a whole manuscript and being like - no just gonna keep that.  Yeah totally. All right. Last quote. And you might not know who said it but guess what story I am talking about. The quote is I am on this bike every day. So if I can get on the bike and have people donate for me doing miles to help others I am all in. What is the most famous bike in the country right now?  The most famous - Peloton right?   Yes.  OK. Woo.  How do you feel about the Peloton? I am so tired of that thing.  I mean I thought the - that roasting the commercial was funny. But you know I do not know. I feel like if you have one you are rich and have a place to put it. So then good for you. I do not know.   Yes I agree. I agree. Peloton's back in the news this week because there is going to be a charity Peloton All-Star Ride. ESPN is teaming up with Peloton for a celebrity ride this weekend a 20-minute Peloton race. There is gonna be 16 athletes total some Olympians. It is gonna happen May 30. And they are gonna raise money for charity. But I am just like - who wants to watch famous athletes ride a stationary bike for 20 minutes?  I do not even know how that would work. I mean...  It is so - have we gotten that bored in quarantine?  I - maybe.  Well they are also getting the big athletes to do this stuff. So that quote that I read - it is actually from Miami Dolphins defensive back Adrian Colbert a current NFL star. He is going to do this Peloton ride.  OK. I mean I will tune in. I love to watch a big man on a bike so count me in.  It is funny how like Peloton is like low-key the winner of everything. Like when that ad came out around Christmastime last year this ad of a man gifting his wife the Peloton stationary bike which - everyone kind of said that is dumb. After that the Peloton kept selling. And after quarantine began it sold even more. Like mock Peloton if you will. They figured it out. They are making people buy a 2000 bike. And we will not stop buying it.  Yeah they are laughing all the way to the bank.  Exactly.  Which is the American way. Amen to it .  Yes yes yes. Speaking of the American way you are a winner. You won the game against yourself.  Thank you.  Samantha Irby thank you so much. We will talk before the next bestseller.  OK. Thank you Sam.  Thanks again to Samantha Irby. Her newest book No. 1 New York Times bestseller it is out now and it is called Wow No Thank You. It is a collection of essays. All right. Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week I ask our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. They always do. Let us listen.  Hi Sam. This is Sarah  in Washington D.C. And the best part of my week was that I graduated college on my front porch with my four roommates. We Zoomed in our families to our online ceremony with a bottle of champagne in our pajamas. And it honestly was a super sweet graduation.  Hey Sam. It is Cecily  from West LA. I am a web designer who works from home so the lockdown has not affected my work much. But I had a missing hole in my heart so the best part of my week is that I adopted a rescue dog a little 12-pound Brindle Pug.  Hey Sam. This is Mackenzie  from Philadelphia Pa. And the best part of my week was being able to bring my two cats home from the hospital.  After five years and nine months I finally defended my Ph.D. dissertation in chemical engineering at the University of Michigan.  I got to retire after 38 years as a police officer and a police chief. To make things even better I proposed to my girlfriend. And she said yes.  Hi Sam. This is Sara .  And I am Dan . We are from Madison Wis.  And the best part of our week is that - married.  We got married.  The best thing about my week was a surprise visit from my daughter. She drove 500 miles roundtrip from their home in Rochester Minn. to our home in South Dakota to spend just one hour with me. It was a surprise for Mother's Day and my birthday. It was really the best gift a mother could have ever received.  So thank you so much Sam. Love the show.  Enjoy the rest of your week Sam. We love the show.  I hope your week was as good as mine.  Bye.  Bye.  Many thanks to all those listeners - Susan  Sara Dan Lydia  Mackenzie Cecily and Sarah. Listeners you can be a part of this segment. Just record yourself or make a video and send that file to us at samsandersnpr.org. All right. Listeners one last thing. The whole month of June we will be doing a series on faith and spirituality lots of conversations about belief stuff. I will be talking with actors and comedians and musicians and writers and a lot of you all listeners about what your faith has meant to them especially during this pandemic. Trust me. It is a series of conversations that you can get into. Whatever your belief sitch is it is for all of us. OK? I promise. Check it out. It is gonna be uplifting. All right. This week It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Anjuli Sastry Andrea Gutierrez and Hafsa Fathima. We had engineering help from Gilly Moon. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. Our director of programming is Steve Nelson. And our big boss is NPR senior VP programming Anya Grundmann. Listeners till next time thank you for listening. Stay safe. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon. 