Hey everyone. Before we start I want to tell you about something new were doing next week a live advice show with your questions about anything. Dilemmas about death sex money...weve even gotten a question about managing email overload. Ill be going through your questions live on stage in New York with comedian Hari Kondabolu and his mom Uma Kondabolu. You may remember them from their hilarious interview on the show last year that was chock-full of pithy wisdom about how to do life right. Another question weve gotten  how do you deal with the guilt of making the choice to live far from your family? On the night of Wednesday May 10 Hari and Uma will join me to give you advice live. Send them in now to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. What do you need help with? Now is the time to ask! Well livestream video from the event so all of you can watch along. Okay on to the episode.  I had never met another person with a disability that was like me that would do anything to do what we gotta do. We wanted the same sort of life that everybody else wanted to do and we would do anything to get that. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Nikki Villavicencio and Darrell Paulsen have a five-year-old daughter. Her name is Alley.  She will say things to us like when she was about two and a half she would say When do I get my wheelchair? And we are like Well maybe you do not get a wheelchair.  And she has a stroller that she pretends is her wheelchair.  Yep. Their daughter doesnt need a wheelchair. But Nikki and Darrell both use one.  I am in my chair probably a good 18 to 20 hours a day. Darrell and Nikki have both been disabled since birth. Darrell has cerebral palsy and Nikki has a rare condition that makes her joints stiff. Its called arthrogryposis. She cant walk and she doesnt have much use of her arms.  I use my feet for everything so I am in a wheelchair as well for when I am out and about. But when I am at home I scoot around on my butt which I call butt walking. Which has really been an awesome thing to be a mother because children are on the floor they love being on the floor with you. And so at home I am on the floor with Alley the whole time.  Does she does she ever get impatient with you two? Frustrated?  Sure.  Absolutely absolutely.  She is definitely a typical five-year-old in the sense that she definitely has her moments.  Like I think sometimes she - she wants to go ahead and do it herself because she thinks that she can do it faster. Or she thinks that she can do it better. Or maybe she does not want mom's extra saliva on the top of her brush or whatever.  I use my mouth for a lot of things and I brush her hair with my mouth. So I hold the brush in my mouth and I brush her hair like that. So there are times that she will be like Ew that is gross! You know kind of things like that. When Nikki and Darrell met he was 38 and she was 24 just out of college. They were at a disability rights rally at the state capitol in Minnesota.  It was a very cold day in March. And she was all bundled up. But the one thing I noticed is that her feet were uncovered. And I was like huh. And I said Are not your feet cold? And she says No not really. Well I convinced somebody to give me a pair of gloves little mitten gloves. And I went over to her and made sure she put them on. That was the start of - of a 30-day phone call session for me. I repeatedly called her multiple times a day and for some reason she did not want to pick up my phone call.  Okay wait Nikki so this guy gives you gloves for your feet and then just starts calling you repeatedly. Like what was your  and he is older  like what did you think was going on?   Well it sounds really funny when it is said like that um but honestly when I first met him I thought he was kind of this wild older guy. I thought Well he will be kind of cool to like go to a party with or something like that. And then when he called me a bunch of times I just did not answer. I am like I did not have I guess a specific reason. It was not like I thought he was weird or anything. And he was about to delete my number and then I called him up and I said Hey do you want to go out?  Yeah so she called me. And when she called me I was so excited. I immediately said Sure! and I hung up the phone on her. I immediately called my mom and I was so excited when I talked to my mom and told my mom I was not coming home until later. And - and - and she said What is wrong Darrell? You sound like you are crying. I said I am not crying. I am just happy. She called me. She called me. And I am going out. So we did. And that evening that we went out was very interesting. I dont know if Nikki wants to elaborate on that but -  Well let us just say we - we were trying to - I think we were trying to impress each other by drinking each other under the bar or something.   It was a messy evening.  Yes it was. Tequila and Red Bull shots. That is all I have to say.   And had both of you had serious relationships prior to your getting together?  Oh sure.  Yeah.  And I mean probably not as many as the average able-bodied person but definitely.  Did you typically date able-bodied people or other people with disabilities?  Yeah. I mean me personally I have dated both. You know I - it is really funny because my dad always used to kind of strangely say to me  well if I complained about a boyfriend or something  he would be like Why do not you just date a guy like you in a wheelchair? And that used to make me so mad.  And Darrell did did Nikki feel like a different kind of relationship for you when you got together?  Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. I had just left a two year relationship with an individual with bipolar schizophrenia. And she was also 11 years older than me. So I was - I told myself I would never date somebody with a disability. I said it was just challenging. So I - when I met Nikki there was just something about Nikki. I was compelled to be with Nikki. I wanted to be more than friends with Nikki. And she wanted to be friends. And we kind of had to work that out and...  Yeah we were out to eat. And he basically said to me You know I got too many friends. And I said Well I just want to be friends. Why cannot we just be friends with benefits you know? Hey! And he is like Well I do not want to be that. And I either want all of you or nothing at all. And so we talked through the whole night and I guess we both decided Well I guess we are meant to be together.  It is kind of remarkable to me how clear both of you were. I mean Darrell you were so clear about the kind of relationship you wanted to have with Nikki.  Right. I think that is really the whole basis of our relationship and what keeps us together. The unique thing about Nikki is when Nikki and I met I was sleeping in my chair probably for a good - better part of over 10 years. And she said - she said If you want to have a relationship with me you are going to have to figure out how to get in and out of bed. And I said Well I really do not know if I can do this. I have not done it for a while. So originally for the beginning of it it took me about an hour to do it. And now I think I got it down to 10 15 minutes on a good day.  Nikki why was that important to you?  You know to be honest I just felt like if this relationship was going to go where we both wanted it to go then that is where it would have to go.  That you would have to be able to sleep beside each other.  Well yeah definitely.  When you first got together and when it became serious did you talk about becoming parents together? Was that something that you envisioned together?  We did. We did on and off. But I think we were -  Not particularly.  I think we were kind of joking about it more or less.  Yeah I mean I feel like we talked about it in the sense of how two lovers talk about stuff pillow talk you know or whatever. But I do not think we ever - it was not like we were like Oh and after we are together then we are going to have four kids together. It was nothing like that.  Did you think it wasnt a possibility for you?  Yeah. I mean when Darrell and I were both babies our parents were told that we would never be able to even have children. I mean society tells us all the time that people with disabilities either cannot have children or should not have children.  So Nikki were you using contraception?  I was but probably not as consistently as I should have been.  When she was not being appropriate with her abilities to do her contraception then she expected me to do my part. And I can do nothing but put things on backwards or inside out. So that did not quite work for me.  You mean putting on a condom was difficult.  Correct.  Yeah.  So if it is too difficult then we just do not use it. We just go with the flow. Coming up Nikki finds out shes pregnant.  It was quite the shocker. And she and Darrell quickly realize that they arent the only ones who feel nervous about them being parents.  The society and the state  or however you want to say it  looks at us like They cannot care for themselves. So how could they care for another child? I mean that is how people on the street even say it to our faces.  We first heard about Nikki and Darrell from journalist Kathryn Joyce who met the couple while reporting on pregnancy and disability for Cosmos website. Kathryn traveled to Minnesota to spend time with them and to meet their daughter Alley.  From a young age she learned how to crawl into her parents laps in their wheelchairs. And they have embraced a whole kind of range of adaptive parenting methods.  Hm. Is there one thing that you noticed them doing that you were like Wow thats ingenious.  Um yeah. Well Nikki uses her feet for most functions that I would use my hands for. So she - I watched her give a PowerPoint presentation using her feet to click through slides. Or all the texting she was doing with me to arrange when to meet she was doing with her feet. You can see photos and video of Nikki Darrell and their daughter Alley on our website deathsexmoney.org. We will post a link to Kathryn's piece there too. Thanks to Kathryn and Cosmo for connecting us with Nikki and Darrell. And we have an update about a family we had on the show whove been dealing with mental illness. Mark and Giulia Lukach talked about her bipolar disorder and her series of psychotic breaks before and after they had their son. Giulia has been doing well in the two years since working and stable on her current medication. And Mark has a new book out this month about their family. Its called My Lovely Wife in the Psych Ward. On the next episode  You - you describe what you call your ho phase.  Ha! Actress Gabourey Sidibe talks about her life before the movie Precious made her famous including her first experiences with sex.  The ho phase sounds like there was a line outside of my bedroom and there was not. There was not. And it was not like I will take anybody on! It was not like that. I just kind of hung out with people that did not serve or deserve me.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Both Nikki and Darrell make money doing advocacy work for nonprofits. They also both receive federal disability payments. And their county benefits cover home health aides who assist them with things like bathing dressing and making meals. Six years ago Nikkis aide also helped her take a pregnancy test.  And were doing the pee test in the bathroom and it like turned right away. So it was like yep I am pregnant.  Did the two of you - was there any ambivalence about it? Was there any part of you that was like Maybe this is not a good thing?  Absolutely. I think it was a scared feeling. It was not that this was not the right thing or this was not the right feeling but it was a scared thing. What do we do next?  Right. I would say we were not ambivalent. We were shocked. Not that it would be a bad thing. But like Darrell said what do we do next?  We had to change the ideas of some of our family members even that this was going to be an okay thing.  Did you have family members say you know maybe it is not wise for you two to become parents?  No.  I do not think they would ever say that to our face. I do know that my mom had reservations about it. My mom had lots of reservations about a lot of things but the one thing that we knew that my mom was supportive of us with is that we have a cat. And we have had this cat for eight years or whatever. She used to say Well if we can keep the cat alive for a year I know you guys can be parents.  So - so - so we have kept the cat alive for a long time. We became parents. Nikki gave birth to their daughter in March of 2012. She left the hospital after five days.  She jumps in the wheelchair and -  I did not quite jump!  Well not jump. I guess she did not jump in the wheelchair. She scooted in the wheelchair.  Very slowly. It was very painful.  I imagine. You - you had a C-section Nikki?  Yes I did have a C-section. The thing about it is I do not know if you had one or not but -  I did.  - most of my strength is in my torso.   I was thinking it must have been so painful to move if that is the way you move.  Yeah. Right. And that was the challenging thing going home as well is that I was stuck - I was kind of stuck in bed for a while because of the muscle still healing. And then when we went to try to ask for more care from the county because of that they denied us care  extra care for it  because my wound technically was healing properly.  Because it was taped shut.  But never mind that I could not hardly move and I had to take care of this brand new baby. It was a huge learning curve for everybody around us to try to figure this whole situation out. And breastfeeding was a challenging thing. I ended up breastfeeding her for two - almost two full years. But starting it was super challenging because my hands are like small as child's hands. So I cannot hold a baby the typical - the way a typical mother holds her in sitting up. So the first positions that worked for us was like lying down side by side. And the baby doesnt know whats going on either so youre both like trying to figure it out.  Did you - did you ever feel like the state might be concerned about whether you were going to be safe parents for a baby?  Oh absolutely.  We have always felt that.  Yep and we made sure that we volunteered to be in this program that was for at risk families. So - and so what that meant is that we had a home nurse come to our house and weigh Alley and measure her and then also give us child development skills to learn. And we did this -  Almost two years.  - yeah two years of Alley's life. And we did that one to make sure that we were doing the right thing. But two to cover our butts and to know that if anybody did try to call Child Protection Services or anything like that that we would have a record of saying that this lady has been here she is seen that Alley is safe she has seen that Alley is healthy and that we are doing the things that we need to do.  Did anyone tell you that it would be smart to create documentation about how you were performing as parents? Or is that something that you knew from -  No we just - I had -  I mean we are disability rights advocates. I feel like it is kind of ingrained in us.  Well and I also grew up - I also grew up in foster care for a little bit of time when I was a young teenager. So I had a sense always in the back of my mind to always have somebody else check my stuff.  Yeah and I learned that as a very young person too. That you - if you want something done you have to get it written down.  Did it make it - because you knew that people might be watching and questioning whether it was appropriate for you two to be taking care of a child did it make you hesitant to say out loud when you were having a hard time what was difficult for you?  I think it was not difficult to say to each other. I think it is been difficult to say to other people at times because when we are - when you are going through something that challenging you feel like it is just you. You do not feel like you want to go to someone because then you feel weak or whatever. Or you feel like you cannot take care of your own child. When their daughter was an infant Nikki and Darrell did have some extra help. Darrell's mom lived with them for the year. And now that Alleys a bit older she spends half her day at pre-school. Nikki and Darrell dont have any additional childcare. Once Alleys off the bus shes with them for the rest of the day. And their home care workers arent allowed to help with anything related to parenting.  Unless she had a disability.  Right unless she had a disability but because she does not they - our home care workers are not to do her laundry. They are not to do any meal preparation or anything.  Or assist with the bicycle and getting it in and out of the van. If I need to get it across the street to the park or something. I mean they are not allowed to do any of that.  Do you have rules about what you will ask her to do for you and what you wont?  Yeah. I mean we always -  Yes and no.  Yeah yeah. I mean we do not have hard strict rules but we always tell her that she does not have to do anything for us. And the thing about it is there is times that I will not want her to do something for me but she will be insistent. I mean you can ask Darrell that. She will literally climb up me to make sure that she zips my coat.  Yeah she will - they will be like I am just trying to help her put her shirt on and she will be like No I will do it. Thank you.  Do you - do you worry about that? Since she is a little girl?  Umm -  I do not fear it at all because she has a super strong personality and she is super independent. And so I guess I feel like   and I am sure other people would feel differently than I do  but I feel that I do not worry about those things because I know that she is very good at telling me what she does and does not like.  Yep there is times when she will be like No Mom I am not doing that. I am tired. I do not want to do it and I am tired. And we will be like Come on can you do it this one time? Please just do it this one time and you do not have to do it again!  Or she is the - she is a negotiator man.  She is The Art Of The Deal.  Oh yeah.  She knows how to make a deal with mom and dad.  So she is a typical five-year-old.   Oh yeah. Nikki and Darrell have been together for eight years now. But theyve never gotten married.  Not legally no.  And why have you make that choice?  It is not a choice. It is a matter of fear most of all. Because sometimes people say Well if you get married and you are both on public assistance then you have to join your finances together. And - and let us face it if we do that financially it is a loss for us.  Right.  It is not a benefit. So I mean you know we already know we love each other. We already know that we are together because we - we choose to be together. So I mean I mean sure I would love to marry Nikki someday and some day we will do that because as Alley gets bigger she wants to be a flower girl she wants to have the opportunity of throwing the petals down the aisle and -  Do you remember the first time your daughter realized that her parents were different than other parents?  I think - I think she is always known that we were different.  Yeah. That is kind of an interesting thing because she talks about it. One day  this just blew my mind  she said to me You know Mom I have a disability. And I go What? I go No you do not. She goes Yeah I do. My disability is that I cannot use my feet like you do. Because she was trying to pick something up or do something with her feet.  Yeah. How old was she when she said that to you?  She just said that like probably a few months ago.  And - and Nikki for you what is it like to look at your little girl and to think about what you were like as a five-year-old?  You know that is interesting. I look at her and I see a lot of myself in her personality. Well the fact that we never thought we would ever have children so to see somebody who looks similar to you acts similar to you and has my husband's personality which is pretty out there at times it kind of feels like you are in a different world at times. To be honest I am like 'Whoa!'  Have you talked about having other children?  Yeah we have.  Everybody talks to us -  Everybody asks us that and I always say Nope I am good with the one. And I am sure Darrell would like another but.  I do not - I do not - I am not going to push mom on that. I mean you know it is Nikki's body it is her choice it is her - I mean she is done a tremendous great job with Alley. I think - I think the second one would even be a little easier. But - but I cannot - I enjoy practicing a lot. So I mean...  You mean practicing - practice getting pregnant? Is that what you mean?  Yeah.  Yeah. So maybe we should go home and practice some more.  Thats Darrell Paulsen and Nikki Villavicencio. Theyve been pushing legislation in Minnesota this session that would allow home healthcare workers to assist parents with disabilities. And Nikkis preparing to run for their local city council next fall. The Cosmo piece by Kathryn Joyce has even more reporting about parents with disabilities and their particular challenges they face  from finding doctors who will provide care during pregnancy to keeping custody of their young children. Watch our Facebook page this week for a link to that story. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Adriana Rush. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And dont forget to subscribe to our weekly newsletter. Go to deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. Nikki and Darrell have not always had all the help theyve needed. But theyve spent their whole lives coming up with creative ways to solve problems.  If we want to open up a jar of pickles sometimes we go across the street to the regional trail that is across the street from our house and have somebody on the trail open it for us.  Just someone who is hiking by?  Yep. Yeah we have done that multiple times.  Hey hey can you open this for me?  Yep. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.