 Did you plan on belting anything or is it going to be...   Whoa listen out up . That is the loudest I will go.  Beautiful. OK. One more.   Yee ha oh oh woo ah oh. Ooh ah .  Great. Now let us figure out this keyboard thing really quick.  My guest this episode has music in his bones. Even his mic checks can give you chills. That is him there humming strumming his guitar sound-checking with our engineer Josh Newell. For this interview this episode I asked my very musical guest to start with a song.  I was just thinking about what song to play and I have come to the conclusion that I am going to play a song called Make Me Cry which is a song by myself taken from my latest album which is called Djesse Vol. 2.  Today the music and mission of Jacob Collier.   Bin de ha mmm mmm mmm mmm .  I am Sam Sanders. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR.   Sin a la la la. Sin a lo lo lo. Lo lo ah. Zin a la oh ah .  Jacob Collier is an English singer composer and producer. Also he is a prodigy. He first gained attention on YouTube in 2012 with these epic virtuosic covers of songs like Stevie Wonder's Do not You Worry About A Thing. Since then Jacob has signed on to Quincy Jones' record company. He is won two Grammys. He is collaborated with artists like Pharrell. And he is released three albums. The song you are hearing right now is from Jacob's most recent album which came out this past July.   Why do you cry? No one knows why why why why.  Jacob has accomplished so much as a musician and he is only 25. This is the part where I would describe Jacob's music to you tell you where it fits in the music world. But here's the thing. It does not fit. It is too big it is too bold. It is too genre-bending. There is no one word or label for the music that Jacob Collier makes. Jacob and I talk about just that and why he likes it that way. We also discuss what he is coming out with next. And he plays and sings some more. Enjoy.   Fall down like pouring rain. Let it flow again. Can I have just the tiniest bit more of my own microphone? Is this my - there you go.  You got to do it rapper voice - turn my headphones up.  Yeah.  .  No. Here we go. I am actually - I am all good right here. I have got the box.  Remember like there were several years where like every rapper has an adlib before their songs right? It was like turn my headphones up?  Yeah. I know. Of course.  It was very annoying.  Yeah. There is a song on Djesse Vol. 3 which is the album that has not yet come out where I rap. And I begin by saying turn it down a little bit.  .  Turn my vocal down a little bit.  . I like that. I like that. Tell us about that song you just played which was beautiful.  Thank you so much. So that was a song called Make Me Cry. It was actually the first song I composed for the entirety of this quadruple album project that I have been working on for a couple of years now. And it is rather gentle.  Very.  On the album there is all these little chiming guitars and different stringed instruments which all add up to this kind of warm - it is almost like a cuddle I suppose.  OK.  It is a very warm comforting song. And it is in D which is I think probably my favorite key as it stands.  Why is D your favorite key?  You know I do not quite know. I mean every key has a different flavor. D is a wholesome key. It is not bland like C. It is not neutral. It is probably on the bright side.  I mean any key can be bright or neutral or sad if you make it that right?  It is true. It kind of depends how you wield it and it depends how you arrive in that key. But for me D is a wonderful place to start 'ecause it is like an unbiased feeling.   OK.  You know what I am saying?  All right. So what do you want listeners to learn about you and your work and your art from that song you just played?  Blimey that might not be my business or my decision in a certain kind of a way. I suppose my job is to describe spaces that are honest to me. And the goal I suppose is that the listener can hear themselves in some way in that song and also in some way hear me. And so if the listener is able to identify with my honesty then I am being the most helpful I can possibly be.  Well that is very nice of you.   Cheers.  You do this thing where in the work I have heard of yours all the jazzy albums before you will be plugging along with these chords that seem pretty conventional and make sense. And then you will jump.  .  And it goes to this really weird place. And you are like I did not expect that chord. But it works. You do that a lot. And I like it...  Thank you.  ...For this song. You also have an incredibly impressive vocal range. Like how many octaves were you jumping in that song?  I do not know. It could be three or four I suppose.  I suppose. Casually. .   I am not quite sure. Yeah. I do like to amble around...  Yeah.  ...In terms of range.  That is fun.  I am lucky to have that low that low.  That was very nice. Then I noticed that you are just like virtuosic. You at one point - at two points in that song were playing the guitar and the keyboard at the same time.   Yeah. . Yeah. It is funny I guess when I was growing up I did not really think about being an instrumentalist per se. I did not think well I want to be a piano player or I want to be a guitar player or even I want to be a singer. I just wanted to be a musician.  OK.  And as I listened to music I kind of understood it at face value. It was well if a musician is music-ing ...  Yeah.  ...Then out comes all these different layers.  Yeah.  And I did not think too much about it. I just wanted to make music the way I was listening to it. And so yeah I would find myself in situations where I would want to be hearing the sort of delicate stroking of a guitar at the same time as a sort of chordal alignment on the piano and singing a melody. And...  So you just learned all of them.  I think yeah. I sort of stumbled into - I shortcutted  to the music rather than got stuck in the instruments if that makes any sense which obviously leaves gaping holes in my technique. But I feel like the gesture of what I am trying to communicate is intact.  It does not seem like there is any hole in your technique hearing you do that song so...  Well thank you.  How many instruments do you play?  I - you know I am not exactly sure.  .  One of the reasons for that being that I do not think that I particularly see a line between musical instruments and nonmusical instruments. I mean  is as good as...  Keep going. I like that.  ...A drumbeat or hitting your foot for me. This is the table underneath the microphone . And when I was a kid growing up I had a house filled with music...  Because your family's...  ...And musicians.  ...Very musical right?  They are. Yeah yeah. So I was brought up by a single mother with two younger sisters. And we all sang. We all played. And we all listened and we all discussed. And we were fascinated and we all enjoyed music.  You all sang together?  We did and we still do. Every Christmas Day we sing Bach chorales in four parts which is...  Oh my God.  ...Such a treat. It is still one of my most favorite things to do in the world.   Yeah.  But I think I was just drawn to things that made sound. And that includes lawnmowers and babbins  and rackets and saucepans and floors and marbles and guitars and double basses and pianos. And over the course of the last 10 years or so I have been just collecting things that make sound from traditional means to nontraditional means. And nowadays you can make music out of anything. And I enjoy listening to and creating music that sounds like a person's life. And so for me I think I like to use the materials around me...  Yeah.  ...To do so. And so I do not know if you would count you know marble rolling across the floor as  an instrument.  I would.  If so I guess I would be playing instruments into the hundreds...  OK.  ...Just with all of the different things in my home. But...  Yeah.  ...I divide sounds into families. So you have got stringed instruments like guitars mandolins and ukuleles and bouzoukis and things like that. You have got keyboard instruments like the piano and this red Nord over here to my right...  Yeah.  ...And things like melodica and accordion to a certain extent things like that. And then there are things that make rhythm and make groove which is basically everything in the whole world...  Yeah.  ...Including...  The thing in your hands.  Yeah including people's bodies and floors and ceilings and stuff.  Yeah.  And then there is - then there is the human voice. And I would probably say that the human voice is the most important of all those instruments...  Yeah.  ...Just because everybody has one.  That is true. You know hearing you talk about how anything can be an instrument there is a song of yours from earlier in your career where you are going about and recording like sounds of a shipping dock.  Yes.  Which one is that?  That is a song called Saviour.   So what you will hear with this groove is I walked around Blakeney shipyard. And Blakeney is a place in Norfolk. It is one of my most favorite places in the world. There are all these ships and there was this high wind. And so what you get with ships is the sails kind of  rattling against all of those materials above the ship. And so I walked around. I smashed my hand against some barrels. I listened to the sound of this  thing walking along took those sounds home recorded a groove at 45 BPM...  OK.  ...And sped the groove up to 80 BPM which is the tempo of this particular song. And you got this strange sludge of sounds moving and grooving that sounds a little unusual but still kind of feels like a more traditional pocket.   That is - I mean you must know how unusual that is. I and...  .  ...Lots of other people walk through the world every day hearing lots of different kinds of sounds. Few of us think to record. Oh I will make a song out of it.  Yeah. I only realized how unusual it was when I started talking to people about it and realized that other people did not necessarily do it.  Yeah.  Because for me it felt quite normal.  .  It was like well I have got an idea. And there are infinite sounds at all times around me. So why not just turn on the tap and collect them?  Yeah.  It makes a kind of logical sense. I mean we all carry around a pretty decent microphone and a pretty decent camera.  That is true.  And that is kind of all the materials you need to begin an idea...  Yeah.  ...And even arguably have a career and make...  You are one of the few musicians I have talked to who seems to be intimating that like the smartphone is good for music.  I think it is. It is an amazing device especially when it is on airplane mode.  .  It is the most valuable it ever is.  Yeah.    I do not want to be a preacher.   You do not want to be my savior.   I just want to be a man.   You do not want to close that door.   I will not let you exaltate  me.   I do not want to hear your reasons.   Just keep me as I am.   Would you tell me what we are searching for?   All right. Time for a break. Coming up more from very very talented musician Jacob Collier. BRB.   When did you realize as a musician as a person that you are different? You see sound and hear sounds differently. You process them differently. You are a virtuoso of many different instruments. You are gifted in a way that lots of people are not. When did you know maybe this music thing comes a lot easier to me than it does to a lot of other people?  It is an interesting question. I mean in some ways if I were to think of myself as different all the time it would not do me any favors.  Yeah.  I mean nowadays people are doing many different kinds of creative things. A lot of those lines are overlapping and I think we are also realizing in politics between people across continents - and I have certainly learnt this by traveling around recording these different collaborators across these four albums - but we are really similar to each other. And my outlook on the world although unique to me has things in common with a few different people in different areas. When I was growing up and learning about music for me it was more of a language than a skill set.  OK.  And so I collected as many sounds as I was fascinated by. I began to understand how to put musical harmony together musical rhythm together. I did not think of myself as set apart with those fascinations. I just wanted to make those kinds of sounds that I was hearing in my head come as true as possible.  Yeah.  And as I began to speak to other people and learn - and when I got into jazz music about 16 or 17 I guess that was when I realized that my approach was rather left field. It was a little unconventional. But the things I was fascinated by are the same things that many people are fascinated by - storytelling narrative gesture poetry groove dance movement. These are universal concepts but I was bringing my own life to those concepts. And I suppose that and my determination to not do what other people felt to be normal in the face of what I believe to be right I think that was one thing that perhaps set me apart. And it is something that I am still fascinated by today the idea of just staying with your own narrative and your own beliefs. And I guess my realization early on in my sort of musical making was that nobody was going to be me other than me. It was impossible for anybody to approach the world with my sense of aesthetic and understanding. And that does not mean that I am greater than another person. It just means that I have a responsibility to tell my own story.  I am sure that there are many executives at many a label who would see someone as young as you that can play those instruments like you do and sing like that they would say oh I can package this.  Yeah.  They want to package you and make you a thing that is you know top 40 ready commercially viable go.  I...  Have you experienced that?  I appreciate that as a vantage point because those guys can be amazing at their jobs. I just - selfishly I have just been so stubborn against that from the word go. Even when I was 18 or 19 and I began to sort of get this glimpse into what the music industry looked like and the kinds of people that you would meet in that space I was so turned off by the whole idea of even stardom you know being a star and that being more valuable than all the other people in the world and people looking up to that. And it is a rather strange thing to look at especially if you are interested in creating things because it goes against some of the fundamentals. I mean I think that the idea of being vulnerable in your creative space it can only survive in a place where you are able to be yourself. But for me I think that yeah the challenge and the joy about this period of time in the industry is that people with good ideas are able to package themselves in a way that feels natural to them.  Yeah.  And the reason I am lucky with my current team is that I think that they understand that and they trust me and they give me complete creative control and the space to do what is right for me. And for that reason alone I can imagine myself still growing an artistic voice in 20 30 40 years rather than entering into somebody else's idea of what is right and wrong and ending up in their space you know? I guess I am crafting my own space and it feels right right now. And it is definitely not that other people's ideas can enter into that process and help me grow and challenge me which I love.  Yeah.  It is more that my baseline belongs to me and that is crucial. It is crucial.  My space.  My space.   Speaking of your space and like following your creative impulses I want to talk now about this project you are currently halfway through. You are - it is - what is this? - an epic four-album series called Djesse with a D - D-J-E-S-S-E.  For sure.  I want to play one track from I think the second album which has been out for a few months. And I want to talk about that and talk about...  Sweet.  ...How you put the whole thing together.  Cool.  Can we start at like 25 Josh in Feel?    But you...  So good so soft.  Thanks.  Yeah.    You make me feel so young. Yeah you...  Wow.    You make me come alive.   This I do adore. Stay forever more. Take me to the floor. Leave me wanting more. Never felt this way before. You make me feel like I am new.  That is what I am talking about. You have got - those early chords are like I get that. I know where that is going. And then you go crazy.  Into the darkness yeah.  But I can still follow it.  Yeah.  Like right here...    You make me feel. You make it real. You make me feel. You make it real.  Whoa. What do you even call that?  Magical mystery chords.  .  It is a funny challenge you know because I have always loved musical harmony as a way of navigating one's emotions. It is just - it is so powerful what you can do by leading somebody down a particular road and then disrupting that road. But one thing I really like doing and one thing I did in that snippet that you just played...  Yeah.  ...Was - the melody makes sense to everybody's ear.  Yes.  The melody is reasonable.  Yes.  Very reasonable. The harmony underneath is most definitely surprising but it is controlled in its release of tension. And so you have a melody that feels inevitable.  - that is absolutely fine. We all understand that.  Yeah.  But underneath you have got this...  .  ...This skullduggery going on all this...  It is almost chromatic...  Well...  ...In a way.  It is chromatic yeah in some ways. And so I think for me just having concentrated and fascinated over what chords can do...  Yeah.  ...And stretch that to the limit. I have always stretched that to the absolute limit. I have always enjoyed that feeling of controlling that dissonance...  Yeah.  ...In the ultimate way because I think that it is that thing of understanding first of all what the notes are that makes sense what the notes are that fight each other and then where those notes are placed in time you know? Is it  you make me feel or is it  you make me feel? Are we behind the beat? Or is it  you make me feel? Are we ahead of the beat? And that whole gravity - like the gravity to time - which in this particular song Feel was something I was obsessed with.  A thing you are doing on these four albums Djesse is working with other people like Lianne La Havas who was in the song Feel that we just played.  Yeah.  But your early stuff and your first album - it was just you. You did all the vocals. You played all the instruments. It was a one - literally a one-man band. Your first tour was you as a one-man band.  One-man show.  Yeah. What made you say all right for this four-album series I will collaborate? Because you could have just not collaborated.  I could have. It was logical. It made sense.  OK.  It felt like the natural step forward. I had spent well 21 years at the time studying music in the sense of listening and becoming fascinated and becoming well-acquainted and learning how to record sounds learning how to create sounds. I wanted to begin a dialogue with the music world at large I suppose and I wanted to be in the center of this journey - essentially a selfish journey just to learn as much as I could from all of my heroes...  Yeah.  ...To be completely honest. And in so doing I began to map out what this huge project might look like and it began as one really really long album moving between all these different musical worlds navigating these things. I then realized that this was ludicrous. There'ill be there were too many ideas to make a coherent pathway so it became two albums.  OK. And then...  Yeah. I began to think about each of those two albums as sort of like an A-side and a B-side. After a while I realized this made no sense to be two. It had to be three or four. And I started with three and I realized that there were kind of three distinct worlds that I wanted to explore. There was the orchestral huge acoustic space with choirs and the orchestral sound and the Big Band sound and all of that - the epic ballads the great big stretching yearning chords that come with an orchestra. Then there was the much smaller space which was I guess based more in world music jazz music folk music songwriting that smaller acoustic sound. And then there was the absence of space altogether. There is the negative space the electronic inner wonderlands...  OK.  ...That we all operate within many times a day...  Yeah.  ...Which is what goes on inside our heads what goes on in the darkness what goes on within the electricity and within the bizarre.  Yeah.  And those were the three spaces I laid out and I realized that it would not make sense to end in the darkness. I had to somehow combine all these different sounds and celebrate them at the end altogether and thus the four volumes of Djesse emerged. So it moves from gospel church music to English choral music to actually this idea that I am beginning to grow which is you know working with audiences...  Yeah.  ...At shows and getting these thousands of people in rooms to sing multiple chords at once and multiple harmony parts at once and the feeling of singing - the feeling that the average person of the world gets with singing and framing that within Djesse Vol. 4.  Yeah.  It is something I have just loved recently on shows at the end of my concert. And so I will split the crowd into three or four or five different parts sometimes and using essentially just my hands my arms I can control them. Without singing I can control what they are doing - notes up and down notes quieter and louder different sounds different...  With the audience?  Just the audience. I am playing the audience. I think right now they are my most favorite instrument to play.  What are you making them play? What kind of songs?  Well triads three-part songs four-part songs but most of the time it is improvising. It is like well what...  Collective audience improvising?  What is going on in the room right now you know?  OK.  And people sing. People shout. People stand up and people wave their hands around. But I am sort of controlling that tension of release. Again it is like this continuum of sound and using my fingers I can move those notes up and down.  Wait. When you are signaling what are they going - what do they do when you signal? Like if I go to your show...  Yeah.  ...And you put me in whatever...  You should come through.  I sure will. But how do I know what your hand motions are going to be telling me what to do?  Well that is my job.  .  And that is what I have spent the last couple years figuring out.  Do it on me. Go.  Do it on you now? So if I go -  whoa.  .  And then I go...  .  OK. That is fine. Excellent. So you knew to go up when I went up.  Because you were doing the up . OK.  I would not necessarily have expected you to go up a whole octave but that was on you.  Well yeah - got the range.  Yeah for sure.  .   All right. One more break right here. When we come back Jacob walks us through how he actually made a song in the studio with another artist - not just by himself - and how he collaborates with dozens of people and even dozens more instruments.   You start as this musician who is making everything on your own...  Right.  ...All the instruments. You are in this phase of your career where you are doing a lot of collaborating with a lot of different people. Which is easier? Which is harder? And which do you like best?  It is so hard to say. I mean they are not separate enough processes at this point for me to judge them against each other. I am still very much involved within the collaboration of controlling the different musical elements - even with the orchestra. You know I am not recording 300 tracks on top of one another and recording all those sounds myself as I was used to doing before. I am writing 60 different orchestral parts and handing them out to 60 musicians. But those ingredients those elements are still within my control to an extent because they are part of my narrative. And so the challenge that is come is bridging the gap between my universe and another person's universe without just superimposing mine. Because I have so many ideas at all times and I have such a keen understanding of what I feel is right and wrong musically that sometimes my nature will be to go into a scenario and say - OK do this exact thing and I know it is going to work. And often it will work but the magic will not be there that could have been there were they to have brought something to the table from their own wheelhouse. And you know it is been a huge lesson for me. And in some ways it is the lesson I wanted to learn myself. And the reason why I did this whole thing was just to figure out how to marry my space with other people's spaces and for other possibilities to have made themselves known to me. On Djesse Vol. 1 there is an amazing musician called Hamid El Kasri and he comes from Rabat in Morocco.  OK.  I had never been to Morocco before but I had been obsessing over Gnawa music which is the music of which he is a master. And it is a kind of street music in Morocco and it has this pocket. It is like . That immediately for me was like - Jacob is hooked. There is a little - it is like rolling like an egg. I think of it as rolling like an egg. .  . Yeah.  Right. And Hamid - I mean I did lots of research. I grew up in the era of YouTube and it was wonderful to be able to search Gnawa. So OK who are the Gnawa legends around right now? Who should I be listening to? I trawled through many a Gnawa musician. And it turned out that Hamid El Kasri this guy was the legend. He was the living legend of Gnawa.  Yeah.  And he did not speak a word of English. And his manager Hicham who is awesome actually - he spoke enough English for us to communicate well.  OK.  And we created this song. We wrote these words together which are in his native language which is Arabic. So the way that Gnawa works is that there is a lead singer and then there is four koyos surrounding him who play these metal castanets. And they sing the responses to the lead which is Hamid in this case. We sat in a room and we jammed out some ideas. We messed with some bass lines. And I brought this idea in where there were three beats in every beat and three beats in a bar. So it was .  .  . And Hamid...  You made it a waltz.  Well I kind of made it a waltz. It was an alt Gnawa waltz.  .  Hamid was rather confused by this and it was not through his own lack of musicality. It was because the style of music that he was used to playing would never have dreamed of playing 34 - because why would you do that? Because 44...  Is what you do.  ...Are where all the stories are being told so why remove yourself from that? So you know I immediately learned that my construct of what was possible within his style of music did not make sense to him. And so we disregarded the 34 thing. We stuck with 44. Then there is a section of the song where it moves to 54 where I sing on my own. The style...  So 34 was too much for him. But 54 - he is like yeah sure.  No - well kind of. I mean I wanted to do the 54 thing really for myself.  OK.  And so the dialogue between the two of us was Hamid stays in 44 does the thing that only Hamid can do that I cannot dream of doing which is his whole thing. And then I move into 54. And that is when the orchestra come in. And so it is this...  Surprise.  Yeah.  .  It is this amazing balance between this kind of five - this great big broad kind of brushstroke orchestral ambling in this broad space and then Hamid's like streets of Morocco vibe in 4. The thing is crazy. I wrote a lot of this music for a concert that I was gifted at the Royal Albert Hall in London.  Wow.  And they have a concert series called The BBC Proms. I flew Hamid over and it was his first ever U.K. show.  Wow.  He would never been in London before.  It is a very fancy venue.  And we performed this song live with the Metropole Orkest and with Jules Buckley the conductor...  Yeah.  ...Trying to figure out how to do these threes fours and fives.  Yeah.  And it was such a special moment because having it on stage - no one had ever heard about Gnawa music before.  Yeah.  But check this out. This is Everlasting Motion the song that we performed in the Albert Hall the song that we recorded in Casablanca and the result of a lifetime of Gnawa fascination...  I love it.  ...And a bridging of our two worlds.  Yeah.   .  So right now we are still in 34 - two three one two three...  .  And now Hamid's melody starts and we move into four one.   .  The responses...   .  .  And the words Hamid is singing about are about how essentially music is the force that can unite these nations and unite the people. In music we are equal which is simple enough but fundamentally important enough to describe exactly what this is. It is a meeting of our two worlds. He comes from an incredibly rich musical tradition which still in the music world at large is rather unknown.  Yeah.  For me just as someone who is fascinated by his sound I am bringing to the table I guess my own understanding of rhythm and call and response and musical harmony and so there is this sort of amalgamation of these different musical voices...  This is you now.  ...When we join together. This is me right now yeah.    The sky up above make the river flow river flow river flow.  .  And you got some orchestra things going on as well.   Here we are. We are going to move into 54 into the expanse of the orchestral plains.   May your love... Five one two    Shine through the deepest darkest moments.  four five one...  Wow.  .    May your smile bring light to my deepest darkest ocean. May your love shine through... It kind of cleanses the palate I suppose...  Yeah.  ...After the intensity.  Yeah.  You cannot look away from Hamid singing.  Yeah.  I love - as you say I love chopping and changing these...  Yeah.  ...Different scenarios and my job as the producerarrangercomposer is to marry those spaces...  Yeah.  ...Successfully.   .  How do you know when you have got just enough ideas in a song or one too many?  It is an excellent question. I think for me it comes down to what the raw materials of the song are. And sometimes in order to find the raw materials of a song to figure out what the song that you are writing is actually about for me the best thing to do is to get every idea under the sun on paper out so I can consider them and I can judge them all against each other and I can figure out what feels right. And so many times when I write music I will string together these different musical scenarios sometimes from different parts of my life. There'ill be old seeds mixed with new seeds of ideas and the whole thing is joined together. And that becomes a string of different spaces that I try to organize and then oftentimes I will lose a couple of sections. It will be like well this will be good for this other song or this will be good for my pot of ideas that I may never look at again or whatever. For a song like Everlasting Motion I think it made sense to be ambling between these two different spaces. But I think in answer to your question you feel it.  OK.  You feel when there is too much going on. That said my idea of too much going on is usually far beyond most other people's idea of too much going on. I love songs with like six or seven or eight different things going on at once and that is just me. But...  Wow.  I think - yeah. My job is to present these different spaces whether it is within one song or within four albums in a way that does not feel disingenuous to the story I am trying to tell most importantly. And also it is not just too much going on so that you cannot enter the music and see yourself in it and approach it in a way where you can understand one space and stay with it long enough for it to move you I suppose.  Yeah. That is so cool. Who in Top 40 land is doing that kind of thing for you right now?  Wow.  A lot of ideas in a song...  That is such an interesting question.  Because I heard you talking about it and like there have been a few rappers now that are like making songs that will feel like three songs in one like Travis Scott to a certain extent.  For sure. Yeah he is definitely good at bridging these different gaps. I would say - I mean not exactly Top 40 but somebody like Kendrick will always understand this.  Yeah.  And if you go to his iconic To Pimp A Butterfly record...  Yeah.  ...And just check out what is going on there he is got - he is marrying all these different spaces you know from more traditional kind of trap zones to...  Like straight-up jazz.  Yeah to 