 This is FRESH AIR. The TV series Batman has been released on home video for the first time since it premiered in the '60s.  Our TV critic David Bianculli watched it the first time around and is very very happy to see it finally come out on DVD.  If you are an impressionable young kid hitting your teens right now chances are pretty good you have been watching and enjoying some Batman either Christian Bale in Christopher Nolan's just completed Dark Knight trilogy or the prequel series Gotham now showing on FOX. If you came of age a generation ago your Batman of choice was likely to have been the bigscreen Caped Crusader played by Michael Keaton or George Clooney or maybe even Val Kilmer. But between 1966 and 1968 long before any of those versions of the DC Comics hero Batman came to the screen in a much lighter and brighter ABC series starring Adam West. The Dark Night it was not. This Batman was played for laughs with its stars' nononsense delivery making it all the more tongueincheek. With its popart sensibility vibrant colors and rogues gallery of playful guest stars Batman was a brief but major hit. Frank Gorshin is the Riddler Cesar Romero is the Joker Burgess Meredith is the Penguin and Julie Newmar as Catwoman. These were some of the original villains who made this Batman a TV phenomenon right from the start. That first season ABC presented two episodes per week in a serialized cliffhanger format and both installments made that year's top 10. Yet until now this particular incarnation of Batman has never been released on home video  not on DVD not even on VHS. But Warner Bros. Home Video has just released the entire Adam West Batman series on DVD and Bluray including a limitededition collectible box set that comes with a set of Batman trading cards and even a Hot Wheels Batmobile. Some collectors I guess will geek out over all that extra stuff. But personally I love the extras that come on the bonus disc like the original screen test of Burt Ward who won the role of Robin and the original pilot for a planned Batgirl spinoff and a new documentary which has various Batman experts placing the TV series squarely in the popart movement of the mid'60s.   Batman '66 was not just mimicking the comic book but mimicking the mimicker of the comic books. Roy Lichtenstein was doing these paintings where he was literally painting a comic book panel and then enlarging it and showing the sound effects.  What Lichtenstein did was bring the general originally art world and then the general public to an awareness factor of the value of comics and comic art.  Dozier's team looked at that phenomenon of what was going on and they said OK so he is taking this from comics and he is making it cool. He is making it mainstream. How do we go full circle how do we bring that back and how do we take that popart sensibility and bring that to this incarnation of comics and make it work in a nonprint medium? And they used the sound effects. They used the cartoonstyle title  all those visual elements to bring you into it and then brought it to life with the color and the costuming and the production design.  Most of all of course I love these old Batman episodes themselves. Certainly that goes for the classics like the ones with the original Catwoman and those popart fight scenes.    You feline devil. What have you done with Robin?   Ahh is that any way to greet an old friend Batman? Not even a hello how are you?  Teach him some manners fellas.  But to be honest I also enjoy watching the really obscure justifiably forgotten admittedly bad ones. Who remembers Zsa Zsa Gabor as Minerva or Ida Lupino as Dr. Cassandra? I did not. But I do remember Joan Collins in a preDynasty role at her most alluring  playing the seductive villainess known as the Siren. Her highpitched miniskirted spell worked well  and not just on Commissioner Gordon.   A glorious morning in Gotham City. But in Commissioner Gordon's office the Siren readies a nasty scheme.    Now commissioner you are ready to do my bidding.   Your merest wish is my ultimate command.   Just say yes  that will be sufficient although superfluous. No man can resist the stunning note of my voice  two octaves above high C.  I remember the Siren and especially Catwoman very fondly indeed. Various rights issues have kept Batman from homevideo release until now. So younger viewers those seeing this goofy playful comic book TV version for the first time may be very pleasantly surprised by the fun to be had here. And for fans of a certain age who are old enough to remember the '60s I am fairly certain this longdelayed box set will be worth the wait. Holy sensory overload Batman.    Batman. Batman. Batman. Batman.  David Bianculli is founder and editor of the website TV Worth Watching and has curated an exhibition on the history of television which is on view at the apexart gallery in New York through December 20. 