 Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. If you are listening to this show on Tuesday in the U.S. happy Election Day. If you are anything like me you are probably tired of hearing about Election Day. I am. So today on this show we have some counterprogramming for you. I am talking with Abbi Jacobson. Abbi is a star and co-creator of the Comedy Central show Broad City and she has a new book out. It is called I Might Regret This Essays Drawings Vulnerabilities And Other Stuff. The idea behind this book is pretty simple and also very brave. A while back Abbi had a bad breakup. To get over it she decided to take a three-week road trip across the country New York to LA and write all about it. This book is part confessional essay part diary and totally relatable. Who among us has not wanted to get the hell out of Dodge after getting dumped? So Abbi talks me through her book and her journey in this chat but also we talk about Broad City. Abbi and her co-star on the show Ilana Glazer they created the show originally as a web series. The fifth and final season of the show is airing next year on Comedy Central. If you have not already seen Broad City change that ASAP. The show is this wonderfully wacky almost absurdist comedy all about two women in their 20s navigating life in New York. Here's a little clip. Abbi speaks first.    Oh God it is so ridiculous that we cannot like control the heat in our own apartments. It is like we are old enough to drink. We are old enough to chaperone a high school dance to vote.   Like that  did anything.   But to control your own temperature? No. Some crazy landlord in the sky gets to do that. And I was this close to being able to afford the Hot Dream Q20X space heater. It is the one that Drew Barrymore uses.   Do you like get her credit card statements or something?  Abbi and Ilana struggle with money and relationships. They make fart jokes. They smoke weed. They are messy and unkempt. They basically get to do all the things we usually only see guys do onscreen. All right with that here is our chat. Abbi and I met up the day her book was released and just a few days after she and Ilana wrapped their last days of shooting Broad City. Here we are in NPR's New York studios.   Can I tell you the first bit? The first question I have is hellos and then in all caps we have a lot in common.  Yeah?  We are both 34.  Yeah.  We both...  It is a good - it feels good. Like a good age right?  It feels real good. You survived the Jesus year which is a lot right?   When is your birthday?  August 17.  OK.  So you are a bit older than me.  Where are we at?  We are in...  I am honesty like what month are we in? October.  October. So you turned 34 in February?  Yeah.  Yeah.  I mean I am a little - I am getting a little like uh-oh.  Thirty-five?  That feels a little different right?  Yeah. Did 30 scare you? Thirty freaked me out.  It did for me. It did a little bit but this feels different.  This feels different. Yeah well it is also like...  I do not know.  ...You - and you had this line in your book. On page 65 is there a point when you stop feeling like you are 18? Do you think 35 will be that for you?  I hope not.  It is fun to feel 18.  And what that really means is like do you feel adult and mature...  Like you figured it out.  Yeah. I do not think so. I mean just looking at my parents and anyone kind of older they have something figured out. They have managed to figure out how to live.  Yes.  But I think that feeling like you are still a kid is - it remains.  And it is good.  It is good.  It is good. I definitely still feel 18. I am always waiting for someone to be like actually you have no money. That is not your apartment. That is not your real job. Go back to high school.  Also like I am about to go on this book tour and it is like every time I am in a hotel by myself I am like .  Jump on the bed.  I live by myself. But I am like - I am in a hotel - I am like I am going to get room service. Let me just check out what is in this like mini fridge. It is like I am a child let loose.  Oh yeah yeah I get it.  It is good though.  Again I say we have a lot in common.  We do.  Here I have a list. OK. We both like Oprah. We are both 34. We both think that Bonnie Raitt's I Cannot Make You Love Me is one of the saddest songs in the world. I have actually played that song after a breakup. We both are insomniacs. We both love rom-coms including My Best Friend's Wedding. We both get down with Marfa. That is my happy place. We are twins.  We are twins.  We are twins.  Wow I love this. So I just discovered Marfa on the trip. I have been one more time since. It is...  It is just so peaceful.  Which I love.  Did you go to the bar where it is like a fire inside and a teepee on top?  No.  Girl we got to go back. I am going to show you...  I know. I did not go to all the hot...  I am going to show you the ways.  That is part of the book how I...  I know. I remember this.  ...Did not do all the things you are supposed to do.  Well we are talking about this book. We have got to describe to our listeners what this book is. It is a simple and beautiful premise. You have a hard breakup. To get over it you say I am going to drive across the country New York to LA in three weeks. But I am going to write it all down. That is kind of awesome.  Thanks.  Was that your idea?  Yeah. You know I did not - I wrote it the year after I got back just because if I was writing while I was on it I would not have...  Yeah.  ...You know.  Would not have enjoyed it.  But I took notes and a lot of photos and really was paying attention - you know trying to keep track of like all the things I did. I knew I was going to write it. I did not know what the book was going to be. But I am such a - and I write about this too - that I am such a workaholic that in order for me to take a vacation I had to make it a project. So I had to...  You made it work almost.  I made it a book which just sounds like a crazy person. But also I am so happy I did that.  Yeah.  But you know Broad City is very personal in some ways but I am like hiding behind a character.  Which is based on you though.  It is so based on me.  Yeah.  But this is - I like needed to write this. I needed to get it out of my system. And also there is not a lot of people in TV that are openly queer...  Yeah.  ...And that also did come to that later in life...  Yeah.  ...And that also - you know I think I have a specific experience. And I was like...  You very much do.  ...I think some people will get something from it.  And relate to it.  Yeah I feel like it is relatable.  So you mentioned casually that you are queer. The breakup - we forgot to mention...  Such a good casual mention right?  Just oh you know I am queer. The breakup that sparked this journey and this cross-country trip and this book - it was a breakup with a woman.  Yeah.  And this was the first woman you would ever dated. You were with men before that.  Yeah.  So it was a lot going on. Were you scared about talking publicly about your first same-sex relationship?  I was not - I do not think I was nervous to talk about it because it was not a secret in my life. But yeah I had only dated - I am 34 now. I dated a woman when I was 32...  Yeah.  ...You know so it was not - I think part of me had always - or in the past couple of years - has just felt oh this is not something that I struggled with. So that was kind of like this guilt where I was like oh this is something that I am so happy about knowing about myself now.  Yeah.  I am - I wish I had known this about myself earlier. Like but it was not something that I was struggling with as a kid.  It was not like this burden.  No and I kind of feel guilty that I did not have to...  Oh be glad you did not. Be glad you did not.  I am happy I did not. But there is a thing of me like writing about this you know transitional period for me. And it was - besides the breakup part of it the actual coming to terms with that part of who I am was fairly easy. But it is interesting. So I was so happy. I had already been writing the book but I did an interview with Vanity Fair last year for a film I did. And the interviewer - it was such a weird series of questions. She was like I do not understand how you are single . I was like I do not know.  That is a weird question to ask.  She was like I mean you are like such a catch. You are like doing all these things. What kind of guy are you into? And in that interview - it was a phone interview. In the interview I was like oh this is not a secret about me.  Yes.  Since I dated women - I have dated women since this breakup. It is not a secret. I - but I realized oh no one knows it about me.  How did you say it in that interview? Were you just like...  And so I - I mean I do not know if I said it as clearly as I would have if I knew that was coming. But I said I date - I actually date men and women. I think I said I go both ways .  That is so late '90s.  But I was like - you know I knew when I did it that that was going to be like some clickbait thing from them. But I also was so relieved in a way because I was writing this already.  And it was going to come out anyway.  And I did not - you know I guess if that had not happened this would have been like a - what?  .  You know with glasses up.  Yeah.  And I was just so surprised because it was not a secret in my life in general.  All right time for a break. When we come back Abbi tells me why the final season of Broad City will be the show is most vulnerable yet.   A lot of this book is like you dealing with the breakup you dealing with issues of work-life balance you just trying to slow down. But I also love that a big chunk of it is you being comfortable being alone traveling alone eating alone being alone in public. There is this scene where you talk about going to eat a meal alone on this road trip as one would do on a solo road trip and you are incredibly self-conscious about it. What was the self-consciousness wrapped up in and how did you overcome it?  You mean at the bed and breakfast.  Yes that is what it was.  I was in Asheville.  Yes.  And I had this like romanticized idea of like staying in an inn or a bed and breakfast - of it being so charming.  Because a TV show inspired it. Which TV show?  Gilmore Girls.  Yeah.  But also I think it was because I had researched Asheville and there are so many bed and breakfasts. It is like the land of like big porches big verandas.  And tie-dye.  Yeah.  There is so much tie-dye there.  It is very crunchy.  Yes.  Which - it is a great town.  I like it.  And then when I got there it was like duh. This is like a romantic place. A bed and breakfast is like a romantic getaway for like kind of older couples.  And the thing about a bed and breakfast is you got to eat the breakfast with the other people.  With the other people. There is no menu. You are - it is so intimate.  But you did not realize it until the morning when you woke up.  No I did not realize it until like I got downstairs. Like until I was like on my way downstairs I was like I am the only one that is by myself.  And you are a woman which I think for you factored a little bit.  Yeah. I mean there is this push and pull I have with loving being alone. I need - even when I have been in relationships I need my - like I am one of those people where I am like let us be alone together. I like need space so much.  Do you think people look at women alone eating or drinking or whatever and like think things about them?  Yeah. And that is - I talked about how I think it is also the representation of it in movies in fiction in media - is a woman alone is - I think I write...  Sad.  ...Seen as inherently pathetic.  It is funny. I was reading the part about you talking about being alone and the self-consciousness of being alone as a woman in public - I was reading that part while I was sitting alone at a bar reading your book. And I remember reading it and I was like - had my little beer had taken notes had the book. And I was like I look cool. I remember telling myself I look cool because I am a dude you know? And it is just like an alternate reality.  But whenever I see women that are alone I am like that is rad. You are rad. Like I - and I - it is kind of like a conversation with myself where it is like no.  Yeah.  This is good that you are doing this alone. But I - you know it is a back and forth.  How did the journey and the book and the process change the way you think about being alone? Did it?  It definitely allowed me the opportunity to write about all the nuances of feeling that way. Just the act of writing this and finishing it and really being - like I really like it...  That is a good thing.  Even though I am scared - it kind of terrifies me that it is out into the world. I do really like it. So I think I am just secure with my insecurities. Like I feel OK with them.   I give you snaps.  Yeah.   I give you snaps.  Yeah yeah.  I also just love how much you share. Like there is - you can write a confessional book and not be as confessional as you were. Like you tell us the story of like giving a dog back. I would have never told that story.  I should have just fostered the dog for a week.  But you did not do that.  I did not do that. Like if I had just fostered rather than adopted it would have been a different story.  Yes. So you adopt this dog in the midst of taping Broad City.  I was just sad. I was really depressed. And...  I forget - was this after the breakup?  Yeah.  Yes. OK.  We were shooting the fourth season of the show. And I wanted a dog for so long. And I would been looking and I was just like - I felt like that would be the answer for me - to like take care of this thing to throw my energy and like my love that I was like...  Yeah.  ...Like I could not find you know kind of into this dog. And I only had her for a week. And it was a full week of shooting except there was a blizzard. And there was one day where we had to cancel production which we never do because of this blizzard. We shoot so much outside and so we had no choice. And I was home alone with this dog. It was like the walls were like moving in on me. You know I thought it would just make me not depressed anymore and happy again. And I just realized like this is not good for either of us. And so I was very lucky that the foster family took - would take her back so - and then got placed in another home.  And she is good now?  She is better than what she would have been with me.  What did you want readers to get from that story?  That sometimes you  up when - you know? That felt like a big  up. And that felt like a relief quick decision that I made in the heat of being so depressed. And...  A thing we all do.  Yeah. I mean even right now I am like I really would love to have a dog at some point in my life. I am so terrified of it now.  Yeah. I was thinking about that story in the book. And you telling that story is inherently different than perhaps telling this story as a plot point in Broad City.  Oh without a doubt. Like this - Broad City is the most fun I have ever had doing something.  It looks like it.  But also I was writing this on top of when we were writing season 5. And the show - I mean we just wrapped the show on Friday.  Wow. This past Friday?  Yeah shooting. We still have post so we will still be in the edit for a couple of months. But we just finished which I have not been able to process because I just like moved onto this now. But...  And this is the final season?  Mm-hmm.  Wow.  So I was writing this sort of at night and on the weekends while we were writing that. And this season without a doubt is the most vulnerable just because it ends. And we are - it goes there for sure. It is like way more vulnerable about Ilana and my friendship and the relationship and growing up. So I think that as Ilana and I have both grown up like we want - we both have been infusing more of that into our work.  And maybe writing this book at the same time you finished up season 5 was helpful.  Without a doubt. Yeah. And also - I mean there are still so many things in the show that are about me and that - I tackle it in a more humorous way on the show. But I am really excited about this season. I infused a lot of things that I am really proud of.  So it is not all humor in this last season.  I mean I think every episode still has humor. We do not go like drama. But it still has a lot of heart in it.   All right time for one more break. When we come back Abbi talks about when Broad City gets political and the time during election 2016 when they had Hillary Clinton on the show for a cameo appearance.    I cannot afford to volunteer here full time but I still want to get the word out. So I vow to tweet once a week vote for Hillary - yas yas yas .   That would be great.  BRB.   You are going to be finishing this show. And it is been on - it will have been on for five seasons. And over I feel like the five seasons what we allow women to be onscreen and what we think of women as onscreen has changed. When you put this show into the world on TV for the first time it was in many ways so groundbreaking. And it was women behaving badly in a way that we are not used to. It is less groundbreaking now.  Yeah.  And that is a good thing.  Yeah.  What has been the biggest shift in your mind in the way that the culture has treated the Abbi and Ilana of Broad City over those seasons?  Yeah. It is interesting. It is like we were able to show - yeah like the slacker...  You were as...  ...Women.  ...Slacker as the dudes.  Yeah. And - yeah we were able to  up just as much as they are. And now you know we are at a weird - weird is not the word. We are at a - we are in like a sad time kind of but also you know on the flipside very empowering time. But also like if you are not in New York or LA or one of these big cities or kind of a liberal area I still think that is - like not a lot has changed.  Did you read the chapter that Anne Helen Petersen wrote about you guys in her book Too Fat Too Slutty Too Loud? She did a chapter on you guys and it talks about the almost transgressive feminism that you present. And it is because you are white women of a certain age in a certain part of Brooklyn you are allowed to be entirely unencumbered and carefree in a way that is like almost privilege on privilege.  Oh yeah without a doubt.  Like being a liberal woman and white and in Brooklyn and young and unattached and not having to raise kids or pay a mortgage like...  Yep.  It is the freest any woman can ever be almost.  Yeah. And so it is like we try to comment on the fact that we are these like two dumb white girls.  .  And not dumb all the time I think - I love the characters. But we do play that up a lot.  Yeah.  So the more we did it the more we tried to comment on that. And I think in the other work I do besides Broad City the other shows especially I try to have it not just be my point of view on purpose.  Yes.  I am like not just telling...  Yes.  ...My experience...  Yeah.  ...And try to work with people that have a different experience than mine and help them.  Yeah.  Yeah.  When you launched the show or were pitching the show FX turned it down because - what did they say? It was too girly or something. What did they say about it?  They - I mean they - we worked with them for a year on it...  That is crazy. And then they just said nope.  ...Which happens so much. You know you work...  I would be pissed.  I mean we were - it was more like devastated than pissed because we were like this thing that I never thought would happen is happening and then...  Then it was not.  ...It is not.  What did they say when they said no?  They - I mean it was such a - it was that it was too girly. And this was at the time where I think Girls was either in development or was in its first season.  But it had not happened. It was still like - OK.  New Girl was on. And I mean obviously Sex And The City had been on but there just like was not that much.  Well you would think now any network exec would be ashamed to tell a woman that is too girly. It feels like it is a thing you can say less now. Do you think that is the case? I do not know.  Yeah maybe.  Hopefully .  I would hope so. And the thing is like I think they probably meant this is too girly for the demographic of the network.  FX's demo.  But I will say I think Comedy Central's demo is primarily men.  And it worked there.  Yeah or at least it is half you know or it is like very close to being equal. And like that is the thing that a show with women is only for women. That is...  Yeah.  ...Like the problem.  Whereas like The Sopranos...  I watch shows with men...  ...Was for everybody exactly.  ...Constantly.  Yeah.  So like you know that is the thing of this ingrained feeling that - this ingrained like narrative that you - we can only relate to people that look exactly like us. It is like that is not right at all...  Yeah.  ...Or there can only be one female show per network.  Do you think that is gotten better since the show is been on the air? Like from Season 1 to now are we better in that regard?  A little bit I think. But the other shows I have worked on and pitched too it is a little bit like - and it also makes sense. It is like well we have a show similar to that.  But there are so many...  It is a little bit better.  But every network wants four or five shows with like a middle-aged white anti-hero man.  Exactly. If you are talking about women if you are talking about black people if you are talking about gay people if you are talking about any other group but white dudes it is like we already have a gay show.  And at that point it is not diversity. It is tokenism.  Yes.  And like honestly I would be like - to have one and tokenized to me is not that much better than having none.  And then I mean I am in this - I am not going to talk about it.  Oh yes we are girl.  No no no.  .  I am just like in this situation again. And it is like...  With making a new show or something or making new stuff.  No just like I have - like I read about it in the book where it is like - it is all fueled by money and - obviously. And like the demographic is fueled by the advertising that pays for the show. And that is - you know so much of the advertisers will only advertise to the demo. It is like a cycle that is...  It is a self-perpetuated - yes. Yeah.  So you know that is why I write that I am so thankful for Comedy Central because their demo is primarily - was young dudes. I think it is changing a little bit hopefully since we have been on the air. But they took that risk. And they were like we are going to make this show.  Yeah.  And now the advertisers want to advertise.  Exactly. One of the things that I loved about the show is that it leaned into politics in a very clear and distinct way. Hillary Clinton was on the show during the...  Yeah.  ...Campaign season. Looking back on how you tackled politics what would you keep? What would you have changed?  I do not think I would have changed anything because I really love how the show came out. Having Hillary on was such a bananas thing.  She seemed like game as hell.  She was so game. And she - I mean she was - we were going - before we shot it we were like all right. We are going to - you are going to walk - we are like blocking out.  Yeah.  You are going to walk in. We are going to go nuts.   .  Thank you Ilana. Thank you for all of your help.   You know of me?  Well you are wearing a nametag.  And so she is just cracking up at us. Like she did not - we did not know - she did not know what we were going to do.    Abbi. Hello proud demo-crat  college Aquarius.  .  And she was such a pleasure. And she was not with us for that long rightfully so. She had like more important things to do.  Yeah.  But it was - I wish people got to see that version of her because she was like - she is very warm in person.  Do you think they will ever see that?  I do not know. It makes me so sad the way people treated her. And the thing that I like was very conflicted with it felt like just because we were pro-Hillary it felt like people felt like we were anti-Bernie.  Oh.  And that is the first time where I - like it made me like - I try to stay off social media comments and things but it was a lot when we had Hillary.  Really.  I mean still I think people like - they are like we are never watching the show again. And it is like OK.  Do you think a lot of dudes watch the show thinking you were Bernie just because of who you were?  Oh people were like - they - the characters would be Bernie supporters.  .  And we are like...  You wrote the characters.  ...I think we know them.  .  I am like I am sorry. I was so like distraught by that.  People were mad.  But I am not - I do not regret having her on at all.  Yeah.  That was such a powerful thing to have her on...  Yeah.  ...In both ways like for the show and I think just for her to like acknowledge that this is like her - like a demo that loves her too. But...  Yeah.  Yeah. I mean that was - I loved that.  Going back to the book a little bit you finish this journey. I felt closure finishing this book. And I felt like you were in a good place. But I had two questions about how conclusive it is. Have you forgiven her? Are you at peace with her? You have this wonderful interlude where you imagine these hypotheticals of seeing her on the street.  Yeah.  But I still could not tell at the end. Have you forgiven her? - because she broke your heart.  That is a really good question. I do not know.  Still.  Yeah I am not sure.  Wow.  And I am - maybe I am just like a - yeah I am not sure.  OK - which is fine.  Yeah.  As you say in the book it is OK.  Yeah. I do not know how - I do not know exactly how I feel about all that still.  I know which of my exes I have not forgiven yet. I know exactly who they are.  Yeah.  So maybe that means you have forgiven if you do not know.  Maybe .  There is one more little indirect question I had for you. I loved this turn of phrase you have in the book. You said quote the things we are most afraid of are the things that will ultimately change our whole makeup. Did you figure out what you are most afraid of on this trip? And how has it changed you or how are you hoping it changes you?  Yeah. I mean writing the book was one of the most - like today I have been terrified that this is out there.  Really.  But I know how important it was for me.  Yeah.  I mean even the year of like the break - the year that I was devastated that was probably the most growth I have ever had in my life. Even like - I read about asking a woman out for the first time.  Yeah.  And it was like this is like aha moment that was like oh if she was a guy I would ask her out.  That is an Oprah phrase.  I always - yeah.  Aha moment - love it.  I would - I was...  Yeah.  ...Asking guys out all the time.  You wrote about that yeah.  The only reason I am not asking her out is because she is a she. But it was terrifying. But it is completely changed my whole life.  Yeah.  I think it is that - I mean exactly why I pitched the book to make myself - like I pitched it with like trembling hands...  Really.  ...To make myself do this because it scared the  out of me same with I mean everything. There are so many scenes on Broad City that I am like what? We write it and then I am like she will deal with that...  .  ...That actor that does it.  Ah.  And then it is me...  Yeah.  ...Like a month later doing it.  Yeah.  Yeah a lot of my life seems to be me forcing myself to do things that scare me.  And you are cool with that.  It is the only thing I have. Yeah...  .  ...It is like that and productivity.  All right.  I am like - it is just a good tool I think where I am like if this scares me....  Yeah.  I think those things are the things you have to like run toward.   Many thanks to Abbi Jacobson. Her book is called I Might Regret This Essays Drawings Vulnerabilities And Other Stuff. Broad City's final season will air next year on Comedy Central. We are back with you before then - on Friday to be exact - for our wrap of the week of news. For that episode as always you can share the best thing that happened to you all week. Just record yourself send that file to me at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. You might hear yourself in the podcast on the radio. You could be famous. All right. Till Friday thanks for listening. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon.  