Death has its own presence about it. Death has this incredible void as well as some type of sacred presence. Its something thats uncomfortable. This is Death Sex  Money...the show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. At the top of the steps well be right in the funeral home itself. So sneak on upstairs and well go from there. Caleb Wilde leads me into the Wilde Funeral Home through the back I have never entered a funeral home through the back door...so first thing I asked Caleb to show me around. My mom might be at the top of these steps. This is a family-run business. The building sits at a corner of main street in Parkesburg Pennsylvania...a community of just over 3600 people. As we make our way to the second floor I notice the place has the feel of an old home...because it is. My grandfather was born in this very room and that chair is where he takes his nap and he often says he will probably die in that chair.  When you are around death you talk about these things and its not morbid. Just below us at the foot of the front stairs a crowd is beginning to gather in the foyer. Hes a younger gentleman who died of cancer. The connection is my dad knew him from church. Is the music something thats being played live or is it a recording. Thatd be nicesometimes it is live this is a recording. Its an instrumental we bought from Walmart. Its hymns. Calebs family has been doing this for six generations in Parkesburg going back to his great-great-GREAT-grandfather. The family made cabinets before the Civil War...which led to making coffins...and the rest is history. Calebs grandfather is 83 -- and running this funeral downstairs. The funny thing is is in the funeral industry you reach your prime state when youre older because you know the people that youre serving. In my grandfathers case hes burying a lot of his friends and family. The other nice thing about being older is that people have more freedom. Or more willingness for you to be tactile with them. For me when I go up and I touch somebody it can be weird. But for my grandfather people are very willingso hell come up behind maybe the widow and pull them in around their waist and give them a hug. This is something I cant dopeople dont feel that comfortable with me. Probably because Im younger. Im more the behind the scenes person. A lot happens behind the scenes in a family funeral home. Picking up the deceased in the middle of the night. Caleb also mans the phones or responds to a 24-hour answering service. If its a death call theyll call us directly and then well call the family right back. He helps customers plan their funerals too. Before theres a death. This is the casket showroom. The caskets range from around 800 for a coffin made of particle board up to solid cherry for 6000 dollars. Its kind of like the Mercedes. This is the most expensive casket? That we have yeah. How many of these will you sell in a year? Oh well probably sell about one or two a year. About a third of their services are cremations. So Caleb shuttles those bodies to the local crematorium. But the delicate work of embalming -- the removal of bodily fluids before a viewing or burial -- Caleb usually doesnt do that alone. Its rare that Ill embalm a body without being proctored by my grandfather likes to look over my shoulder and make sure Im doing everything right. Or my dad comes in and checks. Caleb is 33. He has two sisters but hes the only one working full-time in the family business. Im also a blogger and I write about my experiences in the crossroads of death and life. The blog  called Confessions of a Funeral Director  has gotten Caleb some attention. Hes done a local TED talk and appeared on national news shows like 2020. So Caleb is both the heir to a somber family business and a child of the Internet. Sometimes those identities clash. Everythings going good with the movie star here? This is Calebs dad Bill. He both ribs and appreciates his son for the attention hes getting. Hes a great writer. Yeah he is. Do you read his stuff? I do. Dont lie. You read some of it. I dont read all of it probably. One in ten. But I do read it. And my dad the older generationyeah he dont care even to look at it. Ok...some people have to work. Its nice to meet you. That work is about death everyday. Were on call 247. And for Caleb it can be hard being as he describes himself on Twitter The last person to let you down in Parkesburg Pennsylvania. The service gets underway downstairs so we slip out the back of the funeral home and move through the rows of cars and pickups that crowded into the driveway. A lot of the vehicles are familiar -- Caleb knows nearly all his customers and their families sometimes going back generations. People dont move in and out of Parkesburg much. Since it lacks industry they cant  afford to move out so they live with their parents and that kind of becomes a generational home. Im the sixth generation here at the funeral home and theres a lot of other families who can trace their roots even farther back than I can. Do you remember the first time you were involved in the funeral of someone you knew personally from town? The one I recollect the clearest was my grandmother who passed in 92. And I was 12. So thats kind of my first memory. When a family member of a funeral director dies Yeah its complicated. Does the funeral director run the funeral? Its really complicated its that intersection of profession and personal life. And you just kind of stand around you dont know whether to shake peoples hand because theyre comforting you or to direct them. And the embalming process is hard. You know thats a consideration that each funeral director makes on a personal level. Do you personally embalm your brother your spouse sibling etc. Or do you hire out? When my moms grandfather died my dad and I embalmed him and thats something that we felt we should do. And we did it. Its like the last thing you can do for them. When my grandmother passed away suddenly in 92 my grandfather was unable toand not that he should have. But my uncle was the one who was involved with that process. Is this something that was part of your training as you were growing up from either your father or your grandfather? Not explicitly. nobody told me look youre going to have stressful days extremely stressful days where youll see dead children. And exposed to things on a regular basis that people should only be exposed to once in a lifetime. And nobody ever told me that its going to affect you negatively and youre going to have to learn to cope. There is very little training at all. And so for me I have had to dig into different psychology books and attempt to understand what I was experiencing because I did not have any explanation in my schooling which I think was a shame. If funeral directors would have been taught to cope better I think thered be a lot less funeral directors who leave the industry because theyre burnt out which happens a lot. I forget the statistics I think its 70 percent of funeral directors leave within the first five years. So its a pretty high burn-out rate. So you have outlasted the trends? Yeah and then once youre in it for ten youre supposedly in it forever. So. Yeah unfortunately I guess. I have outlasted the trend so now Im damned to be a funeral director the rest of my life. Is that really how you feel? No sometimes I do. Employment statistics in the funeral industry vary depending on the source but the challenge of combating burnout does regularly comes up in industry trade magazines. Joining the family funeral business was not Calebs first choice. Right out of high school he worked abroad for a Christian humanitarian group. He could not make enough make money so he came home. But hes always got an eye on whats going on outside Parkesburg. Yeah Im just making sure the death universe is stable right now and nobodys hating me. It can be dicey talking about death on the Internet. Caleb posts jokey pictures to his 20-thousand twitter followers -- like a photo of a pickup in a McDonalds drive-thru with a coffin in the back. Other posts bring tricks of the funeral industry out into the open. He hasnt always gotten the tone right. Can I ask you about the tweet about your last screw this is your last screw. Oh yes. That was the most controversial one within the funeral industry. This is your last screw and it was with a picture of whats called an AV plug. A stands for anal V stands for vaginal. Some funeral directors will use it so the fluids dont come out of the deceased. So yes so I tweeted that. Kind of one of the principles I have that I try to go towards is transparency I think theres a cloud of secrecy within the funeral industry. How that transparency plays out is something else that Im learning in what areas I need to be transparent in and in what areas I shouldnt be. I try to keep on top of that because I dont want toirreverent yes insensitive no. I dont want to be insensitive. Coming up more on the sense of isolation that drew Caleb to social media in the first place. Does it make you feel less lonely? It does it does. To realize that theres other people out there who have death as a defining part of their life. How death has been a defining part of your lives -- thats what you have been telling me about in stories about the funerals you remember. Jenny Lee-Adrian sent the story of her grandmothers funeral in South Korea in 2009. Jenny grew up in Wisconsin still lives in Milwaukee so she had no idea what to expect. I never thought I would be sitting in a cubicle watching my grandmother's body being incinerated and hearing the wails of other people viewing cremations in their small rooms. Her family had arrived by charter bus to the crematorium. Other charter buses were there for other funerals at the same time. All these crowds met up when it was time to eat in the crematoriums cafeteria. We shuffled and waited in line to eat in this huge cafeteria in the crematorium filled with families slurping their way through oxtail noodle soup. Eating made everything normal. I felt comforted just by focusing on grabbing noodles with my chopsticks. Looking back now Jenny says that day seems to have something to do with her decision to start cooking for a living. I also asked for your stories of living alone and a lot of you chimed in with lessons you have learned. Were collecting these for a future episode so keep them coming! Email them to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode author James McBride -- the National Book Award winner and author of The Color of Water. When youre young all you want to do is get laid and all that shit. When you get older you know a good 8 hours of sleep that works. Its alright. Thats possible you adjust you know what I mean? So you learn whats important. Loves important. Companionships important. Sex is good to have but if your hearts not full sex is like drinking beer. The first ones good by the ninth one you know youre poisoning yourself. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Caleb Wilde grew up in an independent Protestant church in Parkesburg. When he came back to his hometown he got licensed as a funeral director and went to seminary. When we finally sit down together he tells me hes working towards a Ph.D. in religious studies now on top of his full-time work. I love being in academia. Im a nerd. How would you say that working in a funeral home for 10 years how has that affected you? On a personal level its overexposed me to death. And its created burnout depressionat the same time though its allowed me to see beautiful aspects of humanity compassion empathy tolerance. On a faith level its certainly changed the way that I look at God. A close experience with death changes us. It changes all aspects of our being. It either solidifies what we already believe or it creates a loss where the beliefs that we held to before are called into question and reshaped and redefined. I dont think you can have a neutral experience with death. And you said you have struggled with depression. Yeah yeah I have. Especially the first couple years at the funeral home because I was working seven days a week. And it just got to be too much. I was starting to have compassion fatigue where I just did not feel the same degree of compassion for peopleI knew that there was a problem. When my temper would flare up and so forth. The common symptoms of somebody whos nearing burn-out. And so I tried to deal with it in healthy ways through exercise seeing a psychologist and going on meds. Was that something anyone in your family had done before seeing a psychologist? Not that I know of yeah. It might just be my personality type I tend to be more introverted than the rest of my family. Its an industry that has extremes. Youll see beautiful things families that havent spoken for years come together and reconcile or the community come together and not only pay for a funeral but start a college fund for a young boy who just lost his father. Youll see those things and then youll see suicides and murders and its impossible not to be affected. Anybody who claims that theyre not affected. Its learning to acknowledge that its a difficult job and finding positive and healthy coping mechanisms which is what Im still attempting to do. Can you tell me more about how what you call your overexposure to death how thats affected your faith? I think in many ways death is the muse of religion. So for me death has called into question a lot of my assumptions. Has it made you have less faith in the sense of order in the universe? Yeah yeah for sure. Im at a place now where Im comfortable in silence. I used to want to speak towards death. Have words towards death. And what I mean by that is answers. Where I wanted some type of framework that makes me feel comfortable with my mortality. And maybe there is not. maybe when we talk about death all there is is silence. Yes and no. Some of my shifts in beliefs I have kept quiet because I know that they would upset members of my family. But at the same time it has not been difficult because this is something that I feel if I did not address the questions and find a way to feel comfortable in the silence that I would not be able to survive. You said you have been relatively quiet about how your feelings and beliefs have changed as youre speaking into a microphone. So how do you think about that? I doubt thattheres certainly Im selective with what my parents hear for the most part. In one sense I would say Im more agnostic than I ever have been. At the same time I think what often happens in secularization is that we assume that we can exist outside of a tradition. And I dont know that we can do that I think tradition and whether we have any affiliated religion theres deeply held beliefs within our community that make us interconnected. And that is something that I still hold to and is an anchor for me. Yeah its community. Yeah yeah. When I moved to New York City I would walk to the grocery store past a funeral home in Brooklyn and I became obsessed with the idea of if I died in new York City I had no idea where my body would go. Because it was this question of wheres my home now you know? Yeah. Thats what youre speaking to. In the community where you live and serve theres that sense of connectedness. And its valuable. And Im afraid sometimes in our attempt to assert our independence and our individuality when we remove ourselves from traditions when we remove ourselves from community it does make death seem like a larger specter. Is there a particular death that you worked on I dont know if you call them clients? There was. When I first started after I was licensed I woke up early in the morning I turned on my TV because I had heard the sound of helicopters outside of the place where we were living at the time and there was enough of them where I thought well this could be something serious. So I went downstairs on my TV. And sure enough there was on the screen a Philadelphia news station that had come out to cover a fire a trailer fire that had happened about a mile away from my house. And at that time they were reporting that two young children and two adults had perished in the fire. And my first thought was this is terrible. And my second thought was theres a real possibility that we could be the ones who take care of these individuals who had perished. And sure enough I went to the funeral home and we had gotten the calls. Two young children I believe they were both under the age of 10. And then their grandparents. So the following day after the coroner had done his autopsies and so forth I was the one who went to the hospital to pick up the children. And when I got back to the funeral home I was also the one who was to determine whether or not these children could be viewed. And so I unzipped the body bags. And they were actually both in the same body bag. And it was a defining moment internally as wellit did something in me where I began to recognize the part that I play as a funeral director in the grieving and the death process. The family was fighting because the one part of the family was Wiccan and the other part was Christian and they were trying to determine what type of service they would have. And it got to such an intense level that we had to involve the cops. So the day before the funeral we had the cop there. One of the cops. And we were going over some of the logistics of what would happen if there was a fight. And I collapsed. My heart was racing really intensely. And they took me into the hospitalit ended up just being exhaustion and I was given orders to stay in bed for a couple days and the next day I got up and I put on my suit and I came to the service and it was just alooking back it was a moment whereit was not consciousbut I saw a need and I placed a need of others above my own needs. Which at the time was rest. And looking back I see that as a very pivotal moment in my professional life where something internal clicked and it became more about the people that I was serving than my own well-being. When you came to the service that day do you remember talking to your father or grandfather when you walked through the door? I dont. I remember them being surprised that I was there because they knew I had just been in the hospital. And they knew that I wasnt supposed to be there. But I quickly fell into place and did whatever I needed to do to help the service run smoothly. I dont remember what I said. I just remember them being surprised that I showed up. So they were surprised but there was nothing really said and you startedjust took your place and started doing the work. Yeah because in some sense I think they understood. Caleb Wilde lives in Parkesburg Pennsylvania with his wife Nicole and son Jeremiah. Wilde Funeral Home averages about 250 funerals a year. Thats about four services a week. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC.  The team includes Emily Botein James Ramsay Jenna Weiss-Berman Chris Bannon Merritt Jacob Jim Briggs. Special thanks to Henry Molofsky for his help with this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. We are still collecting your stories about living alone for an upcoming episode. Send an email or record yourself telling your story into your smartphones voice memo app and send that in. The email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Im on twitter annasale. Death Sex  Money is on Facebook -- if you like us like our page. If youre new to the show -- glad you found us! you can check out all our episodes on our website - deathsexmoney dot org. One more thing about Calebs work. Parkesburg is small enough that he serves everyone -- not just people from his family's church but also Latinos and African Americans who live in town. Caleb says thats taught him a lot. Its healthier a lot healthier to have an open space for your emotions and your grief. Instead of closed space which seems to be the case with most of us whites. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.