Lisa Ling Being raised primarily by a man made me very you know man-like in many ways. Like I never really felt inhibited about just going up to a guy and asking him if he wanted to have a drink or whatever. And I think that one of the reasons why I always was able to date the guys I wanted to date was because I did not wait for them to ask me. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...And need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. When journalist Lisa Ling was in her mid-twenties she vaulted to national fame as a co-host on The View--the youngest one ever. Shed been working in television news for almost a decade but on her first day at The View she realized she was in for something really different.  On national TV Meredith Vieira asked me my first day if I was still a virgin. Meredith Vieira  Are you a virgin? We have to get to what matters ...first let us get to what is important for The View!  Because that is just how The View was!  Did you know that was coming?  Oh I had no idea. I had no clue. And at that moment I was thinking oh man I wish I was still covering the refugee crisis in Kosovo right now.  The thing that was most challenging for me was as an Asian girl-- young woman-- you know I have always been very guarded about my personal life. That very moment I blinked and I saw my father's face with a raised eyebrow going What are you going to say to that? Lisa now hosts a show on CNN called This is Life. Its hard news about personal topics. The show is pretty unvarnished for cable news. The stories she tells can get messy. Thats how Lisa thinks about her life too starting when she was a kid.  It was just-- it was a very...ugly maybe too strong a word but it was just not a pleasant childhood that I had. Both Lisas parents are immigrants-- her dad from China her mom from Taiwan. And she says their marriage was not easy.  My parents had a tumultuous relationship throughout my life. They had a bit of an arranged marriage. My dad had actually been dating a Caucasian woman which was kind of frowned upon by his parents. And so they kind of pushed him to... to marry my mom. Lisas parents got divorced when she was 7. Her mom moved to L.A. and Lisa and her younger sister Laura would spend summers there. But during the school year they lived with their dad and grandmother in a suburb of Sacramento. Lisa says going through puberty while living with with her dad was tough.  It was not easy. And my grandmother was a very very pious Christian woman. And so I could never talk to her about anything pertaining to sex or even really my body that much. I found comfort in talking to an older cousin of mine my cousin Diane who was only two or three years older but she was definitely more experienced than I was. And she was always-- she always just had an open door to me. But you know when I started menstruating for example I had a conflict because I did not know how to ask my dad to help me buy these things. So my cousin Diane was the first person who I called for everything and she supplied me with the necessary feminine products in the first I would say the first year.  Oh really? Diane would show up with a new supply of tampons and maxi pads in her backpack?    Yeah. Yeah! That her mom paid for because her mom kind of you know had sympathy for me.  Would you-- would you feel like you would have to hide that it was happening?  No I did not hide it. But it was just-- you know we just did not talk about those things. Our family spoke so little of sex that my mom later on asked me about things.  Oh really?  Like what it felt like and how you are supposed to French kiss. Yeah! Because I do not know if she ever kind of learned how to do it the right way because her relationships with men were very kind of submissive you know. She sort of you know did not feel like she had any control in a lot of those relationships because you know she just never really had anyone to talk to about it.  How old were you when you had that conversation?  Probably 18 19.  When did you start dating?  I never dated throughout high school until uhm I met a Japanese-American boy my senior year who went to another school. And I would never really thought that I would date an Asian guy because I went to a school in Carmichael that was completely non-diverse. So  when I met Jeff Yoshimura and his family was just very open and welcomed me it really felt very comfortable and it felt like home. I had a bit of an identity crisis growing up because I never felt totally American because I looked so different from everyone else. And whenever kids would come to my house it smelled like Chinese food and they would make you know they would make remarks as such. And while the kids were never malicious and I cannot go as far as to say that I was bullied I was definitely made fun of regularly. Boys on a daily basis would come up to me and call me Risa Ring.  Ugh.  So this happened every single day. And again it was not malicious. I was a perfectly popular kid. I had a lot of friends. But it just it... you know when you are that young and popularity is so important you just want to fit in and not be different. Those things really hurt me. And on many occasions I would go home crying about it and I just was really embarrassed of looking different and being different and being Asian-American.  And you are in high school still when you start appearing on television right?  Yes. And that actually helped me a lot. I auditioned for a local show called Scratch and the...  90's! Scratch!   90s! Exactly  They held the the audition in a big mall in Sacramento and they chose four hosts out of hundreds of applicants. And I was chosen as one of them. There were two boys and two girls and the other girl who was hired a girl named Rachel -- lovely beautiful girl -- she was always considered the beautiful hot one. And I was considered kind of the you know the smart one with the good personality . And...and that really affected me a lot.  How were you aware that that was your role?  Because whenever people would talk about us they were always making remarks about how hot Rachel was and I was just kind of there . After two years at Scratch Lisa landed a reporting gig for Channel One...  Hi everyone Im Lisa Ling It was a news show for teens broadcast into school classrooms.  Channel One for Friday October 1st is next. That is how I got to know Lisa Ling. In junior high wed watch Channel One newscast in homeroom. Lisa was on it...so was Anderson Cooper. They shared an office.  It was such a unique opportunity for these young kids to go out and experience the world. And I covered things like the civil war in Afghanistan and the drug wars throughout South America and I covered stories about globalization in China and India.  Do you remember-- how important to you was it that you were earning money as a teenager?  It was very important to me. I actually stopped taking money from my parents completely right after I graduated high school. You know I did not make a ton of money but I was a big saver and because I was under my parents' watch I could save every penny that I made. And so I ended up putting myself through a private university. I went to the University of Southern California and at the time the tuition was about 25000 a year and I paid for every penny of it and that was a huge source of pride for me. Lisa didnt end up graduating from college...she left USC after three years to work full time for Channel One. Then she got the job at The View. And it wasnt an easy transition.  Here I was at 26 years old on this national stage and the expectation of me was to be totally open about every aspect of my life. And I really struggled with that in the beginning because I was so out of my element.  Did you--did it teach you something about the kinds of boundaries you wanted to set?  Yeah because when you--when you are on that show in front of an audience you are under pressure to generate a reaction from the audience and that is all you are thinking about when you are at that table. And sometimes you say things or I have said things that I wish I could retract but once it is out there it is out there. You know I said something once that was really hurtful about Monica Lewinsky. You know she was on a college tour talking about her experience and I-- we talked about it on The View and I said something like You know I do not know what she is talking to college kids about. I do not know what is so educational about being on your knees.  Oh whoa!  And as soon as I said that Anna...I know. It is so out of character for me to assail another woman even at that time. But I was going for the laugh.  Yeah.  And hey I got one. I got a huge one. And at the moment you know it felt really good to get that laugh. But after I said it just you know it was like a dagger through the heart because I realized how hurtful and disparaging that was. And I went back to my office after we finished taping and I got a message I had a message from Monica.  Just expressing  She reached out to you?  Yeah. Expressing like I do not-- how could you say that? And you know I apologized to her then and I apologized to her many many years later. And so-- you know I was young and I sort of realized I need to really exercise much much more caution. And I have since then I think been a lot more careful. Coming up.Lisa talks about her wild single days in New York City ...and how her parents divorce made her skittish about commitment.  Even when  my husband asked me to get married I was not totally sure but I knew I really loved him. And you know I had kind of a defeatist attitude about the whole thing and I thought look if it does not work I will just get divorced. -- Last week we asked for your stories about class and the moments when youre most aware of where you fit economically and socially--and where you dont fit. One listener told us about a visit to a coffee shop with her husbands family...that shocked her. Everybody starts a ordering a latte or a Frappuccino...theyre ordering a size medium--not a size small! A size medium. And in my head Im thinking oh my God this wasnt a once in a while treat no this was almost a daily occurrence and I just could not believe it! So whether its latte sizes the kind of car you drive or something else--tell us whats made you most aware of your class...and how thats affected things like relationships or even what you think is possible for your life. Email us or send us a voice memo to class at death sex money dot org. Theres also a link on our Facebook page. On the next episode I talk to a young couple who met on Tinder. And after only knowing each other four months one gave the other.a kidney. Lori Interlicchio I mean it definitely was there that like this is obviously gonna affect our relationship romantically but I also remember like If this entire relationship goes to crap because of this then like whatever. A person has a kidney! -- This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Lisa Ling never had ambitions to be a daytime talk show host. For her joining The View was a calculated move.  I knew that if I wanted to continue doing substantive journalism I would have to raise my profile a little bit so that I could better dictate the kinds of stories I could do later on. But it was a choice that came with tradeoffs. She moved across the country from her family and sold a house shed bought for herself when she was 24.  I had to extricate myself from my life and my job and everything in Los Angeles. It was crazy! All within the span of like two weeks.  What was your what was your romantic life like in that point in your life? Youre in your late 20s early 30s youre living in New York City. What was it like? What do you remember about that time?  Oh. That... hmm. That is... this is going to probably generate kind of an emotional response because when I--when I got the call that I had been chosen as the co-host of The View I had been in a very serious relationship with the person that I considered the love of my life at the time. You know we started dating when I was 21 years old. And we decided that we would stay together and just try it because I did not know what it would mean. I did not really know many people in New York so I thought I would be coming back all the time. And as soon as I got to New York I--this whole world opened up to me and I was invited to every party. I was kind of an It Girl. I was being written up in gossip columns. And given where I grew up in this kind of middle lower-middle class home and community it was it was exciting for me. And my boyfriend at the time was sort of watching this from the sidelines and so it really affected our relationship.  Hm. Do you remember how you eventually-- how did you two agree that the relationship was over?  You know I think that because he was kind of lonely in L.A. and you know I was having all these other experiences we just decided to part ways. Because it just was--it was really unfair. You know in retrospect now it was really sad because he really really loved me and I kind of--you know I in many ways sort of abandoned the relationship. And I still you know I still love him probably more than any man Ive ever loved. I just love him in a different way. Like my regard for him--you know goes beyond the ability to express in words.  Hmm.  And I shared with him you know so many pivotal moments in my life. And we are still very very close friends to this day but I still feel really bad that all of that happened.  So you ended that relationship you are living in New York City was dating in New York at the time did it feel... like exciting? Were you into being a single woman in New York?  I was I really was! I mean I think that when I was living in New York and sort of coming into my own and feeling...feeling a little powerful I became more uninhibited and I became resentful at the notion that women who decided to have sex when they wanted to were considered sluts. I think I was just starting to feel really good about myself. I also started to hang out with a bunch of girls who you know became my kind of party girlfriends and we just...we really did it up. Like my time in New York you know when I think back on it I see myself you know dancing on tables sometimes.  Really?  And...oh yeah! Oh yeah!  Yes!  I was living a life that I could never imagine. And I found that empowering because that was what I grew up thinking men always did and that I could do that too was something that I felt perfectly fine about. I did not have to have an emotional connection to someone. If I wanted to just have fun with someone I just could. I would never wanna go back to it at this point but for that little window it was really... it was really exciting and fun. And you know I also realized after kind of doing it for a couple of years that you know it is not that I was was extremely promiscuous but I was reckless because I cannot say that I always had protected sex or that I was regular with birth control. And I was so stupid about it because I could have contracted any number of STDs or could have become pregnant.  Did you have a time when you thought you might not choose to get married? Might choose to be a single woman?  Oh yeah. Yeah. The...my parents' divorce their relationship and their divorce was so ugly and I was so traumatized by it as a kid you know being sort of shuttled back and forth between my parents and their constant fighting over money that I just--I just never really wanted to deal with it. And after I left The View and moved out of New York and started working for National Geographic and traveling all over the world I sort of took that same attitude with me. And you know I would be in these distant corners of the earth and I would meet incredibly intriguing people and it was exciting to establish you know relationships out there in the world where no one knew what I was doing and so on. I felt very empowered throughout it. In 2007 Lisa married someone with a very different work life a radiation oncologist named Paul Song. And just as they were settling into their lives together Lisa found herself on the other side of a breaking news story. Her younger sister Laura whos also a journalist was was reporting in North Korea and she was arrested.  That call that I received from my brother in law in the middle of the night that my sister had been abducted by North Korean officials was... I mean it was the most terrifying moment of my personal life. And even today when I think back on it that a former U.S. president went to the most isolated country on earth to go secure the release of my little sister. It is like... it is just like you cannot write this stuff.  And I am like thinking about how all of that was happening and where that fits in-- you know you are 35 years old at the time your sister is 32. Youre recently married. Like do--how did it change what you thought was important and what your priorities were?  It changed everything. I mean I...You know my sister and I spent many years going to places that were dangerous. That were unpredictable. And while I do not rule out the possibility that I will you know visit those kinds of places again because I still feel as strongly about the need to report from those places because we now have kids and because of what happened to my sister we are a lot more cautious about any place we choose to visit.  Mm. Did you--were you trying to become pregnant during that time?   I was not quite there yet even after my sister was returned it took a few more years before I felt like I was ready because I mean I never really had that biological desire to have a kid. It was just something that that was not on my list of things that I had to do. And then after I had been married for a few years my husband and I after many discussions decided that we wanted to try and I thought you know maybe I-- maybe I do want to have a kid with this man you know. And it certainly was not easy-- as easy as I as I thought it might be at at my age.  To get pregnant?  Exactly.  You have talked about having had miscarriages. Did you--did you consider not trying anymore after those?  I did not consider not trying. So... but it was a big blow to me in many ways when I had those miscarriages because up until that point I felt like I could do anything  you know I would been such a hard worker all my life and I thought Well if I put my mind to anything I can do it. And so the first time I had a miscarriage it was just sort of like... I felt like I had lost control and that it was my fault and that I did something. And then the second time it happened it just really kind of sort of shook me to the core. But being the persistent person I am I did not rule out that I could become pregnant. I...you know in a way I became more determined than ever to keep trying. We did not--we did not exert the kind of effort that a lot of people did. Like we were not rushing home when I was ovulating but we just you know were were by no means trying to prevent it from happening.  Yeah. Trying.  Yeah we were trying. We were trying.  And...this is a big question but when you mentioned that you... like what you wanted and and your career was has sort of never stopped since you were a teenager you have been traveling you have been working... what was it in 2007 that made you feel like you wanted to  marry?  ...get hitched?  Yeah.  You know I think it was just something that kind of came with age Anna really. And it was-- it was hard because we both came into our marriage fairly late you know I was 36 and he was 41 and we were very independent and very set in our ways. And we thought that we could maintain these kind of independent lives and and be married. And you just cannot do that when you get married. You have to learn how to compromise. And we did not know how to go about doing that. And so the first three or four years of our marriage I do not really even consider a marriage because we really started to drift apart. And our mutual therapist once said to us if you were in a business you had a business partnership you would do everything in your power to make sure that that partnership worked. And you need to apply that same work ethic to your marriage. And that really kind of resonated with us. And we have since really made an effort to make our partnership a real priority. That does not mean that we do not have problems. That does not mean we still you know do not have communication issues I mean we are both Asian after all . Did not have the most communicative relationships with our own parents. But we are committed to making our partnership work and... and listen that does not mean that we are going to stay together forever but right now we are committed to our partnership.  Those are all my questions for you Lisa Ling. I so appreciate...  Whew! ...your openness.  I need a cigarette and I do not even smoke . Thats Lisa Ling. Shes the host of the CNN series This Is Life. She also has a new web series called This Is Sex. Theres a link at deathsexmoney.org. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And dont forget keep sending us your stories about how youve experienced class in your life. Send a note or record a voice memo and send it to class at deathsexmoney.org Lisas daughters are now four and seventeen months. And she says shes already got a plan in place for talking to them about sex.  The most important thing is I want them to be able to feel comfortable telling me anything. Uhm you know my my eldest is only four and I am ready to have those  conversations with her. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.