 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. When I was growing up I thought of the accordion as a pretty corny and annoying instrument. Accordion meant The Lawrence Welk Show bad bar mitzvah bands and  worse yet  my father's accordion lessons. But I wish I still had my father's accordion because I now realize what a remarkable instrument it is. My guest today Will Holshouser takes full advantage of the instruments possibilities. He has a magnificent accordion and he brought it to our studio to play for us. Holshouser has played all kinds of music on accordion including Cajun avantgarde jazz indie rock folk klezmer and styles from Argentina Madagascar and other countries around the world. His new album Introducing Musette Explosion features French waltzes and dances as well as original songs in the musette style. Let us start with the track A Recurring Dream. It features Marcus Rojas on tuba and Matt Munisteri on guitar.   That is music by Musette Explosion with my guest Will Holshouser on accordion. Will welcome to ank you for bringing your instrument with you. It is a beautiful accordion. And so few people play accordion nowadays so how did you become an accordion player?  Well I grew up playing the piano and studied mostly jazz. Then when I was in college a friend of mine bought me an old accordion as a surprise. He bought it at a rummage sale and I loved it right away. It was an old musty instrument. It smelled funny. But something about it  there was a fun factor that was a change from the piano for me. I love that the fact that it sits on your chest. You can feel it vibrating. And it had a bunch of connections to different kinds of folk music which the piano did not have at least for me. So it was  I was instantly fascinated by the whole world. And you can hear it breathing right here.   Absolutely.   So since I think most people well do not have an accordion at home and do not get to see accordion very much. I am assuming a lot of people are not really familiar will what an accordion can really do and how it works. So give us a little tour of your very beautiful accordion.  Well sure. Well the  on the right side there is a keyboard. It looks like a piano keyboard. And these keys  when you push a key it opens a valve in the accordion and that allows air to pass over metal reeds which are inside the box. So the nickname for it  one nickname for is the squeezebox. So as you move the bellows back and forth that generates the air. And then when you push the keys on the right hand or the buttons on the left hand that lets the air through and the reeds sound. So my accordion has four sets of reeds. It can play very low notes on the right hand...   ...Or very high notes if you hit a  there is these register switches. You can change the read bank that is activated.   So  and then there are two middle sets of reeds which are slightly detuned.   And you can also play all four sets together.   So  and then the left hand has buttons which in the standard accordion system are bass notes and chords. And...   This was made  invented in the 19th century to play music that did that.   European music  and it is all based of course around the European tonal system. That system is called stradella. There is a town in Italy called Stradella where it was invented. So it is a lot of fun. It is a very versatile instrument with a very wide range and wide dynamics. The dynamics come from the bellows which  it is often said the bellows in the accordion is like the bow of a violin. That is where you get dynamics expression and a whole host of other effects.  So manipulate the bellows differently to give us a sense of how the tone changes depending on how your  what is the verb for what you do with the bellows? What is the right verb?  Bellowing.  Bellowing.  I suppose. Yeah. Well it is  you know it is mostly dynamics but you can  the sound of the note does change as you change the air pressure.   So it is going from slow to fast in terms of what you are doing with the bellows.  Yeah. As you push harder it gets louder as you push more air across the reed. And there is some special effects. If you open the valve halfway and push the air really hard it can bend the pitch.   Wow. I did not know you could bend notes on accordion. Do you bend notes on a keyboard instrument...  Yeah.  ...That is not a synthesizer? That is pretty ...  Right.  ...Pretty good. So I should ask you to play a song for us.  OK.  And your new album Introducing Musette Explosion is all musette which is a type of French song. Tell us what the genre is.  Well it is basically French dance hall music from the first half of the 20th century. And its lead  accordion is the lead instrument. Guitar is also very important. And one of the standard forms in this type of music is the waltz. And to us as Americans it sounds iconically French. But then if you look beneath the surface it actually has a very multicultural family tree. So it began with French peasants in Paris playing an instrument called the musette which was actually a little bagpipe. And then around 1900 there was a wave of Italian immigrants who brought the accordion and a lot of their music to Paris. And they kind of took over the dance halls. The accordion became the lead instrument. The bagpipe was forgotten but left its name to the genre  musette. And there were also a large Roma Gypsy population in France and they contributed a lot of their style to this genre also. Some people say that Roma guitarists were the first ones to write waltzes in minor keys which became a classic musette sound.  And the tradition that Django Reinhardt was from?  Exactly. His first gig was playing banjo in a musette dance band.  Banjo. Wow. Oh you have banjo  your guitar player Matt Munisteri plays banjo on some of the tracks...  That is right.  ...On your album. Oh OK.  Yeah yeah.  So you should play one of the musettes from your album for us. Do you want to do Swing Valse?  Sure that sounds great.  What you doing to your accordion? .  Oh I was just making sure that I had the right register on...  OK.  ...Because you can  depending on which register you have you can get you know in a different octave or  each one has a sort of a different sound a different flavor.  OK. And this is  this is my guest Will Holshouser.  All right. This is Swing Valse written by Baro Ferret and Gus Viseur.   That is great. That is just so beautiful.   Thank you.  So how were you first introduced to the songs known as musette?  Through reissues that came out in the 1990s. There is a great label in France called Fremeaux and Associates. So I heard them and I was struck by this music and kind of blown away by  how do they get these sounds of the accordion? And Matt Munisteri my friend felt the same way and that is sort how we started playing together. We were both interested in French musette. And it is so expressive virtuosic. It is an unusual type of  some of these tunes especially Swing Valse are hybrids of jazz and French music. So when some of these French musette musicians fell in love with jazz of the '20s and '30s they began to write these hybrid tunes that were  and hence the name Swing Valse. It is inspired by the American records that they were crazy about.  My guest is accordion player and composer Will Holshouser. His new album is called Introducing Musette Explosion. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. My guest is accordion player and composer Will Holshouser. His new album featuring French waltzes and dances is called Introducing Musette Explosion. He brought his accordion to our studio. You have really sought out the accordion traditions of different cultures you know cajun and zydeco...  Yeah.  ...Which are traditions in America from Louisiana. Play a little bit of some zydeco or cajun accordion style for us and tell us what makes that style unique.  OK I will play a tune called the Balfa Waltz which is from the repertoire of the Balfa Brothers. Cajun music is usually played on a different type of accordion. It is a...  Like a smaller one?  A smaller one a diatonic single row button accordion  diatonic meaning it can only play notes for one major key. But the sound is very big and fat. And so to imitate that sound on my piano accordion I play a lot of octaves.   And fifths.   So it is a draoney type of sound. It is very rhythmic; it is very droaney. And I love to play this kind of music on my accordion. When I first started learning accordion I just decided I do not really care. That is a different type of accordion. Sure if I wanted to be super authentic and specialize in cajun music I would need to learn that type of accordion. But to just learn something from it and enjoy it I do not need to change up my whole game. So anyway this is Balfa Waltz.  Great and this is my guest Will Holshouser. And he has a new album called Introducing Musette Explosion. Musette Explosion is the name of his band that plays musette French waltzes.  All right here's the Balfa Waltz. .  Nice and that was the Balfa Waltz played for us in our studio by Willa Holshouser. And he has a new album called the Musette Explosion. Musette Explosion is the name of one of his bands. What is another example of a cultural tradition whose music accordion heavily figures into that has its own style that you have learned?  Well there is a great accordion tradition in Madagascar which again I discovered through records.  There is a place I would not have thought had a great accordion tradition.  Yeah you know when I first heard about it I was really surprised too. But the accordion went all over the world starting from Europe with colonialism in the 19 century and the French were in Madagascar. And some accordions wound up there. And the people in Madagascar did something very very different with the accordion.  But what did they do differently that you can show us?  Well here's a tune that I arranged for Regina Carter's band  Reverse thread  and it is called Zerapickey. And this tune uses  it is almost using the accordion as a drum in a way. It uses the bellows shaking effect to make a certain rhythm.   So I will show you how that works. This is Zerapickey. .  That is really unusual sounding.  It is. It is.  Did you learn that from records or did you go to Madagascar?  No I learned it from records.  Its and you can figure out how that Sam was being achieved?  Yeah. It is an approximation you know. And the original recording has two accordions and drums. So you know I got what I could off the transcription. But yeah it is a fascinating kind of music. And it is a very unusual way of using the instrument.  So I am watching you playing that. How much  how physically exerting is it to play accordion compared to say piano which is what you played before?  It is actually not as hard as it looks. Some people think oh it takes a lot of arm strength or something to pump the bellows but it is very ergonomic. The straps that go around your shoulders and the instrument itself is heavy. It weighs about 29 pounds bur it sits on your lap. My kind of accordion I sit down to play it. And it really does not feel  it does not feel strenuous to play a lot of musical instruments. The important thing is to stay relaxed. There is always danger of tendinitis in your arms or muscle strains in your neck or back if you tense up. So the key is to stay relaxed and if you do that it is really not that physically demanding.  No problem stay relaxed.  That is right.  Nothing to it. There is something very oldfashioned and avantgarde about the accordion and let me see if I can explain that. It seems oldfashioned because in this era of like digital instruments and everything like you are physically pumping air into it you know? You are doing it manually to get the air over the reeds to create the sound. But there is something kind of avantgarde about it because you can get all these really unusual overtones through this array of buttons almost as if it was a synthesizer or organ where you are  you know you are just creating unusual harmonics.  It is true. And especially yeah dissonance on the accordion playing notes very close together can bring out those overtones. And there is a whole range of effects you can get.  Show us some effects you can get.  All right here's some very high notes with special overtones. .You can shake the bellows . You can make it  shimmer like that. You can do these bending notes like I said you before .  There is a sort of cluster  nice clusters you can get .  Oh I like that.  You can flop around on the keyboard like a fish. There are rhythmic things you can do with the bellows .  Sometimes when I play for my daughter's class I will do a train effect. The kids like that .  I like that too.  . Anyway so yeah that is  and that is done by shaking the bellows back and forth. So yeah there all kinds of things you can do. You know you can use the breath  the breathing sound .  And you just heard the bellows kind of squeezing flopping together. So yeah there is a whole bunch of effects you can get.  I love it. I love it. Will Holshouser will be back in the second half of the show. His new album is called Introducing Musette Explosion. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with accordion player and composer Will Holshouser who brought his according to the studio to play for us. His new album Introducing Musette Explosion features French waltzes and dances in the musette tradition as well as original songs inspired by the musette tradition. There is an original song I am going to ask you to play that you do on your new album The Musette Explosion. And this is an original song in the style of a French musette. And it is called Chanson Pop which translates to pop song.  Yes.   So would you talk about composing it? And there is two different parts to the song. It is like a sixminute piece on the recording. I am going to ask you to play an excerpt of the opening melody. And then we will talk about that and then we will play an expert  I am going to ask you to play an excerpt from deeper in.  OK.  So  but give us an overview of this piece in writing it and what your intention was.  Well one of the kinds of work that I have really enjoyed doing as an accordionist in New York over the last you know 20 years or so is accompanying singers. And I have had great pleasure to accompany some singers that do French repertoire from the Chanson tradition which of course just means song. But it is  for example the most famous exponent of this Chanson tradition is Edith Piaf. And for a while I was playing with a great singer from France named Michel Hermoa . And I was the only accompanist. It was really fun because I was  it was just vocals and accordion. So I was the entire backdrop. And he would  he was very good at coaching me and developing these accompaniments. And he said a song  one of these songs is like a movie. So this verse is one scene and you need to create a backdrop. Maybe it is like a sunny day or something. And the next verse or the next part of the song is totally different create a different backdrop. So to me learning about that tradition  which is a little different from the musette tradition  the musette tradition is more the waltzes the dances the dance music. And the Chanson tradition is more the poetic songwriting. There is some overlap but this piece I was thinking of some of those Piaf songs. And not really trying to imitate them but sort of trying to tap into the wonderful grandiosity of some of those pieces. So I will play the opening melody first.  Perfect yes.  OK. .  That is beautiful. And that is Will Holshouser in our studio playing the opening of his song Chanson Pop. And I know you said that that is based on like Chanson French song. To me it sounds like it is also based on hymns.  OK.  And I know that your father was a minister.  That is right.  And I imagine you heard a lot of hymns growing up. Do you hear a little hymnlike quality in that piece?  You are a very perceptive listener.  Are not I?  Yes absolutely. And that is really  for me that is almost the very beginning of my musical life. My interest in music is going to church as a kid and hearing these hymns and feeling something stirring inside me that I could not describe. You know feeling almost like a kind of truth or something that was a very direct experience and that I really could not put into words.  Was it a combination of beautiful music in a sacred place?  I think so. Yeah. It was you know clearly people coming together to be quiet and to think about serious things. My first music teacher was the artist in residence at our church. And he wrote jazz for the services. His name is Douglas Cook and he wrote very beautiful very dissonant meditative jazz that would be in the services. So for me that is the beginning of a lot of my  what I like about music is the hymns the music that Doug wrote in our service. And to me its music  that what is great about music is it is this internal language that we can all share. It is accessible to everybody.  Yes. And one of the beautiful things about hymns is that they are supposed be accessible to everybody in terms of singing. They are not complicated.  Right.  Like regular people are as opposed to professional singers  are supposed to be able to sing them. The melodies are usually fairly you know simple. They resolve. There is aspects of that in the song that you just played though it is more complicated than that. But in the second part of that song which I am going to ask you play now it takes a really different turn. It is really low and rumbly. And it almost sounds like organ music for a silent film. So I am going to ask you play the second part of Chanson Pop like that middle part. And if you want to say a few words before playing it?  Sure. You know as a composer sometimes following a piece of music through to completion it is not about making it do something but about listening to where it is going to go. So I wrote this very you know melodic first section. And then for the second section it kind of led me on a harmonic adventure. I wanted to throw some dirt in there and mix it up a little bit but you know I sort of just followed the melody where it went and stuck some chords underneath it. And that is how it wound up the way it did.  OK. So this is more of Chanson Pop played in our studio by our guest Will Holshouser.   I absolutely love that.  Oh thank you.  Can you describe a little bit of what you are doing there to get those kinds of superlow notes and the dark overtones that you are getting?  I am using the standard Stradella system of the accordion which tends to have a more powerful bass sound. You know earlier I was describing there is two different kinds of Bass systems on my instrument. This one is punchier. And the base notes are arranged in octaves. So you have different registers. It can give you different options but they are always some form of the octave. So you get these giant powerful octaves.   And I would say what I am doing is just leaning on those very hard. And the chords are arranged in a pattern of minor thirds and tritones you know which sort of skips around. It is sort of  it is not really in one key it sort of moves around between three keys in that section. So that also gives it a sense of the overtones and of some kind of harmonic collision maybe.  Do you want to just do the left hand for us? And this is the hand that has the little keys not the keyboard  black and white keys  but just the little button keys.  Right. Let us see.   That sounds very organlike to me. Do you think of it that way?  Sure yeah. Yeah organs have those vast octaves also. Registers  it is the same kind of idea of registers of octaves but it is produced differently. These are reeds and not pipes but they are little reed organs too. You know it is all kind of the same family of blowing air through some little corner of a little mechanical device to  just crushing air through a small space to make some sound happen.  Well even like a clarinet and a saxophone its blowing air you know across a reed and into an instrument.  Right.  And you are the pumping the air over the reeds with your accordion.  That is true. So that means I can eat dinner before I play.   Can you really?  Yeah.  Oh well that is nice. You know it is funny mentioning that. On your album there is times when I think I hear you breathing. And it does not sound like the accordion bellows. It sounds like you breathing. And it sounds like you are about to sing which of course you are not. But do you find that you have to time your breathing according to how you are manipulating the bellows?  You know I do not do that consciously. It is kind of a habit. But because I am thinking in terms of phrases when I am  usually when I am improvising then in between phrases I will  you know and I noticed that too. When we were mixing the record like oh that is really loud can we take that out? You know sometimes it is embarrassing to hear yourself breathing like that. But you know we left some of it in because it is natural. And it is all part of the sound of someone performing on an instrument.  And it makes it sound more present in a way because it reminds you there is a person playing that instrument. It is not playing itself. If you are just joining us my guest is accordion player and composer Will Holshouser. And he has several bands he plays with and that he leads. He has a new band that he leads called Musette Explosion and they have a new album called Introducing Musette Explosion. And the album is all original and old musette. It is like a French tradition of song waltzes and dances. Let us take a short break here. And then he will play some more for us and we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. My guest is accordion player and composer Will Holshouser. His new album featuring French waltzes and dances is called Introducing Musette Explosion. He brought his accordion to our studio. You have played with many different kinds of bands over the years. And one of the kinds of bands you have played with is Klezmer bands you know playing like Jewish pop music that dates back to I do not know the early 19th century maybe? You tell me.  Yeah Eastern European Jewish music.  Right. So you are not Jewish. So it just like it is the  it is about the music to you not like personal cultural heritage or anything.  That is right.  So how did you get involved with Klezmer bands? And what do you really like about the music?  Well it is something that it was another feature of living in New York. Being a professional accordionist you end up getting calls for a dizzying array of work. And I just happened to get calls from Klezmer bands who needed an accordionist. And for  the longest association I have had with a Klezmer musician has been playing with David Krakauer for about 10 years and that was great. I learned so much from David and from Klezmer about different rhythmic ways of playing the accordion because my job in that band was almost like the rhythm guitar. But that is  for me that was one of the most exciting things about Klezmer music  is the punchy rhythmic activity.  Can you give us an example of what you mean?  Sure. .  Definitely hear what you mean.   You know it is funny because like when I was growing up there was often an accordion in the Bar Mitzvah band and then like really flashy cheesy restaurant performers. Did you grow up with any of that?  No. I heard very little accordion music as a kid.  I think probably all of that had probably disappeared by the time you were coming of age.  Yeah. I was born in 1968. So growing up in the '70s and '80s in Boston I really did not hear any accordion music. And I think yeah the era of you know  for a long time the accordion was associated with you know immigrants or ethnicity or the old world things that people in the '50s and '60s really wanted to get away from. So  and of course the wave of cool that came in with rock 'n roll and pop culture in the '60s kind of wiped away a lot of accordion music. So by the time I was a kid discovering music I  there really was not very much around. About the only place I heard the accordion as a kid in high school was on records by The Pogues. So you know...   Which is like a hiphop punk Irish band.  You are right yeah.  And I loved it. So then a few years later when my friend gave me the old accordion one of the first things that I thought of was The Pogues. And I think there is a connection between folk music and punk rock in terms of the...  Well they made that connection.  They did. They sure did. Yeah  the raw immediacy of it.  Let us close with another track from your new album Musette Explosion. And there is a song that you do on it called Douce Joie which means sweet joy. And one of the things I really like about this track is that you know the trio is made up of you on accordion Matt Munisteri on guitar and sometimes banjo and Marcus Rojas on tuba. And I do not think you associate tuba with French musette.  That is right. Yeah. It is not a part of the traditional style but...  Nor do I associate it with accordion  with any accordion style.  Right. Well it is there in  maybe in polka music you know.  OK sure.  But it is a lot louder than the accordion. But Marcus is such a master of the tuba. He can blend right in. And you know Matt and I started playing this music a long time ago back in the '90s. And we played with bass players for a while. And at a certain point you know the bass role was almost too defined. So when we thought of playing with Marcus we did not just want a tuba player. We wanted Marcus. I would been a big fan of his for a long time from Henry Threadgill records and so forth. And Marcus can play the role of bass. He can also be a horn soloist  sound kind of like a French horn. He can make a whole lot of rhythmic effects  bird sounds whale sounds. So yeah he is not just a tuba player. He is a tuba player that can bring a lot of creativity to any situation.  Well I really like the interplay of the tuba and the accordion on this.  Oh thanks.  Yeah. So let us hear it. Thank you so much for joining us and for playing for us. It is just really been terrific. I really appreciate it.  Thank you Terry my pleasure.  So this is Douce Joie from the new album Musette Explosion featuring my guest Will Holshouser on accordion.   Music from Will Holshouser's new album which is called Introducing Musette Explosion. Coming up Maureen Corrigan reviews Richard Ford's new book of interconnected short stories  the fourth book about his character Frank Bascombe. This is FRESH AIR. 