Mike It just became easier not to have sex you know? Just to keep the peace! This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot. .and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. A few months ago we got an email from a listener that Ill call Marie. Marie Im 34 years old and I havent dated anyone seriously. Ive never even been kissed before by anybody. Marie has also never had sex. Marie I do still have that fear that somebody -  Im going to tell somebody that Ive never had sex before and theyre going to walk away. You know instead of a scarlet letter A you know it would be a scarlet letter V. Not having sex ever before or just right now can feel isolating. Maybe a little embarrassing. But we suspected that Maries not alone. So a few weeks back I asked you this question Anna Why arent you having sex right now? Ooo uh. Im not having sex because men dont find me attractive. Because my bodys broken and it cant seem to be fixed. Im really terrified of men. Ive been celibate for about 14 years And the weird thing is Im okay with it. I would rather read a book than be intimate with him. We heard from people who wish they were having sex...  Im not having sex because like the old Barry Manilow song the feelings gone and I dont know how to get it back. We havent even slept in the same room in over 7 years. Ive stopped initiating kind of to wait him out and weve been in a stalemate. We also heard from people who arent having sex because they dont wanna be. I am alright with being single and sexless. I wasnt really liking the path where I was going kind of using sex and other people as a crutch. No matter what the reason sex especially when youre not having it can be so hard to talk about. I brought it up on my birthday and I started a huge fight. Its still something we dont talk about...at all...among our friends. Sarah Both of us have a significant amount of friends who are in like heterosexual relationships and it always seems like they are having way more sex. Thats Sarah. She been with her girlfriend Claire for about two and a half years. They asked that we not use their real names as did most people in this episode. Sarah I think we started out having way more sex than we do now. Claire Yeah definitely petered off.  About how many months has been your longest stretch of - of not having sex together? Sarah Two to three months I would say which was - it was quite a you know cliff dive compared to what we were doing before.  Does it feel frustrating or does it feel okay when you have stretches of no sex? Sarah Um Do you want to go first Claire? Claire I think this is where we - well and I think this is where we have differing views. And I... for me you know if Im not having sex after a certain point Im like okay well Im not having sex. Thats fine. And I think for Sarah shes more on the mindset of I want to be having more sex. Why are we not having sex? And it becomes more of a stress factor.  So Sarah what happens when youre feeling frustrated? Sarah I dont know I tend to kind of bottle everything up and just - I keep it inside and you know like metaphorically I say I put a lot of things in my backpack. And I just carry it around and it gets heavier and heavier and heavier. And then it just comes to a point where I just explode and everything comes out at once. Claire Well and I think this is definitely something that we dont know how to figure our way out of right now I mean for me when I am feeling like we dont have that communication or were arguing I dont want to have sex. I feel like disconnected from her. And for me that disconnect wins over the desire to have sex.  When youre in a moment where Claire youre not really feeling like having sex and Sarah youd really like to have sex do you - do you touch? Or does that create sort of an impasse where you dont really want to be close to each other? Sarah Um I think when I want to have sex I kind of I dont know Ill do this thing where Ill run across the room and Ill jump on top of her and like you know start kissing her and cuddling her and just like be kind of silly. And sometimes you know when I do that I dont get much of a reaction from her. Shes just like Im busy or Im thinking or Im doing something and then Im just kind of let down and just like you know roll over and go back to what I was doing before. Claire Yeah sometimes that happens. Or theres a mixed signal or a missed signal. And I think there are times when its very obvious that thats what shes going for but again its like - Sarah  Claire Well I dont know that jumping on me like a little kid does makes me feel like hot. Id prefer someone to make me feel like sexy versus silly.  Does it sometimes feel when you talk about your tensions around sex that it makes the tensions more difficult? Claire Uh I think so. Sarah I dont - I dont know. I like that we put it out there. For me sex is a - its bigger part of a relationship. And I dont know. I miss it.  You miss it. Sarah I miss it. Yeah. Cameron I dont really miss it. Cameron sent in this voice memo from St. Louis. Cameron I miss the intimacy which sex is an essential component of. But I dont miss sex removed from any of that context. I have dealt with chronic back pain issues since I was 19. Im 27 now. Sex is so physical. Its a moment when youre deeply vulnerable in your physicality and you need to be present as somebody with a body. And when youre in pain on kind of a minute to minute basis all you want to do is forget that you have a body and you cant escape that during sex. You cant escape your body during sex. Thats something that Ellen has also been thinking about lately.  Why arent you having sex right now? Ellen Um because I contracted herpes in June.  Were you in a relationship with the person that you got herpes from? Ellen No. It was a casual friendship and somebody that I had known for a short time but I mean I trusted him. Ugh fuck. If I could just go back.  Prior to that had you been pretty regularly sexually active? Ellen Like off and on. Ive had a couple boyfriends and then Ive gone through times when Ive like you know gone like 2 years without having sex. It wasnt a huge deal.  Does it feel different this time? Ellen Yeah. Yeah. It feels really different. It feels like theres like something hanging over me. Its not just like oh Im not - not having sex. If somebody comes along Im not - not really sure how to handle that situation.  Because youll have to talk about it. Ellen Oh yeah I almost cant get past like the barrier of telling somebody and having to deal with potential rejection.  Have you had any flirtations since you found out about your diagnosis? Ellen Yeah. And one in particular. We have a past history. And like hes back in my life and weve been friendly. But I cant imagine it would just be a friendship. And so theres that whole idea of like oh man what if something happened and on top of that how would I oh my god how would I deal with this? Like I keep thinking maybe he has it too so it wont have to be a big deal.   Maybe my dreams will come true and he has it too! Ellen  Ive never thought of myself as hoping someone has herpes. I dont know. I try to find the humor in things. Jihan wrote in about how her body is affecting her sex life. Shes black and lives in LA. And she says shes not having sex because men just dont seem interested in her. At least not any men that shed want to be with. Jihan I tend to attract men who fetishize black women. But when Jihan leaves the country everything changes. She first noticed it when she studied abroad. Jihan I was so not used to being approached by men that I didnt - I didnt realize that I was sort of being asked out. I remember even writing home to friends like you guys I get asked out on dates! Like when I was in the UK. Its really like a light comes on when I leave the country even if Im just going to Canada and a light sort of turns off when I come back.  It shows you its not you its the culture in your country. Jihan Yeah. It just makes me feel like I dont have to feel terrible about myself. You know I can feel like I am still the same interesting person that men wanted to date abroad. I just - I cant find the same thing here. And thats why I really love that episode of Parks and Rec where I think its a Venezuelan delegation comes to Pawnee and like all the men in the Venezuelan delegation are really interested in Donna. And she goes Im not surprised. I do very well in South America. And I was just like Yes! Yes yes yes! Finally somebody gets what Ive been talking about . Coming up Meet a man who has not one but two women in his life whose friends dont understand why hes not having sex. Mike A lot of them are still single. You know I guess that might have something to do with it. Thank you to all of you who have submitted your short story ideas for our upcoming live event with the public radio show Selected Shorts. You can check out the list of your recommendations on our website at deathsexmoney.org. It includes a short story about a sex robot that falls in love with the man who purchased her one about death deathlessness and the insatiability of desire and another about a class of schoolchildren on Venus. Again you can find the full list -- and those great short descriptions -- at deathsexmoney.org. You can also find ticket information there on our Selected Shorts event. Its Wednesday January 27th here in New York City and wed love to see you there. On the next episode actress Holland Taylor. Shes taken big career risks especially with her Tony-nominated one-woman show about former Texas Governor Ann Richards. But at 72 Holland Taylor says shes been too cautious in her love life. Holland Taylor I was always at a - at a certain safe remove I think. No matter how much I loved a person I was at some sort of a safe ground still with a foot on my own island. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Part of what can be so hard about not having sex when you want to be is figuring out how much is under your control. Like for Marie the 34 year-old virgin at the start of the episode. Marie Ive been like just forget about it. Im just going to go out and have a one night stand and just kinda get rid of my virginity. She works as a therapist where she helps her clients change the things about themselves that they can and accept what they cant change. Maries tried to do both with her virginity. Marie I think when I was much younger I had this idea that I would get a boyfriend and it would just happen. At other points in time I even thought about kind of propositioning a friend of mine. So that I can say Ive had sex with somebody Im not a virgin anymore you know its not this cross I have to bear any longer. But when I thought about it it wasnt - that wasnt who I am. Its taken me a little while to kind of get to a place where Im okay with that.  So youre hearing from clients about the most intimate details of their lives including in some cases their sex lives Marie Yep.  How has that - how has being in this position where you get to hear peoples deepest histories... how has that shaped the way you think of your own experience? Marie I listen with I think its probably a bit of fascination that other people probably would not have because it just fascinates me sometimes the way - how open people are. Theres definitely some jealousy there. Because this is a part of their life that they are many of them are fully enjoying or so theyre telling me and I dont get to enjoy that part of it at this point in my life.  Yeah. Youre curious. Marie I am. I definitely am. ---  Do you think people assume that you have a ton of sex? Mike Oh yeah. They just think everything is like threesome orgy heaven Im living in. And nobody believes me. Mike wrote in from Michigan. Mike Im in a happily married relationship that turned into a triad with our girlfriend at the time. We sleep all next to each other every night. We eat dinner together.  Unfortunately the relationship had a breakdown and sex is the - the issue that we always seem to fight over.  So its you and your wife and your girlfriend. And when you opened up your marriage and brought this other woman into your relationship was it sexual at first? Was it primarily a sexual reason? Mike Well not so much for me. You know my wife she enjoyed being with women so honestly when we started talking about it you know I - I was excited you know? The whole idea of being able to be with two women you know its supposed to be the ideal fantasy for a guy you know. While it started off that way unfortunately you know once my wife and my girlfriend - they got in an argument one time and after that they have refused to be sexual with each other. And then they became jealous of any encounters we had -- me and my wife or me and my girlfriend -- to the point where theyd get physical. Theyd fight. And like I say it just became easier not to.  How longs it been since youve had sex? Mike Well I think maybe January 21st 2014. That was the 10th anniversary of me meeting my wife. And I think there was one other night with my girlfriend.  So its been about a year and a half. Mike Yeah. Yeah. Its something we dont even bring up anymore. On my birthday I brought it up and I - I started a huge fight.  Do you miss sex? Mike Sometimes. But because weve been doing this for so long that I dont even have the desire anymore. I feel like its Pavlovian .  Huh. Mike I - Ive touched the - Ive gotten shocked so many times. I feel like conditioned.  Yeah. Have you ever thought about breaking up? Mike Its - its hard because we made a life together. I mean there are a million married couples out there right now who do - do not have sex anymore and they stay together because they have a life together. Just because theres three of us doesnt mean we dont have a life that this isnt a family. I - I - about eight months ago I broke out in shingles and neither of them had had chickenpox and they were still there with rubber gloves on rubbing the - the ointment we got on em.  Taking care of you. Yeah. Mike They do they take care of me. And - and even though they are jealous of each other they love each other. To see - to see the everyday acts of devotion I mean thats something that you know I still smile. Dont get me wrong theres sometimes you know its an issue. You know the issue comes up. But honestly I prefer to avoid - we avoid the subject. Its - its just not even something we talk about anymore. So when your sex life breaks down sometimes your communication goes with it. But other times not doing it requires A LOT of talking. Vanessa I believe that sex was created to be used to glorify God in marriage. Vanessas in her early 20s. She lives in Canada. And she and her boyfriend have been together for about a year and half. Theyre both Christians and both want to wait until marriage. But it hasnt always been easy. Vanessa We sometimes are like okay. Like we just need to step away from each other. And even like not sitting on the same couch. Like sometimes well just wave from across.  Do you find -- is one of you the enforcer more often than the other? Vanessa You know I think that in relationships you would assume that the girl is more of the enforcer. But I think that its really equal between us. And that we are both - we kind of take turns being like the bad cop in a way. Because it is a difficult thing. And when you like love someone and you want to be with them and like give to them as like a partner then its a difficult struggle because its not just like oh I dont want to have sex before Im married its that like theres something that I want to give you that I cant right now.  How did you decide what level of intimacy was okay? Vanessa Its been an - like a journey through that. Originally we talked and we had a super awkward conversation where we laid out everything basically that could be appropriate and everything that wasnt. And what I really appreciate about our relationship was that wasnt like a hard and fast rule but its been a moving conversation since then. And if we feel that something isnt working then were gonna take it out.  What is something that youve - youve thought might be okay and then realized actually we need to tighten the boundaries on this? Vanessa Um like sitting on his lap while were making out. Like thats an issue that weve gone back and forth about maybe three or four times.  Whats your current position on that? Vanessa I think currently were okay with it.  Uh huh. Vanessa But subject to change . Daphne got married when she was 28. And she also did not have sex until after she was married. But for her it wasnt for religious reasons.  How long have you been with your husband? Daphne Weve been married about five and a half years.  So when you started dating your husband when you were - when you were just beginning your relationship how did you talk about sex? Daphne Well basically we didnt.  You know we did kind of fool around. But we never progressed to intercourse. He kind of tried to one night and I just told him I wasnt ready and he never tried again. And you know time just kind of progressed.  And when did you have sex? Daphne About...five months ago.  So after about five years of marriage? Daphne Yes.  What happened between when you got married and - and when you had sex? Daphne I would say a lot of crying. A lot of fighting.  A lot of therapy. Basically I was raised with a sexual education that kind of revolved around the idea of just dont have any. I was raised with a lot of fear surrounding pregnancy like if you get pregnant and youre not married its going to ruin your life. I think part of me was worried about you know anticipation of pain. So that kind of put a big block there and even though I was in a relationship and wanted to there seemed to be a lot of kind of psychological effects and some physical effects from that that kind of made it not happen.  When - when you were married for first a year and then two years and then three years and then four years without having sex did it - did it feel like your marriage was ever in jeopardy? Daphne I definitely felt that way on my side. Ive - Ive discussed those feelings with my husband and I dont believe he experienced it in that way but for me I definitely was like if I dont - if I dont fix this soon hes going to get fed up and leave me.  What have you learned from your therapy? Daphne Oh man . What havent I learned really ? Um I think a large part of it really comes down to not just physical intimacy but real emotional intimacy with somebody. Because even when we would do kind of you know exercises from our therapist dealing with the more physical aspect the root of it all really came down to just building that sense of trust with each other that I think was finally able to lay the groundwork for it to happen.  What was sex like? Daphne It - it was it was great . My - my therapist had kind of told us you know I feel like youve built up a lot of momentum. So go home this week. Try it. Dont worry about having orgasms. Dont worry about it being mind-blowing sex. Just try insertion. And when we were in bed and I was about to try I had a very conscious moment of just fear of oh god am I really going to do this? Am I really ready? And then another side of was like hell yes youre ready! Like stop worrying and analyzing about being ready and just do it already! So I did and it was - it was fun! And I would say I was actually surprised by how not shaken I was by it. It was definitely a load off.  Has having sex made you experience desire in a more intense way? Daphne I would say yes. Yeah. Which I think sometimes takes my husband aback a little bit . Hes a little shy so I think me all of a sudden being very interested in sex and pursuing him can sometimes feel a little shocking for him maybe.  Yeah. But youre tapping into something now. Daphne Right. We kind of - we kind of had a laugh about it in those first few weeks after we finally did it. I was you know really flirting with him a lot. One night he came home and I jokingly you know pushed him against the wall and kind of melodramatically ripped his - like the top button of his shift came off and flew across the room. And he was just like whoa take it easy . You know. So then youre back on the merry-go-round of oh Im rejected. Oh no Im wasnt rejecting you I was just surprised.  Yes. Daphne Thats where the therapy kicks in. You bounce back a lot faster than we would have five years ago.  Thats the story of many many a marriage right there. Daphne Right. Thank you for sharing your stories and a special shout-out to those of you not having sex with someone else. Alvy Singer Hey do not knock masturbation! It is sex with someone I love. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Destry Sibley and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And if you like the show please leave us a review on iTunes! And Daphne says she and her husband are talking about starting a family and yes theyre having sex pretty regularly. Daphne I have a hard time seeing anything that would get in our way now. Get back to me whenever we have like a week-old newborn . Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.