  Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders and it is time for a deep dive. Today's deep dive is with someone you might recognize.    Bill Nye the Science Guy. Bill Nye the Science Guy.  Yep - Bill Nye the Science Guy. I do not know about you but he was one of my favorite teachers growing up. Now there is a new documentary out all about him and it tells us how the legend of Bill Nye came to be. It all began at a local TV station in Seattle and it grew into this worldwide phenomenon. And since then of course Bill has kind of had a second career. Now he has a show on Netflix called Bill Nye Saves The World and there is this new documentary which is called Bill Nye Science Guy. It looks at how he spends his time now campaigning for climate science but the film also examines Bill's fame and whether that is changed him. So here's Bill with me. He was in LA and I was in D.C. Enjoy.   Greetings.  Greetings. You sound just the way you sounded on TV when I was a kid watching you.  I hope that is OK.  That is great. I am sure everyone tells you that huh?  They do not always start with how I sound. But yeah that is good.  Sorry - just because I cannot see you I can just hear you.  No well it is radio the most visual medium.  That is right that is right. How are you today Mr. Nye?  Fabulous.  I do got to say it is quite an honor to be able to talk with you. You were a big part of my childhood.  I love you man.  .  No that is great.  So you are a scientist who is very comfortable in front of a camera talking to the world. You are a very good communicator. Did you know early on that you were going to be a scientist that could be really good at talking to the world?  No. I loved science and I became you know a mechanical engineer which for those of you unfamiliar means I took a lot of physics - a lot of classical physics. That is what engineering is. But it was after I was encouraged to enter the Steve Martin look-alike contest.  Stop it.  And I won. I mean I won the Seattle one. I did not win the national one.  How many people were in the Seattle competition?  Forty according to me.  I am Googling now. You all do look alike.  Well I just really admired his style and his irony.  Nice. Nice. Nice.  After that I started doing stand-up comedy. People wanted me to be Steve Martin at a party or what have you. But then you want to do your own hilarious comedy science gags and so I tried that for a while. I opened for a lot of people that you may have heard of when they were on the circuit like Jerry Seinfeld for example.  You opened for Jerry Seinfeld.  Well but this is in Seattle in a very small comedy club which is still very popular.  But you still opened for Jerry Seinfeld. That is pretty awesome.  Well I met him. You know or he met me yeah.  Yeah.  No and...  Were you good at stand-up?  No I was mediocre but I liked it. I liked being onstage and telling jokes and trying to understand what made people laugh and try to make them laugh. It was really cool and of course very gratifying when you are entertaining people.  So how do you end up from fair-to-middling stand-up comic to Bill Nye The Science Guy? What takes you there?  Well first of all a guy in Seattle who is the program director at KING-TV said I want to have a comedy show. And it is enough of a backwater where a guy could just do that - local programming you could just decide to do that. So he hired Ross Shafer who if you study game shows you may remember him. He was the host of a show called Love Me Love Me Not. And so Ross - we were in the writers' meeting. He says why do not you be Bill Nye the Science Guy or something?  But he just gave you that name.  He was just thinking out loud. And I thought oh that is a good idea. So by the end of the week I come up with the idea for the household uses of liquid nitrogen.  Whoa.  Classic science demonstration - you freeze things and smash them - great television.  Yeah.  And it was funny. So then after that you know there was an expectation to do a Science Guy demonstration every three weeks or so.  But like a funny Science Guy demonstration.  Yeah. And that was OK and then I wanted to have my own show. And so I had done a couple videos with some people who became good friends - Jim McKenna and Erren Gottlieb. And then that was very popular. It took about four years to convince anybody to give money to do a show about science and we did. And their pitch was Mr. Wizard meets Pee-Wee's Playhouse. And these would be older references for some of you but...  I get it.  That was the four-word pitch. The first one was 26 shows for syndication and then we did 39. Then eventually you have 65 shows and you can strip it as the saying goes. It can be on five days a week. And that is when PBS picked it up. So the reach is still huge and it is - it is millions.  It is.  It is tens of millions of kids of people.  You know when I think back to that show you were teaching kids about science.  Still am peoples.  Now you are in a phase where you are kind of on a different mission. You know thinking about Netflix Bill Nye Saves The World - it is - you are trying to save the world. This seems different in scope. You are on a mission to educate the world about climate change. Do you see this as a different phase of your career a different objective?  Yeah yeah I mean now I am talking to grown-ups. I mean there is not...  OK.  On the kids' show first of all we did fundamental science.  Yeah.    The pull of gravity is not so strong that we cannot raise our arms or anything but it does pull on everything all the time. So if we are standing on the Earth's surface it pulls us down towards the center of the Earth. We did not do ethics or whatever you might call it.    What is the matter Bill?   Everything. Everything is matter except energy of course. Also the key idea - a key idea everybody if you are a science educator is what I call the DIV - the discipline in vocabulary. When you are talking to fourth-graders you have to not use words that a fourth-grader would not be - have been exposed to.  That is true.  How do you feel about millennia?  Too much.  Yeah yeah that is...  Thousands of thousands of years or a very long time.  A very long time yeah - along that line also you must not - I strongly encourage people to refrain from talking down to the listener or the viewer. Talk to kids just as you would to another grown-up. And this - people responded to it. So on the new show on Saves The World we just have more complex topics that have let us say not a clear-cut scientific answer. We want to give you something to think about.  Yeah. A lot of people hear the name Bill Nye they think of the show and they wonder where have you been all these years? You have been busy but less visible than during that time.  Yes.  So for those that have not been keeping up where you been Bill?  Well after we did this we - after I - my colleagues and I did The Science Guy show - we did a hundred episodes. I did other things on the Discovery Channel. I did another show called The Eyes Of Nye. There is a couple episodes of that that are still very popular. Then I did the 100 Greatest Discoveries the 100 Greatest Inventions. I did Stuff Happens on Planet Green. And so I did a whole bunch of shows that were not watched. They were on higher channel numbers on the cable system. But now I got the Netflix show man.  Look at you.  Bill Nye Saves The World - we are back at it. Yeah and I...  Big time.  It really is big-time. I mean we have - I will just - I am estimating that we have - what? - eight times the budget per episode that The Science Guy show had.  Really?  Yeah. So we are - it is just cool. We fly people in from Australia just to be on the air for three or four minutes and...  Wow.  So it is cool. I did not expect at this point in my life to have my career you know be blowing up.  Yeah. I want to talk a bit about the topic of this documentary that is making the festival circuit right now. It is Bill Nye Science Guy. What made you want to do this at this time?  Well so my understanding - everybody understand - for me I signed a contract. I had no creative control over this documentary film about me. These guys followed me around - and one woman - followed me around for two years. And then after the recent presidential election they re-edited the whole film changed everything and emphasized my conflict with - a little bit with this guy Marc Morano.  And there is also Ken Ham.  And well Ken Ham is a climate-change denier contrarian. And that is - as I told him on camera that is the worst thing he does. I mean he - trying to teach kids that the earth is 6000 years old is bad but insisting that everybody believe that the earth is not warming is really dangerous and bad and it is mendacious. It is lying to people.   The fundamental thing we disagree on Mr. Ham is this nature of what you can prove to yourself. When people make assumptions they are making assumptions based on previous experience. They are not coming out of whole cloth. I encourage you to explain to us why we should accept your word for it that natural law changed just 4000 years ago completely and there is no record of it.  Natural law has not changed. As I talked about you know we - I said we have the laws of logic the uniformity of nature and that only makes sense within a biblical worldview anyway of a creator God who set up those laws. And that is why we can do good experimental science because we assume those laws are true and they will be true tomorrow.  So people like Ken Ham - he is very deliberately arguing against science. He is a creationist. He built that Noah's Ark theme park. Like you know exactly who he is and it is very likely that he is not going to change his mind. Why even debate him?  Oh no he is not going to change.  So then why debate him?  Oh because - oh yeah so as I tell everybody my audience was not in the auditorium in Petersburg Ky. My audience is on the internet online.  Totally.  So there is been six - almost 6 12 million views of that two-hour debate. And I believe I exposed Ken Ham for the anti-science guy that he is.  Do you think that you won that debate?  Well I would say the internet thinks - by the Internet I mean people who took the time to chime in on Twitter and Facebook comments believe I won the debate yeah.  I guess why I ask is because you know after that debate and the publicity it caused he got a bunch of money. He got a lot of donations. Like is in some way your debate with these people that will never have their minds changed on these issues of climate science - are you just magnifying their message which could have a negative effect?  Well this is the question. I - my claim is that eventually it will catch up with him because I or people have exposed his activities as flawed. And the people that I am concerned with are the kids who are being raised with this lack of understanding of science - complete misunderstanding of the scientific method.   How did God create us?  How did God create us? The Bible says he spoke and it happened because he is all-powerful because he is the infinite creator God.  So young woman I would say to you that there is a process that humans have developed over millennia by which we know nature and we call that science. The big thing in science is questioning things.  So are you telling this little girl that she is just an animal?  The word just I disagree with. She is a wonderful beautiful animal.  I believe with Ken.  Say again.  I believe with Mr. Ham.  OK so as you get older just look at the world. I really encourage you to go to college.  Then if it is the kids would you like - would it be a better use of your time to not argue with that man but to reboot Bill Nye The Science Guy for those kids?  Well this is - we did a Science Guy show about evolution and it is ok it is ok. I would - I think this has raised a lot of awareness of the importance of evolution in the way that the single episode of the kids' show - Science Guy show - did not.  OK.  Evolution is the most important idea - the fundamental idea in all of biology and all of life science. Without evolution as the saying goes biology makes no sense. And so this is a very important idea for everybody to understand.   All right it is time for a quick break. We will be back soon with the one and only Bill Nye the Science Guy. He is talking about his career and fame and this new documentary that talks all about his life. BRB.   I want to step back a little bit and you know talk about the arc of your career - you know watching this documentary. You run the organization that Carl Sagan used to run. You hang out with Neil deGrasse Tyson and drink wine with him. You are probably one of the most popular and most recognizable and famous scientists in the world.  Wow.  Do you like that? Do you like being famous?  Yeah what I want to be is influential.  OK OK.  Yeah and when people embrace science and people who watched the show - the Science Guy show - become captains of industry and make sweeping changes so that we electrify ground transportation provide clean water renewable electricity and access to the Internet to everyone on earth then I will sit on the porch in my rocking chair and think deep thoughts.  Sit on the porch in your rocking chair think deep thoughts but you will not miss the camera? You will not - I mean like you will not miss the lights?  I guess. I love being on the TV you guys. I mean I like it.   OK. That is what I am asking.  Yeah yeah I mean you....  What do you like about it?  I - you may have met actors who like acting.  There is that yeah.  Well what is it that drives humans - is storytelling. We all love to tell - I mean many of us love to listen to stories. Many of us like to tell stories and it fascinates me. I am trying to influence people. I want to get people excited about the opportunities we have to make the world better to leave the world better than we found it. When you are in love you want to tell the world people.  So the reason I ask about fame Bill is there is this scene in the documentary where you are talking with this doctor Heather Berlin and she is been actually monitoring your brain for years to keep an eye out for this genetic disease that you do not have. But you kind of say to her in this conversation that you regret not ever having a family and you say that happened because you were doing this whole TV thing.  Yeah yeah I was caught up for sure in making the show.  Do you regret that?  A little bit yeah but you know you cannot go back - second law of thermodynamics. Time - the arrow of time only goes one way. Yeah so I do regret that but you got to get over it. So here's...  How do you get over it?  Well you got to move on. So Dr. Berlin was talking about in other parts of the interview - but I guess it went on for quite a while. They have done studies where they take an MRI of your brain then you go into talk therapy for a couple years. You talk to your shrink every week for a few years and they do another magnetic resonance image and your brain has changed. So I have MRIs of my brain from the 1990s and she wants to compare those to my brain now. And my hypothesis is having been interrupted in mid-sentence for decades - now people want a selfie - it has changed my brain. I would - I would be surprised if it is not changed.  For better or for worse?  You tell me.  I mean but you know how you feel. Do you - like do you think the last 20 30 years of fame have been good for you or...  Oh yeah it is been cool. Come on.  But I am saying like on your soul.  Well I - as I say I think it does shorten your life a little.  Whoa.  Yeah.  How much?  ...Maybe not as much as smoking but a little bit.  So then do you have some regrets about fame?  Yeah yeah. But if I had to do it again this is pretty much what I would be doing.  I want to talk about another emotional scene from the documentary. You talk about members of your family having a disorder called ataxia. And so your dad had it. Your sister has it. And what does it do to the body?  Well you walk like you are drunk. You lose your balance and also motor skills - your fine motor skills are deeply affected. Like threading a needle is very difficult and people have trouble keeping a single image. You get double images. People wear prism-style glasses. So it is a...  And you do not have it.  Apparently not.  So in the documentary you kind of allude to having a sort of survivor's guilt.  Absolutely.  ...That you do not have this disorder and your family does. Does your family's experience with ataxia - has it affected the way that you view science?  Well if anything I believe in it all the more. This is not something you can will away but you can compensate for it with science and technology. So my sister wears this odd vest with these weights in it. You actually add weight to yourself and it improves your balance and the reason for it is not entirely clear. And you can do exercises to it is presumed manage the conditions but why those work is not fully understood. Do you really develop new neural pathways - secondary neural pathways? Is it just in your brain or is it in your central nervous system your spinal cord? And these sort of things are of great interest to us and great interest to a small number of researchers. And a group of them is at the Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore at Johns Hopkins. So it is all fascinating.  It is fascinating.  But I was given the impression by two separate physicians when I was in my 20s - which is some time ago everybody - that the more active you were the more different things you did the less likely you were to suffer from this ataxia. So I became very active - running bicycling Ultimate Frisbee throwing balls around juggling. And it may have had absolutely nothing to do with it. It is just - you just want to be empowered. You want to feel like you are doing something. But this condition made my dad very stubborn and this is before ADA ramps and services and parking spaces and so on. So he - the way these people deal with it - they say well I was just careless. I dropped this I fell down the stairs because I was careless.  But it is actually something.  It is actually this thing in your - the back of your brain the base of your brain your cerebellum. And so this caused conflict between my mother and father and this affects you - this - as the twig is bent.  That is right. That is right. So how long are you on this climate change mission? Is this the thing that takes you out of here? Will you be on this ship for the duration?  You mean till I die?  Well I do not want to say that word.  Well that that is a feature apparently of being a living thing.  Is that?  So - an important feature by the way.  Yeah yeah. But like will this climate change mission take you to the grave?  Unless people turn it around - then I will go off on doing something else. And the thing that I think about are - the feature of history I think about continually is my parents were both in World War II. And during World War II everybody was talking about World War II. That is all they were talking about. The music was about World War II. The style of cars then what you did with your disposable income the rationing - everything was about winning the war. If we decided to do something about climate change akin to that we would be gettin' 'er done. We would get 'er done.    Bill Bill Bill.  Bill Nye the Science Guy thank you.  Thank you.    Bill Bill Bill Bill Bill Bill Bill Bill.  Bill Nye Science Guy - that is the new documentary out on the scientistcelebrity himself. And this song you are hearing is actually a new version of the Bill Nye theme courtesy of Tyler the Creator. It is for Bill's Netflix show Bill Nye Saves The World.   All right guys back in your feed on Thanksgiving Day - we are going to have a special Thanksgiving-themed episode because Thanksgiving's my favorite holiday - like seriously favorite holiday. For that show I am going to call a few listeners up and ask them to share their Thanksgiving horror stories and we will also have two very special guests so stay tuned. That is a wrap for today. I am Sam Sanders. Talk soon.  