 Unidentified Group   Can you tell me how to get can you tell me how to get sunny day sweepin' the clouds away on my way  When Sesame Street begins its new season on Tuesday it will be 40 years to the day since the hugely influential program premiered on public television. Our TV critic David Bianculli takes a look at Tuesday's episode and its special guest first lady Michelle Obama and assesses the show is legacy.  Ms.  And Elmo you and I we are going to plant some carrot seeds. Mr.   Wow look at how tiny those seeds are. Ms.  They sure are but these little seeds are going to make some great tasting food. Mr.   Wow did I just hear right The first lady eat seeds?  Ms.  Well Big Bird. Mr.   Well I love seeds. I did not know you ate the too. Are you part bird? Ms.  No Big Bird I am not. Mr.   You sure?  Mr.   You and I are both really tall maybe we are from the same family.  That was Michelle Obama the first lady popping in on Sesame Street to hang out with Elmo Big Bird and some kids and to demonstrate one of her pet projects how to plant your own vegetable garden. Her point is that from very small seeds some delicious and wonderful things can grow. And in TV terms Sesame Street 40 years ago was one of those seeds  and it ended up feeding many generations of young viewers. On November 10th 1969 when we first heard the theme to Sesame Street public television itself was a new and largely unproven entity. There was no cable TV then no Fox by and large just three commercial networks and in each TV market a local station or two. Children's television was not very regulated and certainly by the end of the 60s was not very good. Sesame Street with its simple mandate of educating children as it entertained them changed all that. We live in such a different technological world now that one of the basic principles of Sesame Street has been quite recently overthrown. Sesame Street was available to any family no matter how poor so long as it had electricity and a TV set. Tune in and even the most disadvantaged preschooler could learn his or her ABCs and count to 10 and begin attending school without feeling left behind. Today that is no longer true. TV signals are relayed digitally and poorer families without digital converters for their TV sets no longer have access to the Sesame Street neighborhood. Those who can see Sesame Street today though will see something very different from 40 years ago or even from last year. The show is packaged in modules now like a preschool Today show and its theme song has been rearranged to sound more modern. This year in addition some of the Muppets have gone digital in an even bigger way. Abby Cadabby a young fairy in training is seen in adventures that present her not as a fleshandblood Muppet  well foamandfabric anyway  but as a computergenerated CGI cartoon. And when Elmo is at his own computer he watches Grover leading a frog hunt in an intentional approximation of a YouTube video short.  Mr.   Oh now here  here is a froggy. Unidentified Group  That is not a frog. It is a butterfly. Ms.   Butterflies have wings to fly. Frogs do not have wings to fly. Mr.   I knew that. Unidentified Person Ribbit. Ribbit. Mr.   Did you hear that? That is the sound that a frog makes. There must be a frog around here some place. Froggy. Unidentified Person Ribbit. Ribbit.  I note these changes but I am not complaining about them. Instead I am reassured by the show is many stillfamiliar elements. The 40th anniversary hour of Sesame Street still has a cameo by Kermit the Frog and lengthy sketches that adults in the room are much more likely to laugh at than kids. The show is still brought to us by letters  this one is sponsored by the letter H  and one of the key words is habitat. And after all this time Sesame Street is a habitat that continues to attract some very watchable visitors  not only Michelle Obama and Cameron Diaz who are in the opener but others down the road. Me I cannot wait for Ricky Gervais. The delivery system may be different the packaging may be different even the content and theme song may be different but Sesame Street four decades later is the same happy neighborhood it always was.  David Bianculli writes for tvworthwatching.com and teaches television and film at Rowan University. You can download Podcasts of our show at freshair.npr.org and you can follow us on Twitter at nprfreshair. 