 You know you say to somebody they are like Oh what do you do for a living? Well I am in collections. Oh you are one of those. You know um but I actually even today still feel like I was serving a really important purpose.  Which was what?  Was to recoup the funds into the economy that the banks and the lenders have let go to the wayside. The dirty little secret is that this debt that these people have - somebody has to pay for that. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. 71 million adults in the U.S. have debt in collections. When a bill or loan goes unpaid for several months the debt gets transferred to a collection agency. It shows up on your credit report. You might get collection notices in the mail. And the calls start coming.  Typically on the front of the screen you are going to be given the person's name their address um length of delinquency if they have made any payments. This is Angela. She asked us not to use her last name. She spent a lot of time looking at those screens during her years as a debt collector.  From the moment the call opens to the moment the call closes it is a negotiation. They have something that you want and they do not want to give it to you. They they do not want to pay their bill most of the time. Very seldomly are you ever going to call a consumer and have them say Oh I have been waiting for your call. I mean nobody does that. Debt collectors brought in more than 11 billion dollars last year. They also generated more consumer complaints than any other industry according to the Federal Trade Commission. These complaints are often about collectors calling over and over giving misinformation about the debt thats owed or using illegal tactics like threatening to tell your family and friends that you owe money. Angela worked inside the world of collections for 15 years. And then last year she settled a lawsuit with the FTC and the New York State Attorney General. It accused her of being part of a scheme to collect debt in unlawful and abusive ways. Angela was banned from the collections industry for life.  I am really not technically even supposed push a broom inside of your agency. I mean you it is absolutely impossible for you to feel when you are put in this situation to not feel regret about you know well if this would have never happened and that would have never happened and I would have never done this. But the thing is I like who I am and I like who I have become and the collection industry helped me get there.   Were you good at making these calls when you first started?  Oh God I was horrible. Angela started working in collections young. She grew up in Buffalo and after high school she moved out of her parents house and enrolled in a local community college. But there was no money for school from her parents so she took part time jobs in retail and at a restaurant to try to cover the cost of tuition.  And so I was finding myself getting home sometimes from this restaurant at three oclock in the morning having an eight oclock class having to stay up all night to do my homework um just to get to college in the morning and start all over and there were days upon days that I did not sleep. And it got to a point where I had to make a decision. Do I want to be out on my own get a job where I have you know can get rid of these other three jobs or am I going to continue with school? Being 17 and stupid I quit school.  How did you get your first job in in debt collections?  Um well I had met my husband by that point and we were talking about getting married and I knew it was time to really get serious um and my job was paying me at that time I think 10 dollars an hour. I knew that me and my husband were not going to be able to live the life we wanted to live. We were going to be living hand to mouth.  It did not pay enough?  No. So I actually went to the grocery store and I saw that uh you know that workplace ad that they put out. I grabbed it started looking through and and honestly as crazy as it sounds my only stipulation was I want a lot of money. So there was a couple ads that offered 12 or more dollars an hour. And I said alright I am going to go after these. I did not even know what it was. I really did not. In fact when I went into the interview I remember saying to myself as I was walking in Please God let them hire me and please God do not let me show them I do not know what they do.  Do you think they knew that you did not quite know what you were getting into?  Honestly I kind of think I faked it pretty good at the beginning. Um probably by the end she definitely knew but um they hired me and and so I had this job at this collections firm and I had no idea what my job was. Angela soon figured out that her job was to try to recoup money from credit card holders who hadnt paid their bills. Shed call them up ask them to pay. But she was having trouble getting people to actually do it.  'ecause I was so completely awestruck that people did not pay their bills. I thought this was going to be really easy. I do not even - honestly I do not even know how I kept the job the first couple of weeks.  Because - what would you do that you now think of as like amateur hour?  Oh lord. I mean so many things. But the funniest thing was that I believed everything they told me you know and and and this would be how my call would go. I would call and I would be really kind and nice and very professional and not wanting to upset anyone. Be like yeah I do not have the money. Uh you know I had this happen to me and I just do not have it. I do not know where I am going to have it. And and my answer would always be oh that is just terrible madam. I am so sorry to hear that. Okay well uh you know can I give you a call back in 30 days and see if things have changed? I mean and every call ended the same.  Uh huh.  No money on the board. I was terrible.  Was there an actual board?  In this particular company there was not a whiteboard that we wrote it on but we would call it boarding money. But yeah every call ended with no money on the board.  When did that change?  Um it changed because I had fear of getting fired. Like I felt like I was failing and I mean I had failed at a lot of things. I am not really afraid of failure but I am afraid of not giving everything I got before that failure comes. So I felt really crappy about myself. And I said you know what if you are going to do this and you are going to keep this job and you want to be the best at this you better put everything you got into it. So I literally became a student of the talk off and -  Talk off?  Yes. That is what we that is what we in collections call um the conversation with the consumer. It is a talk off. It is basically your discussion with them and getting them to pay the bill. Heavily negotiating them to do so.  Does talk off mean that you are supposed to be the last one talking like you just run run them down.  No. I gotta be honest. I do not really know where even that term came from. I never asked that question.  It sounds to me like um like standoff but with words.  Yeah. It sounds seedy. Now that I am saying it it sounds far more seedy than it is really meant.  So what what are the keys to a good talk off that you learned?  Um I think one of the most important things is you have to be able to read a person in the first 10 to 20 seconds of talking to them. You know and by reading them I mean you need to you need to figure out why what is their angle of not paying? Does this person have the ability to pay? Meaning do they actually have funds they just do not want to part with them? Um after that it is asking the right questions. You - you do not want to ask questions that are going to give you yes and no answers. You are not going to ask a question that backs you into a corner and has the debtor hang up the phone. That is not a smart negotiation. You have to shut up and listen to them talk and pick apart their story. And you have to get to that heart of the person to find out what makes them tick to get them to do something that they have not wanted to do in several years. It is very hard.  Is there a call that you can remember that was a turning point where you thought I am figuring out how to get people to pay when they do not want to pay?  Yeah it was it was the first paying call I ever had.  What was it?  This particular lady had purchased a disco ball.  A disco ball uh uh.  Um yup. A set of sheets um and a microphone stand.  Uh huh.  To me it was just kind of comical at the beginning. Um 'ecause for me it was funny what people would buy and then not pay for. Um 'ecause if you are in a financial hardship you know last thing you should be doing is buying disco ball. I think everybody could agree to that and it is no judgment. Just me I just found it funny and you know she is giving me a hard time and you know I am not paying for this and I did not like this and I did not like that and it was not good quality and she is going on and on and on about about the products and I got so enraged with this lady. It just it was one of the first and only times I have gotten real emotional. And I just could not believe the lengths of her just just this I do not know like this this ability to everybody else is the bad guy and I did the right things here. And yet her disco ball she admits is hanging in her house. And I remember saying to her listen lady we are going to get this taken care of right now or I am sending somebody over to pick it up. And I probably went overboard. Had a compliance officer had heard me say that you know it would have been frowned upon very badly for me to say that.  Frowned upon to threaten to send a man to pick up your disco ball and microphone stand?  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. For sure. Yes. And not my finest moment. But I just I wanted this job so bad and I was just so sick and tired of working these accounts and she paid me. And I realized I am going I have the tenacity I have the persuasive skills I can do this. To be clear items bought using credit cards cant be repossessed unless your credit card contract says otherwise. And threatening to come and take back items without having a right to actually do that is a violation of federal law. Angela worked at that collection agency for several more years eventually becoming a top collector there. And it showed in her paycheck. On top of her regular salary of about 50000 a year she says her monthly bonuses ranged between two and six thousand dollars.  You know I took this job because I needed more money. So the ability to bonus definitely was a huge bonus. You know I - I wanted to get the most I could possibly get at the end of the month.  Did you ever - as you are a 20-year-old woman making calls to people who are at various stages of life and the thing they have in common is they did not have the money they thought they would have to pay off the debt that they accrued um at the end of a workday after you talk to someone who may have shared with you a story about why they did not have the moneymaybe it was a death maybe it was a loss of job maybe it was uh something less sympatheticum did you ever have to like give yourself a pep talk that you were doing the right thing?  Actually no. I I I will admit I I think I was on a soapbox a little bit. I - I felt that it was my duty to get you to pay your bill. And at the end of the day I did not think it was okay for you not to pay it.  Was there like did you have different categories in your mind based on what the stories you might have heard back from the people you were calling or was it - ?  Oh yeah absolutely. I mean you know we are human first. People do not believe collectors are human but we are we are 100 percent human first. It is impossible not to have the human element come into it. Some of these stories are horrifying. Um but yeah I I I think your average consumer that you talked to um have the ability to pay the bill but for whatever reason have talked themselves out of it or have put higher priorities in place of this and its taken the back seat. Um then you have the people that um took out this card with the intention of not paying it back. Then you have a smaller portion that is your people who had the best of intentions but a devastating blow have hit their life. And those are actually the people that talk to you the most. They will stay on the phone sometimes 30 minutes without you know giving you a payment cause they really do not have it.  And what would they want you to know?  I think I think honestly I really think that these calls for these types of people are really embarrassing. I think they pick up the call because they want you to know that they are not a bad person that they are not trying to skate away from their responsibility but that they really do not have the ability to pay. And they feel scared that the creditor thinks bad of them. I have had many many consumers say to me oh my God can you please let them know that I am not trying not to pay this. You know and I do not know if they think that that slows down the train of this becoming a mark on their credit report or something like that. It certainly does not. But you know so it is impossible not to feel bad for some of these people. Just as a quick for instance I spoke to a woman one time she had cancer her son had cancer her husband had cancer. I believe it 100 percent. Um and you know literally told me that they had been so low on food that they had all three shared a can of cat food. So I did what you know my management team wouldnt have liked which is I timed her up for 30 days 45 days kept it moving made sure it was in my desk so I would only be the only person talking to her and for nine straight months I talked to that lady every month because I had to talk to her at least once and I would call her and say Hey Viera it is Angela. How you feeling? And I would just talk to her not trying to collect from her because I did not want anybody else to call her. I was essentially letting her out of the debt. I was letting the time run out.  You were making collection calls after the 2008 financial crisis started right?  Yes.  What was it like making calls during that time to try to collect money on debts when a lot of the source of suffering came from decisions that big banks had made and you are calling individual consumers who are now dealing with some of the fallout of not having enough money to pay their bills?  Well I can tell you it was the hardest time in collections ever that I had ever um experienced. Because what what essentially happened is overnight all of the debt we were working became worthless because people did not think they had to pay their their banks back anymore. You know you would call them and every call was No they went they went bankrupt. I do not have to pay this. You know they thought that that was their their get out of jail free card. They did not have to pay their debt anymore. Um and that was when the industry changed from a credit card-driven industry into more of a predatory lending industry. Which was the high interest short term loans which is payday loans.  Uh huh. And were you involved in any collecting around that kind of loaning?  Sure. Early on. Yep.  And did that feel did you feel guilty at all about that work?  No. No. I w I I do not believe I had any reason to. I mean it was still a valid loan that they took out. They knew the terms. Um I am definitely not judgmental but you have to ask yourself the question you are already in debt you are in a terrible circumstance and your best solution is to go to a cashier place that is gonna give you 300 dollars who is going to expect 500 in return and they want it in two weeks on your next paycheck. You have to ask yourself the question what were you thinking? You know?  But it is people who are desperate who may not have anywhere else to go.  I and and and you know what is funny is that I have told people before you know it is a great way to get money right now if you absolutely have to have it. You know if if it is if it is a life and death situation go get it. It is there for you. That is why it is there. And I embrace that. But I am not gonna accept your excuse of I cannot pay it and I do not have the money to pay it because you know you knew the terms you knew the terms of the loan. Coming up Angela goes into debt. And finds herself on the other end of collection calls.  And what would you like specifically what would you say? Would you say I used to do this?  No I I would not tell them till the end. But I would be like are you kidding me? Does that I mean really that is your that is your best pitch right now? Come on.  Over the past few weeks weve been collecting your stories about how race plays out in your friendships as part of a project with NPRs Code Switch podcast. And one thing were hearing about a lot is friendships between black women and white women.  I think those relationships can be especially fraught because white women are most protected women in society and black women are the least. Thats a listener named Sheena in Atlanta. She told us she had a frienda white womanwho did not handle conflict well in their friendship.  She would often play what I call the fragile white girl. She would often tell me You misunderstood what I said or I didnt mean it that way. And I would respond and say Well its not about what your intention was its about the impact. Sheena told us that friendship has since fizzled. We also heard from a listener named Chrishana who wrote in about her friend at work Sarah. I could be myself around her she wrote. But then I got engaged and didnt invite Sarah to my bachelorette. Im unsure if I felt she wouldnt mesh with my all-Black friend group if because shes a few years older she wouldnt enjoy drunken and high debauchery or if I was afraid others would feel theyd have to censor themselves and that any or all of these things would affect the group dynamics. Months later Im still unsure and Im still trying to process that. Weve heard a lot of great reflections so far but we want to hear more specific stories about the moments where race played a role in your friendships. Is there a conversation you had that youre still thinking about? Something you couldnt get through with a friend? Send us an email or record a quick voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. One other thing in last weeks episode we talked about BRCA testing and what a positive test means for your risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer. I said that testing positive for mutations of the BRCA 1 or 2 genes means you have a slightly higher risk for breast cancer. That was wrong. Your risk of developing breast cancer by age 70 is much higher as high as 85. Thanks to our listener Eleanor a genetic counselor for that correction. On the next episode comedian and Patriot Act host Hasan Minhaj. He tells me about one of the most important friendships in his life with his shows head writer Prashanth Venkataramanujam.  Its like when you go to Zara or something and you go I am going to try this hat! And they go do not you are not a fedora person do not do a fedora. You have that one friend that just says it with such raw honesty. You know they are not doing it to just like put you down. They are doing it because they just do not want you to look bad. That. He has an ability to do that. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. A decade into working in the collections industry Angela had become a mom and decided she was ready to stop making collection calls.  I went a whole string of ten years without ever taking vacation barely ever taking a day off. So um when I started having children I realized you know what my priority is them. And I wanted more time you know to be a mom. I wanted to shift my focus and I knew that I do not want to be out of the industry but I do not want to do this particular part of it anymore. So Angela started a new businessa company that would process payments that consumers made to collection agencies.  I did what any entrepreneur does and they find a need and they fill it. But the New York State Attorney General and the FTC saw what Angela was doing very differently. In 2015 they filed a lawsuit against her and a few other collections business owners in Buffalo. In court documents they said Angela was quote a crucial player in what they called a massive shakedown debt collection scheme. They alleged Angela was knowingly processing payments for collections that were done illegally. For example collectors claimed to be calling from a law firm or a DAs office. They told people theyd be put in jail if they didnt pay up. The lawsuit said the scheme collected more than 22 million dollars illegally and that Angela made money off of the operation. Angela maintains her innocence in all of this.  I very very bravely sit upon the mountain of saying I do not believe I did anything wrong here other than maybe not vet a couple clients good enough. But last year just a few days before her case was set to go to trial Angela settled. In addition to being banned from the industry she agreed to pay more than 4.4 million dollars.  I have made a lot of money in this industry. I have never made 4.4 million dollars.  So how do you make that settlement payment?  I have no idea. I do not think I am going to be able to unfortunately. And and and to be honest with you I - I do not know that I want to.  Have you made any payments on it?  Oh yeah. Because they took all all my money in the accounts. So um took my house my 68000 dollar modest house that I had owned even before I got into collections. Um so yeah they got a portion of that.  And you said I do not know if I want to um is this does this feel like a debt that you need to pay?  No. And I will tell you why. Because I only agreed to the settlement um because I kind felt like I - I had to I was pushed into it. I was out of money. I did not have the ability to pay my attorneys. Um they had just wore me down so badly.  Do you have debt now other than your settlement?  I do.  What kind of debt do you have?  Uh mostly medical. I had a few uh medical scares along the way induced by stress um where a lot of testing had to be done and racked up 20 30 thousand dollars. Um honestly do not have very good insurance through my husband's company. Um so having the last two babies caused some some medical bills. Um and I just ran out of an ability to pay them back.  Are you getting collection calls?  Sure.  What is it like to be on the other side?  Um when this first happened and I started getting them like maybe six or seven months in I was a very - I was much more cynical and angry than I am now. Um so sometimes Id just pick up the phone so I could critique them.  To you to them? Like their - their tactics?   Yeah like critique the collector. Yeah. And just kind of see if you know if they had the skills. Sometimes I would just be pompous about it 'ecause I was angry and so I was like oh you know is that the best you have really? Try me again. And there is a few times I I had a couple of people that would like try it again. I would be like no start over start over. I have nothing to do. I will help train you today. I am not gonna pay you but I will help train you.  Would you say that?  Yeah 100. Um but now now I just block the number and move on.  And as you are blocking your calls for the collections on your medical debt does it feel bad?  Yeah absolutely. I mean you know that is I - I think I would feel worse if I was the type of person to pick up the phone and give them the sad story. I just you know I I am not an excuse maker. I do not want to give excuses for things. At the at this point in time I believe I I have worked really hard to pay all my bills. It is been a few years I have been unable to make all my bills. I will eventually get them paid off and until I can there is no point in wasting their time. Angela and her family have moved away from Buffalo. Theyre renting a house where they live now. And in addition to her medical debt Angela says shes also carrying a few thousand dollars in credit card debt.  You know in that situation where you have the kids and you gotta get groceries or something like that and there is not enough money in the account I wanted the ability to do that. Nothing large. Nothing that I cannot you know squeak by and pay the minimum of 25 dollars right now on.  Have you thought back to when you were looking at those job postings and decided to call and got your first job at the collections agency have you thought back and wished youd made another call? Gone into a different industry?  I have asked myself that a lot actually. You know I - I - I do not regret it. I could only regret it if I felt guilty of something. Um the collection industry was great to me. I learned some amazing skills that I never would have had and I have a fire in my gut now to be an entrepreneur that I never would have had then. None of none of the people in my family are business owners. They are all laborers. And that is great. That is it is I mean it is super admirable but nobody in my in my immediate family had like this fire to own their own to to entrepreneur their way through life and I did not even know I had that until I got into collections. So I cannot regret it. I do not regret a minute of it. I think it was great actually.  What do you want to do for work next?  That is the million dollar question. I do not know. I um at almost 40 years old have to choose a new career path with zero college education and a resume that has a lot of gaps in it because I mean how do you explain that to a potential employer? It would be pretty difficult to do. I think most people say they are not judgmental but I think a lot of people are judgmental especially when you are trying to employ somebody and you know the first 15 minutes of an interview I think the dirty laundry coming out on the lines a little soon. And so I am kinda dabbling right now. Like I do some design work here and there. Nothing that really pays the bills on a regular basis. Um I am currently dabbling in writing a cookbook.   Oh really?  I mean it is just yeah I mean it is almost laughable. I know for the person listening it is almost laughable but I am trying to take the approach of an entrepreneurial mind and say all the best business people in this country would have already picked up and moved on and - and reinvented themselves. My only regret is that I took and still have taken much longer to lick my wounds than I should have. I need to find uh that next need that someone has and I need to fill it and I need to do it not in this industry and I am hoping the skills I gained in this industry is going to help me um be perseverant in that.  Are you having a talk off with yourself right now?  Oh I have had talk offs with myself for the last three years. Um you know it started early on where it was you know I I got out of bed in the morning because I had little kids and I needed to get out of bed. They were expecting me to be mom even though I was not feeling like momming today. But had I not had kids early on I you know I might have shut the shades and and sat in the fetal position in my bed all day. I do not know. Um and so it is a daily struggle. You know I still have to remind myself take all the excuses all your uncomfortable feelings sack em all into a hefty sack and throw them by the side of the road when you leave in the morning and when you get into your car start your car and tell yourself I can I will I am going to and I need a new strategy. Thats Angela a former debt collector. If you are getting collection calls that you think might be illegaltheyre harassing you or they include threatsfind your state consumer protection office at usa.govstate-consumer. That links also on our website. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Xandra Ellin for her help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Facebook Twitter and Instagram. And you can email us any time at deathsexmoneywnyc.org.  Do you have talk offs in parenting with your kids?  Oh yes. My son um my oldest son is uh super creative sweetest kid in the world but he is the one that you know diddle daddles around longer than the most when you when you gotta tell him three times to get up and do something. Um and I think I am constantly talking him off to a point. Come on buddy you know you gotta do it because of this and you you know I know you do not want to but you gotta push through it. And yeah I definitely think being a mom is a talk off. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.