 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. One of the films opening for Thanksgiving is Fantastic Mr. Fox which was directed and cowritten by my guest Wes Anderson. He also made the films Rushmore The Royal Tennenbaums and The Darjeeling Limited. Fantastic Mr. Fox is Anderson's first animated film. It uses miniature animal puppets and miniature sets animated through stopmotion photography to create a visually amazing world. The story is adapted from a children's book by Roald Dahl but the movie adds new characters and storylines. At the beginning of the story Mr. Fox moves his wife and son to a new home near three evil farmers. Mr. Fox has promised Mrs. Fox that he will never steal chickens again because as a father he could not risk being captured but he succumbs to his animal instincts and steals some of the farmers' chickens. After that the farmers are on the warpath against Mr. Fox and his family. Wes Anderson welcome back to FRESH AIR. Congratulations on the film. Now I never read Roald Dahl. I never read Fantastic Mr. Fox but I got a copy after seeing your film. What did the book mean to you and why did you want to adapt it into a film? Mr.  Well it was the first Roald Dahl book that I ever read as a child and I became a huge fan of Dahl and he was a big part of my childhood. For some reason this book was the one I always kept with me. Wherever I lived when I went to college I always had this book on my shelves. It is not a very  it is a slim book and it is really kind of  I think it is for young children but something about it always stuck with me. And I think the character of Mr. Fox is a very Dahl kind of figure and he is the one who rescues everybody but he is also the cause of all of their problems and his personality gets them into these problems in the first place. And I think something about that grabbed me. And at a certain point I started thinking I would like to do a stopmotion film and a stopmotion film with puppets with fur. And this really you know it was a good opportunity for that. This connected with that.  You have added a lot of adult themes to this children's story and by adult I do not mean sexual. I mean more existential.   And like Mr. and Mrs. Fox used to steal chickens but after getting trapped and nearly getting killed or losing their freedom in a cage he swears he is going to give up stealing chickens and he becomes a newspaper columnist instead. But he still has the hunger for chickens and for the adventure and he has an existential crisis. You know who is he? Is he a fox? Mr.  Yeah. I think he likes the word existentialism more than anything else.   I want to play a clip in which he decides to go back to stealing chickens again and he enlists his notverybright possum friend to be his accomplice. So this is Mr. Fox with his friend the possum Kylie.   Mr.   Who am I Kylie? Mr.   Who how what now? Mr.   Why a fox? Why not a horse or a beetle or a bald eagle? I am saying this more as like existentialism you know? Who am I and how can a fox ever be happy without a  you will forgive the expression  a chicken in its teeth? Mr.   I do not know what you are talking about but it sounds illegal. Mr.   Here put this bandit hat on. Maybe you are a medium. Take it off for a minute do not wear it around the house.  I really love that. So what does it mean to be a fox? I love the idea that these animals are  that this animal in particular is having an identity crisis about whether he should be overcoming his fox instincts or not. Mr.  Yes he is a bit obsessed with the idea of being a wild animal.  And you know the creatures in the film you know like they are all dressed as humans with like you know suits and ties and dresses but  and  you know they have like kitchens and living rooms and furniture but underneath it all I mean they are animals. So like there is this wonderful scene at the kitchen table where Mr. Fox is reading a newspaper and Mrs. Fox brings out the pancakes for the family. But once they start eating they just like   like you know like animals because that is what they are and it is so funny. Mr.  Yeah.  And there is another scene like that I want to play just to give our listeners a sense of the story. And this is a scene where Mr. Fox played by George Clooney is talking to his lawyer a badger played by Bill Murray. And the lawyer is advising him not to move into a house right near the really mean farmers who would probably like to kill a fox. So here's that scene.  Mr.   In summation I think you just got to not do it man that is all. Mr.   I understand what you are saying and your comments are valuable but I am going to ignore your advice. Mr.   The cuss you are. Mr.   The cuss am I? Are you cussing with me? Mr.   No are you cussing with me? Mr.   Do not cuss and point at me. Mr.   You are going to cuss with someone you are not going to cuss with me you little cuss.   Mr.   Just buy the tree. Mr.   Okay.  I love that the way they actually like become animals.  Mr.  Yes it kicks in.  Yeah and you use the word cuss through the movie instead of the Fword. How did you decide cuss would be your substitute? Mr.  Well I do not even remember. I think it was just to use the  to try to use the concept of profanity as a replacement for the profanity itself. It turns out to be very versatile.  Yes. You do use it very versatilely. So I just loved watching the movie because it is all done in miniatures. Like there is like miniature puppets that are moved around very slowly for the stopmotion photography which I will have you explain in a moment. But the animals in the film particularly the foxes reminded me of these old photos that I used to love as a kid  I used to see them as postcards of cats dressed as people wearing like flower dresses and suits and ties and doing things that only people do sitting at picnic tables or dining room tables and being very you know very civilized and proper. And there is just always something that fascinated me and it was all very detailed like intricate little flowers on the dresses that the you know female cat would wear. Did you know those cards? Mr.  They  it sounds familiar. I think there is a sort of diorama quality of some of this because we wanted to make  we wanted the animals and the settings to be pretty realistic given the fact that they are going to be wearing corduroy and you know that they are going to talk and stand on their hind legs. We wanted  you know we wanted eyes and fur and textures that were naturalistic.  So describe how you designed them. Like as the director and cowriter of the film did you actually create the miniature animals? Mr.  Yes. You know a movie like this  the process  I did not know what it was going to be like to make this movie when we started out. I had a  I sort of had this thought that we were going to  that I was going to make the script and work on the sets and then sort of prepare the shots and have this plan and then hand it over to a team of animators and they were going to hand me back a film a year later or something. I was going to put an order for one Fantastic Mr. Fox according to these specifications and they would send it back. That was not what happened. It ends up being the most involving kind of filmmaking that I have ever had anything to do with and very fun. But the thing you quickly realize is that everything that is going to go on camera has to be manufactured from scratch. Everything has to be designed and that means every little prop and every little moment is going to have a lot of thought go into it. And it is an opportunity but it is not going to take care of itself. Nothing's going to just be discovered like stumbling across a location.  You have to create the bodies of the animals the clothes they wear the houses they live in the street they live on the sunrise the sunset you know the ground beneath their feet. You have to create absolutely everything. Mr.  Yes it actually was quite  you know it is rare that you get the chance to say I have an idea for a cloud that I want to do. It is going to be you know  Mr.  And you know the leaves and trees and everything.  You know there is something really special and I cannot explain exactly why I find it so appealing about miniatures. I mean there is something so just fascinating about miniatures whether it is you know like miniature animals or you know miniature trains or you know the whole Mr.  I agree.  Why is that? What is so wonderful about miniatures? Mr.  Well you know I always  I used to take the train in fact I just did. I do not know I said  I did actually my girlfriend and I took the train a week and a half ago from Los Angeles to New York. When you do that you end up in Chicago for about five hours. And every time I would go across I would go to the basement of the Chicago Art Institute where they have this thing called the Thorne Collection of Miniatures  Miniature Rooms. And it is rooms throughout history in different kinds of houses and apartment buildings and they are just empty  they are rooms and there are no people there are just rooms filled with furniture that sort of demonstrates styles of different eras. And it is always jammed down there. It is filled with people. This is not a  you know this is not the new exhibition for the season. This is the thing that is been there for the last 85 years or something and people are just staring through the glass at these little rooms and they are very fascinating. And I have always felt the same way. I always want to go back and look at these tiny rooms that I am already familiar with. There is something about things being miniaturized that makes them  that gives them a special kind of charm. And I think with stopmotion it is the combination of miniature with the idea that someone is taking these  you sort of sense that someone is taking these and moving them around and bringing them to life through some sort of handmade process that is just like a sort of magic. It is like toys.  If you are just joining us my guest is Wes Anderson. We are talking about the new movie that he directed and cowrote Fantastic Mr. Fox. It is all done in miniature and in stopmotion photography. And Wes Anderson also wrote and directed Rushmore The Royal Tennenbaums and Darjeeling Limited. Let us take a short break here and then we will talk some more about Fantastic Mr. Fox. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is Wes Anderson and he directed and wrote the movies Rushmore The Royal Tennenbaums Darjeeling Limited. His new film is Fantastic Mr. Fox. It is an adaptation of the Roald Dahl children's book except this is kind of revised and it is  there is lots of adult as well as children's stuff in it and it is all done through stopmotion photography and miniature puppets. Why do not you describe how stopmotion photography works. Mr.  Sure yes. Stopmotion is  it is that technique where you  I will describe it particularly in relation to our movie. It is puppets and in our case these puppets have metal skeletons inside them. So if you move them a little bit they stay in position. So the animator moves the puppets one frame at a time and each time he moves it it is  so to complete an action he poses it many many times and takes a picture each time he reposes it and then those are played back quickly and it appears to move around. And that is really the basic technique of the whole movie this oldfashioned style of animation.  So do you need to have a little bit of OCD obsessivecompulsive disorder to work in stoptime animation because everything has to be handmade and then you have to move each puppet like a fraction of an inch for each frame that you are shooting? Mr.  Yes well it is you know the people who actually do the physical process of animating they have to be experts. They have to be very experienced and they have to be supremely talented to do this. And there are not that many people that do it. So it is a special personality type it is special talents. And you know when you prepare a shot for a stopmotion film when you prepare the shot you draw what you want you know what you want the shot to be. You have recorded the voices already and you work with the animator to make a plan of what is going to happen in time. The animator has a sheet that is prepared that shows what happens on each frame. So when you study this sheet you will see on frame 220 a character is beginning to lift his arm and pronouncing a shsound. You know it is down to the syllables. You know there is four frames where he is pronouncing sh and then he is moving to the next thing. It is the mostdetailed preparation you could possibly have for a shot and yet each animator will surprise you with how he interprets this incredibly precise plan. And that is sort of the part that you just cannot understand. Something happens you know they work in this very very gradual process but they are doing something that it just  that really is like magic. And it is not just moving the puppet around it is making it seem like it is alive.  Right and now I want you to just like describe in detail one of the puppets maybe Mr. Fox. Mr.  Okay. Mr. Fox that puppet is let us say he is maybe 13 inches tall the main puppet which the main puppet  I will explain what I mean. There are different scales. So a fullscale what we call a fullscale Mr. Fox puppet is about 13 inches tall. It has this steel or titanium skeleton that has joints in it and even joints in the fingers and many bones in the face and it has fur over it. It has eyes that move around separately and you can move them with a little pin and his costume.  Describe the costume. Mr.  The costume is a sort of rustcolored corduroy suit with a terrycloth shirt with yellow zigzags on it. And he has  you know one of the things  you know I saw one of our people making something one day. I was like what are you working on? It was  he has little stalks of wheat in his pocket like cigars or something. And this  one of our one of the people who works in the props department was making wheat. And to see somebody make tiny tiny miniature wheat is just  you know you know you are dealing with a whole other realm than you have ever experienced.  Stopmotion photography was developed I think for the movie King Kong used again in Mighty Joe Young and other adventure films. Were you a big fan of King Kong when you were growing up or when you became an adult? Mr.  Yeah I loved King Kong. You know when I grew up I think when I became aware of stopmotion was  I cannot remember the name of the guy Willis maybe is  something like Willis is the guy who did the stopmotion on King Kong and his protg was Ray Harryhausen who is sort of the most famous stopmotion guy ever. And he did a number  and the ones that I saw were the ones that are sort of Greek mythology this Seventh Voyage of Sinbad Jason and the Argonauts there is another Sinbad movie also things like the Clash of the Titans. Those movies all have a big stopmotion element to them and I really loved them as a kid. And also there were these TV  the holiday specials that the Rankin/Bass Company did the Rudolph the RedNosed Reindeer and there was one about  there is one that is sort of the story of how Santa Claus came to be. Those were ones that I  we were  my brothers and I were really taken with.  What did you love about the look of those films? Mr.  I think it is that  I think there is actually something slightly primitive about the way it is accomplished. I mean you know it is a difficult and painstaking careful thing to do stopmotion but you sense that somebody is doing this with their hands. You are a bit aware of how the illusion which is a very effective illusion but you are a bit aware of how the illusion is being created. In our movie we for instance used cotton balls to make smoke and the water is made from Saran Wrap really just manipulating Saran Wrap frame by frame. And fire is made with  you know that kind of orange translucent soap that you can  that sort of gelatintype soap? We carve it and light through it and you know and use different pieces and that is how fire is made. So they are all kind of things where if you just look at a frame you can see exactly what it is but when it moves it  you  it represents something else in a kind of wonderful way.  Now the colors in Fantastic Mr. Fox are wonderful. The palette is mostly very like autumnal particularly at the beginning. It is just kind of like glowing with yellows and golds and oranges. How did you choose the palette for the film? Mr.  Well you know for some reason  actually what happened was I went to visit Dahl's house Gipsy House it is called in Great Missenden in England and it was autumn and it was muddy. And I left the  and when I went there you know that is where he had written the book. It is also where it is set. I left there feeling like well this is the setting of the movie and also feeling like maybe it is not going to be a very colorful place. Maybe it is not rolling green hills. And then once  but the thing is with a movie like this once you  if you make a decision like that if you say well we are not going to have any green we are not even going to even have a blue sky we are going to have the skies be pink because you have so much control it really  you can  you know I mean there is literally nothing that is green. There is nothing that is blue. You know there is a character who is a kind of foreign character who comes in and he has some different things. But you know the grass is made of yellow towels essentially. So suddenly it is really  it kind of does take a jump from reality. But I think at the beginning of the movie you sort of sense that it is the same all the way through the movie but you quickly sort of adjust to it. And you know your eye just accepts this as the sort of palette of the world.  Wes Anderson will be back in the second half of the show. He directed and cowrite Fantastic Mr. Fox which opens Wednesday. Here's a funny song from the film with lyrics by Anderson and his coscreenwriter Noah Baumbach and music by Jarvis Cocker who also sings the song and plays a character in the film. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Wes Anderson. He directed and cowrote the new animated film Fantastic Mr. Fox which is adapted from the Roald Dahl children's book. It uses miniature animal puppets and miniature sets animated through stopmotion photography. The lead voices are George Clooney Meryl Streep Jason Schwartzman and Bill Murray. Anderson also directed Rushmore The Royal Tenenbaums and Darjeeling Limited. Now so many films there is a message for children that it is okay to be different. And there is a wonderful moment in the film where Mrs. Fox tells her son who has been very frustrated  she says to him I know what it is like to be different. And he says but I am not different am I?  Mr.  Right.   I thought that was really funny. Can you just like talk about that moment and Mr.  Yeah.  that character of the son. Mr.  Yes. This is the character who you know in the book there are four children or cubs I guess you know anyway four little foxes that are the offspring of the main characters. And we sort of consolidated that into one son. And we gave him a visiting cousin that he is sort of overshadowed by. And Jason Schwartzman plays that character and he is a misfit and he is somebody who  his father does not quite  he does not quite register in the father's eyes. The father is  you know he likes him but he is not particularly impressed with him. And he is got a real kind of anger and tension trying to prove himself.  When the cousin comes over  the cousin is just kind of perfect. The cousin excels in everything. He does perfect dives karate yoga. So there is this dynamic between the son who feels like he is not measuring up and the cousin who just seems like perfect. Was there a dynamic like that in your childhood? Mr.  Well it is funny I did not think you know I  when we were writing it I sort of  I was a bit inspired by something I would seen on an afterschool TV special when I was a child. But my younger brother who actually plays the visiting cousin who is called Kristofferson my younger brother told somebody who then relayed to me that he felt the relation between the brother and the cousin in the movie was based entirely on the relationship between me and our older brother who is and always was very talented. And he is very polite but he is just very accomplished and you know played piano by ear when he was five years old and always had great grades and was great at every sports. And there is this aspect of his personality  and when I heard that I thought well of course that is exactly what it is. But it never would have occurred to me if you know if Eric had not told me.  How much older is he than you? Mr.  He is 15 months.  Oh that is really close. Mr.  To be precise yeah.  So did you feel competitive with him? Mr.  I did not feel competitive. I felt inferior.  Mr.  Simply inferior.  And resigned to it? Mr.  Yes. Because the thing is he was also very protective of me. So it was not really you know there was no chance to feel competitive. It was just something you accept and you know live with. And the other thing is he did  he gave us an example which we you know tried to live up to.  And I guess you did? Mr.  Well I  he is a doctor. I have done something so different from what he does. But he  you know he is a very good writer. He was always a good writer. So yeah he did  he inspired Eric and I both because our younger brother is also a writer.  Hmm. Now there is a sport that is played in Fantastic Mr. Fox. And I think this is a sport that you made up that is not in the book. Mr.  Yeah.  And it is called Whackbat. I want to play a short scene in which the rules of the game are explained. These are like wonderful rules. And Owen Wilson who is in a lot of your movies he plays the coach. And in the scene what we are going to hear is the coach explaining the rules of Whackbat to the perfect cousin Kristofferson because he is going to put Kristofferson in as a replacement for Ash. So the coach is played by Owen Wilson who is in a lot of your films. Ash is played by Jason Schwartzman and the cousin is played by your brother Eric Anderson.  Mr.   Basically there is three grabbers three taggers five twig runners and the player at Whackbat. Center tagger lights a pine cone and chucks it over the basket and the whackbatter tries to hit the cedar stick off the cross rock. Then the twig runners dash back and forth until the pine cone burns out and the umpire calls hotbox. Finally at the end you count up however many scoredowns it adds up to and divide that by nine. Mr.   Got it.  Mr.   Go in for Ash. Substitution. Ash come out. You need a breather. Mr.   What? Come out? Why? I still feel good coach. Let me finish this eighth. Mr.   No no come on step out. Step out. Let us go. Mr.   Am I getting better coach? Mr.   Well you are sure as cuss not getting any worse. Mr.   Really? You mean you think I can end up being as good as my dad if I keep practicing? Mr.   Your dad? Your dad was probably the best Whackbat player we ever had in this school. No you do not want to have to compare yourself to that.  That is another scene from Fantastic Mr. Fox. I love the description of rules of Whackbat. And if you are not an athlete and do not follow sports closely that is how a lot of sports rules   sound to you. Mr.  Yes.  So what about you? Do you follow sports carefully or do they all sound as ridiculous as Whackbat? Mr.  Well you know I used to follow certain sports so much more carefully like the 1975 baseball season. I know every single  every detail of it. But I know absolutely nothing about it right now. And I used to follow tennis very closely. But cricket for instance is incomprehensible to me. You know we made the movie in England and trying to  and I had not really watched a cricket match before. In fact I had seen couple in India. But I have never been able to grasp the first thing about how this  how that operates. It does not really seem to make any sense but this game has especially complicated rules.  My guest is Wes Anderson. He directed and cowrote the new film Fantastic Mr. Fox. More after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Wes Anderson. We are talking about his new film Fantastic Mr. Fox which is adapted from the Roald Dahl children's book. He also wrote and directed Rushmore The Royal Tennenbaums and Darjeeling Limited. Your new film Fantastic Mr. Fox is almost like a musical in the sense that there is so much underscoring through the film and then there is some records used through the film. And so I want to talk a little about the music. Let us start with why there is so much of it in the movie. Mr.  Well you know with most animated films it is sort of wall to wall music and I did not really expect to do that. But I guess what usually happens with me is I sort of put in as much music as the movie feels like it is willing to accommodate. I like music in movies. In the case of this one I had a couple of ideas at the beginning. One was that I thought the score could have a kind of Peter and the Wolf element where we would assign certain instruments to different characters. And it ended up being that you know Mr. Fox sort of has this banjo that goes with him and the farmers have different horns and you know there is a rat that has sort of whistling in a Spanish style a kind of flamenco guitar. But the main score is written by Alexandre Desplat who sort of took a lot of different influences and ideas that we had and pulled them all together and invented his own version of all that.  The very first song that we hear though is this    Born on a mountain top in Tennessee greenest state in the land of the free. Raised in the woods so as he knew every tree killed him a bear when he was only three. Davy Davy Crockett king of the wild frontier.  So what is The Ballad of Davy Crockett from the Walt Disney TV show doing in your movie? Mr.  Well I somewhere along the way I started thinking you know often I do not really know exactly why I suddenly say  have an idea like this. And in this case I almost felt like his hat may have a relationship to our main character but  Because of the tail  because of the tail on the costume hat? Mr.  Yeah just because you know he looked like he would be wearing Mr. Fox on his head. But at a certain point I started sort of thinking that I would like to use music from children's films and children's entertainment anyway. And we ended up with  we have Davy Crockett that is at the beginning of the movie and we have three different songs that are by Burl Ives who was actually in some of the  when I referred to the RankinBass holiday specials he is involved in at least one of them. And we have music from the Disney Robin Hood. And so it sort of became the part of the whole  you know there is  we have lots of  we also have the Beach Boys and the Rolling Stones.  And I want to play some more music. When Mr. Fox goes to steal very highly alcoholic apple cider from the cellar of one of the very mean and greedy farmers he comes face to face with the cellar guard which is a psychotic crazy rat armed with a knife. You want to describe what he looks like? Mr.  He is sort of a beatnik. He is a very tall skinny  I mean stands on his hind legs rat with red eyes stripped  red and white stripped sweater which actually had to be  was knitted by hand. If you saw this rat sweater when it was sent to us finished you know this woman had been knitting for six weeks this little rat sweater. And switchblade and his movements are sort of West Side Story. We used Bob Fosse footage as a reference sometimes.   Oh that is great. So you mentioned you wanted the characters to have Peter and the Wolf type music where each have an identifying theme. I want to play the rat's theme. And this sounds to me as if Ennio Morricone was writing for Road Runner cartoons instead of brutal Westerns.   So here's the theme music composed by Alexandre Desplat the theme music for the rat.   What did you tell Alexandre Desplat the composer  am I saying his name right by the way? Mr.  Yes that is about right. Alexandre Desplat.  Okay. Desplat. Okay what did you tell him you wanted for the rat's theme? Mr.  Well I you know I had put in some Ennio Morricone music at a certain point. So that was part of our conversation. You know he is very inventive and you know he is enormously talented. He made the score for the movie Birth which is one of my favorite film scores and also the Queen. And I you know I had the greatest time with him because he just is always  he works very quickly. His ideas come very rapidly. And in the case of this piece he also does the whistling. He is a very good whistler.  Oh that is great I love that kind of whistling.  Mr.  Yeah I know.  very few people can do that. Mr.  He can do it. We also had you know we recorded it all at Abbey Road in London and he had  he has a whole you know group of musicians that he is worked with many times there. There was a guy named Paul Clarvis is his name who plays every possible kind of percussion. And he plays the Jew's Harp on that track and he just was like a virtuoso Jew's Harp player with these Mongolians Jew's Harps that he had brought in.  Are you kind of exhausted? This film Fantastic Mr. Fox must have taken so much work because it is so detailed between the puppets and stopmotion photography. Mr.  Yeah with a live action movie your day is one shot after  you have the shots that you want to get done in that day. And you do them consecutively. You finish one you move quickly on to the next one. And at the end of the day the sun goes down or something happens  you finish the number of hours whatever it is that is going to end your day. With a stopmotion film we would usually have over 20 let us say we might have 25 shots being animated simultaneously each on a different little unit. And simultaneously there are other units that are being where the sets are being built and they are being dressed and constructed. And the puppets department is preparing puppets that m