Yesi Ortiz Ive had to learn how to let go. Its not my fault. Its not my fault that shes angry at me. Its not my fault. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  Lets get back to the music L.A.! For almost ten years Yesi Ortiz has been the midday DJ at Power 106 a hip hop station in Los Angeles.  Yeah what up! Its your girl Yesi Ortiz on Power 106. One-hundred dollars in tickets to the sold-out Weeknd show!  When I am on-air I have always been very flirty very innocent could be dangerous. Yesi is a familiar voice in LA she interviews celebrities...  Jennifer Lopez! L.A. stay with me... gives away prizes  One hundred dollars! Yes a hundred dollars!  jokes around on air.  Hello! But off mic  I do not share my news here. None whatsoever.  You do not talk about your kids at work?  Meaning like my personal struggles you know? I do not. At all. When Yesi says her kids shes talking about the six children she is been raising since just before she started working at Power 106. When she was 25 years old. The kids biological mom is Yesi's sister. Before they came to live with Yesi she thought she might lose them forever.  I remember the social worker specifically telling me uh because I wanted to go visit and she said 'No I do not think it is a wise idea for you to come visit anymore because it will be harder for the kids to say goodbye to you.' I said 'What do you mean?' And they are like 'Well they are gonna be adopted. Your sister's not going to get them back.' And I just remember feeling like devastated. De-va-stated. Yesi and her older sister are three years apart. Their parents emigrated from Mexico to California Orange County where Yesi was born. She says they were some of the first Latinos in her town when she was growing up.  And it was a little challenging because I didnt really speak good English so the teachers did not really pay me attentionpay any attention to me. So there went my education. Her parents split up when she was little. She lived with her mom at first but when she was 12 she moved in with her dad and his extended family.  I slept on the living room floor and my dad slept on the living room couch. So it was you knowdid not really have my own bed growing up until like I think I was like 16 maybe.  Why did you go to live with your dad?  Um you know my mom and I never had the best relationship. She was always after my sister. My sister was a troublemaker you know. And they would physically fight. Like my mom would slap her my sister would slap her back. My dad would be like 'Do not act this way.' Like 'Okay Dad. I am not gonnaI am not gonna act like my sister. I promise.' And she didnt. While Yesis sister started having kids while she was a teenager Yesi went to community college studied to be an EMT. She got a job working at a hospital pharmacy.  Once I basically ran the entire pharmacy except for filling up the prescriptions I was like What now? Then she won an on-air contest on her favorite radio station.  Power 106. Power 106 where hip-hop lives.  I was like 'Oh my god! I just talked to my favorite radio personality and now I am you knowI am on the radio. This is exciting!' She enrolled at a vocational broadcasting school and six months in she got an on-air job in Las Vegas a weekend shift.  So I would make the commute from Long Beach to Vegas. Get my Red Bull my beef jerky and I was out.  Yeah.  And working seven days a week.  And working seven days a week yeah. After enduring that five hour commute for months she moved to Vegas full time.  I was like 'All right. This is it. I am going to start my career.'  At this point youre like 22 years old.  Yep about 22 years old.  And when did you realize that your sister was in real trouble?  It was probably like six seven months into that where I started hearing trouble about my sister. Her sister and her sisters husband both got arrested for assaulting each other Yesi says. And their kids Yesis six nieces and nephews ended up in the foster care system. Yesi felt like she had to step up.  You know my sister hadwas having kids since she was 15. She never really had a real job. She had baby after baby after baby after baby at 16- 15-years-old. So she did not really know how to go out and find a job. So what is she do? She just starts slacking on it. Next thing you know she is drinking. Next thing you know she does not have any kids there is no responsibility. She falls into drugs.  What sorts of drugs was she abusing?  She was doing meth. She was doing marijuana. Um mostly meth. Yeah. So and next thing you know shes nowhere to be found. Its like the kids are gonna be taken away. What are you doing? You have to understand that when my sister was 15 and she had her baby I was 12 and I was there at the delivery room. So if I get emotional I am sorry.  It is okay.  'ecause this is where it gets really emotional so it is really hard for me to talk about. So you have to understand that I raised the babies without birthing them you know giving birth. Angel my oldest he wanted to spend more time with me than his own mom. You know? He would come to me and he would cry 'Ta.' He would call me 'Ta' like tia. 'Ta Ta Ta.' And he would put his little hands out and he would want to come with me.  Where were you when you had that conversation with the social worker?  I was in Vegas.  And she says to you 'These kids are not coming back.'  Yeah Igosh I could notI could not accept that. Yesi started the process of becoming a foster parent. She took parenting classes moved to San Diego and eventually went to court.  I am like 'I am going to get the kids.' And then it was time for me to hit the stand and it was my time for my testimony and here I am witheach child is represented with a lawyer so they all have a public defender plus social workers have a public defender so there is seven lawyers in the office plus my lawyer. And my sister has a public defender and her husband has a public defender. And here I am doing my testimony about what am I going to do 'It is six birthdays it is six dentist appointments. It is you know what do you do for a living? How much money do you make?' I mean you are just stripped down you know. We got the hearing. The judge made the decision and he ruled in my favor. All the lawyers were like in shock. Every single one of them. And I just started crying. Yeah I started crying. My lawyer starts crying. We are all crying. All the lawyers are pissed off.  I can say that I hope. They were upset.  Did you have to testify against your sister?  Yeah yeah. I had to say she is not capable ofshe is not fit right now. She is not fit to take care of them you know. So I had to tell the truth.  What is the age range when they come to live with you?  Um Mikey was five and Angel was 12. He was about to turn 12 years old.  And three boys and three girls.  Three boys three girls.  Were you the only adult in the house?  Yeah.  How did that work?   I do not know! Um my scheduleI was doing morning show. I went into work at like 00 AM and I got off at like 00. So I was able to hire a nanny to come at my house at 00 AM and she was literally asleep until like 00 and then um she would um take the kids to school and then I would pick them up. And because I got off at 00 and I went in at 00 me and the little ones would take our naps and the older ones would be sitting up doing their homework.  Did you have enough money?  No no I was living paycheck to paycheck. Sometimes I had to borrow money. The bills were really expensive. School shopping was expensive. Shoes. I had perks because of the radio station so movie passes and stuff like that. You know wed get one bucket of popcorn and free refills so that was easy. You know wed sneak a juicebox in or whatever.  Was your sister in touch with them?  Sometimes. And it would suckit would suck big time because she would really want to come and see them and she would say 'I am gonna come and see you.' And then she would not come. And so I would have to make up a lie and I would make up an excuse. You know and so at that point I was like You know what? You are not doing this anymore. I am not going to keep telling them that you are coming down and then you are not going to visit them. You are not doing that because who is picking up the pieces of their broken hearts? Me. I am telling them it is okay. You are not. This isI am not doing thisI cannot do this to them. So I no did not let her come. Coming upwhat it was like in the hardest moments to be single young and raising a half dozen teenagers.  I felt really frustrated that nobody was like asking me if I was okay you know. It always like the minute I walked in the door it was like 'I want want want want want want want want want want.' And no one was asking me how like my day was.  A few weeks ago in our Death Sex  Money newsletter we asked readers to tell us their stories about moving which it feels like many of us are doing these days. We heard from a lot of you listeners buying their first homes moving from one state to another. And we also heard from people for whom a move has been a temporary solution to a bigger housing issue. Like for our listener Whitney who lives near Zion National Park in Utah. This year she moved back in with her parents after the rental where shed been living for seven years was turned into a nightly rental like many of the properties there. After six months all my stuff in a storage unit living out of a suitcase and no actual lead on a place of my own because there just really arent any its getting really depressing. Im starting to feel like this beautiful place Ive been making my home for the past decade just doesnt want me anymore. Were curious to hear more stories from you about housing situations that are temporary. If youre living somewhere that you know you wont be for long what landed you there? Where do you hope to live next? What would enable you to find a more permanent home? Tell us about it. Send a voice memo to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Were working on an upcoming series with BuzzFeed News all about housing and these stories might be a part of that project. Again our email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And if you want to sign up for our newsletter -- which you REALLY should -- you can do that at deathsexmoney.org. On the next episode  What I am trying to do is normalize being a hot mess. Actor and hot mess Alan Cumming on monogamy and freedom aging body image and the joys of taking ecstasy.  Youre sort of breathless almost and it is a bit like having a panic attack. And then then then it kind of changes into this really euphoric sensual glow. So what I really liked about it was the beginning part mirrored what I was experiencing quite a lot in my life at that time which was being sort of a bit short of breath and panicky and anxious. But then it forced me to sort of go over the edge into total relaxation and joy and release and that I could not do in real life.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When Yesi Ortizs six nieces and nephews moved in with her they were all living in San Diego. Soon after Yesi landed her dream jobto be the midday DJ at LAs Power 106. But life at home didnt get easier.  Man I cannot tell you how many stories we have had good and bad. Cause you know a lot of the kids have a lot of issues abandonment issues anxiety depression and I have had them all in counseling.  And you have to come to work and be this warm inviting upbeat presence on the air.  Yes.  No matter what is going on.  No matter what. Leave it at the door.  Was that ever hard?  Yeah yeah. Yeah absolutely it was definitely hard. Uh there were moments where I would get a phone call and it is like 'Your son did this today or blah blah blah or this is happening at the house. And really I had to take a few deep breaths and um wipe the tears away and just turn on the microphone and do your job. It was hard for sure but I love what I do. Like I love music. That was my escape you know?  The champagne is already poppin LA! We having a party here power106.com and check out the full live stream.  Were there moments where you felt really resentful that this had to be on you?  I was not resentful about that it had to be on me. It was resentful that it has happening to them. Because they were the innocent ones. I was just caught in the crossfire of thethe emotions. They were the ones being hurt. So I was more resentment for them. Not because this was happening to me. It was like This is happening to them and how do you not see that? How the mother of thethe woman that gave birth to them how do you not see that? And it would get me really angry really upset and really mad. And then there was times where you know they would act up like my 20-year-old who isher and I are so close. She ran away when she was 14 I found her at the friend's house and you know she would be like 'You are not my mom.' And thisI am like 'You are right I am not your mom. I do not want to be your mom because the definition of your mother is not here. She is not here. She is not present. She is not going with you to your parent conferences. She is not here loving you protecting you giving you a place to stay. So no youre right I am not your mom and I do not want to be your mom. I am your parent' you know? And it was those moments where it would hurt. That would hurt. You know I have had definitely my mistakes as a parent but I am very okay with um saying I messed up. 'I am sorry I messed up. I amIm your parent and I am sorry I was not there as much as I could have been there for you.'  Were you out working or out...  Yeah I was out working networking you know I had to make those sacrifices. I would not miss a parent-teacher conference. I would not miss a back-to-school night. And I would not miss a Little League game. But I would miss dinner at home. Or I would miss coming home and checking up to see if you did your homework because there was something else. So I had to really - everyday was a game of chessof what was what I needed to do whatwhere I could go and what I should do what was the priority.  Describe for me what is your dating life been like?  It is been a rollercoaster! It is been such a rollercoaster of dating. It is been one of those things where it is like you know you meet a great guy and then he turns out to be a douchebag and then you meet another great guy and he does not care that you have so many kidsit is admirablebut you know he is not ready for a relationship. So my firstone of my first dates with the kids was actually on my front porch. So it was on my front porch. I was like Were not going anywhere and youre not coming inside the house.  Whywhy could not he come in the house?  'ecause I did not want the kids to hear a man's voice in the house. I did not want them to feel like 'Oh my aunt is leaving us now too.' You know? And recently just recently you knowyou know the moment where you are just like 'That is it. Every man looks like my ex-boyfriend. I am not dating anybody. You look like my ex-boyfriend. You remind me of my ex-boyfriend. I am not even touching you. I am not even talking to you.' When I went through that Boom! Here comes this amazing guy and  He does not look like your ex-boyfriend.  Does not look like my ex-boyfriend. And you know we have just started recently dating exclusively now so it is kind of freaking awesome. Yeah. And we joke because he is got a PhD in psychology and I am like 'Oh this is why it works 'ecause you get - you - this is why it works. I needed a mental health physician to date someone like me. This is why it works. So.  How does that work having a serious boyfriend...  Mmhm.  When you have the kids still at home?  You know luckily for me the kids actually do not mind this one.  Are you able to spend the night at his place?  No uh-uh. No I would not do that. Even if Ino. I do not feel comfortable leaving the house when the kids areand they are teenagers right? So yeah no. Uh-uh.  Does he stay over?  Yeah he stays over. Yeah he stays over and um you know it isit is a different relationship for me because he is inhe is open about his sexuality and he is a virgin. Very religious. So it is a new type of relationship with me. So there is nothing that he wants from me. I have dated those men that wanted something from me and they were the only reasons why they dated me 'ecause they wanted 'Oh here's the girl who loves to help people.' You know?  How did your boyfriend tell you he was a virgin?  Uh when we first started dating. We were in the car you know we were talking aboutwe were already very open about both our pasts and our family and stuff like that. He was like 'Look I really really like you. Like really like you.' And I said 'Oh well I like you too you know.' He is like 'Before we go any further' he is like he is like 'I am not in this to date just to date.' He is like 'I really like you in hopes of having a relationship someday and I really hope of you know being married one day and I really really like you. I feel I have to tell you this now. And I am like 'Tell me what? You know? What is going on? And he was like 'Um I have never you know had full sex with a woman.' I am like 'Wait what?' And he was like 'I have never you know fully penetrated.' And I was like 'Oh. And I sat back and I was like I had just freshlylike I had like a few months prior to that broken up with my ex-boyfriend and I was soso I was still in my heart like I do not even wanna have that right now soand I asked him questions and Im like 'Do you have fun? Like what is oral to you? What is this that and the third?' And we had a conversation about it and um he was very open very honest which I totally respect and you know I was honest with him as well. And I was like You know I thinkI think intimacy is a very important part of a relationship however right now I am so not wanting to be intimate with anybody. And its worked out you know so far.  Are you religious?  I was very religious and then somewhere I lost my faith and then I found it again and I am coming back to it.  Are you Catholic?  Yeah I grew up Catholic and then I went Christian and then I failed and thenI think meeting him was for a reason.  You said you 'failed' as a Christian?  Yeah I think I failed.  What is that mean?  To me I think that just means II started feeling a lot of hate in my heart for my sister and hate towards my mom and I was really angry. I was really mad. And um I just felt They do not care. You know? Nobody cared whatI was like 'What about me?' And I became very like this selfish person I felt. Like I felt that nobody was like asking me if I was okay.  How did that passage end and how did you let go of that?  I went back to church. I went back to church and I was just like 'It is okay. I gotta let go and I gotta let God. It is okay.' I startedI worried so much. And I still sometimes worry but I had worried so much and I just realized 'Yesi you cannot control other people's emotions. It is only how you are going to react. Right? We have all heard that. It is easier said than done. It is easier to say it than practice that. And it was a lot of practicing that I had to do.  Do you think you will have kids of your own biological kids?  Um I will never be a single parent again. If that means me not having any children then that is what that means. But I will never be a single parent again. I do notthat is the hardest job in the world is to be a single parent.  One more question about your on-air persona. There is a part of your on air personality that is flirty...  The last time you and I got to see each other we were supposed to have a baby. 50  Yeah.  It seems at odds with the very family-focused life that you have described.   Right?  So how do you - how do you think of those two things fitting together?  I think it is a Yesi Ortiz that is always been there. You know I grew up as a tomboy so I was never looked at as the woman to be threatened by and um I was never really a woman towherewherewhere men felt physically like drawn to you know. So I had to find like ways to communicate and I have always been very social and flirty like that you know. I feelso thats like a Yesi Ortiz pre-children and it kind of stayed that way which is awesome. And then I have to go home and someone's hungry. 'You did not make dinner this week!' Ugh god okay. Thats Yesi Ortiz. This conversation took place back in 2015 and since then a lot has happened in Yesis life. Her six kids are all adults now the youngest is 21. She got a new job at another LA radio station 97.1 Now. And she also got married. To the same man she was just starting to date when we first talked.  We never stopped talking ever since you know what was really easy with him was I laid it all on the table. I said This is who I am. You know I want I know I want to settle down and have a long-term relationship. And if it leads to marriage that is what I want. And he was like I am game. Those are the things that I want too! So um he proposed to me um back in 2019 and we were supposed to get married in 2022 but the pandemic hit and he started - we did not live with each other. So the pandemic hit. We decided to quarantine together. And as we were quarantined I am like why are we waiting to get married? Everyone's going to get married in 2022. We might not even get a shot until 2023. And he was like you are right. Let us get married.  Wait so nearly everyone else delayed getting married during the pandemic to have big weddings. And you are like let us speed this up.  Yeah!  And why why did you get engaged in 2019 and think let us let us wait three years. Why were you planning to get married in 2022?  Honestly I thought maybe because you know it would give us enough time to be engaged. You know just enjoy the engagement part of it. And truthfully um if I am really thinking about it it was moreso like I was nervous and scared that my drama and my family and my whole life might have not been as settled as where I would like it to be. I wanted to make sure that we were good moving forward.  Well let us talk about your family. We we have talked since that first interview for our episode. Um when I was reporting my book you you shared some stories for the chapter I wrote about family um about what your experience was as each of your children turned 18 and became adults. Um and do you remember what you told me you wished you would said more especially with your oldest when talking about hard things?  Yeah. I wish I would have spoken more. I wish I would have listened more. I wish I would have just sat there and just say like let us just sit here and talk more you know just I will listen you you talk.  That is what I remember. The transition of feeling like you wanted to tell them what what they ought to be doing to finding space to listen. And how hard that can be when you are raising this person who you love and you want to help them make good choices.  Yeah it is very hard to not and very difficult to not want to tell them what to do. And instead how to encourage them to help them find their own answers and find the right choices to make with my advice. So you know I grew up obviously a Mexican-American Latina household. So like there is always kind of like matriarch in the family and they kind of tell you what to do and then you listen you know? So at least for me that is how it was in my household. And a lot of my cousins all experienced the same thing. Like oh if this person is saying you have to do it. But so I realized that that necessarily does not work as well anymore as modern day kids you know they grow up different centuries different years. We are living in different time we are living in. So being able to understand what mental health is has really helped me understand that listening and um someone else and validation validating what they are feeling and what they are going through was something that I did not get to do a lot with them. And I wished that I did.  What are your Thanksgiving plans?  I am actually getting to host Thanksgiving for the first time with my husband's mom my mother-in-law and her partner.  What are you going to be cooking?  Um so I am actually going to be buying.  I am actually gonna be buying. That has not changed Anna that has not changed. I am still not the best cook. Um so I am going to be buying a lot of the stuff. Microwave will be warming all the things. And oven. Death Sex  Money is a listener supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Katie Bishop. The rest of our team includes Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Sarah Dealy. Special thanks to Destry Sibley and James Ramsey for their help with this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram annasalepics P-I-C-S and the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Thank you to Christin Rice in San Francisco California who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Christin and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. When I talked with Yesi back in 2015 three of her six kids were out of the house. And Yesi told me it felt oddly quiet without them.  This year is the first time I have had mymy own bedroom.  Wow.  Yeah. Yeah.  What have you done in your bedroom by yourself?  You know I had that isit is crazy 'ecause I do not even know how to decorate. I do not know! I do not know what I like you know. I do not know if I like incense or candles or Febreze! Like I do not know! Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.