 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. We are going to think big today  really big infinity big  the universe. My guest astrophysicist Saul Perlmutter was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics last month. He shares it with two other physicists from a competing team which discovered the same thing his team did. Perlmutter's team found that the universe was expanding at an accelerating rate which is pretty much the opposite of what he would set out to prove. The fact that the rate of expansion is accelerating not slowing has huge implications for what we think of as the empty space in the universe and its ability to somehow work against gravity. To conduct its work Perlmutter's team used the largest telescopes in the world to track supernova. Perlmutter heads the Supernova Cosmology project at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in the University of California at Berkeley. He is a professor of physics at the university. Saul Perlmutter congratulations on the Nobel and welcome to FRESH AIR.  Thank you.  So when you started your research you expected to find that the universe was still expanding but the rate at which it was expanding was slowing down. What you found was the opposite that the rate at which the universe is expanding is actually speeding up. How surprised were you when you found out that the results were contradicting your expectations?  When we began the project it was  it seemed like a very exciting project and very straightforward that we would just measure how much the universe was slowing down. Because all the gravity of all the stuff in the universe would tend to attract each other and the universe would tend to slow in its expansion. So when we started getting results that showed that it was not slowing and certainly not slowing enough to come to a halt  in fact it was not slowing at all it was speeding up  it was really a pretty big shock. At the time when you first get those results it does not worry you too much for a very interesting reason. Which is that you are putting together a big chain of analysis with lots of little steps that you have to finish and calibrate. And you put it all together and you look at the very first results and they look a little funny but you do not take it very seriously because you know that you have not yet finished doing the calibration. The more we did the calibration the more the results did not go away. And that was when things started getting interesting.  So OK. So you found the universe is expanding at an increasingly fast rate. Why is that so remarkable?  Well we all assumed that gravity was going to be the main player in the expansion of the universe and that all the stuff in the universe would tend to attract each other and that would slow this expansion down. It would be a little bit like throwing an apple up in the air and you expect that it will get pulled back down to Earth by gravity. What we were seeing was a little bit like throwing the apple up in the air and it blasting off into space. And clearly there is something else going on here that was not part of our standard physics. And physics has been doing very well at predicting these kinds of things. Here we have suddenly found something that it was just getting wrong.  So does this finding challenge the law of gravity?  There are a couple of ways that people are trying out to explain what is going on. Why is it that the universe is expanding faster and faster? Some of them involve considering a new energy that could be spread throughout all of space. And we are calling it dark energy for the moment as a placeholder just because we do not yet know what its properties are. If that is the explanation then most of the universe is actually made up of this dark energy that we have never previously studied. It is also possible on that Einstein's Theory of General Relativity which our fundamental theory of gravity may need a little bit of a modification a little bit of a tweak when you use it to describe things on the huge scale of the universe. That would be remarkable because Einstein's theory is so successful down to you know many digits of precision that it is  the odds that you can get another theory that you would slight modify and it it is just as good would be amazing.  So you are one of the people who discovered that there might be a force an energy that we never knew about before.  That is right. So one of the explanations for what is going on is this energy that is spread throughout all of space and this is saying that we have not really studied previously it was not part of our accounting of all the forces and particles in the universe up till now and that is amazing 'ecause we have been  we have a remarkably complete picture in many ways. And yet it could be that we are not accounting for something that is almost threequarters of the universe  its energy and mass is made up of this.  So when you say it is threequarters of the universe is it the space between planets and galaxies?  This dark energy if that turns out to be the right explanation is thought to be an energy that is associated with all of empty space. Any space at all in the universe would have some of this energy that is basically making space want to reproduce itself faster and faster that is making you know our universe expand at an accelerated rate.  So it is just kind of amazing to me...   ...that there is this force out there that like no one ever knew about and you helped discover it. And I am trying to kind of fathom like what it is. But why should I be able to do it? I mean I have seen dark energy described as the most important problem facing 21st century physics so why I should understand it?   Right. I have been saying to people that if you are puzzled by what dark energy is you are in good company. That it is at this point oh I think there is been a paper almost  averaging almost every day for the past 12 years with theorists of physics trying out different ideas for what could be the explanation. And if you ask almost any of them do you stand behind your theory is this the answer I think they would almost every one say that no no no I am just trying to expand the range of possibilities. We really do not know what is going on. And in fact if anything the theorists start turning back to us the observation list the experimental list and saying you have got to give us a little more of a clue of some of the properties of this phenomenon so that we can home in on some real  on a real likely answer.  Is it possible that dark energy is a force that is in opposition to gravity?  Dark energy in our current picture is not exactly a force. So it is not you know like an antigravity per se. It  in its effect on how the universe expands it happens to work in the opposite direction from gravity. But forces tend to operate between objects. You know so two masses fill gravity with each other. This dark energy it does not really care about the objects. It is in some sense a property of space itself and space itself wants to reproduce faster and faster.  So how does this relate to the Big Bang Theory of the creation of the universe?  It is remarkable how much we have been able to figure out about the expansion of the universe about the origin of the elements. And we you know we wrap it all up together in the term the Big Bang Theory. And  but of course it includes many things that now we think we understand how they came to look the way they do today. This particular part of the story is one which it does not change the explanations for the things that we have already seen but it puts a new twist on it. It allows there to be now an extra element of the picture that we have to also explain. It may relate to the very first fraction of a second where the universe was thought to undergo a very rapid acceleration before it started slowing down in the first half of its lifetime. And then now apparently in the last half of its you know 14 billion years of history it is been starting to speed up again. And some are asking is there any connection between those two periods in which it accelerated. But at the moment we do not know.  So it does not challenge the Big Bang Theory. It just adds another question mark to it.  Exactly. So at this point most of the elements of the Big Bang Theory seem to still hold very well. But the fact that you have a new wrinkle in the story always gives you a new chance to rethink and people are busy rethinking. So we think that this could be a whole new element of our fundamental theories of particles and forces and it could be a whole new element of our theory of cosmology how the universe formed and how and why it looks the way it does. But whatever we used to explain those this new element has to work and preserve everything we have already understood so that we do not lose our theory of cosmology and our theory of physics while we try to understand this. It has to add to this in some sense.  Let us hope.   That it does not contradict everything we thought we knew. Do you worry about that?  Well...  All the things we know about physics are going to start to fall apart because of your discovery?  There is a great New Yorker cartoon which have somebody watching the television and the newscasters is saying things like Today scientists announced that everything we thought we knew about the world was wrongedywrongwrong.   And so do you worry about that?  Well I mean from our point of view the most fun thing the most exciting thing would be if we discovered that something really fundamental in our understanding was just off and that now we have a chance to revisit it. And for us you know for the scientists for the physicists you know that would be our favorite thing  if we got a whole new crack at the problem and a new way of understanding it. So far so much of what they understand fits so well together and dovetails so perfectly that it is hard to believe that everything just falls apart. In fact in the history of physics it seems that whenever we get a completely new understanding like Einstein's theory of relativity it somehow subsumes the previous understanding like Newton's theory of gravity and it keeps all the explanations still good that you had before but now it adds an extra level of sophistication to the understanding.  If you are just joining us my guest is Saul Perlmutter and he shares this year's Nobel Prize in science for the discovery of the accelerating expansion of the universe and he heads the Supernova Cosmology Project at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and the University of California at Berkeley. Let us take a break here then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is Saul Perlmutter who shares this year's Nobel Prize in science for discovering that the universe is expanding at an accelerating rate and this also postulates the existence of dark energy which could help explain why the universe is expanding at an increasing  accelerating rate. He heads the Supernova Cosmology Project at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in the University of California at Berkeley. So to calculate that the universe is expanding at an accelerating rate you had to figure out like how do you measure that? So you measured that by measuring the brightness of supernovas. So before we go any further...   ...could you tell us what supernova are?  At the end of a star's life when it is used up most of its fuel it can die away as a quiet ember and never bother anybody. This would be a star you know around the mass of our sun would do that. But many such stars will have other stars orbiting around them relatively nearby. And those stars can add little bits of mass and little bits mass to this dying ember until there is just a critical mass and at that point there is away from a nuclear explosion. So there is at least some kinds of supernova that appear to be triggered explosions and they seem to reach the same brightness and then fade away every time. So they bright and a couple of weeks and then they fade away in a few months. But you catch them just before they peak and you measure how bright they were at peak you will pretty much know that they are all about the same.  OK. You are leaving out I think the fact that these nucleartype explosions of the stars happened like five billion years ago.  Yes. So that explosion you know occurs you know in some distant star in some distant galaxy and then there is a  this little you know fireworks of light. But it takes then long time for that light to travel across the universe from their galaxy to our galaxy and to find us at our telescope and for us to see that little pulse of light that arrives. And you know we have examples now of supernova where we see a little bit of history a little bit of what happened out that distant galaxy when that of pulse of light arrives to us oh you know two billion years later five billion years later. And so we now know about a month of history from five billion  in fact our furthest one is almost 10 billion years back.  So without getting too mathematical on us...   ...like how does observing the brightness of supernova that exploded five billion years ago help you determine the rate at which the universe is accelerating?  The fun thing about this particular measurement is that it is one of the most direct simple measurements that I know about that gets at something really fundamental. And so it is kind of fun just to tell the story. We use the fact that these particular kinds of supernova that we can recognize they are called type 1As all reached about the same brightness by measuring how bright they appear to us. So here on Earth we just measure how bright it appears and since you know that they were all intrinsically the same brightness now you know all the relative distances between these supernovas. So the brighter ones are closer and you know how much closer than the fainter ones which are further. The one other element to that story is that if you know how far away something is you also know how long ago the light left that object. So the supernova exploded maybe five billion years ago and the light's been traveling to us but we know the speed of light. So we know by just the brightness of the supernova how far away it is and hence how far back in time that particular explosion occurred. If you find a series of supernova you know one that is you know this brightness one that is fainter by that amount the other ones even more faint you now have a few marker points in history. You have one let us say that was tells you about what the universe looked like two billion years ago one that tells you about what the universe looked like four billion years ago and maybe one that tells you how much the universe looked like seven billion years ago and that is the beginning of our measurement.  I guess I still do not understand on how that tells you the rate of acceleration.  Ah so that is not the whole measurement.   OK.  OK. So now we have a marker at several different times in history. What we want to know is how much has the universe has expanded since each of those times and that will tell us the history of the expansion. And what we do is just look at the colors of the light that comes from the supernova. If you looked at the supernova you know up close and then if you did not die it would look blue mostly and that is a short wavelength of light. And as the universe expands everything that is in it that is not nailed down expands just with the universe and that includes the very photons of light that are traveling to us from the distant supernova. So they get stretched out just like the whole universe gets stretched out and what used to look blue and with a short wavelength by the time it reaches us it looks a lot redder with a longer wavelength. And we can just read off how much the universe has stretched by how much this wavelength has stretched and how red the light has gotten.  OK. I am going to pretend like I can really comprehend that.   So it is just like so avantgarde. Do you know I mean? Like it is...  No. What is odd about this whole game is that you have to get used to having your mind boggled left and right.  Yeah.  Right.  Yeah.   So you know even you know as soon as you just talk about a universe at all your mind boggles because you know you have to start asking questions like you know what is an infinite universe? And that is just mindboggling. The picture then goes on and on with galaxy after galaxy forever and then you say but what is the alternative? That would be even more mindboggling; how could it not be like that? So you begin having your mind boggled and then you start throwing in extra ideas like you know light traveling through universe that is actually growing where all the distances are getting bigger and of course it is just a bad place to start unless you enjoy having your mind boggled. And I sometimes think that the people who go into this field are the people who really love having your mind boggled a little bit at least once a day when they are working on something that seems very prosaic otherwise.  Well here's one thing that boggles my mind If the universe is infinite then how can it be expanding because it is already infinite?  Well exactly. And I think the very term the Big Bang is getting in the way for most people here because whenever you hear the term Big Bang I think everybody immediately imagines that the universe is sort of this explosion of stuff out into empty space.  Yes.   But then the empty space is the universe right so that does not make any sense. So what I have been trying to trying out is there a different way of describing it and to see whether it helps. What I have been saying is just talk about today. Right at the moment as far as we know the universe could be infinite. It is likely to be infinite. And you have galaxy after galaxy after galaxy as far as you want in any direction and the only thing that is characteristic of it is that maybe there is an average distance between those galaxies. And when we say that the universe is expanding all we really mean is that we are just pumping a little bit of extra space between all those galaxies. So every distance is getting a little bit bigger. It is infinite now. It will be infinite you know in the future. There is an infinite number of galaxies now. There is infinite number of galaxies now. There is infinite number of galaxies in the future. The only difference is how dense is it how crowded is the whole thing. Do you pump more space in between those galaxies? Or are they you know are they on top of each other?  Wow. OK.  So when you go backwards in time you know when you go backwards in time in a picture like that now you have you know a universe where you are sucking space out between galaxies it is still infinite and if you go far enough back they are all those galaxies are you know essentially on top of each other and all the stuff in the universe is essentially on top of each other but it still could be infinite. And in some sense all we mean by Big Bang is going back far enough where things were so dense that we cannot actually do the calculations anymore because our physics is not you know does not really work well. That is not a very dramatic Big Bang. I mean I think we could call it like the big soup. But in some sense I think that is a better picture to have in your mind when we say in expanded universe than this incorrect idea of some stuff exploding into you know this space that cannot be there.  So sum up for us how you use the supernova to measure the rate of expansion of the universe.  So putting this simple story together then we use the brightness of the supernova to tell us how far away it is and hence how far back in time that particular explosion occurred. We use its color and its spectrum to tell us how much the universe has stretched making the color of the supernova look redder since the time of that explosion. And then the only other thing we need to do is find a reasonable sample of supernova each with different brightness representing different times back in history so that we can make a little plot of how much has the universe stretched since you know eight billion years ago seven billion years ago five billion years ago three billion years ago and that is the plot on which we hope to see how much the universe was slowing down in its expansion.  Saul Perlmutter shares this year's Nobel Prize in physics. He will be back in the second half of the show. He heads the Supernova Cosmology Project at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in the University of California at Berkeley. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with astrophysicist Saul Perlmutter. He shares this year's Nobel Prize in physics for the discovery that the universe is expanding at an accelerating rate. Perlmutter had expected to calculate the rate at which the expansion of the universe was slowing as a result of gravity. So this discovery of acceleration raises a lot of questions about existing theories of particles and forces. Calculating the rate of expansion of the universe required using the most powerful telescopes in the world to track supernova ancient stars that exploded like five billion years ago and measure their brightness which you need to know to figure out the distance between stars at different points of time. Perlmutter heads the Supernova Cosmology Project at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in the University of California at Berkeley. Let us get back to supernova. So you are using the supernova which are these exploding stars stars that exploded billions of years ago and you are studying their distance through analyzing the light that emanated from them. And you describe in something that you wrote you say that supernova type 1A which is the type that you study that they are a pain in the neck and to be avoided at all costs that anything else would do.   Yeah.  In what sense are supernova a pain in the neck?  Well you know they are wonderful for certain purposes. You know the fact that they are so bright means you can see them you know across the vast distances of the universe and then that means you are getting to look way back in time which is what we want to do because we want to see how much the universe has been slowing down. That is all great. But the problem is that they are you know in all other respects they are a real pain in the neck. They only explode a few times per millennium in any given galaxy and you know how long do you want to wait around to do your research project? They do not give you any advance warning at all when they are going to explode so you know what we need to do is we need to use the largest telescopes in the world. You have to apply for them months and months in advance and you might get one or two nights. And you know it makes a terrible proposal to say you know I would like to use the you know Tech Telescope on the night of March the 3rd because some time in the next you know few hundred years a supernova might explode.   And you know of course they...  Out of all things.  You know and they do not last long. They disappear in a couple of weeks and you have to catch them on their way up. So that is the sense in which you you know when we started the project it seemed a little bit quixotic. So what we had to do is we had to figure out ways to turn what would otherwise be a you know a very you know awkward project into something that you could make very practical and reliable. And what it meant was essentially you had to come up with technologies we developed some new cameras that would allow you to observe many many galaxies all at one time on a very large telescope so that now you had a reasonably good shot that on a you know a couple of nights of observation there would be at least a few supernovas that would be exploding. And then we had to figure out some ways to time things so that you know we would guarantee that when we caught them we would only catch the ones that were on their way up by comparing it to images that we would just taken a few weeks earlier so it did not give the supernova enough time to reach their peak and then start to fade. And once we had figured out how to do that which you know in retrospect you know it almost seems obvious we then were able to start guaranteeing batches of supernova discoveries on a certain date. In fact we could even time it with respect to you know being just before a new moon so that you could get these very faint objects observed while the night was  while the sky was dark.  So let us define what we mean by the word telescope. Obviously it is not like your average stargazing telescope that you are using. Are you actually looking through a scope or is this like a computer that is scanning the skies and feeding you back information? Like tell us something about the telescope that you are using to find these five billionyearold explosions.  To find supernova actually that is something that you can do. If you are looking for nearby supernova you can find them with a backyard telescope. In fact when we began our work with the supernova the most prolific supernova discoverer was an amateur Reverend Evans in Australia who used to just go out in his backyard every night and he remembered what some 200300 galaxies looked like and he would just go from one to the other until he saw a speck of light that should not be there and that was a supernova. So in that sense supernova are available to everybody and you know it is one of the nice areas where amateurs could really contribute to the field for many years. But we needed to find supernova that were much much more distant than these relatively nearby galaxies and so that meant we had to start using the very largest telescopes on Earth. These are telescopes that are you know typically oh four meters across in their diameter of the glass the mirror that you are collecting the lights with and nobody we have also lost that fun romantic image of looking through a telescope with your eye once we go to these large telescopes because when we began our work we were astronomers were just converting from observing with photographic plates where you would put a plate a photographic plate and you would take these time lapse you know maybe 10 minute 20 minutes exposures to the new digital cameras. And that was one of the things that made a very big difference in us being able to do this project that the new CCD detectors had just become available and we were just starting to use the first examples of them in astronomy. So it meant that actually the data would be  these images would be collected right on a digital chip that would read into your computer an image. And then the problem became one of programming the computer to do the image analysis to be able to find these little specks of light that were the new supernova discoveries amid this you know this whole sea full of little distant galaxies in the images.  Where does the telescope have to be in order to have a clear enough sky to see the distance it needs to see?  These very large telescopes are sited at these beautiful remote mountain tops. So there is some wonderful telescopes that we used in Canary Islands. The U.S. has some at Kitt Peak outside Tucson. The ones that made the biggest difference for the discovery actually were the ones down in Chile because they are not only do you have a very dark clear sky where the atmosphere stays very still so the stars do not twinkle very much but also the weather is very good for long periods on end during their summer time and that meant that you could actually follow objects that are rising and falling like supernova. In fact the largest telescope on Earth that we needed at the time was the one that was designed here at Berkeley in fact the Keck Telescope on Mauna Kea in Hawaii. And there you are taking advantage of these beautiful pristine skies at 14000 feet. And so for long time one of the I think one of the romantic elements of being an astronomer was that you would fly out to these distant spots. In our case we were always going out in a huge hurry and flying back in a huge hurry because we were trying to follow these rapidly you know disappearing supernova and so you would look at these gorgeous places and say boy someday we should come back and visit.   Right. If you are just joining us my guest is Saul Perlmutter and he shares this year's Nobel Prize in science for the discovery of the accelerating expansion of the universe. And he heads the Supernova Cosmology Project at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in the University of California at Berkeley. Let us take a short break here then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   My guest is Saul Perlmutter and he shares this year's Nobel Prize in science for the discovery of the accelerating expansion of the universe. And he heads the Supernova Cosmology Project at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in the University of California at Berkeley. So you are making this discovery that the universe is expanding at an accelerating rate meanwhile there is another team of scientists  two of whom you share this Nobel Prize with  who are finding similar results as you at the same time that you are finding them. Did you all know that you were working on the same thing?  The supernova community is actually pretty small. It is international it you know includes people from all over the world but you can fit almost everybody at a you know a supernova conference in a reasonably small lecture hall. So we all were constantly talking to each other and discussing what we were working on. And we were very aware when what had gone from a project that we were just trying to develop and trying to convince people that would work to a race with another team that was now using you know very similar technique to try to measure this expansion history of the universe. And so for the last oh you know three four years of the project we would be going down to these different telescopes in Chile and Hawaii and Tucson and you would often be backtoback scheduled on your nights with the nights that the other team was on. And you know some people would keep you know would try to be a little bit cagey with you know what they knew and what they did not know at a given moment but  and it was a pretty fiercely fought rivalry. But at the same time we were the only people who understood each other's problems really really well. And I you know there were at least a couple of occasions in which the other team had a really bad night where the weather was terrible and they were not able to confirm any of the supernova they had discovered and you know that seemed so terrible that when we went on we took some observations for them. And then there was another occasion when our night when we were trying to do our discoveries was clouded out at just the wrong time and the head of the other team Brian Schmidt exchanged nights with me so that we could stay on our cadence our time cadence. So you know I think you know we were really out to you know to beat each other but you know we also knew that in some bigger sense we were all on the same team.  In a way it is really lucky that both teams were working on this project simultaneously because you were able to corroborate each other's findings. Like if you found information that contradicted common thinking then you conceivably could have been 