 You know how like when you are growing up they always teach you you know the best rule of thumb is to always tell the truth. Is it? I mean is it? This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. In the spring of 2018 comedian Hasan Minhaj became a dad.  It is been the most beautiful and horrific thing that is ever happened to me in my life. Im being real. Like it is it is a doozy. It is a doozy. When his daughter was born Hasan was working as a correspondent for the Daily Show. Hed recently won a Peabody Award for his stand up special Homecoming King. And he was in the thick of developing his weekly political TV show for Netflix called Patriot Act. Hasans wife Beena a PhD in public health also has a demanding career. So its felt like a lot to manage all at once.  That is been the the the biggest sort of like push and pull of it. we got to divide and conquer. Alright. Like you sleep this time I will pick up this. Alright. Swap it out. I will sleep. Now you cover this. Just like the strategizing.  Yeah. The logistics.  Just the logistics. Yeah. And I have never been really great at 'em. And so I have just had to level up you know and um I dunno. I am amazed. I am just like amazed by like even I think about what my parents had to do and the resources they had and how were they were they were able to figure it out. So.  Mmhm.  And I have seen like this whole new side of my parents which is wild. It is so strange seeing 'em. Like I see I see my dad sprint. I have never seen my dad sprint. He like got up and like ran to get my - my daughter just ran out of the apartment and ran down the hallway and he just got up and sp- I have never seen my dad sprint like that. I am like Dad I did not know you had this fast twitch muscle in your calves. It is unbelievable. Hasan grew up primarily with his dad until he was eight in Davis California. Both of his parents immigrated there before he was born. But his mom went back to India for several years to attend medical school and then did her residency in New York.  It was a lot of Simba and Mufasa time so to speak.  Wait tell me what that means.  You know I would say hes sort of establishing these rules and structures and Im trying to subvert and break those rules um and just trying to establish my own autonomy. And I think we butted heads a lot just for me you know as a kid growing up um and then pursuing comedy there was a lot of of that. But um I really I really do um I have a lot of respect for him. He is a really ethical and decent person and as I have gotten older I I I have really started to appreciate that more.  Did you go to mosque in Davis?  Yeah yeah. I went to the mosque. Yeah. My my dad would take me to Sunday school and um I would go to the mosque. Yeah. There is only one mosque in the city so it was the mosque that you had to go to. You know when you go to bigger cities sometimes the mosques are divided by sub-communities so you will have like a you know a South Asian mosque then you will have a more Arab mosque and you will have um um a a black mosque. Um this is one of the one of the things that I thought was actually kind of beautiful and cool. There was only one mosque in the town so we all had to go there.  And what were the power dynamics like in terms of like who got to be in charge?  I mean that is what I its a - I think that is a whole other podcast in and of itself. I mean mosque politics are wild. I mean you 'ecause I mean you are talking about global geopolitics race class.  Right!  Sunni-Shia dynamic. All sorts of stuff. You should not be praying that way. This is the right way to pray. It is wild. I mean I have seen fist fights in mosque mosque parking lots and -  Really?  Yeah totally totally. Yeah. It is like a microcosm of what is happening in the world right now. Like one time my dad broke up like this heated fight between two uncles. Um one of the uncles was clearly wrong. Like I think that one of the uncles was just like bigoted racist like it was just offensive like you are wrong dude. And my dad said something really powerful - and he was like hey you guys both need to say sorry to each other which first of all is like again an an impossible thing. You are asking two uncles to apologize and admit fault. That is just not going to happen. Say you are sorry to each other. And then number two like he had them hug it out. And I remember we when we got in the car I was like dad why did you do that? Like why did not you just defend the guy who needed to be defending you know you should have been defending and we should have just kept it moving. And he said something really powerful. He said sometimes it is better to be together than to be right.  Huh.  And I think you know I think about that a lot. And I think there is a time and place for both. Hasan felt that tension between unity and difference a lot when he was growing up. Davis California is more diverse now but it was about 70 percent white when Hasan was in high school. Hes said he felt like he was surrounded by a bunch of Ryan Lochtes.  I have always felt like I was wearing an away jersey even though I am supposed to be playing a home game. I have had an ability to be able to uh communicate to uh I think all sorts of different people because of that. I have spent more time observing them than the other way around if that make sense?  Mmhm.  Like I can guarantee with the the people that I have met I have spent more times in their types of households than they have spent in mine you know and at the time that can feel a little weird jarring alienating. You are always kind of on guard.  Uh huh. When did you realize that that you were handsome?  Um I do not know. I - I that is a very weird question. I do not even know how to answer that. I - I you know growing up I did not consider myself to be particularly uh good looking like um you know I have really bad eyesight. I - I have negative 7.5 and negative 8.5 respectively in my right and left eye uh which is which is pretty thick. Like my my lenses were really thick so I wore glasses and stuff like that. Uh it was pretty bad. And I would use LA Looks hair which is like you get -  Wait like the gel or the mousse?  The gel. Yeah. You could get it at you could get it at Rite Aid or CVS. It was a dollar uh and you would get about three gallons of it which which is like insane. Yeah. And it would just turn your hair to concrete and um yeah Id spike it up.  You have the same tub of LA Looks that you bought when you were 16. You are still working on it.  Sure sure sure. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. Like um you know I had really bad acne. I took Accutane. Um if there are any Accutane heads out there.  I took Accutane. I did too.  Yeah. Yeah. I -  Did yours also have the pregnant woman with the like the script the like X -  Truly terrifying. Anna I actually think that you and I are both yeah yeah yeah we are both up for a class action lawsuit. So you and I should call Habis Emindola and Associates. That is Habis Emindola and Associates. They pumped Accutane into me through high school. Oh my god.  To be clear Accutane was acne treatment.  Yes. And it would purge it from your skin. It would just it would there would be volcanoes of white heads just throughout your face. It was it was like an exorcism of bacteria just spewing out of your face.   You had to do like urine tests to make sure that your liver was functioning while you were taking it. And I still was like  Yep.  whatever get the get rid of this acne. I am taking -  Get this out of me. Yeah it was insane.  So you you went to UC Davis after high school.  Yes. Yes.  And you lived at home?  Yeah my freshman year I lived in the dorms and I then my parents made me move back home. So I lived at home the rest of uh the rest of college. But I met I met my wife in the dorms my freshman year. My now wife Beena. I saw her in in my freshman year of of college. Yeah.  Did you have a sense when you met her that this was a special person?  I - I definitely knew like she was super special. She was wearing these overalls and then she was wearing like a green bandana Aaliyah style.  Ooh.  And I was just like oh my god who is that? And then we got together and you know and we were college sweethearts.  She is still living on campus and you are living at home?  Yes. Yes.  So what was what was dating like how did that work?  I mean it was like a reverse Rapunzel let down your hair you know what I mean? Generally the prince is going to the princesss place and is like hey can you come out? This was like the reverse. She would like come to my place call me and be like hey can you come out? Id be like alright wait a sec. I will be right there. Beena was a big supporter when Hasan started doing stand up at open mic nights during college. Shed lend him her car to get to gigs and hand out flyers on the street about his shows.  She is like you are going to do great and you are gonna make it. And um I needed that.  What was it that drew you to comedy when you were in college?  I just love the radical honesty in it. I love that idea of like wait you can say that? I remember seeing Chris Rock's Never Scared and I remember him talking about George W. Bush politics seeing John Stewart talk about the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. And I remember being like how can you possibly talk about this stuff? You cannot talk about this stuff. I worked at Safeway at the time I was I was bagging groceries and stuff. Like I cannot talk about this at Safeway I will get fired. And that is what I loved about it. But as Hasan experimented with being radically honest on stage he says he was not always honest in his personal life. After he graduated with a degree in political science he decided to give comedy a try in Los Angeles.  You know Beena and I were still dating and I remember I was lying to her my parents about what I was doing where I was going who I was dating who I was seeing. Yeah. I really lost their trust for a long period of time. There was a few years - like I - I - I lost the trust of someone who is who is now my wife my I think my relationship with my even my dad was was really bad.  Why were you lying to all these people in your life? What were you trying to protect?  Um lying to my parentsthey really wanted me to go to law school. Uh so I I was lying to them. Oh hey I am I am I am going to come down here. I am going to apply to law school uh law schools in Los Angeles. That is what I am going to do. I am going to I am going to pursue that. And um I - I - I am I am doing great. I am doing I am doing stand up and I am being able to pay the bills. Everything's going great Mom and Dad. I was not telling them where I was living you know I it was bad. I was living with like four or five other people. Like you know it was a thing that I did not want my parents to see. So lying to them. With Beena it was like hey you are pursuing your masters in Northern California. I am down here in LA. I am meeting all these new people and I can you know I do not have to sneak out of my house to see them. I - I was not honest about that stuff. Right? I was like nah I am not seeing anybody else no. Like -  Were you did she think you were together?  Yeah. Yeah. And that was like a -  So you were together and you were seeing other people that she did not know about?  Yeah. I got caught. I remember she asked me you know Are you seeing other people? I think I know you are seeing other people. Yeah and it was a really painful and we broke up because of it. Like it was really painful for her. Like I think the reality of it was like I should have been honest. Hey I am in my early twenties. I do not really know what I am doing. These are my I - Im being ratchet. That is why I kind of make jokes about it about being a a Desi fuckboy.  Hm 'ecause you were one.   Yeah. 'ecause I was one totally and I that is why I own it. I just be like yeah Im I I make fun of Desi fuckboys because I am the prototype of that. I remember my sister one time called me and was just like I do not know what you are doing down there but it is not good.  Oh she knew.  And I remember just like you know when you get that from even like your family or a loved one that is not your parents and they know you know it is bad. Like you are just like what yeah what am I doing? Like I am lying to my parents about where I live. I am lying to like someone who really loves me about who I am dating who I am seeing what am I doing? And you think about that time I do not know I really struggle with this. Was that period of time necessary? Like is that just a part of growing up? Is that is is that period of time of being a fuckboy just part of life or is that thing I could have avoided? Is that a thing that if like I had stronger character and if I was a better person I could have avoided? I do not have the answer to that. I really do not. Coming up Hasan wins Beena back. And as his career takes off he tries balance being honest to her with being honest to his audience.  Especially because I am a public figure and uh uh my wife uh being as she lives a a a relatively very private life that is something that I think about too a lot. Like when we are talking about and and sort of discussing and and sometimes having arguments about stuff is it better to be right or is it better to be together and I have chosen uh a lot of times the latter.  We heard from a lot of you after our recent episode with the former debt collector Angelawho talked about the methods she used to try to get people to pay up...and why shes dodging debt collectors now. On Instagram a listener named Kirstyn commented I was a debt collector and it was the most soul-sucking three months of my career. No idea how she did it for 15 years. And another Kirsten wrote It was so refreshing to hear an interview with someone who believes people should be responsible for their debt. But most of you told us you felt frustrated by Angela. A third listener named Kirsten wrote I really struggled toward the end when she began talking about having children and not being able to pay the medical bills. She seemed unable to see the irony in her situation. And it made you share about your own experiences with debt collectors. Meg wrote on Instagram This episode made me think of a time a year or so after college when a debt collector said some awful things to me to get me to pay off a loan. I went downstairs crying and my mom called her back reamed her out got my money back and explained to me how to approach calls like that in the future. That no she couldnt ruin my life or credit forever or whatever shed said. Thanks as always to all of youespecially the Kirstens. We always include listener feedback in our weekly newsletter. If youre not subscribed you can fix that at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. On the next episode My conversation with the writer Anne Lamott on stage in San Francisco. It was part of the Reimagine End of Life festival. Anne just got married for the first time at 65 years old and I wanted to know how much she was thinking about death when she made that decision.  Well I had decided that my husband to be was actually after my Medicare payments. But I didnt really think about death except for him killing me or sedating me and keeping me hostage while he cashed my Medicare checks.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Hasan Minhaj and his now-wife Beena were broken up when he learned she was moving down to LA to get her PhD in public health.  I remember I was just like I gotta I gotta make this work. Like she is such a quality person.  And - and what was that period of of coming back together like? What what what how did you apologize?  Um I mean I was just like I just think you are an amazing human being and I think that my life would be so much better with you. And she was like no.   Really?  Yeah she shot me down. I had to like it was a struggle. I had to I had to work for it. It was the toughest audition of my career. It was a lot. I mean it was like months like we were just talking and really trying to make it work. Shes like I am getting my PhD. You are an open miker. You got a lot of things to figure out. She was like you gotta go to therapy. You got to like talk to somebody about everything that is going on in your life.  So this is like part of you trying to win her back. She is like go to therapy.  Totally. Totally. She is like if you want to take up my time and talk to me like these are my requirements. You got to do this you got to do this you got to do this you got to do this. And um yeah therapy was one of them. And it - it was really about rebuilding trust you know? And I think 'ecause Im also thinking about now right? Like even to this day there is still things that when me and her are arguing and discussing stuff and we talk about trust there are still things that we have argued about that have been that same idea of violation of trust. I have taken an idea and I have taken it out too far and then she will find out about it and she is like hey you doing that implicates us and I do not have a say in that. And that is a violation of our trust.  An idea too far like what does that mean?  I will give you an example like the idea to do the episode about Saudi Arabia. In October of last year Hasan released an episode of his Netflix show Patriot Act that took on the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia.  Now if youve been watching the news then you know that Saudi Arabia has been engulfed in a massive diplomatic crisis over the gruesome killing of Jamal Kashogghi. And it blows my mind that it took the killing of a Washington Post journalist for everyone to go oh I guess hes really not a reformer. Meanwhile every Muslim person you know was like yeah no shit hes the CROWN PRINCE OF SAUDI ARABIA.  That was something that like I had been cooking up for a while you know and I did not tell Beena or my family about it cause I was personally struggling with it. And I remember she was like when we were about to shoot the episode she was like are you aware that there are implications to this?  How did she find out about it?  She just came to the office. She saw it on the whiteboard. She had known I had been kicking the idea around but she saw it on the whiteboard in the sense that like oh you are really gonna press play on this. Like this is going to go forward. But that was one of the that was another sort of big inflection point where it is like no you are at this point in your career where the things that you say and do have an impact on us. You know and you have to you have to involve me in that.  And what were what were the ramifications for your family after you did that Saudi Arabia episode?  Well you know the first few days after like the the social media side of it is is pretty pretty scary right? Which is something that you know you cannot tell the difference between is this going to is this a real death threat or is this just a Twitter death threat? You just dont know.  Did you bring on extra personal security for yourself or for your family after that?  Yeah.  Do you still have that security?  Yeah. It really shook me. Like I am pushing a stroller with my wife up the street in New York right and you know people pull over in a car and they are like Hey I saw your episode and you are like I do not know if this is good or bad you immediately sort of jump into this flight or flight thing. And it was something I just wasnt ready for. I remember the second big one was Indian elections. You know both of us have family in India and the things that I am talking about are extremely controversial there. Incredibly heated that date back to the partition of India um that have been long long long third third rail issues in that region. There have been a couple of these sort of instances where it is again talking through with Beena like she kind of was like - you know she saw a rehearsal and she was like hey there is this sentence this sentence and this sentence that is like really really really that could get get you into a lot of trouble or that could hurt it would really hurt the feelings of certain people in our family. Do you want to say that? And that was a long conversation.  Did you keep those lines in?  A couple of 'em we kept in and another one was really painful and we cut it. And again it is so it is one of those things I am trying to be radically honest. But then there is also the reality of like I also have I have I have a duty uh to my loved ones and to my family too. And figuring out that has been the new challenge for me.  Mmhm.  I have really had to lean on that thing that Beena told me about even when we were getting back together. Like you gotta be honest with me you gotta be straight with me. Because she is the only one that is going to tell me for real for real two things She is going to check me on it artistically. But then also just for us as a family like okay you say this these are the implications and there is a difference between even what I am talking about with Saudi Arabia that affects our future and going to that region right? Me making Hajj all those sort of things. And then there is the stuff that I say about India that is gonna that could potentially shape travel plans and safety for family members over there. You have to think about all those things.  And you said hajj you have you have done pilgrimage before? You have been to Saudi Arabia?  No I have not.  You have not?  And um yeah I do not know if that is a thing that can be done at this point. You know I do not know.  Is there a sadness about that?  Yeah yeah. 'ecause - and that is and that and that to me is like a a pillar of our faith to make your pilgrimage. Its one of the five pillars of Islam. Now can I go? Maybe. Should I go? I do not know. You know what I mean? Like the the the the safeties and things that we assume here in the United States that is a privilege. Assumed safety that we have here is not a is not a thing around the world.  When did your parents become aware that you were doing the episode about Saudi Arabia?  They became aware after the fact. You know?  After it was made? And out?  Yeah. After it was made and out. Yeah. There is no way I could have gotten that bill passed through Congress with them. No way. No way. No way. But look like that is the thing I gotta be honest with somebody right? Like I got there is gotta be somebody that like that can navigate both things personal and professional. 'ecause I can talk to the other comics and they will be like yeah man say it. You got to say it. But they are not the ones that are pushing that stroller  Yeah.  you know up the street in New York and just trying to go to Trader Joe's and not trying to have like anybody roll up on you right? Like they do not have to live with those repercussions. Hasan has one other person he really relies on to talk through personal and professional dilemmas his writing partner Prashanth Venkataramanujam. They started working together in their early 20s when they were both living in Los Angeles and Prashanth is now the co-creator and executive producer of Patriot Act.  Like what is something that he can tell you that somebody else in the writer's room cannot?  He would say something like Do not say that. And I would be like what do you what I go what do you what do you mean? He goes it is going to sound really bad. That is Prashanth. And I would see it in his eyes. It is like a person that you have known for 12 years. Its just like hes just it is like when you would when you go to Zara or something and you go I am going to try this hat. And they go do not you are not a fedora person do not do a fedora. You have that one friend that just says it with such raw honesty. You know they are not hating. You know they are not doing it to just like put you down. They are doing it because they really really love you. Um and they just care. They just do not want you to look bad. That he has an ability to do that.  As you became more well known more recognizable um did you notice any shifts in the dynamic of your working relationship? Did you have to sort of re re-establish uh I do not know the power dynamic or have conversations about how that was changing your collaboration or anything like that?  Hes someone who is so close to me that I would never want to lose him as a friend. So as things started to change um there is two things. I was just really straight up with him. Like number one like about everything about like this is how much I am making this is what I am doing this is what what they are offering me this is what they are they have asked me to do like number one and then number two like it would be it was it would be something like I would say I want you to do this with me. This is how much money they are offering. Let us split it. Let us do this together. Like I I I want I want to do this with you. And then there is this just other intangible that a lot of people do not understand you know in show business and what is happening right now. There is not a lot of people that look like us and are doing what we are doing. And we both I remember around 2012 2013 we both kind of realized nobody's looking out for us. Nobody's going to come save us. We got to do this on our own. There is no big brother. There is no big there is no mentor. Do you know what I -? There is no Desi Judd Apatow or Spike Lee that is going to sort of extend an olive branch and go I am going to executive produce your first thing.  Uh huh.  Like we really are just blazing this trail with machetes ourselves. We are using sort of the the foundation that a lot of um immigrant and minority communities have sort of laid out for us from before. But we just have to kind of do it and go for it ourselves. And we just kind of made this partnership that hey we are gonna figure this out no matter what you and I will figure it out brown brown paper bag style. Like hey this money came in I will Venmo you half let us do this.  Huh yeah.  You know and that thats the same way our parents when our fathers first got to this country in the early eighties had to brown paper bag and figure it out. We we sort of figured that out with show business you know.  Do you go to mosque in New York City?  Yeah. Yeah. I go to the mosque.  What is your mosque like in New York? Hasan So I go to the one uh on 72nd Street. Uh it is on the west side so it is a lot of people that are commuting or uh cab driving cabs. They are transient people that are sort of trying to get in and out as quickly as possible. That is that is the mosque that I go to.  So its like people coming in for prayers but not a lot of chit chat afterwards.  Yeah yeah yeah. I am here to pray. I am not here to make friends. It is that vibe its that vibe. But it is cool. I again it reminds me a little bit of like the Davis mosque too where it really is it is not for one specific group. It is for like all different types of you know it is for Muslims from all different part parts of the world which is really cool.  How often do you go to the mosque?  I try to go every Friday. I try to go every Friday. I remember after the New Zealand stuff happened there was some time that I I did not go to the mosque for awhile. Um -  Because it did not feel safe?  Yeah. It just freaked me out. You know? I just I I I probably should not have done it but I you know uh you you go on social media and just the the footage was there and it just freaked me out you know? It was a weird period of time where I was almost doing the like it is kind of dark but it was like I was doing the I was doing the long division in my head you know what I mean? It is like well if I if I do not go is that mean is that means I am like I am like I am too scared to pray but if I do go and something happens like maybe that means I will go to heaven. Right? Like cause that is how like you know what I mean? Like God will be like he was he really was committed. Like it was really dark.  How long did you stay away from the mosque?  It was about a month or so. Yeah. Um and what what was really beautiful is I remember going back and um I really this was made me actually really made me really proud to be in New York. I come back and there was all these people standing outside of the mosque on 72nd Street holding up signs. Like um we are we are we are we are proud to protect you. We are here to like protect you. It was -  Non-Muslims.  Yeah It was the Jewish community Christian community just different people from the city just stood outside during prayer. Like they were holding up signs like Salaam. Like it was like really cool. Um and um to this day there is still one woman she still comes and stands outside of the mosque. Still! Like to this day. Like she will come every Friday and she will just stand just to watch.  Have you spoken to her?  Yeah I see her every week. I see her every week. I say what is up to her.  And describe what does she look like?  Uh she is a she is an older uh Upper West Side uh Jewish lady. You have you you have recognized her youve you have seen her. She is got her tote bag. She donates you know she donates to NPR.  Shes a WNYC listener probably.   Yeah of course. Yeah. Yeah. She has a scarf. She is got really cool broaches yeah. She will say salaam. She will do the full Assalamu alaykum. You she will she will not even just do the salaam. You are going to hit all the syllables? I mean its incredible. Thats Hasan Minhaj. You can find his show Patriot Act on Netflix. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Facebook Twitter and Instagram. And you can email us anytime at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Hasan and Prashanth have the kind of relationship where even Hasans by himself he can hear the edits Prashanth would give him...including after this interview.  Like I imagine if Prashanth was here he would be like do not say fuckboy on WNYC. Just do not do that. That is not a good thing. It is like not the right audience for it. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.