It was wonderful to stand up in front of those people for the National Book Award and give my little talk. But when the thing was over as soon as it was over I took that trophy and that ten grand and I jumped in my little car and I drove right back home. Made myself a tuna fish sandwich. And that was the end of that. I wasnt partying on the floor til four in the morning. Ive had that. And it aint worth nothing. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. James McBride has a look. He often wears a hat perched atop his head -- and a big earring in his left ear. Hes cool.and the look works with a t-shirt or a tux like the one he wore at the National Book Award ceremony. The winner of the National Book Award for 2013 is The Good Lord Bird by James McBride. James McBride won the fiction award last year for his book about a former slave who accompanies John Brown on his historic raid. Actually I didnt prepare a speech because I didnt think I was going to win today. But I would like to say that At first James McBride was uncharacteristically flustered but in the ceremony video you can can see him gather his thoughts as he talks. He goes on for a few minutes acknowledges the presenter the other nominees and gets through his thank-yous. And then he takes off his glasses. When I wrote this book my mother died in January 2010 my niece died a couple weeks later. And then my marriage fell apart. But it was always nice to have somebody whose world I could just fall into and follow him around and that was Onion Shackleford in The Good Lord Bird talking about a great American named John Brown. But the funny thing is when James McBride meets new people he actually leaves this book-writing part out. I dont tell them Im a writer I tell them Im a saxophone player. When you tell them youre a writer they say what have you written? And then youve got to tell them what youve done. I dont ask a plumber what he does. Then I have to explain what Ive done and I havent really you know. Ive just told some stories. Some very successful stories. There was last years big award. And his first book The Color of Water was a blockbuster hit. Its about his mother a white Jewish woman from North Carolina who fell in love with a black man converted to Christianity moved to New York and raised twelve children in Red Hook Brooklyn. Im not the same person I was ten minutes ago much less ten fifteen years ago when I wrote those books. So. And also I just dont want to talk about my work. I dont like a bunch of writers sitting around puffing smoke they like this book he wrote thistell me a dirty joke you know. Its just not my style Ive never been that kind of person. But youre comfortable saying Im a saxophonist. Well you know why because people dont understand music that much anyway. So you say you play the saxophone Oh thats great they ask you where youre playing. And you say well Im not playing around here. Well when youre playing somewhere let me know. Okay and it deflects the whole conversation. James McBride is an accomplished jazz musician and songwriter and he doesnt just play the saxophone. When he noticed that the piano in the studio was a Steinway his fingers immediately went to the keys. I cant be a creative person if Im a celebrity. You know I have to get on the subway and talk to people. You know do things I have to wait for the bus when its freezing outside. I have to do those things. Otherwise Im just some guy living in a hot tub or something. When did you realize that? I suppose I realized that about myself when I was a little older. When I moved to Bucks County I think Pennsylvania. It wasnt a place for an artist to live. Because it was isolated? No because it was expensive. It was expensive I mean you know just to cut the grass at the place. You got to go to ten different guys to do it so youre doing it yourself. Heating the place. I dont want to be bothering with all that I mean I just dont see myself sitting in one of these stone restaurants at 7 oclock at night ordering white wine and discussing the wine and then the Ha ha ha thats just some corny shit man. I cant do that kind of shitexcuse my language. I just cant do it. So I live in new Jersey now. I live in a little row house you know. Next house next door to me there must be three families living in the house. Theyre Mexicans. Must be three families. Its like Grand Central Station up in there they come all hours of the night. But theyre good neighbors. And on the other side is a single woman. Shes private. At least its people you know. People who got bumps on their faces and their teeth are yellow and you know. They smoke cigarettes and do normal stuff. I mean not that if you dont smoke cigarettesbut you know what I mean I have to live in a world of bumps and bruises. I cant live in a world where people with napkins on the table and everything isBrahms is playingand you know Beethoven. Brahms and Beethoven those guys. You can play Mozart all you want and pretend that it gives you class but what is class you know? Class is a bus driver on the M103 who gets off the bus to help somebody on board even though hes tired hes exhausted and hes two months behind on his mortgage. Thats real class. And those are the kinds of people I really admire and try to put in all my work. And that you missed it sounds like. That I missed quite a bit yeah. But see now Im in a music program in my church in Red Hook in the projects where I was born. So I see enough ofand Im there every week. Can you tell me about that? What is the music program how long have you been doing it? Its just a program where I takeI have 8 students now. And I teach 'em music you know? I just paid for some 8 pianos. And Im teaching them music. We started out with buckets and sticks because I didnt have any money last year I couldnt afford to get the instruments. And so I just started out with plastic buckets that I got from the hardware store and some drumsticks and I taught them rhythm that way. And I got a blackboard and I started writing musical terms and then wed meet every week. We meet from 6 to 8. And I love 'em. These are kids from the same housing project where I was born and lived and its in my mothers church. The church your mother started. Yeah its in the church that my mother started. The church thats talked about in The Color of Water. My dream is to be an old man in Red Hook teaching music. Thats what Id like to do. And Ive only come to that in the last year. If I can ever afford to do it thats what Id end up doing. You know I have kids and I have financial obligations that are pretty considerable. But thats what I hope to be an oldif God lets me live that long thats what Id like to do. Youve mentioned money a few times already -- you said you did not have money when you started the program it was buckets and drumsticks. Did that change with the National Book Award at the end of last year? No no my life cycle works on book advances and so forth so no it didnt change with the National Book Award like I havent done another book contract yet. Its just that I have to pay alimony and child support and I have two kids in college and they dont have scholarships. My son has a small scholarship and I have a 12-year-old and Im mostly taking care of the 19-year-old who Im the trustee for. So I have a lot of obligations. So Im not broke Im not asking for money if I mentioned money more than once I shouldnt have. I mean Im well suited. No its part of the it seems like youre being honest about what are the whats the texture of your life right now. I mean youre at a moment when My mother died the same year my wife divorced me my ex-wife divorced me. My mother died. Two weeks later my niece died and my ex-wife divorced me. And I was broke then. Sure. And it took me a long time I was in more debt than most people will ever ever experience. How did you decide that you were going to go and start a music program at the church that your mother started? Well what happened was when my mother got sick you know she was always talking about the church is gonna close down whats gonna happen with the church? And so I told her I would look out for the church. I didnt say you know Mother youre dying. I promise youbut she really loved that church. She loved it her whole life is really more represented in that church in some ways than in the Color of Water. She was very religious. Even in her last moments she was reaching out to God. You know when my mother died she died at home. Her last moments she was reaching up toward the ceiling towards Jesus. Because I was preaching to her when she died. I said ma Jesus is waiting. Hurry up. Because it was time. She was holding on and you were telling her to go. She held on toall her kids who could deal with seeing her pass away showed up. She was dying and she actually asked she said Am I dying? And it was hard to tell her that yes you are. But then she wanted to see my brother Hunter who was on his honeymoon in Puerto Rico. Hed gotten married and she died like four days after he got married. She waited until he got married. And after she saw him she went on home. What was her funeral service like? Well she was funeralized here in Brooklyn in Red Hook. A lot of musicians came and played and my brother Dennis gave a long boring-ass speech. But you know Dennis likes to talk. Hes a good guy and hes the oldest. So he talked. And that was it. You didnt talk? No no no. Dennis was the oldest and he talked which was appropriate because hes the oldest and he knew his mother better than all of us. Hed been with her the longest. And then we took her to North Carolina. Her body. We took her to North Carolina and we buried her next to my father. Shes the only white person buried in an all black cemetery in High Point North Carolina. In High Point. Yeah. Cus they have like a black cemetery there. When my father died all the black peopleso shes buried next to him and his parents. Shes buried in the same cemetery as John Coltranes mother. So yeah and that part of it when I drove in because Id been to that funeral that graveyard many times. When I drove into it that morning and I saw Mommys coffin in the morning sun big silver coffin it was surreal. It was rough. It was a very difficult moment. But you know God had blessed her with 88 good years. And you know Ive learned to live with her memory and I dont go around crying that shes dead I mean I hope to see her in the next life. I hope theres a heaven. Before James McBride was a bestselling author he had a successful career at magazines and newspapers including the Washington Post. But all that ended when he was approaching 30. I remember when I left the Washington Post and I was glad I left. Coming up what made him decide to quit. We have some job news here at Death Sex  Money. Our first full-time producer is on board. Shes Katie Bishop. Shes from Rochester New York. She plays the cello. She and her husband have a dog who has thankfully gotten over some early bouts with separation anxiety. What this means is we can do more for you our fantastic community of listeners. Were just beginning to sketch out our plans but were going to start with a Death Sex  Money newsletter. Ill tell you whats coming up on the show what were reading and what we are listening to. And Ill get to share more of your incredible emails and stories that fill our inbox every day. You make me tear up at my computer on the regular...and its time to share more of these stories with you. You can sign up for the newsletter on our website at deathsexmoney.org -- it is in the right-hand column. On the next show Liam and Marissa. They met in college theyre in their 20s and theyre just getting married. But theyve already gone through a lot of change together. There was this very harmful time to me in our relationship where my gut reaction when she would not instantly understand from like two words what I was talking about I would be like I am trans you do not get it I am trans you are not whatever. But yeah. That is more what I remember of that time was having this feeling of like -- misunderstood. Constantly. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When James McBride was just out of college at Oberlin he went straight to Columbia Journalism School. That led to staff jobs at the Boston Globe People Magazine and finally The Washington Post. Then he walked away. He wanted to play music full-time in New York. I dont know I guess I was making 50 or 60-thousand dollars a year which for me was a lot of money. It is a lot of money for that yeah. I made I think I made 18000 the next year. But I was having the most fun of my life I was playing on Bleecker Street I was playing with a blues band on Bleecker Street that was my main gig. And then during that period I wrote a song for Anita Baker that made me some money. That was just a stroke of luck really. When you think back on your life I mean youve taken some major turns and theyve its paid off when youve taken a risk. My mother did everything she wanted to do. And she was never sorry. She walked away from an entire a beautiful culture. She walked away from a terrible childhood but she walked away from an entire one of the great cultures of all time and she walked into African American life. And she was never sorry. She was she died happy. She changed all the time you know. And I think thats probably where I get it from. Did she feel comfortable with you leaving your full time gig in Washington and No hell no. she was furious. Good for her not good for her kids. She was dancing around like an Indian complete with whooping and everything. When she found out I was quitting my job oh she just I got to the point where I just stopped telling her. But I remember when I quit the Post though she was really mad. But I told her I think afterIm sure of it. After the Post I said ma you havent paid my bills in a long time. I take care of myself and I got to live like I want to live. And Im just gonna do that. I mean it wasnt like a big speech I basically said that and she said she understood. And she never she never raised the subject again. She was pretty cool with it. She was very happy when The Color of Water came out because it showed that I was a writermy sons a writer you know. When you started first making lots of money when The Color of Water was a bestseller for tens of weeks on the New York Times bestseller list did it feel uncomfortable? Well its funny when you write a book thats a bestseller people assume youre a millionaire. And Im not you know. Like Im not a millionaire. I mean I made some really good money the first you know like when it hitits been a long time. I havent made under six figures in many years. But there have been times where I have made much more than that. When I got divorced man I was cleaned out. I mean I was justso you asked me about money? Ive always had enough money. Its just when you owe way into Im not talking about six figures when you a whole lot of money its just a horrible place to be. Cus I dont believe in owing giving the banks money and all that I just I as not into that. Sobut how did it feel when the Color of Water first hit? Oh my honey? You know what? I knew I was rich when I said I wanted a pair of jeans and I went to the store and I said give me two of them. Give me two of them. And I want those sneakers that my brother Hunter has too. Those red ones with those stripes on the side you know. So I did that for a while and then after a while I just totally lost interest in it. Is there something that you look back and youre like I cant believe I bought that? A BMW. Yeah. I bought a BMW one time and I drove the car and I was killing. I loved it. What color was it? It was gray and I bought it brand new. I had a Fordthis is the thing that killed me I had a Mercury Marquis it was a big green car a floater it looked like a police car. Never got stopped grooving. It was just like daddys car like one of them grandfather cars. And you would just float down the highway and you wouldnt feel nothing it was just great. And I traded that beautiful car in and I got a BMW. I wrote a check for 20 grand. I dont know what they I remember that. Anyway I drove away in that car. Woo. Thing was slick. Im like now I drive a Toyota2002 Toyota Tacoma pickup truck. 5 speed. Thats the car I drive all the time. And it drives just as nice now as that BMW did when I drove it off the lot and gave up all my hard money. So yeah that was a stupid thing to do but you know Im allowed to make silly mistakes like that I guess. Whats money if your mind is empty really. And I hope that I havent if Ive given you the impression that Ive been talking about money that money is on my mind all the time its not. I have plenty what do I need you know? It sounds to me like youre being back in the row house with the music program in Red Hook that theres a kind of this is what your life looks like after a reordering and redesigning of what your life was gonna look like. Its very interesting and Im glad we had this conversation. Cus I never really thought of it that way. But yes there is a reordering that has happened. And being in a row house in a little humble row house in a little small town and you know taking the bus into Manhattan driving my old pickup truck around and having my music program in Brooklyn yes its beenI cant remember when Ive been this happy. I just dont do stuff I dont want to do no more. And I dont care how much moneys involved. Ive done it for the money. And I aint do that no more. And I feel great. I feel great you know. Thats wonderful. Yeah well you know. Lets just bust into tears and eat spinach like Popeye now that you know that weve mind-melded. How much time do you have in this world? How much time do you have? Are you interested in getting married again? I dont know about that you know. I mean. Im not really that successful at dating you know. I havent really had that much luck at it. Im 56 years old I dont have anything to say to anyone whos under 50. 45 whatever at best you know. I dont know. I dont think so. At this point the answer is no. I was married for 19 years and I thought it was a good marriage. I couldnt go through that kind of pain again. The divorce. Divorce is painful. And Im not busting on my ex-wife shes a very fine person. I hope she finds a good spouse for herself. But I dont know if I can do that again. Its just too hard. Also Im a person Im married to the work and while I would like to have a full life outside of the work between my work and my kids theres very little time to actually to meet people. And then theres the whole business of likeI just stick with my old friends. I have several of them. Im happy there. When youre young all you want to do is get laid and all that shit. When you get older you know a good eight hours of sleep that works. That is alright. Its possible you adjust you know what I mean? So you learn whats important. Loves important. Companionship is important. Sex is good to have but if your hearts not full sex is like drinking beer. The first ones good by the ninth one youre poisoning yourself. At my agenot that Im an old man I mean Im a young guy still. Im told I look very young for my age and so forth. I cant remember a time when Ive been happier. Not looking for someone not looking for love just living good living whole strong. And serving. You could call it serving but theyre serving me. You know those kids give me more than Ipeople used to say that Id say yeah right. Yeah I get more from them. But they do serve me. When you walk into the battlefield of what America really needs and say this is what Im gonna do it makes you better. It makes you better. James McBride. His most recent book is The Good Lord Bird. His most recent jazz album is called The Process Vol 1. His Thursday night music classes are open to anyone. Its five dollars for kids who live the nearby public housing. 150 dollars if you live anywhere else. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop  Emily Botein James Ramsay Jessica Miller Jenna Weiss-Berman Chris Bannon Merritt Jacob and Jim Briggs. Im on Twitter annasale. Death Sex  Money is on Facebook -- if you like us like our page. Or go on iTunes and tell the world that you like the show in an iTunes review -- that really matters and helps other people find the show. All our episodes are on our website at deathsexmoney dot org. And remember thats where you can sign up for our new Death Sex  Money newsletter. I asked James McBride whom hed like to hear on the show. He recommended Stephen King because he admires his work. Hes not considered a great literary talent when in fact hes an extremely gifted literary talent. So you know just because a cats not winning the National Book Award like James McBride do not mean...you get my drift. Thats funny. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.