 I like sent the professional email like you know I understand you know but I really am disappointed that you have not acknowledged whatsoever your financial commitment to this gig you know? Like you guys were going to pay me right? Like you have the money in your budget right? So pay me. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. I first saw choreographer Miguel Gutierrez perform around this time last year in San Francisco. He was presenting a piece called Unsustainable Solutions Duet With My Dead Dad a solo dance where he interacts with video recordings of his late father who died last year. The piece ends with the audience lights up and Miguel staring into the eyes of the crowd while he scream sings along to Bruce Springsteen's Downbound Train.  Last night I heard your voice You were crying crying you were so alone You said your love had never died You were waiting for me at home I have thought about that piece a lot since its anger and grief. That performance was also one of the last times that Miguel was onstage. All of his onstage gigs since March have been cancelled. And when we talked over FaceTime I asked how thats felt.  Um in very honest terms my first feeling is one of relief.   Oh interesting!  Um you know performing for me is not necessarily the romance that I think so many people make it out to be. It it is like a it feels like a necessary component of the work but it is not always the most pleasant part of it. There are so many kinds of components of uh you know interaction that are challenging or or just like vulnerability. And I I think it is been like a reprieve honestly just to be like okay I am just taking in this very different reality. But I am not sitting around everyday being like Oh my God I cannot wait to get back to the theater!   Miguel is 49 and for his entire adult life hes been a professional artist. He is a musician whos been in a few bands and he has a project called Sadonna where he sings Madonna songs but in a sad way. But Miguel is best known for his work as a choreographer and dancer and has received some of the fields highest honors. And like many people working in creative industries hes lost a lot of work and income this year. A report from the Brookings Institution found that fine arts and the performing arts have been particularly hard hit. Overall 2.3 million jobs and 74 billion in average monthly earnings were lost in the creative fields between April and July of this year. And while Miguel was less concerned about not being on stage during the pandemic he was concerned about how hed get paid.  The first thing I noticed was all the cancellation emails and their complete uh lack of acknowledgement of a financial component to the interaction or the transaction that was like you know binding us. And and and I just so my first reaction was anger. It was just  Wait so those were emails from like dance festivals and venues or like what were those emails?  Venues I mean you know there were venues there were you know I you know my work is interdisciplinary. It was a variety of of kinds of work you know in what I do teaching and performing um and kind of across the board you know these cancellation emails were coming in uh and all with the exception of one uh made no mention of the loss of income.  What did they say if they did not mention money?  They were like oh you know as you can understand the situations changed and we have to you know close the season early or we will not be able to do the festival or yada yada yada um you know we are so sorry about this. You know we look forward to talking to you again soon or wish you the best right now and it was this very kind of like formulaic cordial thing. And you know some of these institutions were people I would been talking to for months. Some you know some of them were institutions I would known for years uh or had worked at for years.  Did you respond and say can we talk about the money?  Yes. Like first like a kind of like strongly worded email. And then I also then I wrote this like Instagram rant I kind of went off you know uh like what the hecks going on here?  I have it in front of me this particular post. It is in all caps. Short term work is my work. My bills are not being postponed and my food is not free. Hashtag gig economy hashtag pay independent artists hashtag honor commitments hashtag not disposable hashtag I am in your budget.    Girl she went off in those hashtags! Hashtag hashtag hashtag.  I loved it in the moment. I was just like you know it was not it I think this came out the week where everything was shut down and it was like oh my gosh what is happening to creative people who are living gig to gig?  Yeah. Yeah. You know like like even though I am doing pretty well I mean I have done very well in this field. I am very very fortunate. But I am still going gig to gig you know? And and and I have no job security. I am still completely at the whim of whether a presenter or a festival wants to hire me this year or not. And and and so you know the there is uh you are always stitching together your income in this profession and you know you are you know you are using April to pay for May you are using June to pay for July. Um you know if it would be one thing if I had not had those commitments right? Like yeah. Then I would have had to just figure it out. But given that there were these things lined up um and I and I think it is one of the things that is so confusing to me about this field because there is this kind of purported friendliness and this kind of like you know we are all in this for the for the love of it you know we are all in this for the you know the beauty and the love of art and the belief in the huh blah huh huh huh you know? And it is like and it is like yeah but then push comes push comes to shove I am also in it to get paid. Like this is my work. And yeah I I felt I felt I these were strongly worded emails but I felt really like clear that I had to send this message. And then of course all of the people were like oh - oh yes of course of course.  Oh really?  You know like oh uh yeah sure. Money.  So then they wrote you some checks?  Yeah for the most part.  Wow.  Yeah then they then they wrote me back and they are like oh yeah well let us uh we are we are going to have a meeting and we are going you know suddenly it was like just like save your ass kind of response and I was like no this is where you should have started.  Yeah.  This should not be like it is not my job as the person that you have contracted to hold your feet to the fire on such a basic aspect of our commitment to each other. And and then the other thing I would say that I noticed right away was also how many sort of like - first that like individual artists were setting up like relief funds. Um and then of course foundations as well were were were suddenly coming up with these kinds of relief funds and I and and I had very mixed feelings about well I mean I applied for all the things I could apply for uh you know 'ecause let us be honest I am a hustler and I will take the money where I can get it. But uh I I felt frustrated. Like the people who are the most vulnerable you know uh contribute the most to their own ongoing survival. And I just it makes me so angry that that that we have to immediately uh fend for ourselves 'ecause we have so little protection from the government.  Do you have a sense of how much money you lost due to COVID?  Uh probably somewhere from 15 to 20000. That was not just going to go to me but just also also the people that work with me.  So your whole sort of operation people who work with you.  Yeah.  Um is that a loss that you are going to be able to absorb without big changes?  Well you know like I said I applied for everything I could. I got a lot of that stuff. Um you know I of course eventually applied for the unemployment that I could and the which came with the with the extra little boost the of the 600. Um and then I I hustled and I got a lot of like uh virtual guest artists gigs throughout the spring. Like March April May. I was I was suddenly visiting schools and institutions all over the world uh you know like I  Uh huh. From your apartment yeah.  From from like my I was like actually in my mom's house in Florida  Oh.  and I was like hole holing up in my father's old office. So there was all kinds of feelings about that. None of those things were like paying some crazy amount of money but they paid decent and and and you know like I just I just did what we always do. I have not done sat down and done the numbers. Like I do not I cannot tell you exactly if I recouped the exact amount but I I did I did okay.  And did you you have been a professional artist for decades like did this  Yes.   Did COVID um did COVID like lay bare some of these labor dynamics in a way that you - like did you see them in a new way?  I mean it made it very plain but it is nothing it is no. No completely not new. You know there was a kind of concentration to the to the uh experience of you know losing a gig and you know but gigs fall apart all the time. And precarity is sort of the ground floor of this field uh and this idea that you do not know if you are going to you know be okay next year that feeling that is I mean that is a constant and that is been a constant for me kind of my whole professional career you know? Uh I mean I have been lucky and I and I kind of in general I am like Im I am like okay it is gonna be okay. It is gonna be okay. It is gonna be okay. But you know part of how it was okay was certainly for the first you know two thirds of my professional career part of it how it was okay was that my life was relatively cheap and I very foolishly did not pay my debts. So you know that is that was kind of my strategy.  Uh huh.  For a long time and and that was not not a great move on my part but it is the move I made. Coming up more about how Miguel got into debt as a young adult and how an unexpected windfall got him out of it years later.  I knew I was like okay Miguel this is your chance. Like fucking pay this shit off now. Do not even look at this money. Do not even you know touch it. You dont look at it you know you just you just boom uh pay this debt off get it out of your life.  As COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations rise across the country weve been thinking about the healthcare workers weve heard from this year. The nurse named Lindsay who sent in a voice memo about struggling to give people a good death during the pandemic wrote in to say that in right now in her Philadelphia hospital the mood is tense.  Something I feel like weve been dealing with on our end is just exhaustion. I think that everyone is tired of all the pandemic restrictions but we as healthcare workers feel this collective anxiety as if were all holding our breath waiting for the next wave to affect us. Lindsay worked in an ICU with COVID patients last spring. Shes now back working in a pediatric oncology unit.  Its really hard for my pediatric patients to have limited visitors especially around the holidays. I know for me personally not having the therapy dogs can be challenging. But Lindsay also said that work has felt like reprieve at times keeping her busy and away from consuming too much news. And she told us that a Death Sex  Money listener who heard her story this summer donated an iPad to the ICU where shed been working for COVID patients to connect with their families. You can find more updates from the health care workers weve gotten to know during the pandemic in our newsletter. Like from Sharron the CNA in Virginia whos now working on getting her associates degree. Read those updates and sign up to get our newsletter at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. On the next episode your stories about living alone. At a time when a lot of us are feeling isolated we reflect on some of the drawbacks of solo living and whats awesome about it.  Theres nobody to tell me not to have a dance party late at night.  Its actually quite pleasing.  Curl up roll a joint and watch Golden Girls by myself.  And I love it to the point of writing sonnets about it if I were the sonnet type.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Miguel Gutierrezs parents immigrated to the US from Colombia. His mother worked as a draftsperson making technical drawings for city planning and his dad was an electronics engineer. Miguel started dancing at an early age but his parents made clear that being an artist was not a career path they envisioned for him.  They completely did not understand it. They they were fearful of it I think from two perspectives. One of course as immigrants they were you know their plans for me and my sister were you know to have professional lives in in sort of traditional professional careers. You know that was sort of what they I think were hoping for as the lab like the product of the labor that they would gone through as immigrants in this country. And then the second thing was just uh homophobia. They were just you know when I you know decided I wanted to go into dance they you know I did not know this expressly at the time but later when I came out to my parents my dad was like I knew if I let you take ballet youd turn out this way you know?  Really?   I was yeah oh yeah. And I was like oh okay. So yeah. Uh you know fears confirmed. Now I know why you were being such a hard ass about me doing that. I was the kind of classic story of like the young like sort of girly homo boy who does not want to do sports. I mean dancing was one of the first places I experienced my body as my own. My sister and I would improvise for each other uh when we were kids. Like one person would put on music the other person would just go dancing and and dance for the other person. So so there it very like personal and also very like treasured this experience with my sister. And then and then you know I think that like I said there was a kind of almost like defiance you know because I I fought to do it. I did fight my parents to get to be able to dance as a kid. And so by the time my dad and my mom came around to accepting that I was doing this. You know and my dad started trying to be like Maybe you should audition for like uh Disney you know and and be on a a cruise boat. And I was like ooh not really what I am doing Dad. You know you know no hate on those people. Those are amazing artists. They have to dance all freaking day but that is like that was not the path the path I was going on.  Uh huh. Uh huh. And so and and did your parents talk to you about money?  No no. It is like my sister and I talk about this all the time. It is like they really did not teach us uh any kind of financial literacy and you know they my sister and I are five years apart. So uh and she skipped a grade. So she essentially was six years ahead of me. And the economic life my parents were living was much better by the time I was a teenager than when my sister was one. And I think maybe their unfortunately like they they were trying to protect us from a conversation about money and and the precarity that they experienced because my father worked for himself eventually in the eighties he he he started his own company and it was just you know he was kind of like me. He was freelancing essentially getting getting uh you know gigs. And but they never they just did not talk about it at home and they did not you know my mom was like you know You have to remember to save money. Like you know I think that was like the kind of extent but like I did not know what I did not know what credit was. I did not know what uh you know paying a bill on time looked like. It was like things just kind of happened you know it was this kind of privilege that I had that that that that actually kept me out of the world of knowing of what things actually costed.  And when you think back on your younger self and the choices you made um creatively like do you think that that privilege or that silence around money helped you be more brave?  I would not characterize it as brave because brave would suggest that there was real courage involved. It was like a combination of like I was dumb about money and you know I I knew that if the shit really hit the fan I could go stay with my parents. You know like there was or my sister could help me you know like I I did have back up. It is it is this thing where you you you know you will have a place to turn if if things go really south. I mean you know they went south financially for me in that like I started accruing debt really quickly and I did not deal with it for years and years and years. And so by not dealing with it it of course just ballooned. But but I I do think that instead really what was happening was because I had forged somewhat of a solitary path as an artist without a ton of support from my parents for a long time there was this kind of single-mindedness on my part of like this is the thing that I will make happen. And if it means that I go into debt if it means that I do not pay certain things on time if it means that I do not open that letter from the loan collector you know so be it because I am going to do this fucking thing you know and and and there was there was that that was a a very clear drive.  How did you decide to leave school? How did you know that you did not you did not want to be in college when you first went?  Well I think I had kind of talked the talk in high school even of like that maybe I was not going to go to college at all you know? And and I would just kinda like right away try to have a professional life and I was very um caught up in kind of classical notions of dancerly success which meant that by the age of 17 you are a professional in a ballet company. And I thought that to be like a 25-year-old dancer was already old. And then also because of my you know closeted-ness in high school I got to college and I just exploded sexually. I was just like voraciously sexual. And you know like the the school slut you know I was just like I was like here I am let us do it boys. You know? And and you know let me screw all the gay boys. And then now I did all the gay boys. Good. Let me screw all the questioning boys you know like let me be the conduit to gay you know for for doing the recruitment work uh for the community. And uh any ability I had had to be an academic person literally left me. Like I would literally look at a book and it was it was like suddenly the words were jumbled up. Like I could not I could not focus. All I could do was like party hookup with guys and go to rehearsal. Like those were the things I was good at.  Oh uh huh.  Thats what I could show up for.  You still went to rehearsal? Rehearsal was still important.  I still went to rehearsal.  Uh huh.  Rehearsal was still primary for me. Like no matter what else I did I was always present and I was always you know fully in. Um and and so I spent you know spent a year at Brown. I took a year off to do a bunch bunch of queer activist stuff in California. And then I went back to Brown and by the second year that I was at school I was like taking four dance classes a day. And I was like what in the hell am I doing here So I transferred to NYU and I went there for a year but again the sort of panic of my age really kicked in. Uh I was 21. So I was like you know what fuck this. I am going to like you know I am going to like freak my parents out by dropping out of college because ooh that is such a bourgeois rebellious act right? That is like what I thought was like super rebellious. Um and I knew that it would I knew it would hurt them and I and I think I I wanted to hurt them.  As you were having these conflicts with your parents did financial support come and go?  Uh they were paying for school to what they could you know and I would got I had some loans but once I left I was kind of on my own.  When you talk about the foolhardy um money management of your younger years um and the debt what what was the debt made up of?  Oh I I I literally went into collections like a week after I started college cause I got a subscription to Newsweek that I never paid like it was one like thats like the most pathetic credit score fail of all time like fucking Newsweek like sorry Newsweek but like really? Um and then I had I would gotten loans of course and you know knew nothing about what defaulting on a loan meant or I did not know how to you know ask for an extension. I did not know any I just did not understand. I did not really understand what like a loan was uh so I did not deal with that. I mean I was able to pay for my life and I was able to pay for for my rent and you know and we have not even gotten into this whole other beautiful part of the prism which was my alcoholism which was a whole other uh fun uh part of the picture which which also helped me to be financially irresponsible.  Was there a crisis that led to you getting sober?  Oh yes uh there are multiple crises. One was a physical one. I was 27 - 26 27. And I could not like bend my foot. I was diagnosed with gout. Um and I was like I am 26 years old. Like I am a professional dancer. I probably should be able to bend my foot you know? Um I was six months behind on my 250 a month rent.  Uh huh. Miguel Uh I was working at B Bar this like fancy restaurant and making you know probably anywhere between 150 to 200 a night and coming home with like 20 to 40 bucks being like where did all my money go?  Uh huh.  Um yeah it was it was a it was a it was a lot.  So you for you like part of the crisis of of your alcoholism was related to money running out.  Absolutely. It was a total abdication of financial responsibility. It was a ton of shame. It was just like I just I just did not tell people you know I just did not tell people. And even for years after I got sober I still could not open those letters from the from the loan collectors.  And so so this is like early 2000s. When when you think back on was there a was there a year where you are like that is the year I started to feel like I was financially making it as a as an artist?  Well in 2010  I I was I was really lucky. I got three different awards. I got a Foundation for Contemporary Art Award which I used to pay off my credit card debt uh which was you know my card was maxed out. I got a United States Artists Fellowship  Uh huh. Miguel which I used to pay five years of back taxes.  Wow.  And then I got a Gugg I got a Guggenheim.  Sorry I am laughing. I mean Im laughing just cause its like and the Guggenheim I I was able to like live off of you know like I I but those other two awards. I mean I was so lucky that that happened and so kind of you know and like what I was what 39 when that happened? Uh and and so from there forward I was able to kind of build a a a somewhat of a debt-free life. Um but it was not until I got another award in 2016 when I got the Doris Duke Artist Award that I was able to gather enough money to like for my future you know like I bought an apartment last year which was a huge deal uh and only possible because of that award.  So I I I am just kind of struck like it seems like in 2010 like you were the thing  Oh yes.  That everyone turned their head to and were like let us give him money this year!  Yeah. I got lucky. Yeah.  And does that like like when that happens does it make like was the feeling like how do I make this moment not go away?  You know I I I have been lucky 'ecause I know that that kind of fortune favors you for a brief amount of time. Uh you know it is just the case in in in any art field that there that there are moments when a certain artist or certain person is sort of you know living high on the hog you know like like like doing doing better right? There is a you know you will see the funding cycles like the same names for a couple of years and then you know they fall off the map and then the next crop of names comes up you know? And and I talk about it as like the promiscuity of the field. It is like you know you are in this kind of constant promiscuity uh of of commitment. You know you are like fucking this venue this year then you are fucking that venue the next year. You know it is like like that is kind of the the nature of the work is is that you you have these brief quite intense uh sometimes quite emotional uh connections that that dissipate. And that that becomes exhausting over time. And and and I mean I think that is something also that coronavirus has absolutely sort of you know it is fucked with my head of like okay you know there is also a whole there is a whole other part of me thats like do I ever want to tour again actually? Do I ever need to spend one more lonely night in a hotel room in Bumfuck Wherever? I know this is so like maybe this is like so gross to say but like I actually crave certain kinds of normalcy that maybe are just part of other people's lives sometimes. And and you know these are things that I thought were um indicators of some kind of uh arrival or uh you know success that I wanted. That I that I that I fought for that I tried to get um that I want and I did get. And so there and there is definitely a a a part of that where I am like maybe that is not the that is no longer the ambition. Thats Miguel Gutierrez. You can see his rant on Instagram about getting paid and get updates on his work by following him aboylikethat. Miguel is teaching at Princeton this year... and hes a student again. He re-enrolled at Brown to finish the degree he started in 1989. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Afi Yellow-Duke produced this episode. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thank you to Dr. Melissa Bell for taking me to the dance festival and introducing me to Miguels work last year. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. And thanks to Karen Capen in Alameda California who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Karen and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. As Miguels been working from home and thinking about art and commerce he is also decided to make a podcast about it.  It is going to be called Are You For Sale.  Okay. Are you for sale?  Yeah Are You for Sale. Yeah.  No are I am asking you.  Oh!  Honey I am for rent. You can sublet this shit.  I do not even know if you want to buy me but you can certainly rent me. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.