 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Legal marijuana for recreational use? Whoever thought we would see that happen? But last Tuesday voters in Colorado and the state of Washington passed ballot initiatives to legalize tax and regulate marijuana. Oregon voted down legalization. Also last Tuesday Massachusetts voted to legalize medical marijuana. Seventeen states including Colorado and Oregon as well as Washington D.C. had already done so. My guest Tony Dokoupil has been writing about the changing legal status business and culture of marijuana for the Daily Beast. He wrote the recent Newsweek cover story The New Pot Barons about how the marijuana entrepreneurs have been preparing for legalization. And he is writing a new book about marijuana that is part history and part memoir about his father who was a bigtime marijuana smuggler in the '70s and '80s. More on that later. Tony Dokoupil welcome to FRESH AIR. So let us just start with an overview of what changed legally during this election regarding marijuana.  Well it is been a profound change. In two states marijuana has not only been legalized for personal consumption and possession but over the next year it will see the creation of a regulated retail model which is something that does not exist anywhere in the world. And that process is going to be contentious it is going to be fascinating to watch and if it is not interrupted by the government it is going to be historic  by the federal government I mean.  And what are some of the other states that had marijuana changes in their law?  We have seen the march of medical marijuana legalization from 1996 to today and it is been accelerating and that is an important part of acceptance around legalization. I mean I think medical marijuana's acceptance is what explains the rapid acceptance and approval of legalization in Colorado and in Washington.  So if Colorado will soon have a regulated retail model for marijuana what does that mean?  It means marijuana in Colorado would be available much like alcohol and beer is available in Colorado. You would go to the store there would be brands. You pick it up off the shelf walk to the counter and exchange money  show your ID exchange money and walk out do what you want with it except for give it to kids. So identical.  So you can smoke marijuana in Amsterdam. What is the difference between that model and what is emerging in Colorado?  So Amsterdam is  you can buy small amounts over the counter and you can  but you cannot actually possess it. And crucially and this is the big distinction there is not a regulated commercial growing model. So what you do in a coffee shop quoteunquote in Amsterdam buy marijuana is acceptable but that  the owner of that coffee shop is committing a crime every time they go back to their stash house and pick up a new supply. In Colorado that would not be the case. Everything would be regulated.  So let us focus on Colorado some more. How did this pass? I mean I am still kind of shocked. Maybe I should not be. But I just did not  I did not expect legalization to be on the ballot and to get passed. So who was behind it passing? Like how did they manage to win?  Well they got major backing from the Marijuana Policy Project in Washington D.C. which is a big organization run by a former member of is the old grandfather organization or marijuana legalization. And it is a very wellfunded savvy organization. In the past it is received money from George Soros and from Peter Lewis the founder of Progressive Insurance. And they were the legal  the leading donor of the marijuana initiative in Colorado. And they also got a lot of smart help instate. There is a guy named Brian Vicente who moved to Colorado a decade ago to be a snowboarder ended up going to law school and then became a really effective advocate for marijuana legalization. He led a failed campaign for legalization in 2006 stuck with it and was victorious in 2012.  Now the idea is that marijuana sales will be taxed. Did that help sell the idea of legalizing it?  I am sure the fact that the economy is not doing well and you know many cities and municipalities are struggling to pay their police forces to you know get new fire trucks you know the fact that you could have tax revenue that would fix these budgetary problems from marijuana that certainly helped the legalization case. But it is not a slam dunk. I think people should realize that these really fabulous projections of tax revenue are not a guarantee because in Colorado and Washington State they are proposing really steep taxes you know 15 to 25 percent. And if you consider that an ounce of marijuana is 250 about today you are talking about 30 to 60 of tax. And you know people evade cigarette taxes for much less at stake than that. So this tax revenue is entirely dependent on people paying the tax and not finding ways around it which they have done to a great extent with cigarettes.  So you think there might still be a black market in spite of the legalization.  Well yes there could easily be a black market despite legalization. There could be a black market to evade taxes. There could be a black market to transport the legally grown Colorado marijuana to other states. So that is another you know economic question mark here. A lot of people say oh legalization is going to save so much money because law enforcement will not have to bust pot smokers anymore but yeah law enforcement's going to have to be doing other things now around marijuana. They are still going to have to guard the state borders and make sure people are not trucking the stuff out of state or buying too much in an attempt to then resell it to people who do not want to pay 15 or 25 percent in sales tax.  What is very confusing about this and I think everybody's confused about this is that Colorado and in the state of Washington it is legal now to buy to sell and buy marijuana for recreational use. But marijuana is still a controlled substance under the federal law. So the federal law and these two state laws are at odds. So what does the Justice Department plan on doing? Have they said anything about that yet?  The Justice Department has not said anything about  other than that they are reviewing the situation. There is speculation that a federal injunction will be issued preventing the legislatures in each of these states Colorado and Washington state from moving forward with what the voters have asked for until it is sorted out legally. And that is what everyone expects.  Colorado's Governor John Hickenlooper opposes legalization and after the law was passed he said federal law still says marijuana is an illegal drug so do not break out the Cheetos or Goldfish too quickly a quote that has since become quite famous.  Right.  And Colorado's attorney general who opposes legalization says that the amendment did not comply with required language under the Taxpayers' Bill of Rights and therefore the tax cannot be imposed. So even on the state level there seems like there is going to be potential obstacles going forward.  Yeah absolutely. I am actually surprised that the  Colorado's attorney general has not said he will defend the will of the voters because we saw a big historic development in Oakland earlier this year where the federal government is trying to seize assets from the biggest medical marijuana dispensary there and the city of Oakland for the first time ever has said no we are going to represent these people you know the city attorney generals are defending local business against federal law. And I am surprised that that is not happening in Colorado because of the duty of the attorney general there is in fact to defend the will of the people against anything that would curb what they desire at this point.  How has the Obama administration dealt with medical marijuana and does that offer any clues as to how it might deal with legalization?  The Obama administration has been really aggressive on medical marijuana and he is taking  you know the administration has taken a lot of heat for this. There have been raids on dispensaries in California mostly in California and you know people criticize the Obama administration for being worse than Bush on this subject but what Bush did not have to deal with is the explosion in the medical marijuana business the number of dispensaries. So when Eric Holder came in 2009 said you know the Justice Department is no longer going to focus on medical marijuana on busting medical marijuana users that led to an up tick in the number of people selling in states where it was legal and then there was this now famous memo called the Ogden Memo where  saying that you know if local sellers of medical marijuana are in clear unambiguous compliance with state law then the Justice Department should not use its resources to stop them. And that set off what everyone refers to as the Green Rush where you had just like hundreds and hundreds of dispensaries. And then in response to that explosion yes the Obama administration started doing things. But that is a very different thing than this legalization question. I think in California that explosion had to be answered by the feds because there is in fact no local enforcement that was able to respond to medical marijuana. This is probably getting a little bit in the weeds but you know California has medical marijuana but it has  it never bothered to regulate it with specifications that you would expect. There is only a few pages on the books saying this is what is legal and this is what is not and these are the bright red lines. So no one really knows what is legal and when local law enforcement finds something that they are not  and the feds come in and they bust people. You have not seen the same sort of busts in Colorado because they have this huge book this 200andsomethingpage regulatory structure that says what is legal and what is not. So you know so to answer your question I do not think what the Obama administration has been doing in response to medical marijuana is an indicator of what it will do in response to legalized marijuana. I think they are totally separate questions.  So if you are just joining us my guest is journalist Tony Dokoupil and he is been writing about marijuana. He has a book on marijuana that he is writing right now. He had the recent Newsweek cover story on Colorado and The New Pot Barons and of course Colorado and Washington state of Washington just legalized marijuana last Tuesday in the election. Let us take a short break here. Then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my guest is journalist Tony Dokoupil. He is writing a book about marijuana and he wrote the recent Newsweek cover story on Colorado and The New Pot Barons. Colorado is one of two states that legalized marijuana last week in the election. Colorado already has a forprofit marijuana market. Can you describe what that market is like now?  Colorado is an amazing state because it has the world's the industrialized world's only regulated forprofit cannabis market of any kind. It happens to be medical but it is going to be the basis for the legal market as well. It is an amazing system. It was created by this career lawman named Matt Cook who was director of enforcement at the state level and he took  he constructed this regulatory system using a little bit from used car sales laws and a little bit from casinos and a little bit from gambling. And he  it is extremely tight. He says he can regulate anything. And so what you have there is commercial grows you know more than a million square feet of warehouse space outside of Denver dedicated to growing marijuana and then you have hundreds of dispensaries dedicated to selling it. And the marijuana grown there is tracked from the time it is put into  not the ground because they are growing it indoors but by the time it blooms to final sale every single ounce is accounted for. It is an incredible system and you know legalization will likely borrow from it heavily in the next year or so.  You toured several pot warehouses. Would you describe the rooms in which the marijuana plants are grown?  Absolutely. I hope that in the future there are tours of marijuana warehouses in the same way that there are tours of breweries today because it is really incredible. By law you have to grow indoors in Colorado and to do that these rooms are rigged with lights that mimic the effects of sunlight to grow the plant. And you know different rooms have different seasons in them and there is a perpetual grow and different plants require different kinds of sunlight. So you walk into these warehouses and at first you do not see anything because the actual plants are in smaller rooms within rooms and all you hear is like the buzz of electricity. It is damp. You know you expect a forklift to come in from a side door. And then you get a little bit deeper in and you open one of these doors which are about the size of like Winnebagos where the actual plants are. And your eyes just recognize oh my God summer sunshine. It is like you want lemonade. And then you see a field of plants waving gently because they are stirred by fans. And there'll be classical music playing or there'll be hard rock depending on what the grower says the plant likes. And then you will go to another room and you open the door and it will have like a honeycoated light and you will be like oh fall I want a pumpkin latte how beautiful. And then there'll be workers in there too and the workers they are like the Keebler Elves of cannabis. They live among the plants they sleep there. They are caring for the plants constantly. They are deeply devoutly about the plant. And they are usually shirtless or walking around barefoot and it is like you  it is like Willy Wonka's chocolate factory except for cannabis. Like they are these people who are so committed and so interesting. It is so unlike who you would see at like the CocaCola factory that it is just a phenomenon experience. It is a feast for you know all of the senses.  So this legal marijuana is grown with such kind of care and love under such controlled circumstances indoors. Compare that to the product that comes in say illegally from Mexico.  It is not even  it is not comparable. You know Mexico historically grew its marijuana you know in these hilly  in ravines growing out with mule piss and like whatever fertilizer they could find. It was like it was not grown in ideal circumstances. No one cared about the quality in the '60s and '70s. People were not educated about marijuana to the extent they are today. So traditionally Mexican marijuana is grown outdoors and sold to you know the gringos who will smoke anything. It is been transported illegally so it is crushed in transit. In the old days at least it used to you know smell like gasoline or like seawater or whatever  however it was brought into the country. And it was not attractive to look at. You can look at High Times magazine sort of the Playboy of pot from the '70s and the centerfolds which you know are women in Playboy but are marijuana buds in High Times...   This is true. This is true. It is not an attractive thing. It looks like something you chewed at dinner and then put on the corner of your plate. It is like a root vegetable like broccoli you could not digest. It is  that is what the marijuana leaves used to look like. And now it is like a  it is a perfect furry little acorn like a green corn on the cob with just fur and these  and then you hold it up to the light and the crystals shine. You know the THC the stuff that gets you high comes  you know it is a crystal on the plant. And the layers are so thick on marijuana that is grown today that it is like a little chandelier. It is nothing like what you used to see.  And when it is sold it is already like dried and crushed and there is no stems or seeds or twigs in it.  No no stems no seeds no twigs no tarantulas no bugs.  Tarantulas great.   No really like smugglers in the old days used to you know get their weed from Colombia and they would put it on a sailboat  or Jamaica  and then they would  you know they would pack the sailboat as much as possible and sleep on the bales and make the sea journey. And they would wake up and you know a spider on their chest because you know all kinds of things live in these plants. I mean it is organic matter that is being grown out in nature. So all kinds of creepycrawlies but you know none of that here none of it.  You describe how initially the marketing of the medical marijuana was very tacky. So describe how it was initially sold.  Sure this is somewhat of a long answer because marijuana began under Prohibition of course so there was a lot of  you know it was confrontational sort of smokeinyourface culture protest culture antigovernment culture counterculture. And so you know strains of marijuana have names like Polio and you know Green Grenade and you know things that you do not traditionally associate with medicine. And then they had  there were these big marijuana festivals where you know just you can buy plastic bags already full of smoke and just inhale the plastic bags. You can eat any number of marijuana food products. And then of course there were the annual smokeins where people go to some public place and commit mass civil disobedience. You are disobeying the federal law against marijuana. So marijuana culture grew up out of that prohibition and now there is  you know under medical marijuana has been an attempt to get away from that to shift from the culture of protest to a medicinal culture. And that is been a bit of an awkward pivot because you know if you have cancer and you say you have got cancer you know you know what would be really great while you are undergoing chemotherapy you should smoke marijuana. Oh really? Let me try some. What is it called? Try this it is called Polio or it is called Green Crack.   It is a bit jarring. Oh you have got glaucoma have this Green Crack. That will help. And you know that does not mean it does not help but it just there is a  it is incredibly awkward.  And you were also describing in your article a time when like girls in bikinis would be selling five dollar joints and you know guys in sandwich boards would be advertising...  Oh yeah so after Eric Holder and the Obama administration suggested that they were not going to crack down on medical marijuana everybody and their brother dragged a trash bag full of weed out of their backyard and were like all right medical marijuana here for sale.   And you know doctors popped up and were selling instant  you know you needed a doctor's recommendation but this became a complete scam right. A doctor for like 35 I will give you a recommendation. You know it is not a prescription you are not violating any code that you have  you know no AMA code. So yeah there would be guys in sandwich boards. There would be doctors onsite in stores just sort of signing prescriptions and pot smoking was happening like crazy. And then Colorado is really interesting and this is the focus of my cover story in fact because there is a core of young educated politically connected and wellfinanced guys who said whoa whoa whoa we cannot have former blackmarket drug dealers and bikini girls as the face of our industry because the community is not going to accept it. So they partnered with  they partnered with law enforcement they partnered with the state legislature. They hired incredibly highlevel political consultants and lobbyists who work nationally and they are the inside force that led to the creation of Colorado's regulate medical marijuana industry which is unlike any in the country and which will be the basis for the legal regulated market. And so in response to the craziness that we saw in 2009 which still exists in Washington state by the way and in California to some extent you know something more subdued a movement toward control of regulated you know not in your face nonconfrontational pot culture has begun.  Tony Dokoupil will be back in the second half of the show. He is been writing about changing marijuana law business and culture for Newsweek and the Daily Beast and is at work on a book about marijuana. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with journalist Tony Dokoupil who has been writing for Newsweek and The Daily Beast about the changing legal status culture and business of marijuana. Last Tuesday Washington and Colorado became the first states to legalize marijuana for recreational use. They already had legalized medical marijuana. Dokoupil is at work on a book about marijuana that is part history and part memoir about his father who was a bigtime marijuana smuggler in the '70s and '80s. When we left off we were talking about Colorado's regulated medical marijuana industry which Dokoupil says will be the basis for the new regulated legal market. And Colorado passed a bill to create a framework for controlling the industry a sales framework.  That is right a very stringent sales framework. So in Colorado the medical marijuana growers have to have 24hour operations and that video is accessible by the state at any time. They can tap into it. And they all have these badges and they had to go through background checks to get these badges. So there is an attempt to keep blackmarket money out of it. So in Colorado you are not going to see a situation  or you are unlikely to see a situation where you know a dispensary is in fact just a front for a Mexican cartel. And then they had this additional rule which is pretty revolutionary where there is a 70  it is called a 70/30 rule where 70 percent of all the marijuana that each store sells they have to grow themselves. So that goes a long way to eliminating the introduction of black market weed. So stores are not just buying all of their weed from Mexican cartels and then marking it up. And that is a huge reason why the Feds have focused on California. California does not have tight regulations on who grows marijuana where it comes from. So the Feds move in and what they claim is that you know these are fronts these businesses these medical marijuana businesses are fronts for what are in fact just oldschool like market drug dealers. And they are not growing medical marijuana in small batches for patients their growing it in Mexico or their growing it in you know in the hills and they are just bringing it in and it is suddenly magically becomes legal once it gets in the store but in fact it is based on illegality. Colorado does not have that. So getting back to Colorado in Colorado there is a licensing fee that is like thousands of dollars. And who needs a license? What is the license? Right. So if you want to grow or sell medical marijuana in Colorado you need a license. And the licensing process is this really stringent process that includes the background check I just talked about and it is very pricey. So if you are like just a hippie spiritualist unfortunately  and this is controversial  you may struggle to survive to have the capital to survive in the current medical marijuana business in Colorado. And in fact there was this amazing day incredible day in Colorado when all the applications had to be in. So in 2009 there was this explosion the green rush hundreds of marijuana stores. Suddenly there were more than Starbucks in Colorado. And then a year later the new regulations come online and everyone has to apply for a license. And there is a grace period and all the rest but everyone has to apply. And then on deadline day there is like a mad rush of people trying to get their applications in. And these applications are like some of them are more than 1000 pages. That is what ends up  people end up turning in like pushcarts full of paperwork for their applications. But other people who were less organized are there with like you know graffiti style markers filling them up and filling out the applications as they walk in. And when you talk to people in Colorado you could tell  they could tell on that day who was going to be a player one year later and who was you know on you know in day one of bankruptcy.  So it is very controversial whether the business guys or the hippie guys should be  should have a right to the business.  Well yeah because there are people who believe that marijuana is God's plant and the government does not have any business regulating it. People have no business selling it making a profit off of it that this is medicine and it is obscene to try to profit off of it. I mean that is a significant subculture within the marijuana  the wider marijuana culture. But you know the other  this is the other  the other background that is important is because of federal prohibition the medical marijuana industry is not an industry that has traditional bank loans. You cannot walk into Bank of America and say I have a small business. I have like a million dollars and here's my projections. And you know you cannot even  because the banks are afraid that they are going to be complicit in a crime if they give you money. So that creates a kind of elite especially in Colorado. You have to have access to private capital. That means you either have rich family or rich friends or you know some other creative means of getting cash because you are not getting it through traditional channels.  So you know if you are in business there is a lot of you know like business tax deductions that you can claim and that is you know that is always very helpful if you are in business. But you know in terms of like IRS tax deductions you know growing and selling marijuana is still illegal with federal law. It is a controlled substance. So you cannot  I assume you cannot you know deduct your business expenses in your federal returns.  Sort of. You kind of can right? This is a very very interesting contradiction that the federal government has. So while the Justice Department raids medical marijuana dispensaries and threatens others the IRS is happy to accept taxes on the millions of dollars in sales that they generate. With  and the taxes that the IRS takes are huge much bigger than the average business because they do not allow deductions related to the sale  to employees to health insurance to the sale of the marijuana. Confusingly they do allow you to deduct the cost of growing the plant. So the result of that  well there are two readings on that. You know one reading is hey that is a conscious decision. Clearly the government is  you know somebody in the government is in our corner because if all deductions were removed  which could happen. I mean there is no reason why it has not happened except for this approval  if all the deductions were removed no medical marijuana industry  business or marijuana atlarge business could survive without IRS deductions. So some people see it as a winkwink from the government.  So a lot of people have been speculating that you know when marijuana becomes legal in states and especially when it becomes legal in more states or if there is a federal law making it legal that big tobacco's going to move in and take over the industry. What kind of speculation have you heard about that and have you done any investigation into the possibility of that?  I have. I think it is very likely that the acceptance of marijuana will lead to big players moving in. That could be big tobacco. It could also be a big commercial food company like Kraft Foods. I mean that is not going to happen tomorrow but that is the longterm trajectory. And I actually recently talked to Peter Bourne who was the chief drug policy officer the drug czar under Jimmy Carter in the late '70s and at that point there was serious discussion of legalizing or decriminalizing marijuana. And Peter Bourne told me yeah absolutely. The tobacco companies they had plans in place. They were ready to flip the switch if we decriminalize or legalized. They absolutely had contingency plans he called them in place. So you know the tobacco companies when you call them up and you say Do you have plans? They say no. We do not have plans. But they would be stupid not to have plans. And the people who were in the position to know like Peter Bourne say yes they have plans.  What are the concerns about what it would mean if the tobacco industry took over the marijuana business?  Well you know we have seen legalization in two states. That is the first step towards legalization in other states. That is a step towards legalization nationally. So you have a third vice industry like tobacco and like alcohol. The problem with that is that 80 percent of the profits of tobacco companies and alcohol companies may come from heavy users. The business model is based on people consuming more than they should. And so there is a strong economic incentive for big marijuana companies to create as much addiction as possible. And yeah sure marijuana is less harmful than Jack Daniels but it is not the same thing as safe or helpful in the home or helpful in the workplace or good. And so the longterm worry is that you have sophisticated marketing programs in place distribution programs in place that create a doubling or tripling of the current level of marijuana usage. And we are already by the way we you know Americans use marijuana at triple the global average. So we are talking about a tripling of a tripling and that is a big deal. I mean it is something to think about which is why you know many people are in favor of  or I believe will become more in favor of as they realize the risks  of severe limitations on the size of marijuana businesses and the advertising that they can undertake.  When you were in Colorado reporting on the medical marijuana legal market what are some of the forms that you found marijuana being marketed in?  Marijuana is in anything you want. I mean it comes in the original plant product and vegetable product and it comes in hot dogs. I recently toured a marijuana products company the biggest in Colorado. It is called Dixie Elixirs and it is soon to be the biggest nationally because it has a distribution network in place. And they make fizzy sodas with THC and  a lot of THC 120 milligrams which you know a joint has five milligrams. So we are talking about a serious dosage. They also make truffles which have won awards. And these truffles the one I saw has 300 milligrams of THC. That is a powerful hit of marijuana. And they also sell more medicinallooking items like pills and this like a droplet of THC that you put beneath your tongue. It has like a berry flavor very medicinal. But yeah marijuana is in everything. It can be put in anything. I talked to a woman whose family is involved in the restaurant business and Wanda James is her name. She is got  her husband runs a couple restaurants in Denver and she used to run a dispensary but now she is preparing for opening what she hopes to be the first legal marijuana shop and she envisions it to be like Whole Foods but everything will have weed in it. And there is no reason to believe  I mean she is someone who you  who is a credible creator of a Whole Foods of marijuana as she describes it. You know her husband has very good restaurants. They know how to cook marijuana products. They have warehouse space for the grow. And so yeah medical marijuana is currently available in everything you could imagine in Colorado any food product. And you will see the same thing in a legal market.  My guest is journalist Tony Dokoupil. He is been writing about changing marijuana law business and culture for Newsweek and The Daily Beast. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us my gu