Charlie Shrem In prison the more of a celebrity you are the less respect you get. You are judged on who you are as a person and I like being judged like that because I feel like I am a I am a pretty okay person. People liked me and I was judged on that not on the Bitcoin stuff. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Charlie Shrem was a millionaire by the time he was 22 years old. Within a few years hed lost it all. I recently talked to him live on stage in Los Angeles. Charlie was an early Bitcoin entrepreneur. He co-founded a company called BitInstant which helped users convert dollars into Bitcoin. Then someone started using that Bitcoin to do illegal things on the internet and Charlie knew about it. He was arrested and served a little over a year in prison after a plea deal. Now Charlies 27 and hes rebuildingnot just his bank account. Hes left the Orthodox Jewish community he grew up in and lives in Florida with his now-wife Courtney. She met him when he was flying high then visited him regularly in federal prison. When we talked their wedding was just a few weeks away. She sat in the front row while Charlie and I talked. Anna Sale Charlie I want to start with the day you got out of prison. Can you just walk me through that day?  Oh my god. That day...that was a crazy day. So basically what happens is you prepare for this day like you kind of know about it for a few weeks in advance you dont know when youre getting out until a few weeks before. You kind of - as you get closer you kind of know like around the day and then it changes and then they dont give you a hard date until a few weeks notice. Its - I dont know. When you are in there more than six months you have to institutionalize yourself. You have to forget about the world on the outside you have to forget - you have no internet no communications and so youre cut off from the whole world.  And when youre about to get out youre about to like enter back into society. And it was one of the scariest things in the world because even though I was only in there for a year I became accustomed to prison life. I was used to itI had my friends I had my daily routine I had my workouts. The world that I knew existed existed in Lewisburg Federal Prison. Thats what my life was. Um but when you get out um what happens is you wake up early in the morning they take all your stuff you go into processing we were just - we were in this big room waiting for our people to pick us up. And like Courtney - I guess they were late or on the highway or something and I was like freaking out like Im not getting out or the governments arresting me again I didnt know what was going on. And then finally they said theyre here they pulled up in the parking lot and I just had a box of stuff.  And I walk out in like my my prison uniform cause you get to keep it like in my sweatpants and tee shirt and Im all jacked up  and um I have my box and I walk into the parking lot and Im like lets get out of here before they change their minds. You know? And - and then we drove off and Im like .  Okay so I want to - well get to how you came to prison.  Sure.  But I want to go back to when you were first learning about money as a kid. You grew up in an Orthodox community. Your dad was a jeweler. Your mom a stay at home mom. How would you describe how you were taught about money when you were a kid?  My father went out of his way to make sure that I always understood the value of a dollar. And he we were we were upper middle class growing up in Brooklyn and we had a nice house and I never like had to struggle for food or anything like that. And I went to a good school and um my parents did not - they did not do anything to excess. They never just said here's a bunch of money do whatever you want. It was always like I had - I had to be accountable for it. I had an allowance like that gave me like 20 bucks a week or whatever it was for school but I had to be accountable for that money. If I spent it they would not um give me more. And then what had happened was when I was in high school you know computers started getting big and stuff. I started - people had computer issues at home like printers breaking or routers needed being reset or just things they did not know how to fix. And I realized that I can provide a good service just being someone that they can call on demand and I charged like 20 bucks an hour or whatever it was and I just fix it and I would be like the SY tech guy. Just being the guy...  SY?  Syrian. Syrian Jewish. That is like the moniker we call ourselves SYs. Uh I would be SY tech guy.  Uh huh.  We used to go around and fix people's stuff. And one guy paid me to like put a cellphone antenna on top of his roof. And I was like 15-16 years old. And I started making like really good money.  Like how much? Like in high school...  Like a hundred bucks a week. Yeah. It was like - for someone you know in high school like that was - I remember I bought my first car when I was a junior in high school. And my parents did not give me any like they really - but there was a problem. Are you ready for this? Um I got a credit card in the mail. When I was like 18. The day I turned 18 I got credit I was still in high school. I had a 6000 credit limit. And I was I was taking people to Vegas. No not really but I was I was spending -like the first month I spent it.  And how did - where do you go? How did you spend it?  I do not know! Like pizza stores and and uh just stuff. Like I just I do not even know what did I buy? Just whatever. You could not drink at the time right I did not start drinking till I was 21. Um but I just. Just food and stuff for my friends and I tried - oh I took like um lessons to learn how to fly a plane that cost a bunch of money.  Uh huh.  Just stupid things. Stupid things.  Was it a secret from your parents your credit card?  Yes and no. So they knew I had it but they did not realize like how much in debt I was getting into. So I got into a lot of debt. I got into like a lot of debt and I turned around and I was like graduating high school and I was like at least 10000 in debt and it was a lot for a kid. And I was freaking out. And my father found out because I was actually traveling on a Birthright trip. So I went on one of those free trips to Israel and he I guess he got a letter in the mail and he opened it and he saw that. And he freaked out and he said I am not bailing you out. Like you have to figure out a way to pay for this. And I said like dad I am like - I am making the minimum payments. He is like but you are still spending the card like - so what my father did was we sat down when I got back and he was furious. So he we turned off the card. He took the card from me and I got a loan for the full amount on the card and he secured it against the house. So he helped me out in that respect. So the interest rate was lower than that of the card. And I had set payments. It was like 2-300 dollars a month. And I had to make those payments.  To your parents.  No to the credit card company.  To the credit card company.  Yeah my parents did not pay it. Like I had to pay it off. And I did I paid off after two years.  And since I was 18 I swore off credit cards and even now like I have one card but my limit is only at like 3000. I keep it really low.  Really?  I do not like debt. I do not like debt. I have this fear of debt because I got scarred when I was younger.  You pay with debit cards for everything?  Pretty much. Yeah. Or Bitcoin or cash. Yeah. Yeah I do not I do not like debt.  So is that what caused you when you were a student at Brooklyn College to start you started a commerce company on the internet...  Yeah.  Was that to try to get out of this debt?  That was part because I was - I was like a closet rebel from my parents very early on. And I realized because they were very religious like super religious. And they had they had like. From when I was born the life was pre-set out for me. I would have like I would go to school. I would have my father's company. Parents would buy me a house down the block. I would have like pick your wife from these 10 girls. Like but it would be a good life! A lot of like my cousins. Some of my old friends they love it. You know. It is sheltered. You have your whole life set for you and it is great.  Stable.  Stable. But I wanted to have my own way. I wanted to make my own mistakes. I wanted to learn. I wanted to see where life would go. I wanted to leave Brooklyn.  So it was a ticket out.  It was a ticket out. So financial independence was a ticket out. And so one day my cousin over dinner was like Hey Charlie you are really good at computers right? And I said yeah. He said Well we have all this extra stuff in our warehouse. What if you build a web site and you just sold it like and you can have it at cost just get rid of it? And I said great.  That is a good deal.  Like I am not doing anything else right? So I did that. I literally went to the warehouse with my laptop I built a website called dailycheckout.com and just I would just start like they have like a thousand of these old digital cameras. And I would sell them at cost and make like 2 on the shipping right? So I sold it free with 5 shipping my cost is a dollar and the shipping was 2 I made 2. And it really took off. And so I found myself getting calls from a lot of other warehouses saying hey we have all this extra stuff. Can you sell it for us? So I did not have to take on any risk and it was really good. I mean for an early college and I was making like 600 dollars a week which was which was pretty good money um back then. And so - it still is good money. And so I mean I was making this money. I was saving it I was paying off this debt. I was traveling. I had financial independence except for the fact that I was like living at home and I could have moved out like I had - it was not about the money but I needed my parents' - I always felt that I needed my parents' blessing. Like I could not get over that like I could not get over that religious hurdle. I could not get over it. I could not fully leave and not look back. Because I knew once you once you leave my community you cannot go back. That is it. I was excommunicated and my parents held like a funeral for me. Legit. I was completely ex-communicated. I did not go to my sisters' weddings. My parents will not be at my wedding. You - you - but I made that decision. But it took me a long time to make it. Um and I had a lot of resentment. I did. I was super angry. My parents visited me once in prison they never came back. They never sent me money. They never - and I and I held a lot of anger. But I realize that life is too short to hold resentment.  So it strikes me that you are - you have two things happening in your life at the same time. You are in Brooklyn College. You are trying to figure out your relationship to your family you are trying to figure out how much distance you can allow from them for yourself. And you are also realizing that there is pathways for you to make more and more money.  Yep.  Did making more money and seeing that you could make a lot of money through Bitcoin and through BitInstant accelerate your pulling away from your family?  It did. Um all of a sudden I went from having this one family and now I have this new family. The Bitcoin community. I grew up in a very like I was telling you earlier in a very sheltered and closed-off community where it is more it is like ethnocentric. They believe that they are the best and everyone else is inferior to them. So that is the way I was raised and I saw a lot of moral like issues with that. And I really struggled with that and I was one of the reasons I had to leave. Um but the Bitcoin community was a - especially back then when it was still so small. It was a real life working example of a community where everyone was equal because we all had our common agenda of revolutionizing the financial system.  Just that.   Just that. Like that was our agenda. Our agenda was that. Did not matter who you were or what you were we were all a big family.  What during this period before you went to prison and in Fortune Magazine your fiance is quoted as saying during that period you were a little arrogant.  I was more than a little arrogant yeah.  Like in what way? Was it were you arrogant because all of a sudden you felt like you had stumbled upon this thing that was increasing in value and you had a lot of money and you had figured this thing out before other people had?  I do not know if it was like that. I just - picture this. I was like 22 years old. I had half a million dollars sitting in the bank.  Like in a savings account?  Like just in a checking account. Just whatever.  Not even in a savings account!  No I had no expenses. Like no overhead. I owned a nightclub. I lived above it. I was dating a beautiful girl. Like life was great. I would walk around like my shit did not stink. That is what it was. Coming up Charlie finds out that someone is using his company to move money on Silk Road the underground website where people bought drugs fake IDs and child porn. And he reaches out to that person. In writing.  I wrote an email saying like I know you are on Silk Road I know you are reselling these Bitcoins on Silk Road. Like you better stop or else you know you better calm down. That is what I sent him and that e-mail was the smoking gun because that email I admitted that I knew what he was doing. -- After having this conversation with Charlie and hearing all your reactions to our episodes about Alice the shoplifter we have been thinking a lot about money class and social mobilityand how hard those things are to talk about. And you have been too. A listener who asked to go by Monica recently emailed us. She said she identifies as upper-middle class now but she grew up in public housing and didnt always have enough to eat. I have been on both sides she wrote. She continued Our class shapes our morals and views around money greatlyThe idea of social class is taboo in the U.S. yet it determines so much about how we deal with and have access to money sex and death. So we want to hear how you think about classsocial economichowever you define it. Send us your stories about a time when you felt particularly aware of your class whether its a time when it changed or when you noticed how different you felt in relation to people around you. Send us an email or record voice memo and send it to a special inbox classdeathsexmoney.org. Theres also a link on our Facebook page. Again send your stories to us at classdeathsexmoney.org. On the next episode I talk to journalist Lisa Ling about growing up on national television and what her childhood taught her about sex and relationships. Lisa Ling Being raised primarily by a man made me very you know man-like in many ways. Like I never really felt inhibited about just going up to a guy and asking him if he wanted to have a drink or whatever. And I think that one of the reasons why I always was able to date the guys I wanted to date was because I did not wait for them to ask me. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Charlie Shrem was arrested by federal agents at JFK Airport in January 2014 when he was flying home into New York. He was charged with money laundering and operating an unlicensed money transmitting business. Before he was arrested Charlie told me worries about legal trouble had already prompted him to shut down his business BitInstant.  My lawyers basically said well like you know the company is getting to a point where a lot of people are you knownot a lot of people but this one guy is buying Bitcoins and reselling them on Silk Road. And - because that is what it was this guy was a customer of ours and he bought Bitcoin and then he would then resell those Bitcoins on Silk Road so then those people would then go buy drugs and stuff like that. And I knew about it. I did. And I did not really care and I was a young kid. I did not really care enough to stop it because I was making money. And um my lawyers eventually sent me a letter and they said if you do not shut the company down right now we cannot represent you anymore. So we shut down the company. That day it was like July 3 2013. And we put this thing up on BitInstant and we said sorry like we are shut down. No one lost any money it was it. And so I thought I was good because we shut down the company. My hand was not caught in the cookie jar. And then it was not like eight months later is when I got arrested.   I want to know a little bit about your time in prison.  Sure.  Who were your friends?  Oh I had - there is no such thing as friends in prison. It is like people who have aligned agendas to you. That is what it is more like. Because at the end of the day like everyone is in it for themselves. Everyone wants to go home to their families. So you are - you do not really have friends but you are living with a guy for a year next to him in the same bunk. Obviously you are gonna you know become like have like a relationship with a guy like you are going to become friends with him and when he has issues with his family or you do you confide in each other. Um a lot of other people helped me out. Like this is one guy I remember every cell has a light and I like to read. I read 137 books that year. I read a lot. I was reading. I do not have a book light. So I kept my cell light on and he was not - I forgot where he was. So I had the cell light on and all of a sudden this like huge guy just like he is known as like a leader of some crew walks into my cell and walks up really close to me and I am laying on my top bunk. Right? And he is a tall guy. He comes up all right to my face. And he says Hey Shrem you know we are trying to sleep right now. And your light's on really bright. And I am like shaking right. He goes Here borrow my book light. Give it back to me when you get your own. I am like oh my God! But he was like - there are a lot of really good people in there who made mistakes. And when you are in prison it is not like TV where everyone's like oh I am innocent. Everyone tells you they are guilty. I am guilty. Because to say you are innocent minimizes all that hard work you are doing to get out. I I hate when people come to me now and they say Oh well you know you should not have been convicted and it was you know stupid crime and the government... Do not say that. I was guilty. I did my time. I worked my ass off to do that time. And I moved on now. I am over it.  Was it hard to walk away from being able to watch the valuation of Bitcoin and to know how much money you had and what your net worth was?  Yeah.  Well so I did not have much because I got like the best - I got Dominique Strauss-Kahn's lawyers. I got the best lawyers you can possibly get but they cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. I walked into prison with sixteen thousand dollars to my name. I was almost wiped clean. Um so when I was in there I told people like do not tell me what the price of Bitcoin is. Like do not tell me that stuff I do not want to know. You can tell me news and things but do not. Like some people were telling me Yeah every day I will email you or I will send you a letter what the price of Bitcoin is. I was like do not. Do not do that. Sometimes I would ask but other than that do not I do not want to know.  Did you still have Bitcoins that you owned when you went into prison?  Very few like three or four.  So you come out of prison. When did you look at your bank account like to see how much money -  I did not actually turn on a computer for two months. For two and a half months. I did not get a cell phone and I did not turn on my iPhone. I did not tell anyone I was out. I told you. I was weird. Like I was not ready.  What was it?  What do you mean?  Like what - why the hesitancy to engage?  I just was not ready. I was not ready to tell the world I was out. I was not ready to go on the computer. Check my email. Tens of thousands of emails waiting for me. Like I just I was not ready. Um I enjoyed waking up every morning having the coffee. I worked as a dishwasher at a restaurant. I had to maintain a real job for six months.  And what counted as a real job?  Anything that is not on the internet like a physical job that they can come and see you in rural Pennsylvania. The only job I can get was a dishwasher at a restaurant. And at the time I was like this sucks. But in hindsight it was one of the best experiences. Like I thought prison was humbling. Being a dishwasher 11 hours a day. Going being from a millionaire just literally washing dishes for 8 dollars an hour. And you could not quit. If I quit I would go right back to prison. I had to be there and they would come visit me. They would call the job is Shrem there? they would call me in the middle of the night. Are you home? You had a curfew 9 oclock every night they would call you. Where are you are you home? You need to be accountable. I loved it.  And was - was there behavior when it came to money that you did not want to resume when you were reentering that you felt like was destructive or amoral before you went into prison?  In prison everything is given to you. You have shelter you have food you have a shower you have water. You have your friends. You do not need to spend a dime. Everything you need to spend money on a prison is like extra. So you just kind of go about your day and do your job and hang out with your friends and play cards and eat and work out and you do not have to worry about money. You do not have to worry about paying bills. You do not have that electric bill coming. You are part of a social collective in there where you are all the same. I guess a part of me did not want to resume that normal life of like paying the bills paying rent. Paying a cell phone bill being a slave to money again. I did not want to go back to that. I would be - moreover in prison than even when I was wealthy before I became financially independent in prison because I did not have any dependencies. I did not have people that I had to pay for and I did not have anything to pay for myself. I just wanted to be in my shell and my bubble for a little while longer in Pennsylvania where no one knew who I was and life was just easy and good and not stressful.  Um I asked you backstage how many Bitcoins you own. The current value is 4000 dollars. You would not tell me.  Yep. That'ill put a target on my back.   When you think like when you are like thinking in the back of your mind like how much money do I have? Like when you are thinking you know in one of those moments where you are like do-nuh-nuh like doing the math. What is my net worth? What percentage is in actual dollars and what percentage is like Bitcoin?   Uh good question. So I am trying to do where it is - I am investing I am taking a lot of Bitcoin and selling it as the price goes up and putting it into real estate especially down in Florida where we live. I am trying to get like rental properties to rent out to renters obviously. And so I would I am comfortable where it is where it is like 33 percent fiat 33 percent Bitcoin 33 percent property. Real estate.  That is where you are comfortable.  That is where I am trying to get to. I am about I am about that. About that because then if Bitcoin goes to zero which it is an experiment it could. I will not be on the street. A lot of people have like ninety-five percent of their wealth in Bitcoin. And great for them I am happy. But I got to be smart. I am getting married we will have children eventually I cannot you know I cannot do that. I cannot take I cannot speculate with my rent.  One final question from me before we part. You are getting married in four weeks. Do you plan on combining your finances as a family or keeping them separate?  Yep. We already have joint accounts. Yeah we already. Uh that is our money. Um we have friends who are like engaged and stuff and money is like a huge taboo. They are afraid to talk about it. They do not know how to deal with it between each other joint bank account like whose money is it my money is your money? It is - and it is a reason for a lot of divorces. And so we are completely open with each other about it. She knows how much money we have at any given time. She has access to all of it if she needs it. God forbid likeshe has her own Bitcoin. And we have a good system and it works and so there is no it is all fair and equal. And we have we do not worry about it. But she is great though. She will go into a store and spend 100 and get 15 outfits. I do not know how she does it. So I -    I do not know how you do that. Thats Charlie Shrem. Hes an executive with a technology company now. And based on my time with him hes also regularly monitoring the value of Bitcoin on his phone. Charlie and Courtney got married in September after relocating their wedding because of Hurricane Irma. Thanks to the team at the Annenberg Space for Photography for hosting us in LA. We recorded this conversation with Charlie there in conjunction with an exhibit called Generation Wealth. Thats a collection of photographer Lauren Greenfields work that explores the changing ways that people across the globe are showing off their wealth. Its really great. You can see that exhibit in New York City at the International Center of Photography until January 7. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And dont forget to send us your stories about class and the moments when youve been most aware of your class status. Email your story or send us a voice memo to classdeathsexmoney.org There may not have been actual money in prison but Charlie says there was a system of currency based on packets of mackerel.  And things were denominated in mackerel like a haircut is two macks. If you want a pie of pizza this guyll make you a pizza in the microwave thats six macks you could hire a personal trainer  Really?  Yeah you can hire a personal trainer for like a mack a week two macks a week. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.