Anna Sale Does the word accident feel like the right word? John Vargas No it does not but that is what I say to people who do not...if they have any kind of inkling or like I said I do not talk about it. Anna Sale Why does not the word accident feel right to you? John Vargas Because in my head it should not happened. I should have saw her. I beat myself up and I will beat myself up the rest of my life trying to figure it all out. This is Death Sex  Money the show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. John Vargas is 56. He lives in Chicago and works for a utility company there. John Vargas And I have worked for them for 34 years. 23 of them as a underground person. I worked in manholes splicing cables lead cables And then I was a crew leader leading the crew. And then in 2007 I took the foreman position. Nearly five years ago one Saturday morning towards the end of January he reported in for work. John Vargas I would gotten the crews off that morning. It was going to be a very nice January. I say that because you give out a message in the morning and the message was Hey it is going to be a nice day guys. We drive big trucks. The guys drive big crew trucks bucket trucks whatever you want to call them line trucks. You remind them Hey it is going to be a nice day today. Unusual for January. People are going to be out and about. People are going to be walking. Just be aware you are driving. Be careful. John spent the morning driving around in his truck talking with other foremen on the phone checking in with his various work sites. Around lunchtime he stopped off at his house to make a sandwich to eat in his truck and then started driving back towards the office. He got to an intersection across from a local restaurant. And he put  his blinker on. John Vargas I had the green light. I had seen the arrow got into the turn lane to make a left-hand turn to go West. As I made the turn obviously I was slowing down. Something caught my attention. I looked to the right still turning to the left. When I looked back as I was in the turn pretty much getting ready to go straight there was someone. A older woman and I was like Oh shit and I hit the brakes. The truck bumped her. I was not going that fast obviously but I bumped her enough that she fell away from the truck. I jumped out. There was two men standing there. The guy I remember him looking at me saying Oh dude I was trying to get your attention. She was not paying attention. She was on her phone. She was not paying attention. Then everything clicked in. I ran to my truck. I got the first-aid kit. There was already a couple of people behind kneeling down by the elderly woman. That was it. I remember talking to her and comforting her telling her It is going to be okay. Then the paramedics showed up and came up to me and asked me if I was okay. People started asking me questions. I do not remember what they were asking me. The paramedic did ask me Are you okay? I said Yes. My right hand which-- You do not even think about it. My right hand was covered in blood.  Bear with me a minute because I can feel that coldness as I remember it that day. You feel it now. He asked if that was my blood. I said No that is not my blood. I am fine. He got me a towel and that was it. All these people were showing up and I was questioned by the police and told them what happened. Then some other people approached me. There was a couple I will never forget. They were both in matching Carhartt jackets. She walked up to me with her husband and she said Listen it is okay. It is going to be all right. Then the restaurant owner talked to me. The waitress was standing there and they said Listen it is okay. It is a terrible corner in that town for accidents. All the stuff was swirling around me.  Finally the ambulance left. Before the ambulance left they told me that she had passed away. That was pretty much the end of me for that moment. I just lost it there because never in a million years did I think that was going to happen. I just believed it was going to be okay and that was it. It never occurred to me that that was going to be the outcome. Anna Sale How do you think back on it So many people when they were trying to comfort you the thing that they told you was it is going to be okay. How do you think back on that? John Vargas It is comforting but it does not matter because in my mind and in my head I am better than that. Why did not I see her? I will go to my grave questioning myself for that. You know what I mean? Anna Sale Yes. John Vargas No matter what I do not know how I did not see her. I knew it was an empty intersection there were no cars. I saw everything. Did I scan too fast? Did I look away? Should not I have not looked away? To the point where why did not I eat at home? Why did not I stop and see that crew? What could I have done to offset this time that I was not there at that moment? That is what I live with. And John is far from the only one. Accidental injuries are the fourth leading cause of death in the United States. Nearly 200000 people die every year from overdoses fires unintentional gun discharges falls and car crashes. And in some of those accidental deaths the person who caused them survives. Female  The kids were attempting to cross the road from their bus stop to the bus that was on the other side of the road when they were hit by a pickup truck. Male  ...2016 2500 Dodge pickup collided with a group of motorcycle riders from the Jarheads Motorcycle Club on that two-lane highway... Male  ...an apparent accidental shooting of a woman on a New Mexico movie set... Female  Improperly disposed smoking materials are to blame. Two people are dead. Female  The teens were handling a shotgun when it suddenly fell knocked off an appliance inside the garage and discharged hitting the victim. John Vargas When you are reading or watching about the hit and run about this and that nobody talks about that person on the other side. Do they think we wake up in the morning and wanted this to happen? Anna Sale Where did you go that evening? John Vargas I went home. I got a ride home. I told my daughter. That was tough. She was what? 18 at the time. How do you tell your daughter that? How do you talk about something like that? You are supposed to be the example. How do you tell your daughter what you did? That was that. I think I told my mom then later that night I went out with a handful of friends. It was a distraction. You know what I mean? Anna Sale Uh-huh. Did they all know what had happened? John Vargas Yes yes. It was kind of a...they were rallying behind me and it was going to be okay and support. Anna Sale Where did you go together? John Vargas I think we went to a Mexican restaurant and had drinks and conversation. It was nice but I was not there mentally. I was still at that scene. I was still trying to help that woman in my head. The whole outcome it was just shock. You are just going through the motions you know? After his accident John was not charged with the crime. He signed some forms for his company and that was it. He believes there was a settlement with the family of the woman who died. And not long after he returned to work. But John did not feel absolved of anything. John Vargas Of all the things that I have been through divorces losses of family you name it everybody goes through stuff. You just deal with it and you go on but this I knew I could not do this. I knew right away I could not do this and I had to do something. I did not know what but I had to do something. I called my doctor. I told her what happened and she referred me to a psychiatrist. I met with the psychiatrist a few days later and she in a nice way said I cannot help you. I went Oh I am that crazy huh? She laughed. She goes No. She goes You need a specialized person. You need a trauma counselor is how she put it. Luckily she knew someone and that led me to the counselor I see now once a week. Anna Sale Was it hard for you to ask for help or you felt like This is just what I need right now? John Vargas It was hard. It was hard to talk about obviously. Here I am what was I at the time? 51 52? This does not happen to me. This does not happen. This cannot be happening but I knew something. I had to do something because there was no way. I was experiencing and feeling things that I had never felt before in my life. Sleeping I went to bed that night it was there. I could not fall asleep. I was afraid to go to sleep because I kept seeing it. My body was reacting weird. I was twitching. I was seeing things come at me. It was like a living nightmare. The coldness that I talked about on my right hand that would not go away. My hand was cold. I kept wearing a glove and I thought it was weird. It would not go away. It was the weirdest thing. It was so cold. Therapy helped John a lot. He also started meditating. But he still felt isolated and had not found anyone else who had been through what he had. John Vargas There is nowhere for us to go. You can walk into any place in any town any city there is an Alcoholics Anonymous. There is a Smokers Anonymous. This is we are like a bunch of-- I described it as like the Scarlet letter. We all have our Scarlet letter but we do not know we are out there and we do not know how to meet and we do not know how to comfort each other. We do not know because there is nothing that leads us to each other. Coming up John finds someone who knows what he is going through. A whole community of people. Theresa Ruf You know  you feel so alone when this happens. In all fairness we tend to isolate ourselves.  Theres a new book out that I want to tell you about its called Collective Wisdom Lessons Inspiration and Advice from Women over 50. I thought you would like it because flipping through its beautiful photographs and stories made me feel connected inspired and like I was meeting a cousin or something of Death Sex  Money. The book is edited by Grace Bonney and features nearly 100 women from communities across the United States. Some of whom youve heard on the show like writer Norma Elia Cantu and journalist Maria Hinojosa. It also celebrates cross-generational friendships like between disability activists Alice Wong and Sandy Ho.and my friendship with Ann Simpson of Wyoming who happens to be 49 years older than me. Again its called Collective Wisdom go check it out -- and you can find our series about aging at deathsexmoney.orgaging. Lets hear it for media that honors and celebrates the stories of older people. One other important production note the producer who led that series on aging for us Anabel Bacon is heading off to a new job after four years with us. We will really miss her on the team...her creativity dedication and for always being up for trying new things. Thank you Anabel. We wish you the very best!  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. About six months after his accident with the help of his therapist John Vargas found a Facebook support group for people who have caused fatal accidents. For him it was a lifeline. Anna Sale What was it like the first time you went to that Facebook page? John Vargas Oh it was a huge relief. It was like the parting of the Red Sea or something. It was just like Holy cow I am not alone. The group is called Accidental Casualty Survivors and it was founded in 2016 by a woman named Theresa Ruf. It is not a large group a little over 100 members but the people who have found it are active. Theresa Ruf I get notifications every time someone posts because I am the moderator as well. All day long every day I am getting requests to join the group emails because I try and screen everyone. I do screen everyone that comes through. It is a 247 thing. Like John Theresa lives in Illinois. In 2012 she was 42 and driving home from work when she came around a sharp corner. She says the sun hit her eyes and she rear-ended a motorcyclist who had slowed down to turn into his driveway. The man died. And unlike John Theresa's case entered the court system where it dragged on for eight years. She was charged with negligent homicide. She says she had not been speeding or on her phone and she had no drugs or alcohol in her system. As Theresa's case was stuck in limbo the rest of her life was too. She was not allowed to leave the state without getting permission from a judge. She stopped working and she and her husband declared bankruptcy. She never even went back to her house after the accident. She says it was too hard. Theresa Ruf I just became stagnant. I could not do anything. I could not get out of bed. I could not sleep I could not eat. I do not have any friends or anything anymore because I just stopped returning phone calls and stopped socializing. Then some people just distanced themselves because they did not want to talk about it or they felt uncomfortable. Really it is just my husband and I now. Theresa and her husband lived in a small town a life they would loved before the accident. It meant that after she felt really conspicuous walking around. She was not sure who knew what had happened and who was angry at what she had done so she was cautious with what she shared with people. Theresa Ruf For example I went to get my haircut and my hairdresser asked me after the accident How are you and everything? I told her what happened. It turned out that her mother-in-law the exact same thing had happened to her in another nearby town and she went into her basement moved everything into her basement and never left her basement again. Then my husband and I were looking for a new home not long ago and the realtor that was showing us this one house I had to explain to him you know we gave our old house in this different county back to the bank because of this accident that happened. And I told him about the accident. He was an elderly man and he broke down crying. He said I understand. The same thing happened to my father exactly and he was never right again after it. Anna Sale Wow. Theresa Ruf So I think it is more prevalent than people -- people just do not talk about it. But Theresa needed to talk and so she spent a lot of time online looking for anywhere that she might be able to have those conversations. She did find something. Theresa Ruf There is a website called accidentalimpacts.org. That was the only thing I found at the time. You are looking for what do I do? How do I get through this? That was the only site I could find. And then there were so many stories on there of people who have gone through the same thing but there was no way for us to directly interact with one another. Everyone would just leave their story because it was a blog-type setting. So that was where I got the idea of creating a closed private group where we could have direct interaction with one another. And we have a few members that are mothers of juveniles that are struggling with trying to get their child the right help because their children have been through this or wives of husbands men tendnot to be sexistbut men tend to be a little more hesitant to want to get help and to want to talk about things. Their wives often will be in the group and look for advice as to how to approach their husbands. We can tell them as being survivors of accidents What you really want is just somebody to listen. Anna Sale What have you found is this thing that you say? What do you want to say to someone who comes to your group who is had this experience? Who is had an accident fairly recently? What is the sentence you choose to say to them? Theresa Ruf The first thing I do is let them know that we are glad that they found us. We are sorry that they had to find us the way that they did but we are glad that they found us. To let them know that they are safe here that everything is locked down that their friends are not going to know they are in this group. Every single person has had to provide identification and proof of their accident with their name on it. That there is not going to be any looky-loos. That is the main thing people worry about is are people going to just be able to join the group just to read things or peep at other people's stories? So to let them know they are safe and secure and that people there understand and care about them and will support them. And I am not quite sure why everyone tells their stories when they join the group because I do not ask that of them we do not ask that of them. But I think they see everyone else telling their stories and they feel it helps to get it out there and talk about it. I know for myself talking about it for the first several years I could not talk about it at all. I think it helps them to get it off their chest in a safe place where people are not going to judge them or think they are a killer. It is really painful. Just trying to assure them that they are safe there and people are not going to judge them. Another thing Theresa tries to share with the people in her group is the specific kind of therapy that she is found helpful. Her therapist practices EMDR eye motion desensitization and reprocessing. It is an intensive kind of therapy that helps patients process traumatic memories and experiences using physical cues like therapist-directed eye motion and finger tapping. Theresa Ruf That is actually been the first thing that is given me any relief. Anna Sale When did you find your current therapist? Theresa Ruf I believe a year and a half ago. Anna Sale Oh so it took quite some time? Theresa Ruf Yes. It is really hard to find somebody that you really meld with and that really understands what is going on. You think you are going crazy because you lose your memory and just the way you behave the fight or flight thing comes in. You start getting real self-protective and real isolationist-type behavior. She explained to me how the brain actually physiologically changes and how you can see the PTSD on an MRI. So I am like Okay I am not going crazy. This is actually a physical injury that happened to me. They have said that the repercussions of our accidents are most similar to what soldiers go through I guess with PTSD. I can deal with that because there is a way to fix that that is not medication or How does that make you feel? That just does not work for me. Sitting on pillows and drinking tea  I do not know it is hard to explain. The trauma of this type of thing is not something that you can discuss over tea and feel better talking to somebody about. Anna Sale Yes talk your way around and out of. Theresa Ruf So I want to try and encourage other people to go to the right therapist early on. It has worked because there are some people in our group that are even 40 years out from their accident that finally went and went to a trauma therapist and started EMDR and they are actually feeling better for the first time in 40 years. So getting out the word I guess that people need to get the right therapy early on that is my goal. Anna Sale Talking to other people who have had similar accidents where someone was gravely injured or died what have you learned about how what you felt and were feeling immediately afterwards? How similar is that to what you have heard from other people? Theresa Ruf Actually strangely enough no matter what the circumstances were of the accident we all suffer the exact same. We all go through the exact exact identical responses. We all have the depression the survivor's guilt the anxiety the what they call I guess moral injury. You feel like you have done something completely against your moral character and that you will never be able to rectify it and you will never be good again. Whether someone is culpable or not it seems like we all go through the exact same things. The isolation the not wanting to talk to anybody the not wanting to socialize. The exact same things. When I first heard moral injury I am like Oh that is what it is. That is exactly how I feel. Like nothing I can ever do will ever make me a good person again. You cannot bring someone back and that is the only way to fix it. And I think selfishly that is probably part of the reason if I am being honest why I started the group was maybe this is something I could do to feel a little better about myself by helping other people. I can feel a little selfishly it helps me too you know? John told me that more than four years after his accident he still checks the Facebook group regularly. It feels like a haven from the rest of the world. He is shared his own story there and he will frequently respond to other members when they post something. John Vargas Usually once a day I will go over there just to see what is going on because that is my support. That is where you get comfort. When something hits me I will say it and I will share. Sometimes I get it and I will just write something supportive. Sometimes it will just be a heart. I get it. Anna Sale Those friends of yours who said John let us go to this Mexican place. We want to be with you tonight. We know you have had a really terrible thing happen have you continued to talk to them about it? John Vargas No. A few of them have said You know what? That was in the past. That is gone. You got to move on. You got to do this. You know what? I am still friends with them but I do not talk about it. I do not bring it up because they do not get it. They will never get it and there is no point to it. I can sit here and talk to you about it. I can talk to that group about it. I cannot talk to anyone else about it because they do not get it. That would be the answer or reply I would get. It is been a while. They do not have any idea. Rather than get upset and getting emotional I justit is not worth it bringing it up. Anna Sale Did you ever think about not going back to the same job? John Vargas Yeah I was asked too if I wanted to do something else because a lot of our work is driving. Drive from one location to another one problem to another. It is a big part of my job. I thought about it I said No this is all that I know. This is all that I do. There is the part of me the guy part that says You know what? I am not going to let this deter me. I am going to keep doing my job. I am going to be strong and handle it but yeah. Anna Sale What is that like for you driving around for work in those big trucks? John Vargas It is not the easiest thing in the world. The hardest thing for me is just working for the company I work for. Safety is a very big deal. There is safety subjects and topics to read out every morning to cover with the guys. Driving ones are especially difficult for me but I do them. In our training sometimes they show videos of driving techniques. They obviously show accidents drunk driving. Those are the ones where you just want to crawl under the table that you want to tuck tail and run but you cannot because it is part of the job. John drove himself to the studio in Chicago on the day we talked. It was the same day and at the same studio where Theresa came for her interview. Her husband drove her. She does not drive anymore. She has not since her accident. Theresa Ruf I could drive now if I chose to but I just choose not to yet. You have a foreboding feeling that something terrible is always about to happen. It makes you a little bit paranoid that something always terrible is right around the corner. Anna Sale Who was the first person that you met who had been in a similar accident where they accidentally took someone's life? Theresa Ruf Actually today and in the lobby was the first person that I met from my group that came to give moral support here today. She is talking about John. Theresa Ruf He is actually the first person I was actually able to physically be in the presence of and give him a hug which was-- I cannot even explain. It is like meeting somebody that finally knows how you feel. Anna Sale Today was the first day? Theresa Ruf Today was the first day yes. It is a beautiful thing. It is beautiful but it is a horrible thing because you do not want anybody to be feeling the way that you are feeling. I would not wish this on my worst enemy but to meet somebody that you can look in the eye and you know how they are feeling you know the pain they are going through it is just like such a-- I cannot even explain it. It is just like Oh thank God there is another person that knows how I feel. It is just these people are so amazing. I love them like they were family. John Vargas It is like an old friend. It is hard to explain but it is like you have known this person all your life because you have shared something and you have experienced something no one else hopefully never will but we have like I said. So there is a huge relief and comfort to it and we are connected now. That is John Vargas and his friend Theresa Ruf. John continues to work for the utility company and since we talked Theresa's legal case has finally resolved. She struck a deal with the state's attorney and pled guilty to a single charge of reckless driving. She served 2 weeks in a county jail performed 200 hours of community service and is halfway through 2 years of probation. She and her husband just bought a house an hour away from their old town and she says it feels like a fresh start. She still does not drive. If you or someone you love has caused a fatal accident we have gathered a list of resources you might find helpful including the Accidental Impacts website and the Facebook group that Theresa runs. You can find all of that on the web page for this episode at deathsexmoney.org. And you will also find a link there to a wonderful article in The New Yorker in 2017 about the experience of accidental death. It is by Alice Gregory and it is called The Sorrow and Shame of the Accidental Killer. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Anabel Bacon. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein Afi Yellow-Duke and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Sarah Dealey. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram annasalepics P-I-C-S and the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Thank you to Melanie Mah in Toronto Ontario who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Melanie and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. John told me that the anniversaries of his accident are always hard but he tries to do some good on those days. The first year he went to the restaurant by the intersection where the crash happened. He told the owner who he was and she told him that the woman who died used to come in there every Saturday for lunch with a group of friends so John gave her his credit card. John Vargas Thinking in my head that maybe those people that she met still came there for lunch. From that time period I wanted to buy lunch for everyone. I said listen Just leave it open and whoever is having lunch. I am picking up their lunch. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.