 We are coming up on the anniversary of your accident Hiroki. Is that - does that date stick out in your mind?  Yeah definitely. I mean I - Ive definitely feel like this week I have been feeling a bit down actually. Just I I think its the a a sense of as the as the time passes and it becomes more permanent you know it becoming more real. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  Hi Rachel. Hi Hiroki.  Oh hello! When I asked Rachel Swidenbank and Hiroki Takeuchi to go a studio in London to talk with me it took a minute to get the settings right.   Im noticing theres a little bit of bleed. Can you turn down headphones because hearing myself back. Do you know how to do that?  How do I do that? There seems to be lots of controls. I first interviewed Rachel and Hiroki about a year and a half ago. Rachel had written me about a cycling accident that left Hiroki in a wheelchair paralyzed from the waist down.  Hey! Sorry apparently theres some bleed? Whats this thing do? Im just pointing at buttons now.  Hiroki you cant solve this problem. Oh my god.  I feel like I have a very good sense of your can-do attitude. Hiroki. I feel like -  Oh well.  You are quite a problem solver.  Not very effective though. Hirokis accident happened three weeks after their wedding. And I wanted to hear from them how their lives and their marriage has changed two years into Hirokis recovery.  I actually think when it comes to day-to-day routine it is really hard to identify the differences from what it was like before and what it is like now. Like everything on a surface level and the routine - it is so normalized now that you dont spot the differences. The times that you really feel the change is when you are taken out of that routine. So say we go on holiday I am probably going to end up packing all of the luggage whereas you would have taken responsibility for that yourself before. And then I will probably end up carrying most of it. And in the airport we used to we used to be those like those loser people who would like try and get through the airport as fast as possible and turn up as late as possible and then get off the plane as quickly and you know be the first to passport control like it was some sort of race. Um and now it is like we are always the last people off the plane. Rachel and Hiroki are in their early thirties. When I first talked with them they were still figuring out the basics of their new life. At that point Hiroki was relying on Rachel for help with a lot of day-to-day tasks. Showering dressing and using the bathroom. Hes more independent now.  I try and get up early we both try and get up early and do some exercise. Um the the main difference is that Rachel goes and does exercise and then you know is in the office by 30 9 whereas if I do exercise then yeah by the time I have got back gone through all my kind of bowel and bladder and all the - the sort of you know uh toilet stuff and got showered then my you know I am in the office at 30 11 at the earliest really. So I am pretty slow in the morning.  And Rachel when you think about what your life looked like when we talked before how is it different for you your weekday routine?  Now Hiroki is fully independent so I think the few things he asks me for is when he cannot reach something on the shelf. Um so my routine's the same as it was before. Um it is just it is an it is just without the part where we shared that morning routine together. Um which is - which is yeah the sad bit. Their routines with their friends have changed too. For the most part theyve felt supported. But there are times when it feels painfully obvious that their lives are very different from other young couples. Like like last year when they traveled to Hawaii with a big group.  And everyone was hanging out and we were all together around the pool and then someone was just like I am going to go down to the beach. And suddenly the whole crew went down to the beach and were like in the sea frolicking around and you had to go down steps to get down there and you could not we could not go down to the beach because there was no wheelchair um was no beach wheelchairs. And so we were just stood well I was stood Hiroki was sat next to me but we were just looking at our friends having all this fun and we were just like not able to participate. And it was just it was really difficult. And but but seeing it it is like I did not want to go and participate because I did not want to leave Hiroki by himself. So I would rather have been there and feel that sadness together than than to leave him. Um but we are starting to get a bit better where you will be like oh Rach why do not you go off and do this with these people and I will do this with someone else and so it used to be always that it was on me to stay with Hiroki or or to be there but actually some of our friends are really good at at um kind of stepping in so that you are not left by yourself or or that kind of thing.  Yeah it it it is one of those things that you know its definitely something that in general is something that um I definitely worry about and fear is missing out on things or being left out because I cannot be part of something? You know and and so you know so sometimes people will invite me to things where it is really like not that realistic for me to be part of it and even though I am I - I will say no I still really appreciate the invite because at least then it is sort of I have got a choice in it so to speak. I still feel like I am part of it even if I am not there.  Yeah.  Um. And I cannot actually think of any off the top of my head uh because like my friends have generally -  I can think of one time. Um. There was a group of people going away and you werent invited and you were really -  Oh I cant remember that.  - really sad about it.  Oh you mean the that stag do?  Yeah.  Oh yeah yeah. Although actually I spoke to him afterwards.  No I had words with him about it. It was just magnified into this huge deal.  And you said it was a stag do? That is like a that is like a bachelor party?  Oh like a bachelor party. Yeah. I mean we went to the wedding and it was like you know to be honest I probably wouldnt have been able to get to the the the the the thing anyway.  And what were the words you had Rachel?  Oh um I was just I really wanted to understand whether Hiroki had not been invited because he was in a wheelchair. Um so I asked um and he was like uh - I actually first had words with the best man and then I had words with with the uh with the groom.  Was this at the wedding?  Yeah this was at the wedding.  Um -  Yeah. Does it feel comfortable Hiroki knowing that Rachel was advocating for you afterwards? Like checking it out?   Uh yeah. No I do not mind. I mean like that that is thats something that is not really a change from before the accident in many ways. Like Rachel was always quite a fiery one and uh you know so everyone everyone everyone knows that is part of the package that you get with Rachel. So uh yeah she does not shy away from conflict. At the time of the accident Rachel and Hiroki were both running start-ups in London. Yahoo called them one of Londons coolest tech power couples. Hiroki is the CEO of a financial tech company called GoCardless that now has hundreds of employees. He started back to work part-time pretty soon after the accident. Rachel though had to close her business. She wasnt able to raise investor funds and take care of Hiroki at the same time. So she didnt work for about a year which she found really frustrating. Shes now a VP of marketing at another tech company. But she started back at work as a consultant at Hirokis business. They worked together for six months.  I was reporting kind of to Hiroki um so everyone was like what is it like to work for your husband? Um it is probably the least we have ever argued.  Yeah its true. It is.  But um yeah but I think that it is interesting because I look back on it now and it was such a powerful time for me to see Hiroki back at work behaving normally. Because our because our life at home had gotten so uh I was still essentially his carer and I was not his wife. And it is and seeing him in this position where he was holding authority and he was confident um it was amazing to see that and I - I think for the sake of our relationship to some extent I probably needed that at that point in time. So I did not realize at the time how beneficial it would be but um it was amazing to work there and I think I was desperate for that full time work because I was going a bit crazy I think.  Mm yeah it was not good for you. Not not like that.  No it was not.  That is interesting because I wondered if if working for Hirokis company had would have made you feel somehow like like you were still needing to to orient your life around him. But it sounds like it was the opposite. It was quite empowering and healthy to see him in the workplace.  Yeah definitely like at the time like I always make this joke I think throughout all thirteen years Hiroki sometimes being with Hiroki is like being on the Hiroki show and I am just like a side member uh like one of the supporting acts. Um and it is always centered around Hiroki and then obviously when his accident happened that became even more true. And so when I did work for GoCardless I was really worried that that would be the case. Um but I think it was almost like I was part of the picture too versus it being feeling like I was out of it. It was like I was playing a part and and that felt important to me. Coming up Rachel and Hiroki on how things are different for them physically after Hirokis accident...from sex to just hanging out together.  He used to hate it when I used to stick my finger in his belly button. That was like something that used to really annoy him and now I just do it and he does not even know.    Yeah its very mean. But if I see her doing it it still freaks me out.  Thanksgiving is not a holiday in the UK but over here in America a lot of us are getting ready for some long hours of traveling this week. And if you need suggestions for good listening to take with you we can help! Last year we asked some of our friends who work on other podcasts for their favorite podcast episodes...you likely know a lot of them...and we built an easy-to-download playlist from their suggestions. That playlist is called Podcasts Were Thankful For and theres a link to it on the website for this episode at deathsexmoney.org. We also recommend podcast episodes in our newsletter every week. So you can go back and comb through those past issues for some ideas at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. And if you havent already subscribe there! The team puts a lot of work into the newsletter every week and its an an email worth your time. And just one more thing If youre new to Death Sex  Money welcome! Were thankful for you. And if you have something to share or ideas for stories we should tell our inbox is always open at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode I talk with another couple navigating a reality they cant change.  What happens if they cancel DACA and then they go after all the DACA recipients and like we have a baby? I do not want to be a single mom under those circumstances.  With this administration you never know where you are standing. You know so you can be good today and then tomorrow its chaos.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Rachel and Hiroki always wanted kids. But when I first talked with them after Hirokis accident a big open question was whether theyd be able to. This year they learned they could conceive together but they have to do it through IVF.  I remember coming out of that appointment and we were like so excited that it was a possibility. And we were like oh most people would be really disappointed if they found out this was the only way they could conceive a child. Um but for us it was it was a big win and then um I went to get blood tests and followed up and anyway I ended up at this appointment at an IVF clinic and we got there and they were like yeah so um basically you can start next week. And we were like whoa whoa whoa whoa. Like this feels a bit sudden and a bit soon.  Yeah it definitely feels like its its I am not sure we are ready just yet but if it is its something that we know we want to do at some point but we actually uh uh some friends of ours uh who is you know the guy uh is also has spinal cord injury and has been in a wheelchair for like 10 years and uh yeah they they just had their their first baby and so its its it is really nice seeing them you know start their family together and -  Yeah for for me the biggest thing that I find from from talking um with them is understanding that the feelings that we have are normal.  Yeah.  So being a bit apprehensive is normal and like um knowing that that it is okay to feel like it is okay to feel a little bit angry that you have to go through uh like a process with your body that you do not that that you should not have to like it is okay to feel like that.  Yeah. Because it is like IVF for you Rachel will be a thing that you have to go through in your body after so much emphasis on Hirokis body.  Yeah like it yeah it does not it does not sound like um the most enjoyable experience. Um and so - well at the same time like Im you know I am grateful that we can do it. Um but the fact that that is our first option uh sometimes it is like its just the reminder of of some of the uh some of the things that we have to sacrifice.  Hiroki when you when you think about being a father what do you picture?  Yes. It is it is a weird one. You always picture that you would have a family and that you know it is not like I pictured it a lot before but you know you have these images of based on your own childhood um of you know playing with your kids or you know exploring with them and but then but then there is been things that have helped like you know when I speak to uh our friend who is just had a baby and he is in in that wheelchair and you know I think that he said something to me that really stuck with me which was that - because like one of the things that really worried me was that I would not be able to be a proper dad to to our children. And I remember talking to him about it and he said we were quite drunk at the time. So I cannot remember if I remember it correctly entirely correctly. But you know he was saying something along the lines of look like that is youre youre you are reflecting your own feelings about how you want to be in the situation not what your kids would need. And so I think there is a level of like you know redefining what fatherhood means through a different lens. It does not mean it is worse it is just different.  And what is it like being together physically now between the two of you? When it is not about trying to get pregnant.  Yeah I mean I would say thats something that we I dont think weve figured out really. I mean I think that we we definitely have a lot of intimacy and you know a lot of closeness but um physically it is like possible but it is like I think that there is so much baggage around it in a way like -  Yeah.  - you know um around yeah.  Its just so emotional because it is like day to day you know we can be sat at breakfast and we are just chatting away and were having an amazing time were laughing together and the accident is not and what happened is not present. But in those moments where it is like can we have sex? It is like suddenly oh no theres this huge obstacle and it is really we have lost something. Like we really have lost -  Yeah.  - an element of our relationship and it is really hard. Yeah.  Yeah.  And you know it is been progress progress progress progress and then like maybe the last three four months it is kind of flattened out in terms of what you would classify as progress and suddenly it is like oh no this is one big topic that we still need to face. Um and I think it is emotionally difficult for us both.  Yeah I guess not. It is one of those things where you kind of ignore a little bit.  Yeah and given you know were open and honest about all the other pieces this bit we kind of suppress.  I think it is because we feel a little bit lost with it you know. We dont really know where to go.  When do you cuddle?  We cuddle a lot.   Yeah. Yeah. I love like he gets home from work and Ill like get on his knee and give him a cuddle. Um uh well actually it is quite interesting in bed Hiroki does not ever a cuddle me anymore. I have I have to cuddle him and then he and then hell like roll over I call it the whale move um onto his front. It is like this big dramatic turn in bed. And then he is like Rachel come and cuddle me. So we cuddle we do cuddle a lot.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And where are you most often when you are putting your finger in his belly button?  Oh well be like oh we thats terrible we watch so much more TV in bed now it is really bad. Um and then it will be like we will be laying in bed and I will be cuddling him and I will be stroking his chest and then I will go down and do a little poke in his belly. I do not think he even knows.  I dont know. Yeah. That might be happening every night for all I know.  I was really struck Rachel by what you said about progress progress progress. Like I imagine when you are - when you are in a period of recovering from a traumatic injury where the the objective Hiroki for you was to get stronger learn to use a wheelchair learn to get around learn to adapt  you had a series of you know things you could say I am going to learn how to achieve this and achieve it  and then at a certain point you are just in real life?  Mm. Its more just like a this realization that as this is it this is what I am living with. Um and this is this is what I have to accept. It is going to be the rest of my life. That - that is hard.  Do you think of it as grief?  Yeah I I think so. I mean I think it is. Its kind of a mourning.  Do you think you are still grieving Rachel?  Rachel's crying right now. So I think so yes.  Yeah definitely like definitely. Um if I am really honest like there was a period where I was like is this something is this something I want to accept and be in forever? Um do I want to do this? And like I really had to spend time thinking about it and processing it and being like yeah yeah you absolutely do. Like you know like Hiroki is your husband. Like of course you want to spend your life with him and this little thing is not going to get in the way.  Its not really a little thing.  No but this is what you say. Sh. And it is little because we can get around so much of it. Thats Rachel Swidenbank and Hiroki Takeuchi in London. Theres a link to my first conversation with them on our website at deathsexmoney.org. And Rachel is really a good follow on Instagram where shes still chronicling Hirokis recovery and their life together at hiromyhero. Thats h-i-r-o underscore my h-e-r-o underscore. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Stephanie Joyce Joanna Solotaroff Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Kegan Zema for his help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And as always you can email us with your reactions your story ideas your questions at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Rachel Hiroki and I had this conversation just before the second anniversary of his accident. And they told me they were planning a party.  We call it a fuck the accident party.  Im going to get very drunk Ive already decided.  Oh my God we did it last year as well and you should have seen the carnage. Like it was like we were like 20 year old frat house. Like we have just done up our house. We have got all this lovely furniture. We had a party there was vomit on the floor and when I went to get into bed there were already four guys in the bed. I was like what is going on? Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.