 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Michael Caine has been making movies so long that he is probably made more bad films than many actors will appear in over the course of a career. One of the appealing things about Caine's new memoir is that he does not mind admitting when a film flops. It is of a piece with the easy charm and Cockney accent that have made Caine a favorite among movie audiences and other actors. Despite the flops Caine is a great actor. He earned five Oscar nominations and won twice for Best Supporting Actor for Hannah and Her Sisters and The Cider House Rules. Among his other memorable films are Alfie Sleuth The Man Who Would be King Educating Rita Dirty Rotten Scoundrels and The Quiet American. In 2000 he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth. Caine was born into a poor neighborhood called Elephant and Castle in South London. He eventually shed his given name Maurice Micklewhite and took a stage name from The Caine Mutiny which starred his idol Humphrey Bogart. Caine spoke to FRESH AIR contributor Dave Davies about his new memoir The Elephant to Hollywood.  Well Michael Caine welcome to FRESH AIR. As I understand you started acting in a community theater and kind of stayed with it. Mr.  Yeah.  And you know one of the things that interests me about that is that people who come from workingclass backgrounds I think have a  often have a hard time as young people visualizing themselves escaping that world. What made you think you could? Mr.  I do not think I had a choice. If you are in a situation where you have nowhere to go but up you are going to go up no matter what you do. And I was very fortunate because  you know we are now talking about the English class system. If you think in terms of class I was very much lower class absolutely the wrong kind of accent  a thick Cockney accent. The theater would have been impossible for me. But I decided to try it anyway and I was very fortunate because there had never been any leading roles written for workingclass people in the theater with the exception of Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion. And she was there only as a foil for Professor Higgins you know. I was fortunate because writers like John Osborne and Look Back in Anger and all this came on. And so I managed to be able to become a lead even though I did not talk what you would call posh. But very funnily for me my first movie that I ever got attention with a part was a movie called Zulu where I played an extremely posh officer. So it was quite weird that I should do that.  You did a lot of acting in your 20s but I was surprised to read that you suffered early on from stage fright. How would it manifest itself? Mr.  Oh yeah. It is not one of the glamorous sides of theater but on first nights in the theater there is always a bucket by the side in case you want to throw up just before you go onstage you know. And I used to do that quite regularly. I remember once I was playing a psychiatrist and I read this phrase which stuck in my mind. It said You become what you are afraid of. I was a very shy child. If anyone came to our house I would hide behind the curtains. I did not want to talk or see anybody. And I think I became an actor to overcome that fear. I became what I was afraid of in other words.  How did you overcome the stage fright or do you still get it? Mr.  I became a Stanislavski actor and he has a line that he says of advice to  or learning. He says The rehearsal is the work. The performance is the relaxation. So by the time that I have got  like I am a movie actor now. By the time I have got to a scene in the studio I have rehearsed it over and over so many times that it is just second nature to me. So you have to bring about this relaxation in a movie because the camera is so close and so sharp and it will pick up any signs of fear. And I also have a definition of movie acting is that it is really being a character. For instance if you are watching me give a performance and you turn to your companion and you say Is not that Michael Caine a wonderful actor? Then I have failed. You are supposed to say I wonder what is going to happy to Harry Brown now you know? That is it. You have got to make yourself disappear. In theater it is just the opposite. You really make the acting work for you. In movies you dump the acting and become.  Well let us talk about Alfie which was a real breakout picture for you. I mean it really made you an international star. Mr.  Yeah.  It got you a Best Actor nomination for the Oscars and I thought we would listen to a scene. This is early in the film. You play Alfie who is of course a young man who gads about having affairs with all kinds of women. And this is early in the film where you have just had a liaison with a married woman. She is in her car about to depart and you turn and talk to the camera although first we hear her say farewell. So let us listen.   Ms.   I have had a lovely time Alfie. Mr.   A married woman see? They are every one of them in need of a good laugh. It do not never strike their husbands. I always say Make a married woman laugh and you are halfway there with her. Of course it do not work with a single bird starts you off on the wrong foot. You get one of them laughing you will not get nothing else. Ms.    Lade lada. Mr.  There you are. Just listen to it. It was dead glum when I met it tonight. I listened to all its problems then I got it laughing. It will go home laughing.  And that is my guest Michael Caine.  Mr.  It made me laugh.   Is it still fun to hear? Mr.  I am sitting here laughing yeah. I would forgotten that line. But there by the way is an example of a very much thicker Cockney accent than the one I have today because what happened on Alfie is I made Alfie were I played this Cockney. Then after the picture had been out and been a success in England the director called me and said you have got to reloop  which means rerecord  120 lines in the picture. And I said what for? He said It is going to America and the Americans do not understand what you are talking about. So I had to do a load of redubbing on that.  Well you know the interesting thing about the clip that we just heard is that kind of halfway through Alfie's little narrative he begins referring to the woman he is just you know had this affair with as it. Mr.  It. Yeah.  Which kind of reminds us that this is not exactly a charming rogue who means no harm. He really treats these women very badly. Mr.  Oh yeah yeah. And the thing about him was that he was an innocent. And in  the last line he says in the picture is What is it all about? He does not understand. He does not understand why everybody's against him what is going on you know. And if there were many men  I mean one of my best friends was like that. He got all the girls you know but he was very male chauvinistic you know to refer to obviously to refer to a woman as it.  Well you know there was a time in the '60s here I mean after  I mean this film was made in '66 and you  your career really took off. And you were single then and you know young single having a grand time plenty of I assume casual relationships with women. And I wonder Did people think of you as Alfie? Did you feel like you had to be Alfie? Mr.  No no no no. People told me You are really like Alfie. I said no. They said But you  wait a minute. You were going around with different girls just like Alfie and you know you are very similar. And no I said there is been  I was a man who very much respected his mother. I remember once my wife Shakira my wife of 40 years she was doing an interview and I was in the other room. The reporter said to her he said  and I was listening halflistening to see whether she said anything about me. And he said What first attracted you to Michael? And there was a pause and she said The way he treated his mother. And that was me. I have tremendous respect for women. And so I mean Alfie was a man who would have sex anywhere anytime with anybody. That was not me at all never in a million years. I was a romantic put it that way.  One of the lovely details in this book is when you had your early successes with the film Zulu and The Ipcress File and then Alfie that at the premieres for your date you invited your mom. Mr.  One of them I invited my mother. The first one was Zulu. And I invited my mother. There was a very big premiere in the West End which is like Broadway in America. And I asked my mother to go to the premiere with me and she would not go. So I went with a very beautiful girl whose name escapes me now. And going in with all the flashlights and posing with a beautiful girl and the crowds were being held back by the police and it was sort of a big of mayhem you know. It was a big premiere. And in the middle of the crowd being pushed and shoved around I saw my mother. And for a minute I was so angry you know. But after we got out of the theater at the end I telephoned her. She was home and I said What were you doing there? I asked you to come. She said I thought it would not be good for your career to turn up with your mother she said. She said You know I wanted you to be with a lovely girl you know and everything would look good. She said But I also wanted to be there and see how it was. So that is why I went. But then the next time Ipcress File I made her come to the premiere and I bought a mink coat for her to go in.  We are speaking with Michael Caine. He is written a new memoir called The Elephant to Hollywood. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us our guest is actor Michael Caine. He is written a new memoir called The Elephant to Hollywood. You grew up in South London from humble origins kind of worked your way up. What was it like when you first went to Hollywood? Mr.  It was quite weird because I went there and I was going to do a picture with Shirley MacLaine and she was not there. She was working on another picture and she was just finishing up. Until we officially had the party welcoming me to Hollywood  I did not know this  I was in this very luxurious suite in the Beverly Hills Hotel and no one talked to me and no one came. They just paid the bills and that was it you know. And so I used to sit in the lobby looking for movie stars which is where I met John Wayne for the first time and we became friends  not close friends. I mean we hardly moved in the same circles. But we became very deep acquaintances. Put it that way. And he was very kind to me gave me all sorts of advice like Talk low talk slow and do not say too much. Do not wear suede shoes. I said Why not wear suede shoes? He said because you will be in the toilet taking a pee and a guy will recognize you and he will turn to you and say Michael Caine and he will have peed all over your shoes Michael. And so I said All right I will not wear white suede shoes.  This is the advice you got when you first came to Hollywood? Mr.  That was my first advice from John Wayne you know.  Well I wanted to talk about another film that got you a Best Actor nomination Sleuth 1972 where you appear with Laurence Olivier. And it is based on a play by Anthony Shaffer this very intense drama. I think it is just the two of you in every single scene. Mr.  Yes it was.  He plays a wealthy guy. You are a younger man who is having an affair with his wife and he is invited you to his home for a talk. So let us listen to a scene.  Mr.   Well now. I understand you want to marry my wife.  Mr.   Forgive me for raising the matter but as Marguerite is away for a few days in the north visiting relatives I thought this might be an appropriate moment for you and me to have a little chat. Mr.   I see. Mr.   Well is it true? Mr.   Yes  with your permission of course. Mr.   Why not? You seem to be a personable enough young man nicely spoken neatly dressed in brandnew country gentleman's clothing. I am sure you will not mind me asking you a few questions about your background parents and so forth. Mr.   My mother was born in Hereford a farmer's daughter and my father is an Italian who came to this country in the '30s from Genoa. Mr.   In the '30s. Jewish? Mr.   No Catholic very devout. Of course I am not religious at all myself. Mr.   My dear boy you do not have to excuse yourself to me. We are all liberals here. I have no prejudice against Catholics not even lapsed Catholics. In fact some of my best friends are lapsed Catholics.  Mr.   But tell me about your father. Was his name Tindle too? Mr.   No his name was Tindolini but if you had a name like that in those days you had to makea the icea creama.  Mr.   He was a watchmaker and he wanted us to become English. So he changed it. Mr.   Become English? Was he a successful man? Mr.   No no. As a matter of fact he was not. You cannot expect to make a living these days just repairing watches. He went broke in the end. I always told him he would.  And that is our guest Michael Caine in the 1972 film Sleuth with Laurence Olivier. Interesting there he  Olivier is such an upperclass snoot and you are of more humble origins. Was it intimidating at that  for you as an actor at that age to work with Laurence Olivier? Mr.  Oh yeah. He was the greatest actor in the world  stage screen everything. You know he was incredible. I was just listening to that and that was a supreme example of class the way he was talking about Catholics and lapsed Catholics  some of my best friends are lapsed Catholics you know and that sort of thing  because in actual fact in real life Larry was a lord. And before we started the film I would never met him. But we had to start rehearsals and he wrote me a little letter a very nice letter saying It has occurred to me that you may be  as I am a lord you may be wondering how to address me when we meet. And it said  and then there was a new paragraph and he said When we do meet Michael from the moment we shake hands I will be Larry forevermore  which was lovely. You know he put me out of any sort of worry socially but the idea that he had to do it is extraordinary very difficult to explain. It explains a very difficult thing the class system in England because if you cut to later I did a remake of Sleuth playing Larry's part.  Right. The older character yeah. Mr.  And Jude  yeah the older man and Jude Law played the young seducer. And I was thinking about that because I am now a knight. You know I am Sir Michael Caine. But the idea that I would write a letter to Jude saying you may be wondering how to address me when we first meet once we meet you may call me Michael forevermore it showed how the class system changed over the 20 years between those two movies.  One of the interesting turns in your story is in 1991 when you learned that there was a halfbrother that you would never known about or known. Your parents were both dead at this point. How did you find out? Mr.  My halfbrother was in a mental institution. He was eight years older than me. Nobody  obviously my mother knew but nobody in my family had any inkling of this man. His name was David. But the most extraordinary thing that we found out when I found out about it and oh I will tell you first how I found out. A newspaper in England was doing an article a series on the state of mental health treatment in England. And the reporter eventually rang me and told me that I had my halfbrother because I never knew him. My mother and father were dead. And the way he found out is he was in a hospital doing his thing you know his program about the state of mental health. And this girl who was also a mental patient came over and pointed at David and said That is Michael Caine's brother. And of course this reporter went What? And he investigated it and lo and behold it was my halfbrother. And he rang me and said  and he was very nice. They did not make a big deal out of it you know sensationalism. He said But he is your halfbrother he said and the way we found out is that there is a picture of you with your mother just on the wall by his bed. And that is the woman who comes and visits him. And then I talked to the matron and then she is told me the full story. So I had this halfbrother there but the most extraordinary thing about it was that for 51 two or three years my mother had visited him every Monday without fail except for the five years of the war when everyone was evacuated.  Now just to be clear this was an illegitimate child that your mom had had... Mr.  Illegitimate child that she would had eight years before she had me when she was not married to my  my father was in the Indian Army. He was in the Royal Horse Artillery in India. And so he was away and she would had this illegitimate child. What you did there because of the shame is you gave it to the Salvation Army. And he had epilepsy and they would obviously left him in a room with a very hard floor and no attention and he would battered himself into incoherence. When I finally met him he spoke but I could not understand what he said. And the only person who could understand was the matron who had been with him the longest. And she translated. She was like an interpreter for me when we talked to each other. And I obviously looked after him very well for the next two years when he died years ago years ago.  It is remarkable that your mom made these visits and kept this secret. Mr.  That is what is  yeah. That is what is incredible.  Took him sweets and the like. Mr.  Yeah I mean my mother used to come to me on the weekends you know and on Monday when she went back you know I would give her all the rest of the box of chocolates boxes of biscuits  you know cookies as you call them in America and you know threequarters of a cake which we had not eaten. And for her you know and I had other family living in the house where she lived. And I would go up there and see her on a Wednesday and have a cup of tea which is only two days later. And I would tell her I would like a biscuit. And she would say I have not got one. Of course she would been taking them to David. And I found out  I had a Rolls Royce and a chauffeur the full  and my chauffeur he said one day he said You do know he said whenever I take your mum home on a Monday I never take her to the house. I said Where do you drop her off? He said I drop her off at a bus stop. And I said What did she say she is going to do? He said She is going shopping. What she was absolutely going to do was take the food and the chocolates to David in the mental home.  Michael Caine's interview with FRESH AIR contributor Dave Davies will continue in the second half of the show. Caine's new memoir is called The Elephant to Hollywood. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Let us get back to the interview FRESH AIR contributor Dave Davies recorded with actor Michael Caine who has appeared in over 100 films including Get Carter Alfie Educating Rita Hannah and Her Sisters Dirty Rotten Scoundrels The Cider House Rules The Quiet American Batman films a Muppet movie and recently Inception and Harry Brown. Caine's written a new memoir called The Elephant to Hollywood.  I wanted to talk little bit about The Man Who Would Be King which you starred in with Sean Connery directed by John Huston. Quite a tale of you know the Rudyard Kipling story. How did you get that part? Mr.  I was sleeping late in bed with my wife in the George Cinq Hotel in Paris on a Saturday morning. It was about 00. We would been out very late at probably Regine's disco in Paris. My wife and I used to go to Paris for weekends for honeymoon. Well we still do as a matter of fact. And the phone went in the bedroom and I sort of picked it up very flustered. I was half asleep. I said yes. He said this is John Huston I would like to have a chat with you about making a movie. And I said no come on who is this? Because all my mates could would do jokes on me like that you know? So he said no it is John Huston.  Mr.  And I said is it? No. Come on. And you know he said Michael it is John Huston and I want you to do a movie with me. And he told me the story The Man Who Would Be King and he said it was going to be played by Humphrey Bogart who is my favorite actor of all time and he said I would like to see you to talk about it. So I said yeah I said any time any time. He said well I am in the bar next door. He said can you come down?  Mr.  So I said yeah yeah. I jumped out of bed combed my hair dashed out and went down and had my first chat with him and that  got the part and I had an incredible experience because John was the greatest director I think. I mean no I have worked with some great directors but he was one of the greatest directors I ever worked with.  And what was distinctive about his approach? Mr.  He never said anything. I sat there one day I said John you never give me any directions. He said the art of direction Michael is casting. If you have cast it right you do not have to say anything. Anyway said why do I have to tell you a lot of stuff? He said you get paid a great deal of money to do this. You should be know how to do it without me telling you.   We should listen to just a clip of this of The Man Who Would Be King. And for those that do not know it is the Rudyard Kipling story of these two sergeants in the English Army in India who finished their service and then sort of become these rogue scammers and then have this idea that they will have this plot to become a king of Kafiristan. And here this scene is fairly late in the film where in fact you have made it to Kafiristan. Sean Connery is regarded by the locals as a god. Your character Peachy is trying to convince him that it is time to get the loot and get out of there. He is so enraptured with his role as a  you know as a deity that he wants to stay. So let us listen.  Mr.   Danny Danny we have had this rare streak of luck. Let us quit winners for once cut and run while the running's good. Mr.   You call it luck. I call it destiny. Mr.   Ha ha. Pardon me while I fall down laughing.  Mr.   Whatever you may think and however you may feel I am a king and you are a subject so do not you provoke me Peachy Carnehan.  Mr.   Or you will do what? You got me trembling in my boots here. What will you do? Mr.   You have our permission to bugger off. Mr.   That I will do with or without your bleeding permission.  Mr.   And may you rot in hell Daniel Dravot.  That is our guest Michael Caine with Sean Connery in The Man Who Would Be King. Do you remember shooting that scene? Mr.  Oh yeah very well. And we shot all that in Morocco. But very funny enough we  so we are going to be kings of Kafiristan I remember saying. And yesterday I saw Kafiristan on the television and it is a major Taliban stronghold...  Mr.  ...right now.  Oh boy. Mr.  Yeah.  There are so many movies of yours we could talk about. But I wanted to talk about The Cider House Rules which you made in 2000 won you your second Oscar. It is a lovely film really based on the John Irving novel and I thought we would listen to a bit of this. You play a doctor at an orphanage for unwanted children in Maine who also performs abortions for young women who need them. There is a young man there played by Tobey Maguire named Homer who you have trained as a gynecologist and has learned to deliver babies but he refuses to do abortions. It is against his principles. And in this particular scene we are going to hear a young teenage girl has come in in distress because she has been to a back alley abortionist and you are treating her. You speak first to her and then to this young apprentice Homer.  Mr.   Dear child did you do something to yourself? Unidentified Woman   It was not me. It was not me. Mr.   Did you go to someone else? Unidentified Woman He said he was a doctor. I would have never stuck that inside me. Mr.   Listen listen... Unidentified Woman  It was not me. Mr.   Listen you have been very brave and I am going to put you to sleep. Unidentified Woman  It was not me. Mr.   Homer I want you to see this. You will not feel it anymore. Mr.   You have been very brave. We will make it deeper. Mr.   You are sure? Mr.   You bet. Fetus is unexpelled. The uterus is punctured. She has acute peritonitis. There is a foreign object. I think it is a crochet hook. Take this. If she had come to you four months ago and asked for simple DNC what would you have done? Nothing. This is what doing nothing gets you. It means that somebody else is going to do the job some moron who does not know how.  And that is our guest Michael Caine with Tobey Maguire in his Oscarwinning performance in The Cider House Rules. The relationship between you and Tobey Maguire it is kind of a fatherson relationship and it is really touching. He wants to go out and see the world. You want him to remain at the orphanage and continue to serve the young women and the kids who are there. Mr.  Yeah. Well he was an orphan too you see.  Right. Mr.  And so I had brought them up in that way you know. People say to me you worry about acting with children? I say watch The Cider House Rules I have 150.   Right. You are reading stories to a kid and you have that wonderful line where you say goodnight. What is the line? Mr.  Goodnight you princes of Maine you kings of New England.  Right. Right.  Yeah. That is what people come up to me  American men come up to me in the street and they say to me you know what I say to my boys before they go to bed? I say it is not goodnight you princes of Maine you kings of New England is it? And then they say oh yeah you guessed.   Our guest is Michael Caine. His new memoir is called The Elephant to Hollywood. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   If you are just joining us our guest is actor Michael Caine. He is written a new memoir called The Elephant to Hollywood. You know you have been in the business so long made what over a hundred films I guess right? Mr.  Yeah  a hundred yeah.  And you know anybody who is had a long career is going to have some stinkers in the mix and one of the things I like about your book is that you fully acknowledge that that they are things that did not work. Mr.  Yeah.  Do you have a favorite moment from any of those that did not work that you just love to look back on and laugh about? Mr.  Look any of those films that did not work I never ever saw.  Mr.  I know one. I know the scene that I love. I did a very bad movie called The Swarm.  Mmhmm. Mr.  The Swarm was about bees that you know big very malignant bees attacking in hordes attacking people and killing them.  Henry Fonda was in that was not he? Mr.  Henry Fonda one of my favorite actors. Dick Widmark I was working with all my good guys. But there is a moment in there with all the bees and we had to do a scene where we were smothered in bees you know? We were doctors. It was Hank Fonda and me. We were wearing white smocks or doctors' coats and they let all these bees go out of these hives thousands of them. And they came in and we suddenly noticed that our white smocks sort of started to get a very very pale brown mist  very very pale . What we did not realize was that bees when caged do not defecate in their habitation shall we say. They wait until till the moment they are released and sort of busting themselves and they released like half a million bees and they all crapped all over us.  Mr.  Which sort of anticipated the critics by about nine months.  Mr.  That is the funniest scene in one of those because I did see The Swarm and you can actually see if you are looking the brown film on our tunics.  You know I have to ask you before we go I spoke to a friend in the last couple of days and said I was going to be interviewing Michael Caine and she said oh he is so great he is such a great actor and he is such a wonderful guy. And of course she is never spent a minute in your presence. But I think there is this image of you maybe because of your Cockney accent or because of the roles you have had that people just figure that you are a guy they could share a beer with and they would love to hang with. Is it a burden to have that image? Is that you? Mr.  It is exactly me.  Mr.  Yeah I am very much socially  and I hasten to add only socially I am a communist. Everybody is exactly the same to me. I treat everybody exactly the same until they answer.  Mr.  Then I figure out who they are.  Is it ever tiresome? I mean people expect you to... Mr.   It can be.  ...to never have an inpatient moment you know? Mr.  Yeah but I never do. I control my temper. I have a terrible temper and I have learned early on to control it. I remember I would lost my temper very badly on a picture called The Lost Valley when they put me on a horse. I had not been trained properly and I am a terrible rider and they would assured me that it was very quiet and then it threw me off and I hurt myself and I really had a go at the crew and they were all laughing at me you know? And I really really lost my temper. And Jimmy Clavell  James Clavell  was the director. And he said okay half an hour's break everybody; let us go and have a cup of tea Michael in my motor home. So we went to his motor home. And he said I was captured by the Japanese in Hong Kong when I was 14. I said I know you were Jim. He said and I survived that by watching and learning from them. He said and the thing I learned that I could tell you today is never to lose your temper. He said because anger is a very very important emotion and you must never ever share important emotions with strangers because you will only lose face because none of it is important to them. And I never ever lost my temper on a movie set ever again.  Well Michael Caine it is been fun. Thanks so much for spending some time with us. Mr.  Thank you very much.  Michael Caine spoke with FRESH AIR contributor Dave Davies. Caine's new memoir is called The Elephant to Hollywood. You can read an excerpt on our website freshair.npr.org. Copyright  2010 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush dea