 Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. It is Tuesday which means it is time for a deep dive. Today I am talking with an author who just released a book that is very political even though he did not mean for it to be that way. Daniel Alarcon is the author. His new book is called The King Is Always Above The People. It is a collection of 10 short stories all fiction. And it is kind of required reading for this political moment that we find ourselves in right now. The stories talk about the Latino experience the immigrant experience and mostly just what it means to move to leave one place for somewhere else. At a time when there is a lot of political chatter about things like building a wall or whether we let certain people stay in America this book by Alarcon and these stories of fiction they really get at some of the truths in what it means to be an immigrant today. So Alarcon himself has bounced around. He is Peruvian but he immigrated to Birmingham Ala. at the age of 3. He moved back to Peru. And then he moved to Iowa to study writing. He now lives in New York City. And Alarcon does not just write he is a radio guy as well. He hosts an NPR podcast called Radio Ambulante. All right. There is a lot in this chat. It is kind of heavy but I think it is worthwhile. This chat and this book it changed the way I think about what it means to be an immigrant and I think it might do the same for you. Here's me talking with Daniel Alarcon. Enjoy.   I mean I do remember a couple things from when I first moved to Iowa. I remember I got pulled over like three times in the first month because I was still driving like I drive in Lima.  Which is what? Explain.  Which is just you know aggressive. And the stop sign is a suggestion.  Oh .  The joke in Peru is that the stop sign does not say stop it says look.   Nice.  So there was that. And then there was something else that happened. When I was living in Lima I was in a you know pretty rough part of town. And you know you just never had anything in your car. And so you know when I got to Iowa for the first month or six weeks I just you know had - my car was immaculate. You know everything was in the trunk.   It is too cold to rob a car in Iowa.  Yeah. Yeah. It is just too nice. It is just too nice. I mean no one does it. But you know - and I just - it took me - realized that that was not a thing anymore that oh you can leave your backpack in the backseat. No one's going to take it.  So you have experienced migration firsthand. That is a big theme in the book - migration. It comes up in most of the stories. And it is hard. Wandering is hard. Emigrating is hard. It is just hard. And I feel like as someone who was born an American the story that we get on immigration on migration on movement is like yeah it is hard but it all works out. And so many of your stories about movement in this book kind of point to the hardness of it and how it might not actually be happily ever after. I love that you did that. And you know like there is this sanitized version I think of the immigrant story in which like you work hard and everything is great. And like your book is kind of like maybe not maybe not.  Maybe not. Yeah. I mean I think that is true. I think if it were that easy then maybe we would not be having some of the conversations we are having. You know I think...  Which conversations?  I mean that if every immigrant arrived and had this kind of speed-bump-free assimilation into the sanitized and idealized version of the American dream then it would not be quite so controversial to say like I support the DREAMers you know or something like that. I do not know. I think that reinvention is hard. You know even if you are moving within borders I mean let us be honest like you know Americans move for work all the time. And you know that - I think everyone who is moved to a different city for a job and tried to find their place socially and culturally in a new place can attest to like well that is a challenge.  Yeah.  You know that is not necessarily easy. Oh I have got to find a new apartment. I have got to find a new friend. Now do that in a totally different language in a totally different city without a safety net without anyone to call. Plus you have got to like you know everything you earn you have got to spend half of it back home to support your family that could not make it. I mean just put it in perspective people. Like this is not easy. Then add to that the cultural reinvention the personal reinvention that will necessarily happen and how complicated on a personal level it can be to sort of rewrite your own personal story of who you are you know. And then when you get to the United States no one wants to hear how traumatic that journey was. But we know because you know many intrepid journalists have covered it and many people have spoken out about their own experiences.  It is hard.  It is tremendously hard. It is treacherous. It is dangerous. You know the stats are outrageous you know of like people who do not make it and you know women get assaulted and you know people who get robbed. And you know we hear it all the time but it just does not process. And once you get here you are supposed to just suddenly be...  You are supposed to be a DREAMer. You are supposed to be like an example of like perfect citizenhood.  Right.  You are supposed to be like more American than like apple pie.  Exactly. Exactly.  Did you feel those pressures?  No. My story is one of great privilege. My story's one of - my parents came to you know they won scholarships to go to Johns Hopkins. They came and studied. They went back to Peru. And then one of my father's - my parents' classmates ended up at UAB in Birmingham and recruited them to come. And they thought about it for like seven years. They are like where is Alabama again? And then they were like you know what? Let us do it not for us you know but for the opportunities that it will give our children. And then that is what they did. That is a common immigrant story as well. It is not the same as the story that I was describing of an undocumented miner crossing from Honduras or El Salvador or whatever.  Did you feel the same kind of pressure though to be uber-American?  I did not feel the pressure but I was and am very American. You know I did not - it did not feel like pressure. It felt like I had a really nice childhood. I had really good friends. I had a sense of - there was space for me.  You know one of the things that I never thought about in terms of immigrating somewhere while reading your book the questions and expectations of the people you leave behind. I think so much of what we hear about moving somewhere is the new life you build once you get there but there is so much in this book about what the people you leave behind expect from you.  Yeah.  Your challenge is not just to build a new life for yourself in this place you end up it is to make sure your parents are happy with what you become in that place. And it seems like it is a lot of pressure. And like your characters never really make their families completely happy. Do you think that is usually the case?  Yeah. I have a good friend - after college one of my first jobs was a public school teacher. And I became really good friends with the Spanish teacher who was named Carlos  who was Colombian had come to the United States. And he told me he was like you know like when I go back to Colombia like my family members ask me - like if they are going to buy a car like they want my opinion. If they are trying to like figure out where to send like their you know their kid to school like you know grade school they ask my opinion. They want my opinion on everything. And suddenly just by virtue of living in the United States I have been afforded this expert status that I have no business having you know. This guy was a Spanish teacher at a public school in New York City. Like why would he have any special expertise about what kind of car you should buy?  Yeah.  But there was just this respect given to him by virtue of just living in New York. It is almost like you owe people their dreams you know.  Yeah.  They have a dream and you owe that to them to do it. You know I remember my father used to live in Atlanta for a while. He had a very successful career as a psychiatrist at UAB and later at Emory all of which was all - it was all fine and good. And then a couple of times being in Atlanta he was asked to come in and talk about some aspect of mental health on CNN in Spanish which is based in Atlanta. And you know in TV this is based on yeah they want to hear you talk but it is also on like who is available and who is in Atlanta you know? And my dad has done a number of things that are incredibly impressive - written books and do things you know been a great teacher and a great professional in any number of ways. It was not until he was on CNN in Spanish you know for like four minutes talking about whatever that people back home were like oh my God he made it you know.  Yeah. He is finally arrived.  He is finally arrived. And it is like you know at that point...  He is been there. He is been arrived.  Yeah. Yeah. But it is like what is it about you do - what you do that can be explained to people back home you know? There is a story in the collection called The Provincials.  Oh yeah.  It is a father and son. They go back to the father's hometown to sort of dispose of some property and they run into the father's sort of old friends. This happened to me. You know I was in a town called Mollendo. And I was paraded around the plaza. This is Renato's  son. This is Renato's son. And everyone was like oh your father was so smart. Your father was so brilliant. You know like and the sense was one both of pride and then a little bit of tension there too.  Yeah. You know I feel like there are characters in this book. They expect so much from that new place they go to and that place underwhelms. Or their family expects so much of them once they go to this new place and they underwhelm their family. Or we expect a certain magic in the place we end up and that underwhelms us. Like it just underlined for me this kind of theme like do not expect life or people to be awesome or fair. Do not expect it to be great. Like sometimes things are just adequate or less than adequate and that is the way it is going to be. Were you trying to put that message out in the world with this book?  No. I was just trying to write a book that was not boring you know. And if everything works out in a story then it is not that interesting - might sell more but I think it is fundamentally not interesting. I am more interested in how things do not work out. I think it makes for a better story. I think there is - there is sort of the version of immigration where everything works out and it is a beautiful story and like American triumph. And you know I have been seeing on TV a lot of these - I think it is Negra Modelo - these like beer commercials where it is like you know so and so worked really hard. And you know his parents were this. And now you know he is - he drinks his beer in a big house you know. And that is a fine story. It is true often but it is not always true.  Yeah.  And you know the perils of reinvention and the perils of adjusting and the perils of dreaming big are that you can also be disappointed big.  Are you disappointed?  No. No. I am so lucky. I cannot even fathom my good fortune.  So then how do you get in the head of these disappointing and disappointed people for your books?  Well because I really like to listen to people. And people tell me stories. I mean there is something that I have from when I was a kid and from the point at which you know Peru went through a terrible period when I was growing up safe and sound in Hoover Ala. And I have carried this with me ever since this kind of survivor's guilt - this kind of sense of like I got so lucky. And there is no reason or justification or explanation for it. My parents left in 1980 the year the war started in earnest. And we did not know that that was happening.  Yeah.  It was an accident. And meanwhile what was my childhood which was you know a kind of typical American suburban childhood. Meanwhile in Lima and in Arequipa and in different towns around Peru there was - the economy was collapsing. You know there were car bombs and power outages and kidnappings and political assassinations and tumult. You know it was just this sense that I had of survivor's guilt. It is always - I have always been interested in other people's stories. I think my story is probably kind of boring. And I am interested in other people's who have more interesting stories to tell than I do. And that is what I have sort of dedicated my professional life to doing either in fiction or in nonfiction.  Yeah. Do you still feel survivor's guilt?  I think maybe guilt is the wrong word now. I call it...  OK.  I do not think guilt is often such a useful emotion - survivor's empathy maybe would be...  OK OK.  Maybe let me rebrand it as that if you will allow me.  Yeah.  But yeah yeah. I mean I still sort of feel a connection. I do - not being a religious person I feel very much that things are - feel very arbitrary. And you can see people getting the short end of the stick for no other reason than just where they were born and to whom they were born. And I do not feel like you can be a sensitive person and not be in awe of how arbitrary things are and be in my position and not be in awe of your own good fortune and then try to work hard to earn it.  Yeah. All right time for a quick break. When we come back what it means to be an immigrant today. BRB.   I was thinking today about your book. Like it is a meditation on lots of things but very much so a meditation kind of on manhood and what it means to be a man. And I came away with this thought kind of like it is a manly book but it is also a mannish book. It is a book that has men that I will not say are behaving badly.  You can say that.  They are not living up to the better moral angels of their nature.   What kind of - what were you trying to say about masculinity and manhood with this book?  Well you know we have - and we should and we do have sort of a code of what we believe is the you know sort of the ways people should act you know and the ways people you know men should act and the way men should act towards women and the way men should behave in families. And we rightfully have these codes which you know as we have been seeing in the news are - or have been violated in egregious ways by powerful you know despicable men all the time. I am not trying to write a perfect world because that world does not exist. I am trying to write you know a version of the world as I see it.  Yeah.  And so yeah I can think about a lot of these characters who are - Nelson in The Provincials for example you know is a kind of - loudish and immature you know. And...  And just lies . Like he lies.  Yeah yeah. But he is also you know entertaining and smart and trying to figure out who he is in relationship to his brother and the country where he is now stuck and where he wishes he were not. And you know he like a lot of people wishes he were someone else and is trying that on. And in the course of trying that on is yeah lying a fair amount. But you know people do that.  . And it feels like some of the pressure he is under is pressure that is unique to people from families where migration is a theme. Like he has not left the home country. His brother has. That sets up you know some conflict for him. And some of what informs how he thinks of whether or not he is a man is informed by whether or not he got to leave or stay. Like how much is movement wrapped up in manhood for you...  Well in the case of...  ...And migration?  In the case of Nelson it is he cannot fathom that this is actually his life. He knows it is 'ecause it surrounds him and it is his day to day. But he thinks his life is about to begin somewhere else. He thinks that things are going to change and that his actual life - this is all before the curtain is raised. And he is in danger of reaching a point where he is like - oh this was the show. Whoops. You know and I think that that is a real slippery place to be in. And it is a process of being - of postponing actualization...  Yeah.  ...Of postponing big decisions.  Yeah.  And it is something he is doing to himself I want to be clear. It is something that he is doing to himself. Not everybody in his position would respond this way. But there is a certain immaturity and a certain entitlement that he believes in - maybe he is not even aware of it - that is leading him into this state of spinning his wheels you know almost like a professional and emotional stasis.  Yeah yeah. One of the things you do in this book is you never ever say exactly the location of these stories.  Yeah. So I always want sort of the widest lane possible in which to play. And I think very much of writing fiction as a recreational activity for me. It is something that I have fun doing. And if I am not having fun doing it I do not really see the point. I mean it is challenging and it is hard. But the satisfaction you get from having done it is worth it you know. And by not saying where stories take place and by not pointing out you know landmarks and countries and cities and places you could find on the map I just feel like I have a broader canvas and fewer restrictions you know. And the times that I do mention specific places they are almost designed to make it weirder you know. Like the story Abraham Lincoln Has Been Shot when I mentioned Chicago and these kind of hipster parties and Abraham Lincoln hanging out at these parties - like...  Yeah that was weird.  It is supposed to be disorienting. It is supposed to be like so - like what? Huh? What? You know like the...  Well that whole story I was like - what? Like...   ...I did not know - what decade is it in?  Yeah. I mean that is precisely what I wanted.  OK.  I mean I wanted it to be weird. You know what would it be like to see Abraham Lincoln at a party you know?  With his boyfriend.  And what if Abraham - with his boyfriend yeah. And what would it - you know what would a tender moment between Abraham Lincoln and his lover look like you know? And how would his lover respond you know a decade or two later to the news of his assassination? And how would that play out in a historical mashup America if the Civil War were happening right now?  Yeah.  It was a bunch of...  It was a lot.  It is a lot. It is a lot. But I can tell you that was one of the stories that I had the most fun writing...  Really?  ...Precisely because it was a lot yeah.  Yeah. You know one of the things that I felt - like even in spite of not really knowing exactly where these locations were in the book for the most part - the majority of them you know save for some stuff in the Lincoln story it all felt like it was set in a - how do I say it? - a Latino diaspora like countries and places where people would come from and be in America and be considered Latino. Like it felt very steeped in that. Is that what you were going for?  Yeah. I mean I think that is just where my obsessions are and where my identity is. And that is sort of how the stories came out. I do not think that I set out to write a Latino diaspora book. But you know you often - you do that anyway by accident. Inevitably every book is a reflection of who you are.  Yeah. How do you think you fit into the Latino diaspora? What is your place in it?  I have a lot of affection for the word Latino even though I recognize that it is a pretty arbitrary construction you know.  Oh yeah.  I believe in it even as I realize that it is essentially - I am an empty vessel that we can fill it with whatever we want. So I think with Radio Ambulante - with my show one of things we try to do is sort of interrogate where - you know all the places that Latinos you know come from and draw connections to here you know. We tell stories from everywhere Spanish is spoken. We sort of think of Spanish as one of the defining features of Latino even if you know not all of our audience has Spanish as their first language.  Are you conceptualizing what it means to be part of a Latino diaspora differently in this political climate we are in right now in which in some ways this community is under more scrutiny than before?  Yeah. And I would say that I do not think that I am the one who conceptualized it differently. I think that you know when the president launches his campaign by saying that Mexicans are rapists and drug dealers you know it is like that conceptual work was done. We know that - we have seen it the kind of emboldening of hate speech that is happened in the last year. And so what are you supposed to do as a Peruvian - are you supposed to be like - when someone says you know - go back to your country? Are you supposed to say - wait - no no no. I am Peruvian. I am not Mexican. I just want to clarify that? No you cannot do that. Now you have been all - we have all been placed in the same category. And that is just the way it is. And that is not something that I did or that you know Mexican activists did or Chicano activists did. That is not something the DREAMers did. That is something that was done at the very top from the very beginning of that campaign. And so yeah inevitably I think that Radio Ambulante has a role in sort of unpacking that. We try to do that. We try to draw connections all the time and tell stories that our audience will find entertaining and illuminating about different aspects of Latino and Latin American culture. But you know inevitably there is a political context in which we are doing it. And you know every time NPR you know tweets out one of our headlines in Spanish there is often - I would say there is always you know four or five six tweets in response that are...  Really?  ...Basically like you know go back to your country and like this is American speak English and da da da da da . And...  How does that make you feel?  Here's the thing. You know like I think about this a lot with you know the take-a-knee stuff you know. It is like - I really really respect and understand why people take a knee. I do not. You know I go to sporting events with my son and I sing the national anthem. And I sing it because like the country that I am singing to is such a beautiful place man. That is - like when I - when it is in my - when I am singing those words and I am like - because you know people who say mean things to me on Twitter it is like I - that is - they just do not...  That is not your country.  That is not my country and that is not who they - they do not - they do not really know who they are talking to. They do not really know what is in my heart so they do not - I do not really - cannot really get offended by that and - you know? But I just - I really really have a bond with this country that I think - but you know might surprise some of those people who are tweeting like go back home or go to your country or whatever they might tweet at me or Radio Ambulante you know? And I should also say like I have been thinking about this a lot - no one loves this country like immigrants do. Like the patriotism...  Explain.  The patriotism that I feel the patriotism that my parents feel it is a very special thing. You know you were - if you are born in a country then that is just - you are - that is it. You are born there.  Yeah.  You know of course you love it. You are born there. If you choose it in the sense if you feel like it chooses you it is just a totally different thing.  You think America chose you.  Certainly yeah certainly.  You know I have been talking with comics a lot recently on the show about how they are changing the way they do their work in light of the current political climate. And some of them have had some really thoughtful ways about using comedy and satire to unite communities that might see no reason to unite and to kind of try to talk to the entire country. What do you think writers and fiction writers - how has the current political climate changed their role their work what they should be trying to do or has it not?   It is funny. You know when - it was maybe like the first or second week of the new administration where I just was thinking man like spare a thought for the writer who is like 400 pages into their debut like dystopian novel. You know like...  Why?  Just like - well because you - it does feel like now that all fiction is dystopian and that all of it pales in some way to some of the stuff that is going on. I do not know. I do not think it - I do not think it is changed what I have done or what I do.  OK OK.  Because there is lots of ways to - I do not think my art or my writing as having a political purpose. I think maybe comics might think of it differently. I think that I write to entertain myself. I write to figure out what I think about something. I write in order to imagine myself in situations that I would never want to be in.  But it is inherently political. I mean like this book is inherently political. You know that right? Like it is dealing - I mean like any book about immigration right now it is just political no?  Yeah. But when you write it you are not thinking about that. That is the context in which it is being read.  OK. Yeah yeah.  But like my work is listening very carefully to the characters in the book and trying to tell their stories maybe in ways that feel truthful in ways they might not even tell them. You know I peek in on their diaries you know? Like I know them better than they know themselves. And at the end of the day what I want to do is entertain myself and entertain you and hopefully you know show you some truth that you recognize about your own life even if the people are nothing like you you know?  True words. All right you have got to go. Last question - I was reading up on you. You were asked in an interview over a year ago what book you would have the president read. At that point the president was Barack Obama. Now we have a new president. What book would you make President Donald Trump read besides your own?  Oh you know what? I am going to - there is a fantastic book by the Salvadoran journalist Oscar Martinez. It is called The Beast.  What is it about?  It is about a train that crosses Mexico that Salvadoran and Honduran and Guatemalan migrants take to get to the United States. It is just an extraordinary work of journalism. It is really extraordinary piece of empathic writing you know just getting into the nitty-gritty of the stories of the people who make that trip and why. And it is that - what I mentioned earlier you know that trauma that no one wants to talk about. Now you have made it and now you are not allowed to complain anymore. And no matter what you lived through and how traumatized you might be by the journey you are in America now so you know buck up and start living the dream. I had the privilege of interviewing Oscar when that book was published and it is really a book that stayed with me. And I think that not just the president but a lot of lawmakers would do well to go through and read those stories and try to understand exactly what is going on and why. And I think that they would - might have a different view about a lot of issues around immigration.   That was Daniel Alarcon. He is the author of a new book of short stories. It is called The King Is Always Above the People. It is out now. Go check it out. A note - in our conversation Daniel recommended a book for the current president. It is called The Beast Riding The Rails And Dodging Narcos On The Migrant Trail. It is by Oscar Martinez. Daniel also recommended the same book for President Obama. Daniel thank you for the chat. As always listeners we will be back in your feeds on Friday. We want to hear from you all the time especially for our long-distance calls that we do every week. You can share with me what is happening in your town in your city in your little corner of the world. Just shoot me a note. Email me at samsandersnpr.org. Also do not forget this little ol' podcast that could is on the radio now as well. Make it a part of your weekend routine. Go to npr.orgstations to see if the show is on near you. That is a wrap. I am Sam Sanders. Thank you for listening. We will talk soon. 