 A lot of immigrants are already struggling with so many things coming to this country you know assimilating to so many different aspects of life. They recognize that African Americans black people in this country go through so much that if they can at least avoid that struggle they will do as much as they can. So in their mind I guess that is kind of a coping mechanism for them to have a slightly easier life if they could. By distancing themselves. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Afi Yellow-Duke is a producer here at the show.  I think people see my name a lot and theyre like that is - where is that person from?  Heres the answer  My mom was from Haiti and my dad is from Nigeria. Afis parents both immigrated as adults and met in the U.S. And earlier this year she and I started talking together about the kinds of conversations she was having within her family about what was happening in 2020 in the U.S. Especially after George Floyd was killed by police.  I really just wanted to like make sure we were all doing okay. But also like I knew I was upset and had my own like opinions and like wanted to kind of get a sense of like what we were all thinking about in this moment. And I guess like I was also having these conversations like with other friends of mine who come from immigrant families and like we were all kind of figuring out like how do we how do we talk about this stuff with our families? And like for some of my friends it was like how do I translate this stuff into like the languages that they speak or like how do I talk about anti-blackness with my like parents. There were more layers to the conversations I was having with my friends who are also in immigrant families.  I remember you saying something like you know everywhere I am hearing the Race in America 101 conversation and I need the like graduate seminar.  Yeah. I still feel like I need that.   So starting back in June we asked those of you who are a part of immigrant families to give us a window into the discussions youre having in 2020.  Because in my own family these conversations have been really challenging and really interesting. And I was so curious about what was going on inside more immigrant families including ones really different from my own.  And to be clear when we say immigrant families thats a lot of families in the U.S. In 2019 more than a quarter of the U.S. population were immigrants or their U.S.-born children according to the Census Bureau.  So Ive spent the last few months hearing from some of you about how youre talking with your parents your siblings and your extended families this year. The conversations I had were deeply personal. And in this episode youll hear several of them all about the intersection of identity and race and racism. And politics too because you know theres an election next week.  Political conversations are just a no-no. Because it just leads to screaming matches. They are definitely a little bit racist Its almost like they are the only ones who will ever be marginalized oppressed et cetera ever. And they cant apply anything to any other group. It also requires like a betrayal of their love for this country you know a country that they adore and that they admire and that they are grateful for. They really have sacrificed so much and done so much to be where they are. And I am so grateful for all the sacrifices that they have made. I have to figure out kind of what is my duty to them. And what is my duty to myself. So its an ongoing battle.  Do you think the election results the outcome will impact your relationship with your family?  Um to be completely honest I think it is already affected our relationship. This is Gina whos 29 years old and lives in New York. Her parents both immigrated from Peru to California where they still live. And last year she got added to a Facebook group chat with 13 members of her dads side of the family.  I think it began as like how are you hope youre having a good day. And like if someone has a birthday let us say happy birthday kind of thing.  I have a family group chat so I I can see it. I get it like.  Yeah. I think at the beginning it was kind of nice to just be communicating with that part of the family especially cause I was never really close to most of them besides my dad. But once the pandemic started and a few people on the chat started making comments about looting during the protests Gina decided to start sharing articles about the Black Lives Matter movement with her family.  At first they definitely did not. Um they were not responsive. They were very much so like why are you - I mean in my mind that I read it as like why are you sending me this? They do not understand how Latinos are very much. So part of the problem when it comes to you know racial issues. Even like with like George Zimmerman like he is half Peruvian um you know you you you kind of have to like as a Latino you kind of have to take a step back and be like okay why is it that this is happening you know. It was extremely important for me to kind of push. But that pushing and article sharing has also led to conflict. Like with Ginas older half sister who lives in Texas and is married to a former police officer.  I think it was an article and then it was a screenshot of Trump talking about uh calling everybody thugs or something like that. And then my sister responding immediately with Obama's also calling people thugs. And I just - It felt very like childish and I do not know it was very off putting. And thats when I decided to kind of take a step back from sending certain things to them because I was like I do not want to I do not want to start this again kind of thing.  We have been having a lot of very difficult conversations around the very racist very oppressive core of this country. A listener named Anya whose parents came to the U.S. from Moscow sent this voice memo in.  My family immigrated to Massachusetts as political and Jewish refugees um in 1991 uh these last few months I have found that there is just so many barriers for us to work through - generational political cultural before we can even come to an understanding. It is just it is a lot to absorb for them. Um when I found is the biggest issue for them is that they see their lives as like literal proof of the American dream being this very real and very available thing to anyone that just wants it badly enough. So you know to explain to them how their skin color actually worked to their advantage obviously it feels like a slap in the face to them. Like Gina Anyas been having these conversations with her family remotely. But some of you are not having these conversations at a distance. Rudy first sent us a voice memo this summer that he recorded while he was living at his parents house in New Jersey.  Ive been unemployed since March and Ive been living with my parents since. The reason why I decided to send something to you is because Ive been noticing a lot of patterns that are absolutely killing me inside from my parents. Rudy is 26 and he grew up in both China and the United States until middle school when his family settled in the U.S. And he says that in the last few months hes been talking and arguing with his parents about racism in America in ways they never have before.  It is a lot of persistence and there is a lot of uh there is a lot of mental anguish and there is a lot of accepting of like the person that you want to be that may be different from what your parents wanted you to be.  And what would happen in those conversations? Drop me into a conversation here.  Yeah. Um you know like it would really just be about like how the protests um that were really sparked um my parents really just like did not - really thought like you know it was okay for certain things to happen to black people. And what I mean by that is you know like for example words such as They deserve this or like This should have happened or like They could have prevented this if they were if they just like listened to the government more. Um those are like some kind of you know examples where I was just like wow. I cannot believe you would say that like that is just horrible. And I would show them pictures and you know I would have like many many different confrontations during dinner where I would bring up videos and it was really hard for me to even convince them. And they just kind of just looked at it as fake news and just not believe me. Um and that that would just constantly pushing me to the edge. Where you know at one point I was just so ticked off that we would have verbal like yelling like doing dinner and I would just like go upstairs and completely just ignore them for the entire night. Um and the next day my mom would just you know be kind again and like just be like oh like how was how are you doing and stuff? And I will be like am I supposed to just get over this? Like immediately? Like damn that is really hard. And like it just felt so mentally taxing to like be able to I do not know to be able to say that you love your parents and you know you and they obviously like cooked you a great amazing dinner but still somehow the next day be just just accept it and just say okay like that is the way they they are. And like I am just going to live my life normally. I find that really hard.  And when did you start having those conversations with your parents?  Yeah. I guess leading up to the 2016 election. I know I definitely know I did not tell you this in the beginning. Um but when my parents were talking to me around 2015 2016 um they were they were really big into Trump. And me at the time you know were just starting to get into politics. And so for me I actually fell into the camp of supporting Trump at one point where I am just going to like side with them even though I disagree with some of the views that Trump had um you know what like it is better for me to just like side with them right now.  So you felt like you needed to trust them and like defer to them a little bit.  Yeah. Yeah. I was not I was not confident. I was not confident in my um political decision ability or not - even judge like political candidates. And I felt my parents' frustration with politicians. So I felt like it was just easier instead of like having an argument with 'em. Um I would rather just you know be okay with that. It took a while for me to mentally accept but um it is it is it is more important to me to realize that I have to live my life according to my own terms. If it means that my parent's relationship with me are not going to be as strong before just based off of certain politics and certain disagreements and cultural norms then so be it.  Do you feel personally vulnerable right now? Like in terms of like in this country because of who you are?  Yeah. You know like probably two years ago or even maybe a year ago. I would not say I was that worried. But I think I think given the situations of you know perpetrating uh calling it a China virus and many people who who just see um I guess China now as an enemy um I think it becomes a lot more it becomes a lot more careful on how I navigate myself um and and going into the future and uh just also being wary of like employment. Um I saw that like I saw an article that uh Asian unemployment it is actually the second highest now right under um right under African Americans. And Asian Americans have never faced higher unemployment like that for a very long time. So signs like that definitely makes me worried since you know I am still unemployed and I send in all these job apps. And now I cannot help but think like I wonder if it is literally because of my name. Even if I do not say what race I am you see my last name you are going to be like oh yeah he is Chinese. Because it is too obvious. So I cannot hide it. I cannot do anything about it. You can search me up on LinkedIn immediately find me and be easy as that. Um and then just judge me right there uh make a decision. So yeah. Um I think I am definitely a little bit more hesitant. Um About the future.  Do you think your parents feel that sense of hesitancy and have they expressed any concerns like that?  Um my dad does not really believe certain things like that happen. He believes in the motto of you work hard you get what you get. Right? Um my mom she says she knows that I kind of feel scared about how everything's turning out to be for Asians. And uh she definitely is not she definitely does not want further President of you know America constantly um hating on Asians. And obviously you know you can say that is selfish because she only cares about Asians but but I would say like that is that is definitely more thought than she used to give. Um because now this is actually hitting a race that is that is her skin right? Like it was not it is not just blacks anymore. It is not just Hispanics anymore. Now you are actually feeling it because you are Asian and I am glad I am glad that happened because she can realize that herself. But she was more pointing out the concern. Um I think for me and my sister.  Do you think your mom is aware of the fact that you two have a more complicated relationship?  Yeah. Yeah. I think um I think it would be crazy to say she is not aware because like it is just so obvious. Um at this point I think I think sometimes she chooses to ignore it and thinks that you know I am her - like I am her son and like you know forever I will be her baby sort of thing. But I do think that she is starting to realize like yeah I am I am her I am her kid like I am her baby forever but but I am going to change and and I am going to have thoughts of my own that might be different from hers. Um she is she is actually had some profound conversation with me this this past weekend where we were just in the car and she just you know talked to me about the election and - and I was really happy to say that you know she she actually said that she has been thinking a lot about what I have said and um she is starting to understand like she wants she wants to see like a more positive movement rather than a negative movement.  Mmhm. It sounds like there is a shift happening in your family but I also wonder like do you have a sense of why your parents have been and are hesitant to kind of like condemn anti-black racism?  Yeah that is a wow. That is that is a deep question. Um I would say that um and I have always and I have always believed this but just no exposure. I mean you just um any any group of people who are not exposed enough to certain races to certain people to certain types of people to certain um personalities um just will not have like that much of a understanding that that we are all relatively the same. And we all want to like just get through life you know positively. Um I do not think my parents like both my dad and my mom were exposed to as many diverse people as I am. I do not think I will be able to completely change um my parents or frank - for that matter anyone 100 percent I think that is just an impossible task. Um however I think my goal is to ultimately just consistently throw things at them that that they just that that needs to be heard. No one else is gonna no one else is going to tell them um what I am going to say. And I want them to be exposed um to the experiences I have had. They worked they worked their ass off to get me and my sister to America. And America is not uh should not at least should not be some kind of country that makes other people uh born in a certain skin color make them feel um scared or make them feel um that they cannot do anything in society to move up. Um that is not that is not what I like to stand for and that is not what - that is not why I would be proud to say Im American. Coming up more conversations about identity loyalty and family.  Im just so rooted in America I have a lot of my roots here since I was raised here as well. I think its kind of hard for them to understand. Because they in their mind its like youre Ethiopian you were born there you have Ethiopian blood that should ground you to Ethiopia as a country. But that is not necessarily how it works.  Hey I just want to say thank you so much to those of you who recently donated to the show and became a sustaining member. Your contributions really matter especially during these tough long weird times. We hope that those of you who requested one of our new mugs with your donation will take a picture of yourselves enjoying your morning coffee in it and tag us. And good news for anyone who hasnt yet donated but would like to there are still some mugs left! So dont feel like you missed the boat quite yet. You can get one at deathsexmoney.orgdonate. If you dont have the extra to give right now we get it. But if you do we need it. Please go to deathsexmoney.orgdonate and become a monthly sustaining member. Thank you so much.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Afi Yellow-Duke. A lot of you who come from immigrant families told me that when youre talking with your relatives about identity theres this added dimension to the conversations. Youre trying to sort out what parts of being American you can claim the parts you cant and the parts that you need to pay closer attention to. A listener were calling Ann wrote in to us from Southern California. She is in her 30s and grew up there in a big Filipino American family. This summer they were planning a big reunion which they decided to do by Zoom.  And while we trying to figure out what the weekend would look like the murder of George Floyd happened and you know the protests were really ramping up and the Black Lives Matter movement was really at the forefront of every conversation. And I think like many other people I started really reflecting on identity and race and how in many ways I have contributed to where we are at today. Um and a lot of my feelings were like I I how do you know where you are going if you do not know where you have been? And It made me think about like well what am I not learning about my history and my culture and what it means to be a Filipino American. So Ann decided to put together a schedule of three days of Zoom activities that would focus on their Filipino American familys history. Her aunts and uncles talked about their lives before coming to the U.S they shared stories about her grandfathers job in a factory back in the Philippines and her mom led a cooking demonstration of a favorite family dessert.  It is kind of like a marshmallow-y dessert with like a custard inside.  Mmm.  It is one of those dishes that like my uncle would always bring to our family parties 'ecause because we have such a family like a big family all our parties are potlucks. 'ecause there is no way anybody could feed everybody. And so whenever we have a party it is like oh can you bring the Brazo de Mercedes? You know if something were to happen or when he does pass. We are not going to have it anymore or like somebody needs to know how to make it.  Yeah that makes a lot of sense. Before the reunion like when you were growing up how did you learn about your culture and like Filipino history? It sounds like you really interested in that now. Like were you really interested in that when you were younger?  No I think like and I think like that is the ugh I like cringe when I think about like things I used to do as a kid but it was all in trying to assimilate and like fit in. Um you know like not wanting your friends to come over when your mom made certain foods because of the way they smelled. I think like I used to like try to run away from that a lot as a kid um because I just did not really want to be othered. And I look back and I realized that like we were exposed to our culture in some ways but at the same time like exposure does not mean understanding like you can be exposed to it but it does not mean that you really get what it means to be like a Filipino American. Ann has also tried to talk to her family about how their family history relates to American history and whos been included and excluded. Something shes been talking about a lot as a grad student in education. But when she tried to talk about the Black Lives Matter movement with her mom at first she felt like it wasnt really connecting.  And so I remembered this letter going around on Instagram. Um it called like the letters for black lives. And so it they had like different translations of the letter in various languages. And so I found the letter in Tagalog and I talked to my brothers about like kind of what had happened and they were like yeah. Um it might be easier for her to kind of understand it hearing it in her own language. And so we decided to share it with her and then yeah. So we did that. And then she was like who wrote this letter? Because she knew that me and my brothers do not speak Tagalog and we told her like where we found it. And so she was like it was really well-written. It gives me a better understanding of like what is happening right now. Um so I think it was a good starting point. While Ann and her mom have kept talking they dont agree on everything. Right now Ann doesnt understand why her moms friendly with their neighbors who have a Trump sign in their yard. Anns mom didnt want to do an interview with us but her younger brother who were calling Julius hopped on the call. Hes a seasonal firefighter and when he isnt traveling for work hes been living with their parents.  I mean I would argue that just like I have been around here more than you and uh like we all have conversations with the neighbors and they know each other or we know each other on a first name basis and they always ask about how we are doing and things like that. So when I see the signs of who they are voting for up in their yard it is like just a little bit surprising but nothing concerning.  Do you think it does it hurt you at all? I guess in the same way that it hurts me to see that.  Umm. I do not know if it hurts me but maybe just a little disappointing. Yeah. I do not know.  Why is it more personal to you Ann?  I do not know why it is I am taking it so personally um. And I do not know if it is just because like I am invested in this you know we value our neighbors you know so much and being able to just be neighborly. Um and to think you care more about somebody than they care about you. I think just hurts. And I think to me it just hurts. It is like a sign of like oh I do not care for you.  Julius I guess I have just been talking with your sister about uh kind of like how she is come to understand what being Filipino American means to her over the years. How are you thinking about your identity as a Filipino American in the last few months?  It is just interesting because this is something that I have never really thought about. And it is just always hard to um like articulate my thoughts. And shes um trying to define what this means. Like it is it kind of paints the picture for me to um just to give me like ideas to for me to relate to. Like are we losing touch with our Filipino um side of ourselves? Like as we as we grow up?  Does it feel like you know your sister's very focused on this in a way that is like important? Or like does not feel as like urgent to you? Or is it like helpful to like see her processing this?  Yeah it is definitely helped helpful to see her um just try to pick at this. Like I because this is something these are the types of conversations that I never have with like even myself. So just seeing how uh cause we are we are um brought up together. Like it kinda just makes more sense for me to see like how our past actually shaped us.  Yeah. You said pick at this just now which I dunno made me think of like a scab or something. Like is there some way in which like doing this is painful or scary?  Um it is not no I would just say it is definitely a little bit uncomfortable just because I feel like I am not aware a lot of a lot of these things and um just seeing how do I say this? It is like I am trying to find answers for myself but like I do not really know what um the questions to ask. So seeing her navigate through this is just um just very helpful for me.  I think all of us have an identity crisis in some way. Our listener Effie wrote in to us from Denver. Shes 23 and as a little kid she immigrated to the U.S. with her mom and dad from Ethiopia.  A lot of Ethiopians from Ethiopia they really identify as being purely Ethiopian. If I am talking to like an Ethiopian from Ethiopia um if I say I am black quite frankly they will be shocked. And in in not a great way. Me being raised in America gave um gave me more of a cultural I guess tilt towards you know being American having more an identity that is more I guess multicultural and thinking more beyond my Ethiopian roots. I talked with Effie at home where she lives with her mom and stepdad. Her stepdad is also from Ethiopia but arrived in the U.S. just five years ago. And in that time especially in the past year theyve been talking a lot about race identity and how they define themselves.  I have said Im black so many times around the house. I think theyve kind of just given up. So I am not entirely sure if they have accepted it or if theyre just like this girls crazy Im not going to try to convince her anymore. Its almost like a coming out story. Like Mom Im black!   Can you tell me more about like what you mean in terms of like the differences in identity that you and your parents have?  Yeah. I mean guess it kind of started when I decided to check African American on all my documents instead of Other. When my parents realized it and they were very confused. Um the first thing people usually say is Oh no you are not black. You are you are Ethiopian. Um you are not - actually somebody told me that Ethiopians are not black theyre Semitic which I was a little confused about because you know I understand that much in Ethiopia has language that is very close to Hebrew and I understand how that would work in being Semitic. But does that negate the fact that I am also African which means I am black? I personally do not understand the - like the process that they go through just to avoid being considered as black. They want to make sure that while there are some similarities between looks and appearance. They want to make sure that there is still this divide. Um unfortunately between Ethiopians and the general black population which is very difficult to navigate.  How does your family feel about that? Like are they surprised that you identify this way? Does it upset them as well? Like where where do they fall?  I think it is kind of difficult for my mom and I kind of I would not say give her a pass but I kind of understand where she is coming from. She passes as white or passes as racially ambiguous because of how light-skinned she is. So she kind of gets away with putting Other. But my stepdad is very dark. Um and he is also very new to the country or relatively new compared to my mom. So I think he specifically because he is very new to the country has much more - 'ecause my mom knows that somewhere deep in her heart she knows that Ethiopian Americans you know since they look black they are going to be - even if they do not consider themselves as black they are going to be seen and viewed as black by the rest of the population. He has not really that has not really solidified for him. Um it was a couple of years ago um but when Philando Castile was murdered my stepdad actually brought it up 'ecause he saw it in the news somewhere. And he was talking about how really just saddened he was about this country and how they were treating African Americans and like you know he he used he used - the way he the way he said it it was very much so Oh it is so sad for them. And I feel really disappointed how they treat them you know kind of like distancing himself. And that really solidified when he said you know Well they will not shoot me in my car because I am not black. I am Ethiopian. And yeah. Still to this day I am like very shocked that he even said that um because it felt kind of there is a lot of things going through my mind like when he did. First I was really confused because he is so dark skinned. That I am very - I was like how are they not going to see you as black? In my mind it just did not solidify. Like it did not make sense at all. But then for him I guess he was trying to use that as a barrier like how he identifies as Ethiopian and not black. He was trying to use that as a way to protect himself.  In the moment when he made that comment like did you did you respond or were you just like whoa like I cannot believe you said that.  I did respond in the moment but I took like I had like a 30 second dialogue with myself like Effie are you really trying to do this today? Like I do not think you have a choice you know kind of like is this a battle I am gonna fight? You know? Um so I decided okay like I think this is important even though I do not really like having - I am not really a confrontational person. But I felt like this was really important. Because I cannot let them think all their life that they are not black. And then you know say something very ignorant to a police officer even endanger themselves later on. So that is kind of when I decided to really be a little bit more intentional about how I talk about race and specifically the - being black and black identity with my family. And after that they have been more receptive. Um but gosh it is like it ebbs and flows um it is up and down. I know I do not really know if they fully get it one day other days they seem very woke. So it is obviously a continuing process but I think that was the day that I realized that it was a conversation I had to be more intentional about because they are not going to get this conversation outside of the home.  What led you to shift from the other checking the Other box to African American. Like what - I am curious as to your process in making that shift.  You know I did not think it is necessarily that big of a deal for me 'ecause I have always kind of like knew. Um so when I first went to kindergarten when I first came over from Ethiopia like people recognized me as black um so I always knew that was who I was. So necessarily like checking that box was not like Oh I am doing such a you know courageous thing. It was just kinda like yeah like why have not I done this before? Um so it yeah it was not like a big shift in my mind. It was just kind of something that I always knew. And I always knew that there was a difference between my school life quote unquote in my home life. And I had to make them converge somehow because he was like cognitive dissonance in a way.  Yeah. That cognitive dissonance I feel I definitely feel that. There definitely is like a way you kind of shift like I do not know if your family ever said this but like my mom was from Haiti and she would always be like when you when you walk in this apartment you are no longer in the United States. And I was just like what? Like as a very young kid I was like that does not make sense. But that sort of dynamic is definitely something I can relate to. Do you - I guess I am curious like it sounds like it was very like easy for you to kind of just be like okay like there is this difference in these two like worlds I kind of am in like this is how I am going to solve that. Do you feel like - is it comfortable?  Um I do not know if I would call it comfortable. It was just kind of like either I find like some place to really solidify my identity or I fall into the abyss of possibly changing who I am. That was kind of like the decision I had to make it felt like. Because I um I am not gonna lie I still have struggles with like personal identity cultural identity but I want to make sure that I find some solid ground to build my identity on without the necessarily the opinions of others. But it is really hard when you are trying to form your cultural identity when two different sides of you are pulling in two different directions. And the two sides are not really seeing eye to eye. I was trying to please my community. I was trying to make sure that you know that they thought that I was Ethiopian. And I thought that if I was really open about me identifying as black as well then that would negate the fact that I was truly an Ethiopian. But I feel like it was just kind of making matters worse unknowingly for the rest of the Black community. So I am going to have to you know let some people down. I am going to have to uh what is the word dissap- like wow I forgot the word disappoint. I am going to disappoint some people. Um and if that is what it takes then that is what it takes. Um but yeah I mean this this is not really comfortable it is necessary Id say. Thats a listener named Effie from Denver. And Im Afi Yellow-Duke. Thank you to all of the listeners who shared their experiences with us. I really appreciated having these conversations. And as for my family our group chat is pretty interesting right now. You should see the questions were asking my dad. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Katie Bishop and I produced this episode. The rest of our team includes Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter ayellowduchess and the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook.  And Im on Twitter annasale. Thanks to Emily Mueller in Kaukana Wisconsin who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Emily and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Special thanks to artist Maddie Dai for her beautiful artwork for this episode. She grew up in New Zealand with a Chinese dad and a white mom and discussions like these have been a regular part of dinners in her family. You can see Maddies artwork at deathsexmoney.org. And a reminder to all our listeners. We love hearing from you about whats on your mind and what conversations you need to hear right now. You can email us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org.  Um are you gonna listen to this? AFI' How long is this going to take?   The episode is probably I think its about 40 minutes now. AFI' Its going to take 40 minutes?  Not our conversation. I mean the episode. AFI' Oh okay all right Okay. Ill find time tomorrow.  Im Afi Yellow-Duke that was my dad... and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.