 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show Washington correspondent for New York magazine Olivia Nuzzi and Atlantic magazine staff writer McKay Coppins. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. This is NPR. Sam Sanders here. It is Been a Minute. Each week we start the show with a different song. I am going to challenge you guys to figure out what this song is. Do you know what this is?  No .  As Aunt Betty said we got two superstars here today. A couple of magazine - fancy highfalutin magazine writers here. Olivia McKay thank you guys. I know you both had rough nights before this.  .  You were working late.  Evergreen statement.  We got two Red Bulls on deck.  .  Talk more about what you guys cover briefly.  I cover the White House and sort of the personalities who are populating the White House. And...  Yeah you have these great profiles of some of the key players in the White House.  Thank you. And like the people influencing it from the outside.  Now let us say nice things about Sam.  Well first...   First they....   Thank you for bringing me this Red Bull.   I will always bring you Red Bull. Any time.  It is the nicest thing that anyone's ever done for me.  .  I cover national politics - obviously the Trump presidency but especially kind of the Republican Party and...  And the conservative movement.  ...Conservative movement. Yeah it is a beat that just keeps on giving.  All right. This song - you have not guessed it yet. Play some more Brent.    Bidi bidi bom bom. Bidi bidi bom bom.  Bidi bidi bom bom. You know this song. Selena.  Oh my God. That is what I thought. I thought...  It is Selena.  ...It was Selena or Gordon Armstrong .  You should have said it.  You should have said it was Selena. Anyway I picked this song. It is by Selena. It is called Bidi Bidi Bom Bom. This week marks the anniversary of the release of her first album which came out in 1989. It is hard to overstate how big of a star she was in the Southwest in Texas where I am from in Mexico. She was a big deal. And when she died it was also a big deal. Like she was on some Elvis-level stuff and I was a big fan of hers growing up. This song I love. It is one of her biggest hits although I still do not know what bidi bidi bom bom means.  I am going to say that I need to study the lyrics a little and get the context and then I will formulate an opinion.  Yeah. Also to all those out there watch the classic movie Selena starring J-Lo as Selena. It is real good.    Bidi bidi bidi bidi bidi bom bom.  All right. All right. All right. We are here to discuss what happened this week. The aftermath - continuing aftermath of the Harvey Weinstein story President Trump's growing feud with the GOP and so so so so so much more. But first let us begin the week as we always do. I ask my guests to describe their week of news and everything else in just three words. OK. What do you got?  OK. So what I came up with was wait what now?  Explain.  And the reason is - so I think it pertains to a lot of things specifically the health care news that we have seen over the past week.  Catch folks up on...  Yeah so we  - there are basically 15 twists and turns. I actually was trying to brush up last night...  .  And I realized how impossible it is for like a casual news consumer to follow it.  Yeah. Yeah.  But - so President Trump came out and said that they were not going to fund subsidies that stabilize the insurance markets basically...  Basically payments to insurance companies...  Exactly.  ...To help keep premiums low for low-income people.  Exactly. And this threatened to kind of wreak havoc on...  On Obamacare.  On Obamacare. And so - and then we saw reporting that said that he had been privately behind the scenes encouraging lawmakers to come up with some kind of bipartisan legislative fix.  To save these subsidies.  To save the subsidies right.  Because lots of states and governors are saying we need this. Five states have already filed suit against the White House for even saying that it would take that money away. But now it seems that bipartisan bill is doomed already.  Well that is what is so crazy. So we had two senators come out and say we have been working on this deal.  Democratic Patty Murray and Republican...  Lamar Alexander.  Yeah.  Yeah. And so they announced this deal. And almost immediately Trump starts backing away from it. It is bizarre. And I found myself trying to follow this this past week and I felt like every time I turned on my phone or like turned on TV or listened to the radio it be like wait what? What?  What now?  What now? What just happened?  And then - I mean this kind of fits a larger pattern you know with the Iran deal with DACA. You see Trump not just passing the book to Congress but also giving mixed messages about what he wants.  Yeah. And it is interesting because there could be a - there is a case to be made that it is better for Congress to address these things - for these things to be fixed legislatively because...  Because you had two parties buying into it.  Right. You have two parties buying into it. It makes it more difficult for whoever new comes into the White House...  To take it away.  ...To take it away to upend things. The problem is you need some kind of support from the White House to get it done. If Trump does not back it Republicans on the Hill are not going to back it.  And it seems now he is backing Olivia this budget resolution that might lay the groundwork for tax cuts.  For now.  Yeah .  I mean he might change it tomorrow. I am not even being facetious.  Yeah.  I mean we have seen this over and over again. So yeah you are right. I mean what now? And my three words were - it is getting worse I think because...  What is getting worse?  I think it really - he is not any more focused or any more coherent on policy today than he was when he first entered the office in January.  I think the...  He is continuing these fights you know with the NFL.  Oh and this week with like the family...  With - exactly.  ...Of a fallen soldier. And a quick background on that. So this week there is been a lot of coverage of a call made from the White House to the family of Sergeant La David T. Johnson. Johnson was one of four U.S. soldiers killed in an ambush attack in Niger - gosh about two weeks ago now. Representative Frederica Wilson a Democrat from Johnson's home district said she was on the call as well. She heard it on speakerphone and said that Trump was disrespectful. She said that Trump said that Johnson knew what he was signing up for would not even reference Johnson by name which made her think that he did not know this person's name. And the day after those comments the mother of Johnson said yes what Wilson says is true. And she said quote that Trump disrespected her family. This has led to as you referenced Olivia John Kelly chief of staff to Trump coming out and speaking forcefully about all of this yesterday. What did he say?  Right. And you know John Kelly - first of all nobody is disputing...  What was...  ...The facts about this call.  Yes except Donald Trump.  Except  Donald Trump.  Trump said that Wilson was lying.  Right you know it is like they are turning this debate this very real debate about what happened and about the president's response to it into this kind of character assassination...  Yes.  ...Of this congresswoman. And - something we have sort of seen time and time again since January. Any time that the president does anything wrong or controversial he turns it into a personal fight. But we are not talking now about what initially started this conversation you know...  Exactly.  I hate to - I hate when people say like you know the president is deflecting. And he is inventing a crisis...  Everything is a distraction a calculated distraction.  Exactly because I do not think that he is that - I do not think he has that much foresight.  Yeah.  This is the other thing though about Trump is that he always takes these things super personally...  Right.  ...And takes them as attacks. Remember this is not even his first you know kind of outlandish feud in the...  With a Gold Star family.  With a Gold Star family category.  Khizr Khan comes to mind.  Exactly.  Yeah. So during the campaign in that situation everyone if you would interview people on the Trump campaign his advisers would all - they were pulling their hair out just begging Trump to just let this...  Stop.  ...Thing drop. But he could not do it because he just - when he feels like he is being attacked he has to lash out.  But it is not - I do not think that he actually gets angry about this sort of thing. I think he lives for conflict like this. I think he thrives on conflict. And this frankly is probably more interesting to him and stimulates him more than a conversation about healthcare policy or about the budget.  Yeah.  This is the type of thing that he - that is familiar to him and that he feels comfortable doing. And I think that is why he does it so often.  Yeah. And I mean the thing in all of this that we are not talking about as a country right now is whatever exactly happened in Niger.  Right.  Right.  You know there is this ambush attack that killed four U.S. troops that we still have a lot of questions about you know like a lot of questions. All right you guys I have three words - all of us. And this kind of sums up my thoughts about the ongoing fallout of the Harvey Weinstein scandal. We all know what it is now. And this week we saw the MeToo trend with women sharing their personal stories of abuse and harassment or just even saying hey something happened to me. It was very powerful.  Yeah. I mean I hate to be the like clueless man who you know is so shocked and surprised by this.  But please proceed.  But now let me tell you why I was. I mean honestly when it started to take off this hashtag I got on - one morning I got on Facebook. And literally every woman in my Facebook news feed was sharing these stories. And these are you know family members friends people I went to high school with college with. You know like I think intellectually I knew that this kind of stuff happened. And I knew it was bad. But to see just how many stories there were out there was I think really jarring for a lot of men watching this take place and hopefully is prompting some soul searching and some hard conversations.  Yeah. I do not want to step over the woman in this conversation. What was your take on this week of MeToo?  Well I mean I think I was a little bit concerned by MeToo only in that I thought you know perhaps women who did not want to publicize their stories might feel left out or might feel pressured to do so - might not feel the sense of community might feel like they were missing out on sort of a camaraderie and being you know comforted...  Yeah.  ...By sharing this with people that they know...  Yeah.  ...And that they trust. But you know I think the more that we talk about abuse of power in any realm the better...  Yeah.  ...And the more chance that there is that it will change.  Yeah. I am always interested in who we expect to lead conversations after traumatic events. One of the things I found annoying about the aftermath of Charlottesville is that people of color were almost forced to lead this conversation about race. And I am like you should not have to do that right now. You just went through a lot. And when I see the MeToo hashtag trend I admire and commend the women leading this conversation. But I think gosh it must be really hard to not just have to think about this all over again but feel like you have this pressure to lead a national dialogue about it.  Right. I saw a woman - I do not know her name. It was just on Twitter. Somebody retweeted her into my timeline. But she said that - she was joking she is being lighthearted about it. But she was saying that she was like suffering. Her health was suffering because every time she went on the internet or looked at TV anywhere she was just inundated with stories of sexual abuse. I mean everywhere you turn...  It was there.  ...Since the New York Times story has come out. I mean it is everywhere. Everyone seems to have a story.  I talked with some men and women that I know to kind of get into how men are responding to it. And the vibe that I got was that a lot of men did not know how to respond via social media platforms. What do you say? How do you say the right or wrong thing? And at first I was like yeah I hear you. That must be hard. But then I was like hmm. So you are...   But then I was like OK so you do not know what to say. You are nervous about getting it wrong. Welcome to how women feel everyday.  You know but I - one point I would make though is like we have had these conversations before. I remember a few years...  During the campaign.  Well during the campaign. But before that even there was a NotAllMen thing that happened after...  Oh.  ...A shooting in California that - I cannot even remember where it was because there have been so many shootings.  Yeah. Was it the Santa Barbara one?  Yes.  OK.  Thank you. And so I do always wonder you know when this sort of tapers off and we move on to something else you know will anything have really fundamentally changed?  I do not know. Yeah.  I read this piece by a woman at Deadspin. And she was making the point that more important than men responding on social media to this is men responding amongst each other privately right?  This is a thing yeah.  Like having difficult conversations. And she was saying one of the big problems is that men are reacting to this defensively...  Yeah.  ...As if they are on trial. Or they are reacting to it by kind of treating it as a binary where oh those are the bad guys. But I am a good guy. Whereas the reality...  We are all guys in this system.   Yeah right. Well that is the reality. And just mathematically speaking there are so many of these stories. It is not just a few bad apples...  And...  ...In terms of the men who are caught.  Yeah.  And so we need to be having as men uncomfortable conversations with each other and with ourselves and kind of figuring out how - you know that is where the conversation needs to be happening in addition to social media and everything else. It is not just about what to tweet or what to put on your Facebook.  Yeah. And I think a lot of men who think well I am not one of the bad guys - if they thought hard enough or could flashback to those nights when they were blackout drunk they might have been.  Yeah. I mean I am reluctant to kind of go assume that every man has committed some sort of act against a woman like this or has made a woman feel victimized because I do not think that is true.  Yeah.  But you know I think it is interesting because this - the last year maybe year and a half I feel like everyone has learned at some point that we have to try to do better...  Yeah.  ...To each other whether you are a man or you are a white person or you are heterosexual. I feel like people who are in a position to potentially make others feel lesser or victimized.  Yeah.  Everyone has learned at some point through the news cycle in the last year year and a half that they need to on a person-to-person level be better.  Yeah. All right guys time for a quick break. We will B-R-B I promise.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. It is a show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with Olivia Nuzzi from New York magazine McKay Coppins from The Atlantic. Guys quickly in 15 seconds what is your biggest pet peeve? Go.  Being put on the spot.   And you sir?  Sugar Red Bull. Only sugar free is for me.  .  Any time someone hands me a Red Bull with sugar I am like come on.  Such a diva.  I know right?  .  My biggest pet peeve is when people say couple when they mean a few. Couple means two only two.  Oh I do that.  Three or more say few.  I totally do that.  No I actually share that pip .   Yeah yeah. All right.  Oh wait. Sorry one more pet peeve.   People I keep - people keep using the wrong version of lead. I notice smart people all the time...  Lead.  ...They do it like L-E-A-D...  Instead of L-E-D?  It drives me insane. It is driving me insane.   America listen...  But I do not want to subtweet anybody because I do not want to make them feel bad.  Oh subtweet like whoa. Do it do it.   All right. Now it is time for a segment that we call long distance.   We call a listener somewhere in the world and talk to them about the news in their neck of the woods. Today on the line from Gainesville Fla. we have Bailey  Underhill . Bailey you there?  Yeah hey.  How are you?  I am great.  Good good. You are on the phone with me and two friends of mine - Olivia and McKay. They are both magazine writers.  Hi.  Hey.  Hi guys.  So we are calling you this week because you are a junior at the University Of Florida. That school was in the news this week for one speaker that showed up there right?  Yes.  So yeah - so we are talking about Richard Spencer the white nationalist. He spoke on campus Thursday. Governor Rick Scott had declared a state of emergency in the county beforehand. There were protests of course at Spencer's speech concerns it could have been violent. What was it like this week on campus Bailey?  So it was kind of confusing pretty much up until the event happened because the students did not really know who was coming into our campus. Professors really did not know whether or not campus was going to be safe to go to class. So it was just a lot of anxiety and uncertainty I think.  And you skipped some classes because you were nervous about safety?  Yes. So I skipped just one. It was in the afternoon right around the time that the speech was supposed to be ending. And I did not really know what kind of movement would be happening after the event. So I figured it would just be better to not go.  And you are a person of color. Did you feel unsafe for that reason?  Yes. That is the reason I did not go protest - just because I am a woman of color. If there was going to be any violence I just really did not feel like I would be safe.  Yeah. I was thinking this morning about you know not going to class because of safety concerns. And it was kind of like - and maybe it is too big of a question. But like do they win if that happens right? Like do they win if they keep someone like you from living your life to the fullest extent?  So yeah. We talked a lot about this - our professors talked about this a lot too. And I think it is just the fact that we have the choice to go to class or to stay home. I think that is really the win in that some people chose to go to class. Some people were able to choose to go protest. That really shows that we all have the ability to respond in a certain way. And it was just very clear from everyone's actions that you know UF is not the place for this kind of message.  Yeah. You know so UF is a public university. They really cannot block free speech. So they had to allow Spencer on campus.  Right.  They spent some 600000 on security alone for the event. How do you feel about the state of free speech in light of what happened this week on your campus? Do you want more limitations or less?  I think what went down was actually the right course of action.  Really?  So yeah free speech is something that public universities hold very highly and very dear. And I believe that you know if he wants to come share his opinions on our campus then he can feel free to. But as long as our students are safe and our community is together on it then free speech is something that we should not be putting any more limitations on.  But if someone else's free speech is making you feel unsafe in...  Right.  ...At your school where you are getting your degree is that fair?  .  Like is that really - are we freer because a neo-Nazi was able to speak at your campus?  Right. Yeah I have kind of been fighting with this internally. But what I felt was just like a really special moment - I was watching a Facebook Live feed of the - like inside the speech area. And Richard Spencer was up there speaking just screaming at students. And he was able to just stand on the stage by himself without anyone attacking him or like showing him any violence just screaming like no Nazis on campus black lives matter. It was - I thought it was amazing. And I thought that is really what - I do not know it kind of made me feel like that is what America stands for is just this person who is clearly on the wrong side of history is able to share their views and we have the ability to band together you know? If this guy thinks a white ethno-state is where we are headed then he can come tell us about it. But yeah it is hard.  I was going to ask you Bailey because I feel like one of the arguments that always gets made in defense of free speech of this kind is that you know the marketplace of ideas is important and that you know ultimately we are all better off when all kinds of ideas - some of them radical some of them toxic and poisonous - are expressed. So I am curious. You saw the - a mini version of this play out on your campus. Did you feel coming away from that it galvanized people in opposition to this? Did you - or were you worried? Was there any sense that maybe he planted some seeds or maybe won some people over? Was anyone sympathetic to it?  I do not believe anyone was. And I think that if anyone was on this campus sympathetic to this idea that they were too afraid to come out and say so which is I think good. But you have an incredibly united - and I felt - I actually felt much safer overall just knowing how many people on this campus believe in diversity and believe that all people should have equal rights. Like it made me feel really happy that morning to wake up and see all these signs - together U.S. and we are united and - I do not know. It was really special to see everyone in your community come out at once to say that we support equal rights.  Yeah. So what are you going to do this weekend to de-stress? Sounds like a stressful week.  Yeah. So I am actually going to go home and see my parents for the first time in a long time.  Where is home?  Cocoa Beach Fla.  OK nice.  So yeah we are going to - I am going to go down there see my dog see my parents. Very excited.  What kind of dog?  He is a little old little mutt. We do not really know what he is. But he is old and he is fat and we love him.   Well I hope you have a great weekend. Thank you so much for talking with us.  Yeah. Thank you guys.  All right take care.  Thank you.  Bye.  Bye.  What I find really interesting about these kind of things is we hear the story of what happened on campus there. But my bigger questions are what does the visual of Spencer's speech do for the watchers on the fence about being white nationalists throughout the country? I watched a bit of the live feed of it. And if you watched it on mute it was like - Spencer looked like the rational one. And the students were the ones yelling and yelling and angry angry. And like that is what he wants right? He wants to look like he is under attack from this liberal elite and that he deserves to be defended. And in some ways just getting to do that gives him that win.  I - you know I believe in free speech obviously right?  Yeah.  I am a journalist. And I think he has a right to speak. He has a right to share his ideas. I have covered him before. I have conversed with him. I have heard a lot from him. But I - there is something about doing this at college campuses. It seems unfair to me. Like when I hear that she was afraid to go to class like she felt like she did not know who among the crowd at her school felt that way.  Yeah.  You know it is a college campus. I - if you are a student and you - if your Richard Spencer was like young and a student and he wanted to speak on campus I think it would be one thing. But he is you know bulldozing in here.  The story that she told which was I think in a way inspiring was that after all of this she was actually...  The school came together.  ...Heartened by how unified her campus was in opposition to this guy and his horrible ideas.  Yeah.  I do not know if that alone is enough to justify the cost - not financially but you know...  But also...  ...Psychically...  Yeah.  ...To this campus and the...  But also...  ...People of color especially who were on this campus.  Yeah.  It was just luck that it did not go awry.  ...Did not go crazy.   Listeners we want to talk to you for this segment. If you want us to give you a call and hear about anything going on where you live drop us a note. Tell me what is going on. Samsanders - all one word - npr.org.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with Olivia Nuzzi from New York Magazine and McKay Coppins from The Atlantic. They both cover politics. Really quick - Justin Bieber yea or nay?  No.  Nay. Oh nay.  Yea.  Come on.  He is made some hits I am sorry.  .  All right leaving Bieber behind for now as a believer - Belieber? How do they say it?  Belieber.  You are a - are you a Belieber?  Belieber.  I am seriously a Belieber.  Wow.  And I stand by it. He is got the hits. He is got the hits. Anyway...   I do not think I have ever heard one.   All right now it is time to talk about our main story of the week which seems to be - and maybe I am speaking too hyperbolically about it but a brewing civil war within the GOP right? I mean like we have Republicans in control of the House and the Senate and the White House and the large portion of state and local governments across the country. But on issue after issue they cannot get big things done like health care like funding for the wall because of discord within their own party. You are seeing these war of words between Trump and Senator McConnell between Trump and Senator Corker between Trump and Jeff Flake and Ben Sasse.   And at a time it seems like Republicans should have their ducks in a row...  Yeah.  They are all over the pond.  I sense a trend there.   OK.  Well OK. But I...  Would you call it a civil war?  Well yes.  OK.  But...  OK.  But I have also been calling it a civil war for like five years.  .  And I will push back a little against the idea that this was brought on by Trump. Like I said I have been covering this for years. I wrote a whole book about the civil war in the Republican Party.  Buy The Wilderness.  Say it again.  ...To figure out....  Buy The Wilderness.   The Wilderness. And I think that book which came out kind of right at the beginning of the Republican primaries showed that the party was ready for kind of a civil war. Like it was coming.  Who were the players in the civil war?  Yeah well...  This is to both of you guys.  Well so look I mean prior to Trump we had the Tea Party insurrection.  Yeah.  ...Which kind of pitted this grass-roots right-wing small-government anti-tax movement against the Republican establishment. But the reality is you can go back the past 50 years in the Republican Party and there has always been a split between you know broadly speaking the political establishment who are generally interested in governing in some way in Washington and the kind of grass-roots base. There have been times where the grass-roots base has been defined by its social conservatism. There has - there've been times when it is been defined by its small-government Tea Party-ism. Now we are seeing people like Steve Bannon try to take the reins and define it by nationalism and some would say white nationalism.  And so Olivia I want to talk to you about Steve Bannon. Like how much of this - how much of the war that we are seeing now is a direct result of Steve Bannon who has declared quote a season of war against establishment Republicans. He is running primary challengers against Senate Republicans next year.  Well I think a lot of the drama is a result of Steve Bannon. I mean this is a man who knows how to sell whatever it is that he is doing right?  Yeah.  He is very good at creating a narrative creating a lot of mystery surrounding his plans. He is expert at that. Thursday night at what they call the Breitbart Embassy which is the...  His house .  His house - literally he lives - but it is also where Breitbart News is headquartered.  Oh.  So he threw a party for Laura Ingraham's book about populism.  OK.  I am writing a story right now that relates to the embassy. And so I went and it was this bizarre scene. But to hear him talk about their success and to hear Laura Ingraham talk about it to hear Stephen Miller talk about it - they all spoke separately. I mean they really are feeling triumphant and think it is about how relevant they are right now.  You know but like on that thread you quoted someone really interesting recently McKay and I forget who it was. But they said you know speaking to this populist movement that is ascendant right now Trump seems uniquely able to give voice to voters' anger but incapable of channeling it towards a larger purpose. Why?  Well this is - I think gets to the core of the dysfunction in the Republican Party. So it is true that Trump is just fundamentally not good at this. He is not good at...  Not good at what?  ...Policy making at legislating at wrangling lawmakers on the Hill and building consensus. But set that aside. You still have a fundamental problem in the Republican Party which is that the unified Republican control of the federal government right now is essentially an illusion. The...  An illusion.  Yeah.  That is a bold claim. Explain it.  It is true that the GOP controls the House and the Senate and the White House but survey any 10 Republicans in those three places...  You will find 12 different viewpoints.  ...You will find 12 different viewpoints.  I mean it is not really a two-party system. If you actually look at the Republican Party it is like four different parties minimum.  This is a coalition government basically like they have in Britain.  OK. OK. I never thought about it that way but it kind of makes sense.  I mean look at what they are saying about Mitch McConnell. I cannot think of somebody who has - I mean he was an obstructionist . He probably arguably I think helped President Trump more than any other Republican in Washington during the election. And now he is the enemy - Public Enemy No. 1 for the populists.  Well Public Enemy until Trump takes them out to the Rose Garden and says hey actually we are friends.  I do not think that makes a difference to people like Steve Bannon. I do not know what you think McKay.  Yeah yeah. Is there any...  That is theater.  Yeah yeah. Is there any historical precedent for these kind of rifts in a party that controls all the chambers?  Yeah in a party that controls all the chambers that is an interesting caveat. Like...  I mean like the fact that there might be a government shutdown and one party's in charge of everything - that seems pretty unprecedented.  It is pretty unprecedented.  I mean things were bad like you know a long time ago when people were just literally killing each other in our government  right?  Wait wait wait. Like Alexander Hamilton Aaron Burr?  Like you know if you are looking at modern American history I do not think we have ever seen something like this.  The last time we saw this kind of upheaval in the Republican Party was in the late '60s with the rise of Barry Goldwater. And that was when the conservative movement took over the Republican Party and went on to define the party's ideology for the next 50 years. We now think of Republicans as synonymous with conservatism. That was not always the case. So the question is are Bannon-style Trump-style nationalists...  Setting the tone.  ...Doing the same thing now?  But Steve Bannon is not a candidate. Steve Bannon is not running for president. And so I do not know if we have ever seen something exactly like this.  I want to make one more point about this which is that you know go back to the Goldwater era the rise of the conservative movement. Before Goldwater you did have kind of a whole world of thinkers intellectuals policy gurus who were articulating and popularizing conservative ideas before Goldwater ever came along and won the Republican nomination and before Ronald Reagan became the first real movement conservative to win the White House. So what is happening now is that formula kind of got inverted right? Donald Trump won. And then a bunch of people came to him and said we need to figure out what to do with this. And so we had people like Bannon people like Seb Gorka who are saying this is basically an 