 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show podcast producer and host Julia Furlan and co-host of The Indicator from NPR's Planet Money team Stacey Vanek Smith. All right let us start the show.    Oh baby baby...  It is so nice to hear your aunt say my name.  She sent me a text this morning out of the blue. And she was like I heard that Megyn Kelly is leaving her job.  .  She makes over 60 million a year. You should try to work in TV and get even just a little bit of that. That will be great for you. .  .  She is not wrong.   She is not wrong.  But then she was like my cut would only be 5 million.   I mean if you could just negotiate like one-sixtieth...   Right? That is all I need. Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Here this week with two great guests Julia Furlan podcast maker and journalist - she is dancing here in the studio right now - and Stacey Vanek Smith host of NPR's The Indicator podcast. We are also joined in studio by one of my favorites Ms. Britney Spears.    I must confess I still believe - still believe.  This is her first big single Hit Me Baby One More Time. Did you both know that it turns 20 this week?  I did.    Hit me baby one more time.  Is not that crazy?  Really?  It turned 20 this week.  Yeah. And we all turned 100.   Basically. So this song turned 20 this week. And I am playing it to mark the anniversary. But I am also playing it because there was a wonderful oral history of this song and music video in Entertainment Weekly this week. Jessica Goldstein interviewed everyone involved with this song and where it came from. And it turns out there are a lot of fun facts about this song which you do not know.  It is 'ecause - OK because it feels problematic in certain ways...   It is like not like a MeToo-kosher song right?  Well...  It feels like...  Yeah.  Hit me baby one more - I do not know.  Can I tell you the secret of that lyric?  I have feelings about it. Yes.  So the lyric hit me baby one more time was written by the songwriter of the song Max Martin. He is Swedish. And his English was not that good when he was writing songs like this. So he meant to say hit me back on the phone.  Oh.  Oh.  Call me back.  Allegedly.  But he got it wrong. So all of the Americans involved in this song said you know you should actually rephrase it. He was like no. I wrote the song. That is what it is.  .  So as a compromise the official title of this song only says...  Is ...Baby One More Time.  ...Baby One More Time.  Wow.  So wait - we are supposed to be...  Yeah.  ...Call me baby one more time?  Basically.  Oh god. That is...  That is...  But that would not work.  That is not true.  Yes.  Call me one more time?  Yes.  I do not know what is happening in Sweden but like call me one more time?  Yes.  No one thinks that.  Yes.  I have a fun fact about this video...  Yeah?  ...That I learned - is that her cousin plays the love interest...  Oh.  Oh.  ...In the video.  Last fun fact - before Britney got this song it was turned down by Deborah Cox and TLC.  They could pull - I actually think...  They could pull it off.  ...They could do a good version of it.  I am up for that.  They could do anything.  Internet make that happen for us please.  Yes.  Make it happen.  There is got to be a filter somewhere.  I want it. I want it.  Anyway Britney I am glad you are still here.  .  I love you so much.  I know me too.  I really - I am rooting for her.  Yeah.  On that note...  I know.  Let us talk about the news .  No. Please do not make us.  Or we could just keep talking about Britney.  We could just keep talking about Britney. We are going to talk about Britney. Yeah. All right. We are going to start the show as we always do. I am going to have each of my guests describe their week of news in only three words. Julia you are up first.  OK. My three words are will not be erased.  OK. I think I know what you are talking about.  Yes. I am talking about the memo that The New York Times obtained last weekend on October 21 that would have defined trans people and intersex people out of existence. The memo made wide gestures at defining sex as whatever you are defined at as birth...  And that is it.  ...With no change. Yeah.  Well and then the craziest part about this memo - this leaked Trump administration memo - so it proposes to make your sex determined only by what is on your birth certificate. But if you want to challenge that they want to DNA test you.  Genetic testing.  Genetic testing. You know what I find so strange with this though? No one has said they are actually putting policy in place. Was this just a gesture for his base? Was this just to get a cycle of headlines? And like the last time he tried to have action on trans rights - you know he instituted this ban on transgender people in the military - it is still caught up in court.  Right. I mean a lot of these things are extremely litigious. Like the memo was from the Department of Health and Human Services. But like the amount of actual legal work or like infrastructure that would have to be put in place to...  He would have to make a new...  ...Address it.  ...Office to...  Yeah.  ...Do DNA testing for gender.  Yeah.  Are they prepared to actually implement the thing?  Right. There is a lot of talk. And it is like to get from a place where this is actually going to be enacted is far - it is still far away.  Still far away. Do we know any more at the end of a week of these headlines if the White House is actually close to doing this? They really have not said a word...  They have not...  ...Since the memo was leaked.  ...Said anything. No. The memo came out...  And we do not know even who leaked it in the administration.  Exactly. It was - I feel like you never know how these stories happen and what is behind it. But the one thing that I say is a bright spot is a lot of activism and support and people standing together to say trans folk exist.  Yeah.  They are here.  Yeah.  There is - they are not going away. You cannot define them out of existence.  Well and it is like a lot of people on the left and right this week are talking about what it means to be trans.  Exactly.  And that might be a silver lining you know?  A step.  I must confess...  .  ...That I have three words.  OK.  I cannot believe it is just call me.  Yeah...   It is literally call me. This is our running motif for the whole episode.  Just call me.  Just call me. So my three words are - and they end with a question mark - are we lying?  Oh.  And I ask this this week of the media because I have seen particularly this week this phenomenon where Trump says a thing that we all know is not true. But the media in its effort to debunk the mistruth repeats the mistruth.  Yeah.  I am talking about - for me the biggest thing right now is Trump's claim this week that this caravan of migrants coming up to our southern border contains unknown Middle Easterners...  Yeah.  ...Middle Eastern terrorists.  He made a gesture at - that there were Muslim ISIS members...  Yeah.  ...Or something like that.  Sure...  And so...  ...In the caravan.  Yeah.  Yeah.  There was no evidence this was the case. And later on even Trump himself had to admit there was no evidence that that was the case. But all that I heard all week was every newsroom across the country including ours use the words Middle Easterners and terrorists right next to the word caravan. And so we are planting the message that he wants to be planted even as we say that we are doing our work by saying it is not true.  It swings us all to his...  And it is this messaging that just implants in your head 'ecause now you are thinking about these words together. You know this happened again this week when Trump tweeted that Democrats want to get rid of health protections for people with preexisting conditions and that his party the GOP is on the opposite side of the issue. That is...  LOL.  ..Actually...  The reverse.  ...The entire - it is the reverse.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You know? I mean like...  Yeah.  We have seen the Trump administration back a GOP-led lawsuit that claims that Obamacare's preexisting conditions protections are illegal.  Right.  Like it is literally the opposite of what is true. But then Trump says the mistruth and we repeat it. Like are we carrying his water? Are we lying for him?  I think he is incredibly effective. I think President Trump is incredibly effective at controlling the news cycle.  Yeah.  And what is interesting to think about for me is like what should a news organization ideally do? So...  Yeah.  If the president says something that is definitely not true...  Yeah.  Then do you not report it?  Well and how do we avoid accelerating these things? You know I used the word terrorist in describing his comments about Middle Easterners. He did not use that word. He just said unknown Middle Easterners. But you get those words in your head and all of a sudden you are thinking of other words like terrorist.  Right because he is dog whistling to his base. He is talking - I think that it is the...  Dog whistling to all of us...  I like - yeah.  ...You know?  Yeah.  I like that term.  I mean although I guess like if we were in charge of these newsrooms what would we want our newsroom to ignore? I cannot say.  It is a good question. If everyone else is reporting it it is like well you know why is not the Sam Sanders Network covering the caravans?  SNN.  Sam Sanders Network.   Yeah.  I like it. Let us get a piece of the 60 million man.   Megyn call us.   Stacey do you have three words?  I do - shifting Saudi stories.  Say that 10 times fast.  This is - so I have been covering - you know I cover business and economics.  Yeah.  I have been covering Saudi Arabia for a long time because of oil and just watching how - the way that the country and the crown prince Mohammed bin Salman has handled the news about the murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi and just how the stories have changed and also how the attitude of the Saudi government has changed.  Yeah. Well the latest is the government and the crown prince have said now that they believe the killing was premeditated...  Yes.  ...Which is the furthest they have gone to actually match the story that the authorities have.  Right. And apparently they also let Khashoggi's son out of the country. He - a travel ban had been imposed on him.  Whoa.  He is a...  Right.  ...U.S.-Saudi citizen but he had not been allowed to leave Saudi because of his father speaking out against the kingdom.  Oh wow.  So he was allowed to go to the U.S.  OK.  There was a very awkward photo shoot. But that was - that was quite a concession in a lot of ways...  Yeah.  ...From Saudi Arabia.  Does this show that Saudi Arabia is feeling pressure and possible financial pressure? There is talk that countries might invest less or stop investing in this country or buy less from them. Is this really any economic pressure on Saudi Arabia or is it just a blip?  Enormous - I think it is enormous.  Really? Why?  Because - well so Saudi Arabia basically its whole economy's this one company Saudi Aramco which is the oil company. It is - basically bankrolls like thousands of Saudi princes. It is the biggest company in the world. It is...  Really?  Nobody knows...  Wow.  It is bigger than Apple?  Oh yeah big...  Holy...  Whoa.  ...Big big - no one knows how...  Say the name again.  It is Saudi Aramco. Saudi Aramco.  Who knew?  Who knew?  .  No it is the biggest. And so they were going to go public and sell shares. And this was...  Oh.  ...MBS's big plan. So they were - like Saudi Aramco was going to go public and sell shares. And no one knew how big this company was. They are like maybe it is worth you know a trillion - I mean just like huge...  Yeah yeah yeah.  ...Huge numbers being thrown out. But the problem is like if you go public and sell shares - and so like all - stock exchanges all over the world were competing. The New York Stock Exchange was competing. China was competing. Everybody wanted a piece of this. This was going to be the biggest...  But they would lose control right?  But you have to disclose - you have to open up your books.  Oh.  So...  Oh.  ...Saudi Arabia was trying to figure out like well maybe like we will just take 5 percent of the company public which would still be the biggest initial public offering...  Wow.  Really?  ...In global history.  Whoa.  This company is...  Oh my goodness.  ...Enormous.  I had no idea.  Wow.  And - so they were like we will take 5 percent of it public or 10 percent of it public. And the New York Stock Exchange was like we cannot do that.  We still want to see your books.  You cannot...  That does not work.  Right.  Yeah.  And you know this is like the bank rolls of all the Saudi...  Really?  ...Royal family. And suddenly you just have not been hearing about it. And last year this was huge news. This was going to be the IPO to end all IPOs cover story in...  Wow.  ...The Economist. everything - now crickets. And a lot of companies I think because of this incident are like what is happening here?  Yeah.  Yeah.  I mean what is interesting here though is that like everybody knew that there were like severe human rights violations in Saudi Arabia before...  Public executions.  Yeah.  And the fact that this one incident is sort of like the stand-in for all of the ones - all of a sudden now everybody is like oh no. Now we have...  Saudi's bad.  ...Very extreme morals...  Yeah.  ...Is a little bit of hypocrisy in the...  Oh totally.  ...Face of a...  Yeah.  ...You know.  Well and we know that like a bunch of U.S. tech companies are benefiting from Saudi money. Are they going to stop...  Oh yeah.  ...Taking it? Are they going to send it back?  Right. Right.  All right. On that note we are going to take a break. Coming up I will tell you how and why Netflix convinced millions of people across the world to watch a bunch of romantic comedies this summer. You all did too huh?  Believe in love.  Yeah. Yeah.  I know.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with Julia Furlan podcaster newsmaker hip shaker.  Oh .  You are dancing today. I love it.  Look...  .  ...I had some coffee.  I love it.  .  Also here with Stacey Vanek Smith host of NPR's The Indicator podcast. Before we get back in the news I got to ask you both. Halloween weekend is kind of this weekend. The day itself is next Wednesday. What is you all's favorite Halloween candy?  I got to say fun size specifically the little square things Snickers.  Oh yeah.  Because...  Oh.  ...It has the perfect little one like half of a peanut in...  Yeah.  ...It at the top.  I love to imagine that there is some job at the Snickers factory where you just make sure each miniature one has a peanut. Boop.  Oh.  .  I am the peanut placer.  Yeah exactly.  What is your favorite Halloween candy?  I actually also love the fun size Reese's Pieces Peanut Butter Cups.  Yeah.  I feel like the ratio of peanut butter to chocolate in the little ones is like perfect.  OK good. I was afraid you were going to - we were going to go into a candy corn debate.  Oh no.  Oh.  I was going to have to send you to space.  I will...  .  I know. I hate candy corn. That is...  Good...  ...Just...  ...Same.  ...Like - you are eating wax.  Good.  I do not know what happens...  What is it?  ...There. Why?  It is not good. Yeah.  I am happy we have agreed on something.  Candy corns why?  We are done.  Exactly. I bring all of this up because this online bulk candy seller called The Candy Store they track candy sales in every state. And they have an annual list of the favorite Halloween candies in every state.  Oh my God. Oh I saw this map .  Tell us. Tell us. Tell us.  .  Yeah. So Stacey I know that you are from Idaho.  Indeed I am.  And it turns out the best selling Halloween candy in Idaho your home state is candy corn.  What?   I demand a recount.  I know right?  There is no way...  I know right?  ...That is true. I think this is a conspiracy from Oregon.   I saw this...  Julia where are you from? New York?  Massachusetts.  OK.  Ok. I grew up in Massachusetts. I identify as a New Yorker. And in fact I know both the candies for that. And it is - they are...  New York is...  Sour Patch Kids.  And so is Massachusetts I think.  Really?  Yeah. Basically you know...  I love...  ...They are the same.  ...That you you know this. That is so...  I love it.  I looked at the map. Well I do not know if it was a meme or something. But there was one that had Idaho have Natty Light as the favorite candy.  OK someone is just messing with my states.   Natty Light I love it. All right let us talk now about another thing that I love besides Halloween candy movies.  Yes.  Specifically romantic comedies.  Yeah.  I want to run you through a few of the films that I watched over this summer. There was one movie in which two overworked assistants set their bosses up with each other.    We did it. We made two miserable people happy. I am proud of us.  There was another movie I watched the summer where a teenage girl's private love letters were mysteriously mailed to all of her crushes.    I think it is really cool that you think I have golden specs in my eyes.   Oh my God. It is Josh. The letters are out.  Then there was this other one where the bride got left at the altar. So then she went on her honeymoon with her estranged father.    The two of us got incredibly drunk that night and I must have blacked out because...    Hi sweetheart.  That is the voice of Kelsey Grammer. So the fun thing about all of these movies is that these were all rom-coms on Netflix. You heard clips there from Set It Up To All The Boys I have Loved Before and Like Father. Have you all watched any of those movies?  Two out of three.  OK. Which two?  I watched To All The Boys I Loved Before of course.  So good.  And Set It Up.  Yes.  Lovely.  Which I also loved.  Lovely. I feel retro about them. I feel...  Yes.  I feel like it stokes a particular part of my heart.  Same. Same. So these movies along with a bunch of other rom-com releases on Netflix all summer were part of this big push by Netflix to get subscribers to watch romantic comedies on the streaming service. They even had a name for this big push. They called it their Summer of Love.  Nice.  And last week they put the data out - some of the data out. And it turns out that tens of millions of people watched these movies across the world this summer some 80 million people.  Yeah.  So I wanted us to know more about this and Netflix and their Summer of Love. So I called up someone who has been covering the Summer of Love very closely. Her name is Gwen Ihnat. She writes for The Onion's A.V. Club. She is been closely following the Summer of Love. So we have talked all about it. Hey Gwen. How are you?  Good. How are you doing?  I am good. Thank you for your time.  Oh my gosh. Thanks so much for having me. I am super excited.  Yeah I have been kind of geeking out for several days now upon discovering that without my knowledge Netflix quietly made me fall in love with rom-coms this summer.  I know. You did not even know.  They called it their Summer of Love. What exactly is it?  Oh yeah. The Summer of Love was like a menu of rom-com movies that Netflix kind of unfurled at the beginning of the summer that as it turns out as Netflix reported recently for their third-quarter report 80 million viewers watched. And it is not even number of views. That is viewers.  That is crazy.  So if you are a dork like me and you watched them like four or five times apiece you can even multiply that number.  Eighty million people watching these rom-coms.  . I know.  My big question and first question about all of this is like what let Netflix know or think that rom-coms would work for them? You know we have seen movie studios and like the box office not really take to rom-coms for many years now. It is hard to find them in theaters.  Right.  So knowing that trend line what made Netflix say well this might work for us?  I think they just spied a completely underserved market. You know if you look at the summer box office the top 10 movies are all sequels and genre and...  And comic book craziness.  Or offshoots. Yeah you know it is all like Mission Impossible Infinity War. So if you want to see things blown up at the multiplex you know you are living in the golden era. But if you want like just to have a nice love story at the movies - except for Crazy Rich Asians this summer - you were kind of out of luck. So for Netflix it is kind of a combination of factors that they did. They are - not only are churning out these rom-coms. They are also tagging women creative forces women writers women directors. Some of them you know this is the first movie they directed. Or they have directed like TV episodes before. They are adapting YA novels. They are finding creative forces that really have been underused. And it is worked out really well for them.  Yeah why have the big movie studios that put movies in theaters - why have they left rom-coms writ large?  I think they are not the safe bet that they once were. Like if you are going to - you are going to put like bazillion dollars into Infinity War but you are going to get more bazillion dollars back.  Yeah.  And with rom-coms there was a golden era. You know when Hugh Grant and Julia Roberts - you could just basically put Hugh Grant with anybody like let us put him with Sandra Bullock next. Why not? But then you will have something like Reese Witherspoon and Vince Vaughn in Four Christmases. And it tanked.  Yeah.  And these are superstars who you are like paying them a lot of money. And then you are not getting your money back. And it is also - for the moviegoer you know if I am going to get a sitter and talk my husband into going to see a movie that is you know romance themed like it is going to have to be a kind of special event where for Netflix you know it is free. I am at home. There is really no risk for me to like watch Set It Up. And if I do not like it I am just going to go watch Gilmore Girls reruns again. Like it is not a big deal. But then you end up liking Set It Up and like - if you are like me I have watched it three times. And then Netflix is going to send me more possibilities for that rom-com genre. And I think that is how it all exploded.  Yeah. You know I think the thing with the rom-com it is perfect for me a single-ish person to watch it home alone because the last thing I want to do is spend 20 and see a lovely couple end up together forever on screen and then I got to go home alone. Like...  Oh yeah. If you can do that with a Ben and Jerry's and...  .  ...A frozen pizza I mean...  Yeah.  ...That is a Thursday night. You got that going on.  Yeah. Yeah. Should we expect movie studios - big movie studios that are putting movies in theaters - to react to this Netflix news and say oh we should start making rom-coms again? Like does Netflix's Summer of Love and its success lead to more rom-coms in actual movie theaters?  That is an interesting question. I do wonder about that because - I mean Crazy Rich Asians did so well because we just want you know a lovely movie like that...  Yeah.  ...To see in the theater. And in the story that I wrote another thing that was really prevalent - we had a ton of commenters and - because the question is like well why did 80 million people watch this? Like what is the big question? I mean other than like markets or whatever people are just like we are depressed.  .  We are - you know we are stressed out. We want escapism. We want - you know we want like just an easy fun movie. Maybe we do not even want to see things blown up anymore. I know that is hard to even like wrap your head around.  .  But we know like an actual romance - you know like my husband and I had a drag-out fight last night over like whether the kitchen rug was too slippery and...  .  ...You know like an effective like decorative you know motif for our kitchen or was it a health hazard. You know so we know that day-to-day romance is not all that magical. But to see a movie like to see the two adorable leads of Set It Up at the end and knowing...  Yeah.  ...That they are going to like walk out in the sunset together like that is two hours that I can just like chill you know...  And be happy.  ...Maybe with some box wine maybe with my kids.   Yeah.  It is a great effective method. I love it.  Well I also kind of feel like the one thing I am realizing with the rise of streaming is that our capacity to watch stuff is basically endless. We will watch everything. We will watch it again and again and again.  But is not that like part of it? I do not - it is like a chicken and the egg thing. Like was - did our capacity have to stretch out because there was so much stuff?  Yeah.  Because you know remember like back in the days when we like just had like cable and that seemed like a lot? Like oh 30 channels I cannot watch all this. And now it is like you know our DVRs are broken because they are overflowing. And I am you know five episodes behind on Riverdale already and the season just started.  .  Like there is got to be a limit somewhere.  The struggle is real. The struggle is real.  It is true. I have got to watch it all.  Gwen thank you so much.  Thanks again for having me.  So many thanks to Gwen. I do find this whole storyline really incredible because so much of the energy of movies has just moved away from movie theaters.  Right.  For years now fewer people have been going to movie theaters.  I will say that one thing about these romantic comedies that really stands out is that like if you watch the ones from the '90s they are so sexist and homophobic...  They do not hold up.  ...And like racist and...  Although Some Kind Of Wonderful I will stand by.   But these ones now they are - they have a new voice. And it feels necessary.  Totally totally. I am going to need Netflix next summer to have a summer of buddy cop films.  Oh.  Oh nice.  I really want that back.  What happened to buddy cop films?  What happened to the buddy cop films?  There is like the grizzled veteran...  Yeah.  ...Who is like - has be paired up with like the well-meaning but...  I need it. Yeah.  Rihanna and Mindy Kaling...  Yes.  ...As buddy cop.  Oh yes.  On that note...  Oh yeah.  Netflix call us.  Yeah. We have got a lot of thoughts.  This is the third job we have tried to get on this show.   All right it is time for a break. When we come back we are going to hit you all one more time with my favorite game Who Said That?   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests that are strong and independent and can ID themselves.  Oh.  Tell folks who you are.  I am Julia Furlan - podcaster journalist podcast maker host person - wow doing great here.  Love it love it.  I am Stacey Vanek Smith. I am the host of NPR's The Indicator from Planet Money.  Duh-nuh-nuh . That is me doing...  Boom-boom-cha-cha ...  .  OK. We could do this all day.  Yes we could.  All day. Anyways it is time for my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  You know how it goes. It is really simple. I share a quote from the week. You guys have to guess who said that or at least get the story I am talking about. The winner of course gets absolutely nothing. I will say the theme of this week's questions deal with race in a kind of hilarious way.  OK.  Bring it on.  Bring it on. First quote is our experienced staff have been living while black in America their entire lives. Who said that?  Al Roker?   Was that?  No.  No?  It was a funny video that was released this week. Let us play the actual cut. You might know the sound of the voice.  That would be great.  OK.    Our experienced staff have been living while black in America their entire lives.  That is an actress. She was in way back in the day Reno 911!  Oh I never watched Reno 911! Now I am regretting it.  I am going to tell you what her name rhymes with.  Oh God.  Oh this is going to get worst.  It is going to get...  Because then if we do not know it is like...  Fleecy Flash.  Niecy Nash.  Yes.   Yay.  Niecy Nash.  How low is the bar everyone?  That is a low bar. So Niecy Nash currently star of the TNT show Claws which I love - she did a parody infomercial for The New York Times opinion section this week for a hotline called 1-844-  Oh right. Oh my god. I saw that.  Yes.  It was like - it was for people to call this hotline instead of calling...  The cops.  The cops on black people.    Call it when black people are having a barbecue taking a nap in a rec room mowing the lawn waiting for a friend at a coffee shop golfing shopping enjoying a vacation...  Oh man.  And the world is dark man.  That is amazing. That is amazing.  But like she had - and it turns out apparently the actual phone number they give it works. When you call it you get...  Really?    If you are indeed white and feeling scared about a black or brown person in your proximity press 1.   If you are near a black or brown person waiting for a friend at a coffee shop press 3.   The New York Times is out here coming for blood.  Wow I am impressed. Like that is like funny and hard to - like interesting. Like that is...  It is a really good idea that I feel needs more - I mean I give it a round of applause. It is really good.  Yeah me too.  I really want this to become the fake number that women give out at the club.  Yes.  Oh 1-800-WYT-FEAR.  But like do not spell the letters. Just like give the number.  Just d the number.  Yeah. Anyway...  OK. Ladies if you are listening you know what to do.  All right. You got that one Julia.  Oh - but yeah. Sure.  I helped you. It is fine.  It is like we are playing limbo and you just like pulled the bar over your head so that I could walk directly under it.   I am here to help.  But thank you.  I am here to help.  Thanks.  Next quote ready? I think it is better to be a white male. When you have a white male making the arguments they carry more weight. Should they carry more weight? Absolutely not. But do they? Yes. Who said that? Someone who might run for president in 2020 he said this.  Oh was it Michael Avenatti?  Yeah.   So Michael Avenatti celebrity attorney for people like Stormy Daniels - this is the woman who alleges that she had an affair with President Trump and got paid to be quiet about it. Her lawyer Michael Avenatti in an interview this week with Time said he is probably going to - or maybe going to run for president in 2020. And he said it is only right that a white guy runs because...   Because I might win.  Really?  He thinks it better be a white male.  I thought that was maybe a fake quote.  No it is real.  It is real.  No.  I also feel like every week or so now Michael Avenatti is doing something stupid.  That is true.  Yeah.  And I am just like who keeps letting this man out of the house?  I know.  Final quote ready? This one's very strange. Instead of going to a grave I go to Disney World.  OK.  OK.  Hang on.  No we are - you have already gotten 2 out of 3. I feel bad.  Come on Stacey.  It was a really wacky...  This is yours. Hang on.  There was a really wacky story this week about a certain kind of thing that people leave at Disney World.  Oh.  I do not know.  Is it like biological?  It is biological formerly biological.  Ashes.  Ashes?  Oh ashes at Disneyland - Disney World.  Oh wait. Oh wait I did see this story.   And you forgot about it?  Well.   There is a lot happening in the world right now. I do not know.  So a friend of the show Erich Schwartzel who writes for The Wall Street Journal he had this story this week all about how die-hard Disney fans or children of die-hard Disney fans are leaving their loved one's ashes in Disney world.  Oh God.  Wow.  So that quote actually was from Kym Pessolano DeBarth. She was talking to Erich Schwartzel for this story. And she left her dead mother's ashes in the water in the Small World ride. Apparently people smuggle in the ashes in Ziploc bags or pill bottles. They leave them in flower beds. They leave them in places like the moat under the Dumbo ride.  So this is like a thing.  It is a thing.  A big thing.  It is a big thing. And it is gotten so bad that Disney employees actually have a term for when they have to take care of the ashes. They call it a HEPA cleanup like the HEPA filter in your vacuum.  Oh wow.  And apparently the most popular spot for the ashes 