 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. My guest designer Donna Karan has dressed people like Barbara Streisand and Bill Clinton when he was president. Her clothes have been worn on many red carpets but her clothes are also worn at work and on the weekends by people who buy off the rack at shopping malls. A recent New York Times article described Karan's idea of fashion as almost antielitist. She was recently described in Women's Wear Daily as one of the most important designers in the history of American fashion. Karan started off as a designer at Anne Klein's and became Anne Klein's assistant. She eventually became the company's chief designer. Karan started her own company in 1984. In '89 she started her more affordable casual brand DKNY. Over the summer she stepped down from her role as chief designer at Donna Karan International. She is focusing on philanthropic work and her company Urban Zen. She has a new memoir called My Journey. Donna Karan welcome to FRESH AIR. So what are some of the designs that you introduced that you feel had an effect on the fashion world?  Oh I guess the bodysuit  Seven Easy Pieces a philosophy of dressing that I felt for women that needed to be on the go from the minute they got up in the morning till going to work travelling...  Explain what Seven Easy Pieces are.  The Seven Easy Pieces was a philosophy that I had that if you had these seven pieces you were great to go. I almost took it from a point of view of having a piece of luggage and what would you pack if you traveled. And it started with the bodysuit and the reason the bodysuit started is because my practice of yoga. So I was used to wearing a bodysuit and that is how I started my day. And then either a pair of pants or a skirt or top of some sort  a sweater. I always felt that a leather jacket was great and a coat. My favorite piece of all is a scarf.  Why?  'ecause a scarf is one thing that  you can wrap it around you can hide what you want to hide and show what you want to show and it is sort of like your partner in crime.   So the thing about your Seven Easy Pieces is that you could travel you have these seven pieces and they could get you through daytime eveningwear. You could like you know match things to suit the occasion of the day and you would not have to travel with this big wardrobe.  Exactly.  Well you mention the bodysuit. The bodysuit  it is like a onepiece thing that kind of snaps under the crotch yes?  It is sort of like a leotard. Well it is like a leotard but it is something that I wore every day. And the beauty of the bodysuit  it had all different neck lines different arms. Some were sleeveless. Some were off the shoulder turtlenecks Vnecks.  You have had two really big lines under your name  the Donna Karan New York and DKNY. What were the differences between the two?  Well Donna Karan was a personal wardrobe for myself and my friends. I really never imagined that Donna Karan would grow to the size that it grew. But it was really after designing Anne Klein I decided I wanted to have a little collection  small little collection  for me and my friends of my Seven Easy Pieces starting with the bodysuit. And then my daughter and all her friends started wearing all my clothes and I needed a pair of jeans  voila DKNY.  Because of the jeans or because of your daughter ?  Well it was a double situation. All her friends were borrowing all my clothes and I said this has got to stop . And I realized there was a larger market out there for what we were doing. But I wanted to create sort of the Seven Easy Pieces that I had done for collection but through a more him and a her point of view that we all needed a pair jeans. We needed an anorak jacket. We needed a Tshirt. I love jumpsuits  a blazer and a pair jeans.  So what makes a great pair of fitting jeans since we all are shaped a little differently ? Like what is great fitting for you might not be for me. Do you know what I mean? How do you make a great fitting pair of jeans that will fit women with different body sizes?  Figure types.  And figure types exactly.  Generally speaking it is better to have it lower in the front and a little higher in the back...  Yes.  ...You know for the curvature of the body.   I agree.  So then when you sit down it does not fall down in the back. And also where the crotch is created...  Yes.  ...It is better to have the crotch a little bit towards the front as opposed to the back. And then the cut of the legs  depending on what kind of leg that you want.  You were born into fashion. Your mother was a model who later became a showroom salesperson. Your father Gabby Faske made custom suits. He died in a car accident when you were a child. Your stepfather was in the clothing business too. You say he was on the cheap side of the street selling knockoffs and schmahtas . Looking back on your life as you do in your book  looking back you think that your mother was bipolar. What makes you think that?  I am not sure the word would be bipolar but my mother was a very stressedout lady. She had a lot on her plate. She was a working woman in those days which is quite unusual. She had two children  myself and my sister Gail. And she loved working. You know the woman who went to work was one thing and then the woman who came home from work was a little bit of another .  More high strung after work?  Well she had a lot of migraines. She had to do a lot of work you know whether it was the laundry or you know making sure she was prepared to go to work. And you know in those days she would go to the beauty parlor on Saturdays and make sure her hair was right for the rest of the week. So it was not really fun. It was more  rotated around you know preparation for her either tired from a weeks you know a week of work or getting ready for the week to come.  So how did you know you wanted to be a designer?  I did not. I did not want to be a designer. The last thing I wanted to do was work on Seventh Avenue. I wanted to be a singer like Barbara Streisand and I wanted to be a dancer like Martha Graham. I loved the body. I loved the movement of the body. But I was neither of them. However what I decided that I thought I would like to do is be an illustrator. I love drawing. I love drawing bodies. I love drawing fashion but I was not thinking of myself as a designer in those days. And then I went for a job at Women's Wear Daily and they said you know I think maybe you should look into design instead of illustration . I saw that I could not sing like Barbara and I could not dance like Martha so I was sort of put into the fashion industry. I started working in Sherry's clothing store when I was young and I love dressing people. I loved helping them find the right clothes. I liked working in retail store arranging it and making it look really pretty making it easier for the customer. So I found that I was getting into fashion whether I liked it or not .  You started your career working with Anne Klein. You became a designer there and Anne Klein got cancer  breast cancer. And you took on an increasing role when she was sick. You had your first child just before she died and you had hoped to be a stayathome mother but instead the company called you and said we need you. You have to be here or you have to help take over. How did you weigh in your mind what to do at that point?  It was such a state of shock for me. They called me as I was having my baby. And I said would you like to know whether I had a boy or girl? By the way it was a little girl. Her name is Gabby. And they said well Anne's in the hospital and we have a collection due. And I said well I asked my doctor. I said when can I go back to work? And he says you just had you know a 10pound baby girl. You cannot go back to work so fast. You know you need at least a week. So they said well we will bring the work to you. So we went to my home in Long Island where I had just moved in. And the entire company came to my house and I thought how great  bagels and lox and everything else and see my little baby Gabby. But as soon as that happened the phone rang and Anne died. I had no idea she was as sick as she was. In those days people really did not discuss the disease of cancer and it was a shock. And a collection was due the next day. Actually they postponed it a day because of the funeral but the following day the collection did open and that was prefall. And then I had to push up my sleeves and get fall done. It was not a question of really thinking this out. It is amazing to me how all of a sudden things happen the way they happen.  So you became like the chief designer at Anne Klein. And what happened to your dream of being a stayathome mother? Why was that your dream first of all?  Coming from a working woman I said I promised I would never go to work or I would never be a working mom because I had come from...  Because your mother has paid so little attention to you.  I had come from a working mom. Just that I realized how do you do it all? It is really quite hard. It is not an easy  you know people ask me how do you do it today? And I am saying it is not easy.  And you saw how stressed out she was.  Yeah and I wanted to have the opportunity to stay home with my daughter but I guess that is not what the universe had in mind for me.  If you are just joining us my guest is Donna Karan the designer  the famous designer. She has a new memoir called My Journey. Let us take a short break. Then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is designer Donna Karan. She has a new memoir called My Journey. I want to get back to Anne Klein for a moment.  Sure.  We talked about how her death from breast cancer affected your career and your plans  how it upended your plans to be a stayathome mother. But I am sure you were also very close to her as a person. She had guided you through the early part of your career and given you really big breaks. I am assuming she was probably the first colleague you were close to who you lost that way. What impact did it have on you personally her death? And to lose someone you were close to and know that you know that these things...  Happen .  Yeah that these things happen yeah.  I was in a state of shock. Anne was like my mom  my second mom. We did everything together. We worked together. I spent the weekends together. She had not had any children and it just kind of worked for both of us. And I think we were sort of the 24/7 working pair if that makes any sense  that we would work and play and kind of hang out together. I remember a lot of times hanging out at her beach house in Westhampton.  Did that lead to any conflicts being you know close friends and hanging out together in your off time as well as working together?  I never felt that she was my friend as much as my mentor.  You left Anne Klein the company in an unusual way. After she died you were their chief designer for a while. They told you that your heart was not in the company anymore and you had to leave. But they also told you if you wanted to start your own company that they would be your business partners. Would you explain that exchange little bit?  No I was really surprised. I had this idea of starting a  as I said to you  a small little company for me and my friends just seven easy pieces. I just wanted to design really a little company. So I figured I could do Anne Klein. I did Anne Klein too. And I felt that was rather easy. But my bosses at the time felt that that would not work. And they wanted a hundred percent you know attention put on Anne Klein which I could understand now believe me. And they said you know basically that I was fired . And I go what? What do you mean I am fired? And they said you are fired but we will put you into business. And you could do Donna Karan. And I was kind of shocked by the whole thing but I started Donna Karan right after working at Anne Klein for over 10 years.  Did you see this as a compliment or an insult?  Both.  On one hand they were throwing you out the door and the other hand were saying we are going to help you start your own company  your own brand.  Exactly.  Yeah.  I do not think anybody had realized that Donna Karan would be the size company that it became nor DKNY for that matter.  Well your second husband Stephan Weiss who became your business partner he sounds like he really helped build the company on the business end.  Well he was kind of wonderful. He kind of kept my partners and everybody  all the stuff that I did not want to deal with Stephan dealt with. That was great . But Stephan was an artist and I was really shocked by his genius at business. And he was the one who said that we should start a beauty company. So Stephan in our own bedroom would mix the products. He would design the bottles. He mixed the product line and everything. And we started to become in the fragrance business that Stephan himself ran.  There is a funny scene in the book where you wake up and your husband has to go a business meeting. And he is wearing a brown plaid suit a tan shirt and a wide tie. And you...  Oh my God.  ...Write that like you almost died looking at him. And you write if anything could have made me fall out of love with Stephan that was it. I felt like I would woken up to a stranger a man who bore no relationship to the sexy jeanswearing guy I would gone to bed with. Why was that suit so upsetting? .  It was really in your face. It was almost like a clown suit  is the only way that I could describe it sort of this brown and beige plaid suit. And I had seen you know Stephan as a pair jeans and a little sexy sweater top and stuff like that. And all of a sudden I see him  wake up one morning and I see him in this suit. And this is way before we got married.  Oh uh huh...  This is when we first met him.  OK. .  So I was at Parsons School of Design and there he was you know being the antithesis of everything that I would not want to be with it all.  . So how somebody dressed was very important to you 'ecause that was your thing.  Well I am a very visceral person. So it is what I see what I feel what I touch what I smell. All of these you know senses are very very heightened as a designer. So yeah what I see I have  has an effect on me .  Did you start dressing him after that?  Yeah.  .  He looked much better in Giorgio Armani.  . If you are just joining us my guest is designer Donna Karan. She has a new memoir called My Journey. Your husband died of lung cancer in 2001. And before he died he sold your company so that you would not have to worry about the business end of things and so that the family would have financial security after he was gone. So that meant this huge change in your life both professionally and personally. You no longer owned your company and you no longer had your husband. What did you do to survive that period?  What I will I say...  Oh should we throw in that 9/11 happened just a couple of months after your husband died? And you lived in Manhattan and worked in Manhattan.  After Steve passed I felt very alone. I felt you know  how was I going to do this without him? And I had a collection due that was coming up in September. And at that time 9/11 had happened. And that was  our anniversary was that day...  Your anniversary was September 11?  Our anniversary's September 11. So the night before I could not go to sleep. I figured  how am I going to do a show? My husband's not going to be there and it is our anniversary. So I wanted to take a piece of his sculpture which was a very large piece of sculpture and have it sit at  I was showing at the Armory at the time. So I asked somebody to please deliver one of my husband's pieces so at least I would feel that  he had a wire sculpture with a man sitting in a chair. And I thought that would be very cool of having that because the collection was very much inspired by him and it had a lot of wiring. But then I got a call that morning. I got woken up. I had not slept the night before. And somebody said to me Donna life will never be the same. And we were living down on Wooster Street. And I looked outside the window and I saw what was happening you know on TV. It was September 11 and they had just hit the trade center. And Patti Cohen who was in charge of PR and public relations called and said do not worry Donna the show is going on. And I said that is the most ridiculous thing I ever heard of. You know we have a catastrophe on our hands here right now. I cannot imagine you know doing shows. She said well uptown seemed OK. And then the second plane hit. And then all of a sudden you know the city was in complete utter panic. But the show did not go on. And what we did was  they had called us and said could we use your armory as a holding ground because we felt all the hospitals would be completely jammed up? I said absolutely do whatever you need to do. And unfortunately nobody got to be at the armory and even in the hospitals you know. People had not made it.  There was not that many people to rescue because they were killed.  That is correct.  You have left your company as of July. Why did you leave?  It was a very difficult question. I do not ever feel like I left the company because I feel that the company is there . But I did realize  and I had been struggling for over past few years is  when I started Urban Zen I was doing Urban Zen. I was doing Donna Karan. I was doing DKNY. And that was an awful lot to design and be the mother and the grandmother and all of that and the woman who was traveling all over the world. I said there are only X amount of hours in the day and to do anything right you know I had maybe had taken on too much you know at this stage of life that I am at. I had a future that I was getting older and I wanted to say you know  how did I want to spend the next 10 years of my life?  And it still feels like the right decision?  Now I am going through a little bit more difficult process. You know it is a transition that I am going through. There is no question that I know that I am doing the right thing. But I still you know come September when the shows were going on I am going oh my God. I do not have to do a show.  Donna Karan thank you so much for talking with us.  My pleasure.  Donna Karan has written a new memoir called My Journey. After we take a short break Berkeley Breathed will tell us why he is returned after a long break and restarted his popular comic strip Bloom County. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR. 