 This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. And for a moment...I want to go back a few years...to an email that came in to the Death Sex  Money inbox. The subject was...  Sale doesnt understand aging. Shes young. The email was from a listener named Ayana Lowe whos 64 and lives in New York City. She wrote in after she listened to an interview I did with model and actress Brooke Shields and she found that parts of it were...lacking.  I wish Ms. Sale asked Ms. Shields to talk about getting older in depth. How does it feel to be 50 years old in a world that celebrates youth? How does Ms. Shields cope with her changing body and the way people react to her? These are the questions that my friends and I are struggling with. My identity is shifting as I age and I want more conversation about getting older. The last taboo is ageism. Please start talking about it Ms. Sale. These are great questions. And we know that Ayana is not the only one asking them. Over the years lots of you have written in to tell us whats hard about getting older.  Oh the things that scare me? Oh being alone. The house... The need to have more friends. ...it is kind of falling down all around me. I bet I am not the only one in the world who is not having sex! I mean it is been 11 years. Im not much of an asker. And then if youre not an asker or a beggar many times your needs will go unmet. The sadness. There is sadness that comes with middle age and old age. You go from weddings and births and graduations to sickness and decay and death and losing the people you love. And if you are lucky enough to live a long time you are going to lose everybody you love. Youve also told us about the parts of aging that feel really liberating. Its so odd the things I used to care deeply about. I manage my own money I can spend my own money. My time is my own. I get to decide what to do when I wake up in the morning. The best part of aging is you dont have monthly periods anymore. Im having a ball now. Im having a great time. The United States is a country thats rapidly aging. According to Census Bureau estimates the number of people over 65 in the U.S. will nearly double over the next 40 years. There are simply more people reaching their 65th birthday and theyre living longer. Theyre also working later living alone more frequently and facing financial hardship. In 2017 nearly five million people in the U.S. over 65 lived in poverty. And of course theres now the pandemic. 80 of COVID-related deaths in the U.S. have been among people over 65. I see these statistics a lot. But I dont hear much about what its like to be over 60. I dont think that as a culture we talk enough about getting older and when we do we dont often do it well. So today I want to introduce you to Jo Ann Allen.  Hey Anna.  Hey how are you?  Im hanging in there baby how you doing?   Good! Jo Ann has had a long career working at public radio stations across the country .For 18 years she hosted various programs at our home station WNYC in New York...shes currently the All Things Considered host at Colorado Public Radio in Denver. But these days...   How do you introduce yourself? What do you say?  Ooh that is a good question. Who am I? Im Jo Ann Allen a veteran news anchor and host of the podcast Been There Done That the podcast that tells the real-life stories of the Baby Boom generation. Then I will say to the person depending on their age I will say give a listen and give it to your parents.  On Been There Done That Jo Ann has conversations with older people about the lives theyve lived and the questions that are coming up for them as they age.  You know I am 67 years old and I am really into older people! I think that people might suffer in silence when there is the emotional tumult as an older person. And I think a lot of older people let things eat them up. If you will. So older people's inner lives I do often want to know what is in there? So we are inviting Jo Ann to host conversations with some of you about what its like to be aging in 2020. If youre over 60 and you want to be a part of this Ill tell you more about how you can participate at the end of the episode. First I want you to get to know Jo Ann. Shes been at Colorado Public Radio since 2015 after taking a year off to write.  And after a year of making no money I needed to get a job. And I looked for afternoon gigs at NPR stations and there was a there was an opening here in Denver. So that is why I came.  Do you feel at this point when you think about your working life and your career how much is financial stability a reason that you are continuing to work a full time job?  It is all about needing money. I do enjoy my work but I am also at a point of where I am ready to stop having to deal with the news day in and day out. I mean I am saving money hand over fist. I mean I am I am saving money hand over fist. I mean I am just I am putting it away as much as I can which is much easier to do now that I do not have anywhere to go. I mean I wake up some mornings and I am like I am done. I am not going to get into this craziness. I am going to quit.  And then I sit down and I look at my social security and I look at my 403b and then I look at my savings and I am like hmm. If I stop right now my lifestyle's going to have to change. So I think I will keep going for now. So it is yeah. It is all about the Benjamins. Gotta get 'em.  I love I can just picture you. You like wake up you have that feeling of like ugh I gotta change this up. And then you open up all the windows and you are like hmm now that I see these numbers...  Yeah. Yeah. You know I dont want to be impoverished just to--you know everyone's lifestyle tends to you know go down a little bit when they retire but I do not want mine to go all the way down as far as it looks like it is gonna go down if I retire right now.  What is your daily routine look like right now?  Well it is mostly spent at home. I love working remotely. You know having been a news radio news anchor for most of my career it was imperative to go into the studio. And so I never dreamed that I would be able to work from home. And now that I have gotten a chance to do it I do not want to go back to the studio. Because I wake up in the morning my shift starts at noon so I have all of that time really leading right up to a minute before noon in the mornings that I can get a lot of stuff done. And so it is really great to also if I need to get up and pee I can just get up and go use the bathroom! I can almost see it from here. It is just over there.  You could even work from your toilet Jo Ann. Sometimes.   I could but I will never tell anyone when I do.  And you live by yourself?  I do. I have lived by myself now for oh maybe 20 years or so.  How do you like living by yourself?  I really like it. Because I think if I did not I would do something about it. At least I think I would! I really like living by myself because I get to make all of the rules what I eat when I eat where I go where I do not go. If all the lights are on overnight or if I turn them all off. I mean I just love being able to make all of the decisions that affect me personally. Um I have to admit though I have lately been thinking about maybe getting into like a Golden Girls kind of situation somewhere?  You have been?  I have been yeah. I do not think I want to as I continue to age I do not think I want to continue to live alone. I would like to have two or three people around me in the same house who will be able to take care of me for example if anything happens and I them.  How did you start thinking about that? Like when did you start noticing Huh. It might be nice to have roommates?  When I had a health scare recently. And it turned out to be not something that I needed surgery for. At first we thought I would need surgery. So if I had needed surgery it would have been like a month or two of recuperation. Um and I thought well how would I do that? And I thought well I can either try and you know get one of my relatives to come out and take care of me or you know a friend in town which is less likely or I would have to go into rehabilitation or something but uh or a nursing home I guess. But I wanted someone near that I knew. I did not want just to have a home health aide come in. I would prefer to have that comfort from someone who loves me and really cares for me. So I started thinking yeah as I get older I think I am going to start needing...I am going to start needing help.  Yeah. Was that the first time that you have had to think about being in a position where you you needed kind of both physical and emotional support because of your health? Has that come up before in your life?  No I had not thought of it before at all until I had the health scare you know I kind of was acting like a teenager like I am invincible that nothing can happen to me that is going to be devastating in any way shape or form. But when I got this news I thought oh. I guess I am getting a little decrepit.  And my health is not what I am thinking its going to be. So yeah that was the very first time I thought about Whoa what am I going to do if I need to be laid up for a month or two recuperating?  Did having this moment where you realized you might need help from someone else did it um did it make you pause and think for a minute maybe I do not love getting older as completely as I thought I did?  No. No. I love without a doubt up and down over and under in and out being an older person and getting older. So even with all of the ailments and the problems all of that is not what I would prefer to have happening but I am more than willing to accept it so that I can continue to grow older. Because every day is kind of a fascinating moment in time of where I look in the mirror and I see my mother. And that fascinates me because I remember her when she looked that way she did not seem as spry as I am. So I I see myself as my mother in the mirror but I see Jo Ann because I look a little bit... a little bit more alive than my mom did? You know I look like my mother when I do my hair in a certain way. Coming up more from Jo Ann and what we want to hear from YOU--if youre an older listener. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Jo Ann Allen grew up as the youngest of seven in Mobile Alabama. For the most part her family has stayed close to the Gulf Coast...so in many of her moves around the country from Wisconsin to New York and California and Pennsylvania shes had to build new communities wherever shes landed. Now in Colorado Jo Ann finds that her social circle is pretty small.  I dont have much of a community Denver. Most of the people I know are through work but with the pandemic it is been really tough to get together with people obviously but I I just  never built a community here. And I think it is in part because I am feeling transient. You know it is been it is been five and a half years or so but I still this is not where I am going to end up.  When you made the decision to leave the East coast where you had lived for a lot of your adult life in your early sixties to move somewhere new totally new for a job did you know other people who had done a similar thing or did you feel like you were um doing something that you did not know a lot of other people your age who had done?  I did not kno wa lot of people period who did what I was doing. You know so many folks especially in New York do not really see beyond the Hudson River. They might go to Jersey! You know but theres still that mentality at least when I was still there in the early 2000s um of where are you moving to? You are leaving New York! How can you leave New York? Just to move because you want to try something new was not on the minds of many of my colleagues. And I realized that I was tired of New York and I also just wanted to do something different stayed in radio news but I wanted to just be in a different environment.  It is invigorating.  It is and you learn things that you will not learn if you stay where you are. And you get to meet different people. So I just I just like seeing and meeting new people experiencing different things and learning a new way of working and being. Which is not something I could have done if I was involved with someone.  Ah. You said you last lived with someone 20 years ago. What was that situation? Who were you living with?  I was living with a girlfriend on the Upper West Side of New York. She was-- is--a musician. Um and I do not know what else to say about it actually! 20 years ago it was I am trying to think back on the relationship. Cause we are such we are such good friends now that I think of her as a friend. You know how people always talk about their exes? I almost never say that word because I do not have an ex you know. A lot of lesbians end up friends when the the romantic part of it is over. So I do not think of them in terms of romantic and romance. I do not even think about romance! It just it is not even something that is a part of living for me. It is weird. It is really really weird when I think about it. Cause that is such a big part of life being involved with someone being being coupled. Taking their lives into consideration remembering the...the intimate and the sexual moments. You know none of that comes rushing to the fore with former relationships.  Well it sounds to me from how you would talked before like you have got clarity that you are living life the way you want to live life. That living on your own and not being in relationship really works for you.  Yeah.  Or not being in a romantic relationship I should say.  Yeah. Yeah. I do have I do have clarity about where I am right now in my life.  Are you finding that you are more uh do you experience less uncertainty now than you did in previous periods of your life? Or are you--because it sounds like you are describing having a certain kind of confidence. Um but then I am also wondering if you are coming up against things that you have never run into before and are experiencing uncertainty in new ways.  Let me think for a moment. I think what is um challenging me today as well as the rest of us is COVID. Is the pandemic. I am running up against stuff that I have not experienced before. Um being deathly deathly afraid of getting it. You know I just the thought--the thought of getting COVID just I do not know. I cannot even I cannot put it in words. So everything that I am experiencing right now in terms of a challenge or or different or I do not know how I am going to react to it...it has to do with COVID.  When you think about the prospect of getting infected of contracting the virus um for you what what makes that so scary?  Physical suffering. Um and the confusion that apparently accompanies the disease. But more than anything it is it is...the pain I have heard COVID patients describe is something I do not want to experience. I do not want a painful death. If it comes to that. I mean I want a peaceful just kind of slide on away or I want it to be quick you know I want to get hit by a bus. And I do think about obviously I think about death and dying the older you get you think about it more but I do not want the suffering. I do not want to linger on a ventilator or you know because I just do not...I just would rather exit stage left.  When you think about some of the questions you have about what this phase of life is introducing into your life or what it is to be in your late 60s in America in this moment...like what are some of the questions that run through your head right now?  Hmm. Will it be safe after COVID is over or when the virus has been eradicated? What will it look like? I will be probably a couple of years older. Um will I feel safe enough to go outside without a mask and be in a group of people especially young people? That is a question a big question I have. So so on the one hand I am like you know will I be safe? Will I be okay? But on the other hand I am going to make sure I am safe and okay. And I might still wear a mask. And I might still social distance. Um so COVID is one. Um another is what will the economy be? Will Social Security still be there? Because I have paid into it but will my financial future be in question as I get older? Will my body--how will my body continue to break down? Because it is breaking down. And I often--this is one thing that I am curious about--how am I going to die? There is a part of me that goes Hey I want to know! And then there is a bigger part of me that says Oh no I do not want to know. Um and I also am just very very very curious about what is after death. I am even more curious about that than I am how am I going to die? Because I was raised Catholic but I am not Catholic. And I really never believed all of the precepts. So what is after death? I do not think of it as heaven and hell. I do not you know I sometimes think of it as nothing but how does nothing exist? So I am just-- I just wanna I am curious! I do not know if I want to know. I am just I am curious. And in the spirit of curiosity we want to hear from you. Jo Ann is going to be stepping into the host chair and recording some interviews with some of you older listeners in our audience about what its like to be aging and what questions are coming up for you...especially in this moment. So if youre over 60 tell us whats your life look like right now? And how are you feeling your age differently this year compared to last year? There are a couple different ways to get in touch with us. You can write an email to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. You can also call us and leave us a message. That number is  740-6549. Or you can record a voice memo on your phone...and email it to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. You can find all that info in our show notes. And we might get you on the phone for a conversation with Jo Ann sometime in the next few weeks. And if youre not over 60 you can still help us by spreading the word...and sending this episode to someone in your life who is. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im usually based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Anabel Bacon produced this episode. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Special thanks to Ayana Lowe Kay Powell Carol Martin Isaac Jones Kaari Pitkin Paula Szchuman and Wayne Shulmeister...all of whom helped shape this idea behind the scenes. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. And thank you to Margarita Graeber in Ocala Florida who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Margarita and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. If youre over 60 dont forget to send in your stories for Jo Ann to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Then after you have go listen to her show Been There Done That.  You can find it wherever you get your podcasts... I particularly recommend the episode called Betty...where Jo Ann interviews her sister about her experience of contracting coronavirus earlier this spring. Theres a link in the show notes to that episode. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.