 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. With us for a return visit are two cooks who are constantly challenging common wisdom in an attempt to come up with quicker easier tastier ways of preparing food. Jack Bishop and Bridget Lancaster work with the public TV shows America's Test Kitchen and Cook's Country. Jack Bishop is a cast member of both shows and editorial director of America's Test Kitchen. Bridget Lancaster is the onscreen test cook for both shows. They have both contributed recipes to the new Cook's Illustrated book The Science of Good Cooking which features 400 recipes along with explanations of the fundamental principles behind the recipes. Bridget Lancaster Jack Bishop welcome back to FRESH AIR. Bridget you contributed a lot of recipes to this new book. Jack the idea for the book was yours and it sounds like you oversaw a lot of it. Why did you want to do a book on the science of cooking?  Cook's Illustrated magazine for the last 20 years has really been writing about food and the science of cooking. And I thought it was time to really put together a manual of best practices and to really explain how food works from a scientific perspective and to really take all of that accumulated knowledge that we had gained over 20 years of recipe testing and put it into a single book for the person who really wants to learn to cook or become a better cook through the lens of science analysis testing and improving.  So did the fact that Cook's Illustrated was working on a science of cooking book change the emphasis in the test kitchen?  Yeah. We went back to a lot of things that we thought were true and decided we were going to reexamine pretty much all of them. And we conducted a lot more experiments and it was really interesting. Things that we thought were actually accurate turned out to be perhaps more complex was usually the issue  not necessarily that things were wrong but that we had simplified them over the years and that there was more to it than we initially thought.  Give me an example.  A good example would be the whole issue of one of the common myths that you will read in any book or if you go to cooking school is that searing seals in juices so that when you are searing a steak what you are doing supposedly is sealing in the juices. It is absolutely 100percent false. You are not sealing in any juices. You are making the steak taste better because you are causing browning which is initiating a process called the Maillard reaction making the steak browner and more flavorful. But we ran a number of tests and concluded that there is absolutely no truth to that. In fact whether you sear that steak at the beginning of the process or whether you gently warm it in the oven and then quickly throw it in a hot pan the steak will weigh the same amount before and after cooking whether you sear at the very beginning or you sear at the very end.  Is that how you measure whether it has more moisture in it or not whether it is juicier by weighing it?  That is usually the way we would measure something like that. I mean we will do sensory tests where we will have people in the kitchen taste a sample. But what we really wanted to do for this book  and I think something that we did sort of out of the norm  is we really tried to measure things and tons of weighing analysis working with the food lab and really trying to quantify what we were seeing. We repeated the tests. So if we did any test we did it usually at least five times looking to make sure that you know from a science perspective that we were on solid ground.  Bridget you contributed several of the recipes in this new book The Science of Good Cooking. So is the beef stew recipe one of yours?  The beef stew recipe  actually the beef stew recipe that runs in that is not directly mine but I would say I am the grandmother of that recipe perhaps.   OK.  There is a lot of science that went behind choosing every single ingredient and a lot of that was done in the early days. But this is a great example of a recipe that we thought we knew everything about beef stew and then we went back and we questioned certain aspects of it. How can you get a beef stew that tastes amazingly beefy with meat that is supersucculent and juicy meltinyourmouth but also working with supermarket ingredients like canned beef broth? How could that ever produce such a rich flavorful and unctuous beef stew?  OK. So let us talk about beef stew because it is a great winter dish.  Oh yes.  And it is  the cold weather's coming.  It is on its way.  Or it is here depending on where you are. So first of all with the beef stew you suggest do not buy stew meat. Why not and what should you buy?  Well meat that is already precutup into pieces and labeled as stew meat we are not actually sure exactly where that came from in the cow. There is a couple problems with it. One is it is hard to identify if it is from one of the better cuts  say the chuck or the shoulder area of the cow has tons of intramuscular fat and collagen running through it. So when that beef is cooked nice and slow the collagen melts and it turns into gelatin. The gelatin's what gives that stew meat that really silky feel and that is what we want. Sometimes stew meat comes from the sirloin which is a leaner cut or from the round which is not the best thing for stewing. So that is one of the problems is getting you know the right cut. The other problem is the size of stew meat. Often you get stew meat and it is tiny tiny pieces of meat. Well during that long slow cooking the meat really really shrinks. So if you want meat that is not going to fall apart in the stew you want to start with bigger chunkier pieces of beef. So definitely good to get a chuck eye roast or a chuck roast from the shoulder a blade at the very least but a chuck eye is great and cut it up yourself. It takes 10 to 15 minutes really to do it.  And what else are you putting in?  Oh a lot of good stuff. So we want a beef stew that tastes really rich very very beefy. So beef will oddly enough only get you part of the way there. So one of the things that we find is that adding ingredients that contain a lot of glutamates  glutamates are a savory compound. Basically your tongue says wow. This is beefier. This is savory if it tastes of glutamate  so things like tomato paste or salt pork mushrooms. But in this case one of the odd ingredients that we used was anchovies.  And this gets to one of the principles that I really love from your book which is combining the glutamates with things like anchovies or sardines. So explain what is going on scientifically and what happens when these two groups of tastes combine.  Right. So the glutamates which I mentioned before it is a savory compound. Your taste receptors will pick that up and say wow. This is nice and savory. But anchovies in particular they contain something else. It is another compound called a nucleotide. And a nucleotide plus a glutamate basically is a savory explosion. It really amps up the flavor of the glutamates 20 30 even perhaps 40 times. So if you are tasting beef on its own or soy sauce or anything any of those glutamaterich ingredients your tongue will say wow this is very beefy. You add something with nucleotides in it say anchovies and you will say this is the best beef stew ever. It tastes so much more meaty than meat believe it or not.  So tell us the foods in both categories the nucleotides and the glutamates.  Well glutamates  and the anchovies also contain glutamates I should say. So salt pork tomato paste the anchovies I mentioned before soy sauce is used a lot Worcestershire sauce meat in general. Those are probably the most common ones. So things like the anchovies are really rich in the nucleotides. Jack I do not know offhand...  Dried mushrooms are another good source of nucleotides.  Oh that is right.  And you know as Bridget was saying all those things from the sea shrimp. Believe it or not sea urchins  not sure we are going to throw those into beef stew anytime soon. But you know that combination as Bridget said really just makes tremendously complex meaty flavor and we use that in a lot of our cooking even in dishes where you would not think  you know where meat is not necessarily the star thinking about like in a tomato sauce and ramping up the savory sort of  generally savory notes in something using both glutamates and nucleotides can be a great way to make something more flavorful.  So getting back to our beef stew recipe what do you do for a good broth? You have got the meat. You have got the glutamates with a little bit of anchovies in it as the big surprise to release the explosion of savory taste.  So well one thing I should point out about the anchovies for anybody out there listening and saying anchovies You do not taste anchovies. It does not taste like a fish stew. So I should say that. It is kind of like a Caesar salad where you have this really deepflavored dressing. But getting back to the broth you know we try to use readymade ingredients or convenient ingredients. So we are not going to ask people to make a homemade stock for this. And if you were to have the best beef stew in the world at a restaurant it probably is using veal stock. So they roast the bones sometimes with tomato paste and sometimes with vegetables and then they simmer it very slowly. And all that collagen is released from the bones and the meat and it converts to gelatin the same thing as I explained before with the meat. Well if you are using canned broth you are not going to get all that gelatin that gives almost this silky feel to beef stew that using a veal stock would. So we were looking for gelatin so we thought Why not get a box of Knox you know just the old gelatin that you used for you know your jiggly desserts back in the 1950s? And a little bit of powdered gelatin right over the sauce and we let it bloom and then finish the broth with it gives it just a really nice body kind of clings to the spoon a little bit  also clings to your ribs too.  OK so getting back to the glutamates they are related to MSG monosodium glutamate which has been literally X'ed off of most menus now. Like Chinese restaurants used to be famous for having MSG in their dishes. Now so many of those restaurants have the you know X no MSG. So what is MSG? You have just sung the praises of glutamates. What is the difference between glutamates and monosodium glutamate?  Hmm. That is an excellent question. Well I know that glutamate is actually a naturaloccurring compound and so is  MSG is derived from those naturally occurring compounds. It is just it is a manufactured product. But there really is not any concrete evidence that MSG is going to give you that reaction of a big headache. And in fact you know you do not need  the end of the story is you do not need to grab a package of MSG off of the shelf. You are better off using as Jack said dried mushrooms anchovies tomato paste tomatoes soy sauce things like that to basically really add that savory component. So MSG I think of as one of those things that we did not understand back then. It certainly does add that  you know we did tests in the Test Kitchen where we added MSG to food tasted it alongside food that did not have MSG added to it and you could definitely taste a deeper flavor. But I think it is one of these foods that people have been accustomed to being afraid of. But in any case you do not need it. Just get some mushrooms instead.  And make sure you saute the mushrooms first or something right?  Sure.  Yeah bring out the flavor.  Definitely.  OK.  And Terry you know the MSG did get somewhat of a bad rap. You know they used to call it Chinese restaurant syndrome where people were complaining of headaches after eating Chinese food and they blamed for a while anecdotally in the press the MSG. It turns out that it was probably bacteria growing in the rice which had been cooked earlier in the day and being kept warm in those restaurants which was causing the headaches that people were complaining about after eating Chinese food and it really had nothing to do with the MSG. I do think MSG is a bit of a sledgehammer in terms of building flavor and that taking a more natural approach using ingredients naturally rich in glutamates is a bit more subtler and it is also certainly much more appealing.  But you are also saying you do not have to be terrified of MSG.  No. I mean there is really  other than it is in its pure form there is no difference between what is in MSG and the glutamates that you find in mushrooms and beef and all these other ingredients. It is not some scary manufactured compound that does not really exist in nature. It is just a distilled version of something that exists in many foods that we normally eat.  Hmm. OK.   Well if you are just joining us my guests are Jack Bishop and Bridget Lancaster and there is a new Cook's Illustrated book called The Science of Cooking that was Jack's idea and Bridget contributed some of the recipes. And Bridget is the onscreen test cook for the public television shows America's Test Kitchen and Cook's Country. Jack is a cast member of both those shows and is the editorial director of America's Test Kitchen. As we have discussed in previous shows Bridget you love meat dishes and Jack you are very into vegetarian dishes. So let us do a vegetarian side dish here and this is for creamy Parmesan polenta. Oh it sounds good. And what you have tried to do here is create a recipe where you do not have to constantly stir the polenta and you can cook it in less time than most polenta takes to cook. So what is the trick?  Well the classic recipe for making polenta is you know you think there is an Italian grandmother  including my Italian grandmother  sitting in a kitchen stirring a pot of cornmeal water and salt. That is really all polenta is. And the classic recipe literally calls for you to stir constantly for one hour. It is a great workout for your upper body. Those muscles really can get a lot stronger. But most people want to avoid recipes that call for stirring for one hour. So the reason why you need to cook the polenta that long is you know you add the cornmeal and you think Well is not it done? And the cornmeal's not fully hydrated. And what you are really doing by continuing to cook and stir is allowing the water to fully be absorbed by the cornmeal. And so we had two tricks to cut down on the cooking time and to reduce the stirring. The first was we add just a pinch of baking soda to the pot. And what the baking soda is doing is creating an alkaline cooking environment and that alkaline environment is breaking down the pectin that holds the different cells within the cornmeal together. And once those cells come apart once the pectin dissolves the water can easily penetrate into those cells and hydrate those cells and therefore the cornmeal will soften and become properly cooked. So that basically will cut the cooking time from 60 minutes to 30 minutes but it does not solve the stirring problem. We solve the stirring problem by simply using the absolute lowest heat and throwing the lid on a heavy pot. So if you are using like a heavy Dutch oven and you put the lid on it and then turn the heat all the way down to very low it is not going to scorch. And so you can simply stir it twice during the 30minute cooking time and you do not need to be standing over the pot working out your biceps.  Now do you get it to boiling before you turn down the heat or do you just keep it on the low heat?  You bring it up to a boil. What you are doing is you are bringing the water and the salt to a boil. You are slowly adding the cornmeal whisking trying to prevent lumps. It will pretty much come back to a boil instantaneously once you have added the cornmeal. And then you turn the heat all the way down as low as it can possibly go. Basically you want it to be at a lazy lazy simmer the occasional bubble. If your stove is one that kind of runs hot you might even use a flame tamer. But the most important thing is to be using a heavy pot with a heavy bottom and then putting the lid on which will trap that moisture and prevent scorching.  And why is the heavy pot important?  That keeps the heat from the burner from really causing the bottom of the polenta to scorch and that basically the heavier the pot the thicker the bottom the more even the cooking is going to be no matter what you are cooking whether you are cooking a stew or polenta. And so you know those Dutch ovens that are cast iron with the enamel coating that weigh eight pounds nine pounds there is a reason why they are that heavy. For this kind of cooking that is low and slow they are going to make sure that the even heat is distributed throughout the entire pot.  So where does the parmesan come in?  You finish with parmesan and butter. And so after the 30 minutes take the lid off you need to add a little bit of butter. You can use as much or as little as you want. And then the Parmesan is there for obviously flavor. And you know I will serve creamy Parmesan polenta as a side dish on its own. It is also a great anchor under any sort of stew whether it is a vegetarian stew with beans and vegetables or whether it is a beef stew. And of course the classic Italian pairing of polenta and osso bucco is absolutely fabulous. But I think it is a sort of nicer partner with any sort of stew than the usual noodles or potatoes. I think it has a little bit more flavor and it is a little unexpected.  Jack Bishop and Bridget Lancaster will be back in the second half of the show. They both work on the public TV programs America's Test Kitchen and Cook's Country and have contributed to the new book Cook's Illustrated The Science of Good Cooking. You will find the recipes we have talked about on our website freshair.npr.org. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. We are talking about ways of making recipes easier and tastier with Bridget Lancaster and Jack Bishop of America's Test Kitchen which is the home of the magazines Cook's Illustrated and Cook's Country and the public TV shows America's Test Kitchen and Cook's Country. Bridget Lancaster is the onscreen test cook for both shows. Jack Bishop is a cast member on both shows and editorial director of America's Test Kitchen. They have both contributed to the new book The Science of Good Cooking. I want to ask you both about some of the principles  some of the scientific principles  that are in the new book The Science of Good Cooking. I did not know this but you say putting sugar on fish will brown it. I have kind of used that principle by just you know putting on  this might appall you  putting on teriyaki sauce at the last minute and that really helps brown it I found but you know because I am putting it on while it is still in the pan.  Sure.  OK. So but you suggest just sprinkling on some sugar.  Well it makes little bit of sense if you think about what you are cooking you are cooking a piece of fish. So to brown it say in a skillet you do not want that fish to stay in there for a long long time because fish cooks very quickly. So in order to speed up the browning  which again browning creates a lot of flavor  not only do we salt and pepper the fish but just add I mean a little sprinkling of sugar at that point because the sugar will quickly caramelize. It does not taste sweet at all but it translates to a deeper flavor very quickly. And you know this trick works great with chicken breasts or we use it on very lean pork chops things like that cutlets things that you want to brown quickly but they are in danger of overcooking if they were to spend all day in the pan getting a nice dark color.  OK. And in your book you say marinades do not tenderize meats. But if you are going to do a marinade a salty marinade works best. What are the scientific principles behind marinades and why some marinades work and some do not?  I will take this one Terry.  Sure.  Your classic marinade  pretty much everyone has done this at some point in their life  is to use a bottle of Italian salad dressing. And you are thinking  at least the common thinking is that the acid  the vinegar in the salad dressing or lemon juice or red wine  is somehow tenderizing the meat. And you will read this in a lot of classic cooking manuals that an acidic marinade will make meat more tender. It will in fact make the outer layer of the meat a bit mushy but what it is really doing is pulling moisture out of the meat and making it drier. And there is not really a great way to tenderize a cut that is going to be cooking very quickly for instance on the grill but you can make it juicier and juiciness when it gets to eating the steak often is equated with tenderness once it is in our mouth. And so we use a saltbased marinade; you can use salt itself you can use a salty ingredient like soy sauce and then mix that with the garlic with all the other seasonings that you want to use. And what you are basically doing is the salt penetrates very quickly into the meat changes the structure of the muscle proteins so that when the muscle proteins are cooked they will hold on to more of their juices. You know the great challenge in any sort of protein cookery is that the more you cook it the more flavor that you are developing on the exterior but the more moisture is evaporating. And so what a salty marinade will do will slow down the process of the moisture evaporating and the steak or the chicken cutlet drying out. It will also provide some nice seasoning so that it gives you time to get some nice browning and to fully cook that piece of meat.  And if you are going with a salty marinade how long would you do that for?  Thirty minutes. You know of course it will depend upon the strength. But if you are making a marinade let us say with you know a third of a cup or a quarter of a cup of soy sauce you always want to salt  throw oil in with the marinade because the oil will distribute a lot of the fatsoluble compounds that are in spices and in herbs evenly throughout the meat and then you can add you know your dried spices your herbs and what we usually do is we do not put the acidic ingredient in the marinade. It is something that we might use at serving time for instance. So if you are marinating chicken cutlets and you like  or chicken breasts  and you like the idea of lemon serve it with lemon wedges and use a squirt of lemon at that point. But throwing the lemon into the marinade  at least the lemon juice  really is just making the meat mushy and dry.  OK. So another question that you write about in The Science of Good Cooking is you know the relative merits of cooking with water and cooking with air. And you know you say water is a more efficient conductor of heat than air and is capable of cooking food very quickly an oven cooks more slowly. So how do you weigh the relative merits between you know cooking with water and cooking in the oven and combining the two?   You know having moisture in you know kind of like a stew moisture in the oven?  Well I...  Moisture in the pot that you are cooking in the oven?  Sure. I think the moist cooking environment is what you were talking about  stewing braising is another one where it is more of a shallow  think of it as a shallow stew with slightly larger pieces of meat or even pot roasting. So the pot would contain at least halfway up the sides liquid and you are potroasting a nice big piece of beef or pork. I think you choose these methods you choose a slow moist cooking method  stewing braising or pot roasting for a couple of reasons. One the moisture really does do a great job of breaking down the intramuscular fat. It also the water or the liquid in the pan is not going to go above 210 211 degrees. At that point it would start to boil and turn to steam. So you are already using a much lower heat than you can control with dry roasting. And then the other reason is you like gravy. I mean I could put gravy on just about anything. So the moist  it is a you know the moisture gives tenderness to the meat but then  or whatever food you are doing and then the food gives an amazing flavor creating a sauce at the same time. So I think with really really tough cuts my preference is  my personal preference is for moist heat cooking. There are exceptions to that; we did a slowroasted beef. We have done actually slowroasted pork as well but the slowroasted beef was kind of the first time we took an insanely tough cut a round a beef round and cooked it at an incredibly low temperature to basically because what we found was that this really really low temperature there are enzymes inside beef that tenderize it. I think it is below  the meat has to be below 122 degrees. I am pretty sure that is the cutoff point. But below 122 degrees the enzymes that are turned on by this low heat method they act almost like little buzz saws in there and they cut down the tough tissue in a really really tough cut of meat and several hours later you end up with a roast that I mean before this experiment I probably would have not roasted a round from the beef. It is not my ideal cut but after this it was amazing. The beef was so much more flavorful and it was so incredibly tender you did not need a knife to cut it. So either way you are going the brazing the stewing or slow oven roasting they are all different methods of slowly breaking down meat tough cuts to make them much more tender.  OK. So speaking of slow cooking what do you both think of crockpots?  I love them.   I am a convert. As somebody who never used a crockpot until about three years ago I am convinced.  What are your favorite dishes to make in the crockpot?  My favorite things are anything that benefits from you know slow low cooking. You know if it is  I see recipes that people try to roast a chicken in the crockpot that seems a little crazy to me. It is not really the best use of a crockpot. And so I make chili in a crockpot. The advantage is that you can do all the prep work and you know go out of the house and go do things for eight hours and come back and the chili is ready to serve. Stews are great in a crockpot. Beef stew is just you know wonderful in a crockpot. You do need to adjust recipes. A couple of things I found is that you need to add more flavorful ingredients and there is almost no evaporation. And so sometimes you need to cut back the amount of liquid that you would normally use otherwise the end product can be a little on the sort of soupy side. But I love them.  I am the same way and I am a yearround slow cooker fan. In the winter during the holidays  I think I am one of the last five people on earth to only own one oven so the slow cooker becomes my second oven. If I have a lot of people over I will  say for Thanksgiving I will have roast turkey but I am not going to roast two turkeys. So I will have a roast turkey and I will have a stew on the side. And then in the summer I do not want to turn on my oven because it is an old oven. It heats up the whole house. So again it is a great time a great piece of equipment to use. And the other thing that I like to make in it is  and I know it is not true barbecue  but I love to make things like pulled pork pulled chicken all these things that really translate to  translate well to the slow cooker.  Bridget I think you have been hanging around with cooks too long if you are the only person you know who does not have two ovens. I do not think I know anybody who has two ovens.   I think you are probably right.  Yeah. Think about that.    If you are just joining us we are talking about cooking winter foods and the science of cooking. The Science of Good Cooking is the name of the new book published by Cook's Illustrated. I have two guests. Jack Bishop came up with the idea for the book and basically oversaw it and Bridget Lancaster contributed some of the recipes. Bridget is the onscreen test cook for the public TV shows America's Test Kitchen and Cook's Country. Jack is a cast member of both of those shows and is the editorial director for America's Test Kitchen. So another principle in your book is that rubbing chicken skin  chicken that you are going to roast  with cornstarch can crisp the skin. Why is that?  This is pretty amazing but when you think of what cornstarch does cornstarch is a starch obviously and it wicks up moisture. So when you are thinking of chicken skin  and not the meat obviously  you want to rub it with usually we do a mixture of both cornstarch and salt together and it is going to start pulling out some of the moisture from the skin. So when you go to roast it the moisture is at the surface it can quickly evaporate and you end up with a much crisper skin. It is great for turkey. It is great for chicken. We have even used it a couple of times rubbing it right on the surface of things like pork chops steaks before we put them on the grill to get a really substantial crust so it is a good trick.  You like to rest meat in between you know cooking it and carving it and that is in part to keep the juices in.  Definitely. And that is I think that is one of the most overlooked steps of any recipe. The difference between resting meat cutting into meat that is rested for 10 minutes 20 minutes 30 minutes and meat that has not rested at all and you cut right into it it is amazing. So basically you take a piece of meat out of the oven and the fibers are very tight so they are bound together. So if you were to cut into that meat right away all the moisture that is inside that meat will just flood out onto your cutting board. Well that means dried meat really moist cutting board. So if you are enjoying cutting board for dinner you are all set but the meat will be dry. But by letting that roast sit there for at least  depending on the size of the roast  at least 10 15 20 minutes 20 minutes to me is the minimum the meat fibers which were really really tight are now starting to relax the juices that were pushed to the outside of the meat are now able to reabsorb back into it. And then you can cut into the meat the meat will be juicy you will have very little loss of juice to your cutting board. It is worth it I think to  especially you know a really expensive roast or just about anything to let it sit there for at least 20 minutes.  So with winter on the way I would like you to each recommend your favorite cold weather drink. Not Scotch.  Darn it.   Like something that you actually make.  Cold weather drink. For me it is probably mulled cider. And you can choose to put a little Calvados into that if you care for it. A nice cider from you know the local orchard if you can and you can bloom the spices. Your cinnamon stick break it up your nutmeg whatever you like in that. I think mulled cider for me is  and I do not really have a recipe. I kind of throw things in higgledypiggledy until it tastes good. And a little bourbon at the end is perfect.  And Jack?  For me it is hot cocoa. I have not had hot cocoa in probably six months and I am looking forward to another couple weeks when it gets cold enough that I am going to want to have a cup of cocoa every evening. And so hot cocoa as the name implies I think should be made with cocoa powder rather than chocolate. Believe it or not cocoa powder has two or three times as much flavor as an equivalent amount of chocolate because chocolate also has fat in it and cocoa powder is pretty much pure cocoa solids meaning pure flavor and very little of the cocoa butter which is the fat. And so I will take a small am