 Sex is great you know I think sex can be a source of joy I hope it is for people. It can be a source of connection. But for me it was also um an unexpected hard won um way to learn about people. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Writer and poet Saeed Jones moved to Columbus Ohio in September. He is 33 years old and had been living in New York. He has no family or connections in Columbus. But the city had made an impression when Saeed passed through town on a cross-country trip.  I woke up very early to write and go get some breakfast. And I crossed the street and I went to this McDonald's. And I heard laughter before I opened the door. Um and I opened the door and I stepped in and there was just this table of like four or five older black men all had their newspapers all had their coffees. And you know they saw me and nodded. And said Hello young man and they were so happy and they greeted every single person that came in. And so I think that the the thing that clinched it for me or brought it all together was that yes the city is vibrant. I think it is up and coming. I think there is development. It is got all these other kind of factors but black people are happy here. I saw joy I saw Negro Sunshine. And like that night I started looking up like how much are apartments here? The median rent for a one bedroom in Columbus is around 900... 2000 less than a one bedroom in New York City. Saeed lived there for years most recently working at BuzzFeed as an editor and then co-host of the Twitter show AM to DM. But his roots are in Texas where he was raised by a single mom. Saeed writes about her and her death in his beautiful new memoir called How We Fight For Our Lives. He also writes about how dangerous it felt to be a young gay kid in Texas in the 1990s.  Lawrence v Texas the the Supreme Court decision that ended like uh anti-sodomy laws like that that decision was my junior year of high school. So the the threat was real. So Saeed had a lot of secrets and questions. He was looking up porn on the internet at the public librarywhen he had his first sexual experience at 15. A grown man a white guy noticed what Saeed was looking at. He told him to meet him in a bathroom stall and then walked away.  He looked like you know a lot of the dads and bros you see when you are out tailgating if you ever go to these kinds of things.  Uh-huh he looked like a football fan. I see him.  He looked like a football fan! He literally was the archetype of of this kind of man. Um and particularly growing up in the suburbs of of North Dallas you know I would just see this this dad just kind of all over the place. Um and I think that is part of why when he first um you know touched my hand and like looked at you know saw what was on my computer screen and was like let us go off. It was it was so bizarre because it felt like not just uh one person was expressing desire. It felt as if literally the patriarchy um as I understood it at the time  this this man the symbol of so much of what terrorized me uh when I was growing up in Texas  um was reaching out and saying that he was into men too.  And you had to decide what to do next after he walked away. What were you weighing?  I remember asking myself you know um Is this a trap? And that was often my my first reaction to really anyone um being nice to me.  Um I I often was waiting for uh someone to like are you luring me out for me to admit something so you can make fun of me for it? Um or worse? You know are you trying to you know in this case like is he trying to get me alone? Um and and is he going to beat me up? Um and and then it was like okay what do I do?  Mmhm.  Let us say he does actually want to have sex with me in some way. Like what kinds of sex what am I going to do?  And when you did decide to walk into that bathroom and you went into the stall where words spoken to establish what was going to happen?  I do not think so. I do not think so. Um in my memory I walked into I you know went into the restroom I saw that it was empty uh and I approached the stall and he was standing in there with his jeans down and his boxers down already and kind of like hands on hips in a very um present- like strong like I am still in control.  Hands on hips.  Even though my dick is literally out.  Yeah that is establishing what is happening.  Yeah yeah.  Pretty pretty clearly.  Exactly exactly. Like here are the terms right? Um and I was like Okay you know and I uih you know got on my knees to give him a blow job and then like my knees started to hurt. I was like Ow! This huh. You know in in the porn magazines and on the websites you know no one you do not see people complaining about how much their knees hurt when they are down here.    And you know this is actually a very inconvenient angle for one's neck you know. So I I stood up um and you know in that moment we were suddenly  because I was standing up  close. And that was in that moment really one of the closest moments I would ever been against another man's body at that point. Um and and I tried to kiss him um because it is just why not? And he was so close um and it and it was like we were close enough that briefly I kind of forgot about all the awkwardness and weirdness of it. And it did feel romantic for like a second. Um and the moment I tried to kiss him he like moved his head away and started laughing and was like No I am not into that. Um and that is when he you know pulled up his pants and left. That memory of trying to kiss someone and being rejected in that way so swiftly that stuck with me for years. You know that was as hurtful as you know many of the hurtful things that I experienced and we all experience uh when we are you know beginning to come into sex and love. Um and of course you know now I think we have a... a more complicated rightfully so about sexual intercourse between teenagers and adults and the boundaries of consent. There is a lot there.  Mm. Then you go to college. When you left home you are living on your own for the first time. What was the pace of your sex life?  Oh man.  Like were you seeing a lot of people?   Oh man. I mean you know honestly I felt like a bullet just kind of shot through the landscape. You know I I think in my really sincere passionate desire to like understand what it meant to be gay I just assumed that sex was the the teacher if that makes sense. Um and so I was really passionate about  like yeah I was horny. I was uh you know a teenager and then a college student. But I think I I I took on hooking up with men and and as many as possible and all of these kinds of uh you know cruising and hookup situations with such fervor with such um almost zealousness that I I think in retrospect it was about more than just the sex. I think I was um in a way like literally trying to like like fuck my way into my identity. If   um to be a bit crass. I you know and uh and that is why I think it is so complicated.  I want to ask you about the man you call The Botanist.  Yeah.  In your book--  Mmhm. Anna Um this is uh an older guy older than you at the time um and you show up at his apartment and you have this sense that you are one in a long line of of black men that he is invited to come to his house.  Yeah.  Um I I want to just  as you notice that or were aware of that and felt yourself kind of um being fetishized. Uh how how did you think about the the power of that alongside the idea that you are being desired for what you were instead of who you are?  Ooh um you know I think it was an incredibly it was another um formative experience in which to say I think I went in you know in one era of myself and I walked out of that house in a different era.  Hmm.  Um at the beginning I felt in control. I felt that to be desired um meant that I had power which is not untrue. Um of course I was not like thrilled to realize like Oh like does he just like go through the you know not the apps but as he is just going through guys' profiles just looking for like the next black guy or the next college student or the next whatever? You know I was not exactly sure at first which box I was checking for him that developed as the night went on. Um so I felt like in control and and a little better than him because uh his want seemed so close to the surface. Um and he was also you know he was quirky you know I mean his apartment it was like Tiffany lamps and and plants everywhere. And you know now I would probably be like I do not know maybe I like the aesthetic. Um but yeah I remember just being like Huh whatever. You know and and then leaning into that feeling you know leaning into that shrug um because it made me feel more in control and safer. And then of course as the as the night went on I very quickly lost control. By the time we were actually having sex he started saying awful racist things to me um which outraged me and and hurt. Um and I tried to respond by being more aggressive and I am not like you know the most masculine tough guy person but I I tried to actually you know kind of um respond to his violence with violence. Um--  Well and is he he is saying these terrible I mean he he is saying the worst racialized words you can say and you are responding with anger but that is manifesting in sex as forcefulness which is in turn turning him on.  Right! He likes it. It was such an education really.     Because it just it showed  and that is why I say I walked into that house understanding one thing and I left understanding something far different. Um because I think it showed just how eloquent and crafty power is. You know I walked in there really thinking I had it all figured out because why would not I? I was a you know a college junior or whatever and I was studying poetry and I had read Audre Lorde and bell hooks. Surely you know I could handle anything.  What a joke. And I think the only thing more hurtful than someone um you know offending or or outraging you is to realize that that is what they had hoped to do all along. And that is why that experience with him um was so formative. Um but also you know I went back! That was not the only time I hooked up with this person.  How do you think about that? Why did you why did you go back?  I think um at that point I I had a creeping sense that I deserved it. That even though I would talk to my friends you know proud and try to boast and I would hooked up and you know I have hooked up with this many people and Oh I did this crazy thing you know. Um that I was trying to project confidence in the hope that if I talked confidently enough I would begin to feel confidently. If I began you know like I could kind of reverse engineer my shame if that makes sense. Um but it was not working. I was ashamed. I was miserable. I wanted more than anything at that point to just have a boyfriend and go to dinner and you know go on group dates with friends and go bowling or whatever the hell boring happy people do.     Um but that I could not figure it out. I did not realize that simply put I was depressed. And it had nothing to do with my  you know I was a very successful student I was doing speech and debate. But underneath it all I was just deeply sad. And it was undiagnosed. I had no idea you know? I would bully myself. I was saying mean things to myself. Um and so to meet someone um who was literally saying mean things who was saying you know my worst kinds of thoughts about myself. Um I think as much as it disgusted me it was difficult at the time for me to resist. And I think that is why I kept going back.  I mean there is also something I mean it is you mentioned shame you mentioned all these motivations but also when when you are depressed just feeling anything even when it is bad   Right. Anna  is something. You know like he made you feel things.  Absolutely. I think you are right. I felt like robotic. You know I felt like I was like just going through the motions. I felt like I was um performing humanity and just doing what was expected of me and I was good at it which did not make me want to try harder actually. Um and so yeah I think in a way disgust outrage shame are incredibly powerful feelings. Um and uh as I have a tendency to lean into powerful feelings and to really I want to understand them What is going on there? I want to parse it. I want to write about it. Um I think I got to the point where I could not see the forest for the trees. Um and it was the only thing I was feeling at one point. Coming up Saeed gets to know another powerful feeling  grief  after his mother died of a heart attack a few years after he finished college.  I thought grief would be like a river. Um but in fact it was an ocean.  What is the difference?  Um a river is you know more narrow um more contained um you know and and you know where you are just you know where you are going as opposed to where you have just been. Whereas an ocean is just this huge body of water and there are tides and swells and it is just so much bigger than you could have ever imagined. -- Not long after Saeed Jones' mother died he met someone who would go on to become his closest friend the writer Isaac Fitzgerald.  Meeting him in some ways felt like he was my ambassador back to humanity. I also feel that basically like every straight white man I have a good relationship with working relationship with should basically send Isaac like a thank you card once a year.    Um because  just like they should really just be like Shout out to you because I do not know if Saeed would be in any way interested in being around me. You know? Um but I but I think that there is something to that you know like our positive relationships all of our different positive relationships often I think provide us models to go oh this person reminds me of that person maybe I will give them a chance. Weve been thinking about race and friendships here at Death Sex  Money. About what weve learned about race through our friendships and also when weve made big mistakes or been really hurt and disappointed. Were working on an upcoming project about this with Code Switch from NPR and we want to hear from you. When has race been a flashpoint in your friendships? What happened next? Tell us your story. Send a voice memo or an email to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode  My name is Chris Garcia and Im a man on a mission. That mission is to figure out the truth about my dad. We first shared comedian Chris Garcias story on our show with you last summer when we brought you the pilot of a new podcast series he was working on. You told us liked that pilot and wanted more. So Chris and the team at WNYC Studios made that show! Its called Scattered. And as it launches next week well bring you another new episode about Chris his father and their familys story during the aftermath of the Cuban Revolution. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When Saeed came out to his mom over the phone during his freshman year of college she only asked if he was using protection. Later that day she called him back and told him If youre happy Im happy. They didnt talk much about it after that. And after college Saeed didnt move back home. He went on to get his MFA in creative writing at Rutgers and then got a job teaching high school English in Jersey City.  This was my first year out of grad school first time having a full time job I was just exhaust  I loved my job but it was a lot of work. Um and I got a phone call the night before Mother's Day. Um it was pretty late. I was watching Damages the Glenn Close show in bed drinking wine. And my uncle  I saw my uncle's name on the phone. I thought he was calling to like remind me that the next day was Mother's Day and that I need to you know do the whole thing and everything. And I remember like rolling my eyes and being like you know Listen I am I r I know. I am a good son I am a good grandson. I am going to call everybody. Um and so I did not answer. Uh and then he called back a few moments later. And only then did it click that I was like You know Saeed you know it is like almost 11 oclock. Um and I answered the phone and I just remember him saying you know Saeed your mom had had dinner with your grandmother. Uh she had a heart attack. She is in the hospital. You know I will call back when I know more. Um and then the next morning I woke up and he was like You need to get here. And that that glass of wine that I had been drinking I had sat next to my bed and sincerely in my memory um I stepped my foot out of the bed I broke the wine glass in putting my foot down. And it was like by the time I reached down to pick up the broken glass I was on a plane. Like I do not know. I do not know who paid for the flight. I do not remember going to the airport. I remember just being on a plane all of a sudden and having a suitcase that I did not remember packing. Uh landed in Memphis Tennessee and uh we went straight to the hospital. And we went into the ICU and I like did not recognize her. Um my mom was always very she was very beautiful. She was elegant chic. And that was not the woman I saw it in that bed. There was so many wires and machines um and all of the life was gone. You know she was in a coma but all of the life was gone. It was... it felt soul crushing in the sense that it felt as if I had walked into the wrong hospital room and I was looking at someone else's mother in this incredibly vulnerable state. And I felt terrible for this poor woman and whoever her son was.  What was your mother's name?  My mom's name was Carol Sweet-Jones.  I love that name.  We called her Carol Jean now and then to tease her.   Carol Sweet-Jones. What a name.   Carol Sweet-Jones. Carol Sweet hyphen Jones yeah.  And you are an only child.  Mmhm.  When when you think of... those last hours of your mother's life and you think about the immediate aftermath um did you feel your only childness in a new way?  Hm. I think um the gravity of what all of this meant just came in a very very slow way. You know like I could not you know maybe like a month later did I have a moment of like Oh right. Like I do not have any family members. I do not have any immediate family members now you know. I will say um there were moments when I remember feeling grateful that it was somewhat less complicated. Um you know I I read and hear about people's loved ones passing away and families arguing over wills or funeral arrangements you know or um you know struggling to get everyone in one place to say goodbye you know. And I am grateful that my whole family was there. All of the friends and loved ones you know my mom was so beloved. And I remember just being grateful that of course this was awful. And of course it was in some ways very lonely but it also felt simple and loving. Um but then I think when I got back to Jersey City and like walked back into my apartment um that I had just suddenly run out of you know a couple of weeks before that was the moment when I was like Oh I am alone. That was hard.  Yeah. And you were in your mid-20s.  Mmhm.  Did you did you know how to deal with the business of death? Did you know what phone calls needed to be made? What paperwork needed to be dealt with?  Absolutely not. Um and you all there is so much paperwork. There are so so many phone calls. Um I I I was very fortunate that my mom's older brother my Uncle Albert um is is good at death. He buried his father he buried my grandmother's sister. Um and and and you know now he was burying his little sister. Um and he just really rose  it was incredible. Yeah. I remember a sad and overwhelmed as I was I remember kind of marveling at how good my uncle was with death supporting me. You know he was very good at being like Saeed you should eat something now and I would eat something. Or Saeed you should go to bed now. Okay. You know Saeed let us make some phone calls. We kind of like I remember all the legal pads we had set up in this on the dining room table with all of the lists and things we needed to do you know. And he kind of triaged and be like Okay Saeed now you need to call the insurance company and here's how it is going to go. He knew what I needed. Saeed's mother died without a will but she did have life insurance. Saeed didnt know how much money it was. Until a few months after she died he got a check in the mail.  It turned out that um she had a life insurance policy that was worth several hundred thousand dollars. Um and the day I got the check in the mail I like fell to my knees on the stairs.  You fell?  Um yeah I did. And I just stretched out because the number it like sent me it was like those moments when people say like your life flashes before your eyes. It was like that. Except it was every moment of of stress related to money that my mom and I had had which was many all just flew you know in front of my eyes. I thought about you know my mom who would go stretches without the dental work she needed or the the the heart medication she needed. You know she obviously live with this lifelong heart condition maybe she would have had a better life maybe she would not have died if we could have afforded better treatment as this money would have allowed. It was such a bizarre paradox that someone's death could have in your mind made their life better. Um and it just it just knocked me low. Um and it was really hard. Um I was fortunate to have a few mentors at the time that I felt comfortable talking to one of whom was um uh basically an executive at the at the high school I was working at. And we went in a classroom one day um and I just we just went through all the kind of almost like with my uncle we like went through all of the numbers and everything you know. Um and I was like I guess I will buy a house? Like I know like I I do not know. And he was like Where? Where are you going to buy a house? And I was like I do not know down the street? He was like Saeed you know and and I just remember him very compassionately saying You know Saeed that is a strategy but that is not a plan.  Huh.  And he had a lot of debt from he would gone to Harvard and he was like If I had not had that debt Saeed I would have made some very different choices. And he was like So you have a tremendous opportunity and it is a gift that your mom gave you. Um and based on that he we kind of laid out a strategy. I was able to I finished the school year and then I was able to not teach for two years um because I could afford not to teach you know. I got an apartment um and was able to pay for it using the money from the insurance policy. Um and that is actually during that year the one thing I could do was write. That was the only thing I was really capable of. I could not eat. Um whether or not I could socialize was pretty unpredictable it was pretty day-to-day but I could write. And so that year was when I actually started writing seriously what became the memoir.  How have you felt about spending down that money? Like is it hard to watch the amount go down?  Um yeah it is it is complicated. At first I was absolutely panicked. It would it would send me into a depression that would have me in bed for a week. Because yeah the the guilt um the shame. I was ashamed to have all of this money and why I had it. Um I had friends who would tell me like do not tell anyone about it. Say and and like I got an apartment that was you know a nice apartment that I certainly could not afford without a job in New York City. And one friend who was a poet very compassionate and well-meaning she was like You need to just tell people you are house sitting someone else's place.  Oh my God.  Yeah. She because she she was like she was like Saeed if people can figure out your rent they will figure out you know basically your your income and then all of your business will be out there and all these people will take advantage of you. You know she was trying to be very cautious. So yeah it was it was really trippy. Um and then a few years later as time went on it got easier I would say. Um and then it became I do not know I have this I have this net um protecting me that all of these rich white kids have always had.  Mmhm.   And now I understand a little bit better like why they are so confident and chill. I am like Oh okay this is incredible. Um and and having that confidence uh is eh is and was really empowering.  So your mother that money gave you choices.  It did. It gave me choices choices that I know my mom always wanted me to be able to have these options you know. Um but it just made me so sad that you know she could not be around to see them and that we could not um enjoy them together. Like you know when I was um packing up my mom's apartment that is one of the things you have to do. You need to pack up the apartment. What do you do with all your parents' stuff? Um I remember finding a card that had a list of basically like she called them determinations. I think most people would call them like resolutions New Year's resolutions and.  Determinations love that.  She called And we were with this is what I grew up with every year. She was like Have you written your New Year's determinations? And so there'ill be a car like a you know greeting card with it. And one of the items was you know I will travel the world with my son. And um we were not able to ever travel abroad together. Um and I have done a lot of traveling in the last few years and that is that is part of the reason why I felt like Okay I have got to do this do this for her do this for us. Since settling in Columbus Saeed is close to his mom in another way. Her best friend a woman Saeed calls Aunt Janet lives less than two hours away in Cincinnati.  I had long like long ago made peace with that I was going to be someone who would not be able to say Oh my you know my my mom and dad are in town this weekend. You want to meet them? I just made peace with uh not expecting that. Um and so yeah that is another reason I think being here is nice. You know people are like What are you doing for Thanksgiving? And I have a clear answer for the first time in years.  What are you doing?  I am going to go to Cincinnati. I am going to spend it with her.   What have you observed about the dating scene in Columbus?  Um it is fun! I you know it is a very vibrant gay community. I can certainly say um the visibility of of gay people of different ages. You know older couples walking their dogs young people drag queens just walking down the street in the middle of the day. Um especially in the neighborhood I am in is another joy. And so uh last week I went out with I went out with friends here for drinks and I finally was like okay I am ready to turn on the dating apps.  Light 'em up!  Literally I was like here we go T minus 10 nine eight and I kid you not I thought my phone was going to fall off the table. It started vibrating so much   .  I do not you know I do not know if it is just you know a new person in town or who knows. But uh yeah it is uh it is poppin'. . Having a good time.  Thats Saeed Jones. His memoir is called How We Fight for Our Lives. Hes on book tour now but when hes back in Columbus he said he plans to go and visit that McDonalds where the men were so happy. And wherever he is you can find Saeed on Twitter at theferocity. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Xandra Ellin for her help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram.  Have you had your first date in Columbus yet since turning on the apps?   Um I have not had my first date. I have had my first morning of waking up on the opposite side of the bed than I usually sleep on um and slowly turning over and seeing a man in bed next to me.     If you wanted to define that as a date you are welcome to but  Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.