 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week the multilevel marketing of LuLaRoe. All right let us start the show.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. So I noticed something. A lot of the TV I have been consuming recently the TV that is really hooked me - all these shows have at least one thing in common. They all offer a critique in one way or another of capitalism. Squid Game the most popular Netflix show ever - it is all about the lengths people will go to when they experience horrible debt and dead-end jobs - the worst of capitalism.    OK gamer .  The White Lotus and Succession - those shows mock the rich and make the case that too much money can make you an awful person.    Look. Here's the thing about being rich OK? It is like being a superhero only better. You get to do what you want. The authorities cannot really touch you. You get to wear a costume but it is designed by Armani.  And there is this other one that I cannot stop thinking about - LuLaRich. This one is a documentary all about a multilevel marketing scheme where mostly stay-at-home moms sell really weird-looking leggings.  Beauty is in the eye of the beholder and some people really want to wear like jack-o-lanterns on their leggings. And that is you know OK.  That is Meg Conley. She is a women's work and economic justice writer. And this week Meg and I talked about the Amazon Prime series LuLaRich which is all about this business LuLaRoe. LuLaRoe convinced a lot of people to sell really loud colored tights from their homes until the whole thing just blew up. Meg and I talked about LuLaRoe and how the working moms that got into selling jack-o-lantern leggings - they often went into debt in the process. And we talked about how this series LuLaRich - it was all about how the dreams of capitalism wealth and work-life balance for instance - those dreams can make people fall for some pretty ridiculous schemes. To be clear here multilevel marketing has been around for a while. LuLaRoe did not invent that. Think Amway Mary Kay etc. But some data indicates that MLMs are actually growing during the pandemic. We should start with just defining what an MLM is right? It means multilevel marketing which is not technically a pyramid scheme but I want you to define both and tell us where LuLaRoe sat within that.  OK so a pyramid scheme is - you are just selling the opportunity to make money. If 10 people give me you know 10 - and then 10 people give you 10 and then eventually it like forms an actual pyramid shape. And the people at the top make a lot of money because they get a cut of each of you know the 10 contributions. And then the people at the bottom you know make nothing because eventually you run out of people who are willing to...  To be recruited yeah.  ...Have the opportunity to make money right?  Yeah.  So an MLM is not technically a pyramid scheme but it operates with the same - it is the same business model. It is just with a product. And so with LuLaRoe the product was leggings. But the way that you made money was selling people on the opportunity to sell those leggings. And so you know they talk about this in the documentary LuLaRich. But most people were making most of their bonuses like the majority of their compensation from LuLaRoe on the people that they signed the bonuses they got from signing people to sell LuLaRoe.  And this is the thing that was really interesting and the thing that seemed pretty insidious. So like they are telling you you can sell these tights. Everyone wants to buy them. But to start up you need to give us like 5000. And then from that 5000 the person who recruited you gets a cut. But then you get a box of like hundreds of pairs of leggings and you have just got to sell right?  And you had to get in line to invest 'ecause so many people wanted to buy the inventory.   But you would be on a waiting list anywhere from 90 to 100 days so we literally had these women waiting for our calls. These are people spending anywhere from five grand to 10 grand for some leggings.  And you know a lot of these women were selling breast milk to be able to afford...  And they were kind of urged by folks in LuLaRoe to consider doing that.  Right. Like just take out a second mortgage sell your breast milk. But the thing is like that is what we are told in America right? Like it costs money to make money. And if you are a stay-at-home mom let me tell you like nobody's like willing to like give you capital to like start a business. Like you are going to have to sell your breast milk right? So they did that and then they waited and waited for the leggings. And you know in the documentary there is one woman who talks about painting a bedroom in her house...  I remember that.  ...Because she is going to set that up as her like LuLaRoe store. And it kind of broke my heart 'ecause probably the last time she did that was like for a nursery for her kids.   I cleaned out a room in the house and I painted it.  I moved all the stuff out of my one son's bedroom. I turned our nursery into a LuLa room.  Care work is work you know? Like we need wages for housework But...  Yeah.  Of course we do not have that in America. And so the way that she was able to try and make her house productive in a way that was like economically recognized in our country was by bringing the leggings...  The symbol is - I mean like it is just really troubling symbolism.  Right. I work. You know I have been a stay-at-home mom...  Yeah.  I think all moms are working moms. But now I am like...  Yeah.  ...A traditionally working mom. A lot of these women in the MLM and in the documentary they seemed to really want to do primarily the work of caring for their children. But because we do not recognize that as actual work and we do not pay for it...  Yeah.  They were trying to find a way to do both. Now that is not all the women. A lot of them did want careers and had not you know had the opportunity or - so I think that you have a spectrum of needs.  So yeah who was the typical LuLaRoe seller?  The typical LuLaRoe seller was white tended to be middle class. They were active online. They were active on social media.  And a lot of them were stay-at-home moms right?  A lot of them were stay-at-home moms. The person who started LuLaRoe the couple they are Mormon. And so a lot of the people initially involved in LuLaRoe were Mormon.  So I mean perhaps the most compelling part of this series LuLaRich is the character study of the two founders of LuLaRoe. They are quite something. Tell our listeners who they are.  They are quite something so I actually knew them. I grew up in southern California in the same - originally congregation and then kind of in the same religious community as DeAnne Stidham and Mark Stidham. I actually went to one of DeAnne's - she did dress parties when I was little.   I would invite all my friends. And I would do it at my house show some dresses. And people would come shop buy it and go.  And you know it was the '90s so it is like these like velvet-topped dresses...  Yeah.  ...With like kind of poofy skirts. Like I wanted one.  Yeah.  You know what I mean?  .  Like I am like you pair that with some like white little socks and black Mary Janes and like you are in business.  There you go.  But my mom was like no way we are not buying anything from this woman. Like my mom did not feel comfortable.  Yeah.  She said - you know even as a child she would be like she is always trying to sell you something.   She called me out of the blue wanted to buy a skirt. I said you know this is a really great opportunity for you to make money.  This is what LuLaRoe - and what she was so good at. And they kind of alluded to this in the show. They realize that stay-at-home moms were this untapped resource.   If you want to create incredible wealth identify an underutilized resource. And you know what? There is an underutilized resource of stay-at-home moms and they have...  People were not valuing their work. People were not seeing them.  Right.  They were not able to have 9-to-5s because of the kids. And so...  Right.  This was a workforce of folks that were really qualified and could do lots of things because doing parenthood is a lot of different jobs at once. And they said oh let us get them. Right? And so the whole PR pitch of LuLaRoe is this is not sinister. This is not a scam. We are giving opportunities to a certain kind of woman that never gets them. And...  Right.  That kind of message becomes so successful. I mean LuLaRoe expands almost exponentially. And by the middle of the last decade it is kind of everywhere huh?  Yeah so it really does go bonkers. And these women have bought into it like literally and figuratively. And they are selling each other on it because when you are in an oppressive system often you are the victim but you are also the victimizer right? And so there is a part in the documentary where they are showing one of these cruises they go on. Like they start going on cruises. And the moms are having like this  fake white mom dance party which is...  .  ...You know about as awkward as you can imagine. There is one part like in the corner of the screen you see a mom holding her baby and dancing at the dance party. And again I am trying to think in America of a work environment...  Where you could do that.  ...Where you could go to a conference and break down with a baby right? I mean that is...  That is the dream. That is the work-life balance dream - and that LuLaRoe was offering that.  Yeah or at least pretending to right?  Yeah.   Coming up the downfall of LuLaRoe. And who was actually at the bottom of the pyramid?   By the end LuLaRoe is falling apart. They kind of grow too quickly and the leggings get worse and crazier as time goes on. They end up arriving at people's doors moldy and smelly and wet. There are too many people selling too many tights. The markets are saturated. The company begins to get sued. It really falls apart kind of astronomically. How epic was that fall of LuLaRoe? - because it seemed like from me watching it was insane.  I remember watching LuLaRoe disintegrate in real time. You know it is like happening around 2017. And what is interesting is a lot of MLMs start falling apart because the market has become too saturated and people are no longer buying in. Like there are not enough people to form like the next bottom layer of the pyramid right? LuLaRoe starts falling apart before that. LuLaRoe starts falling apart because their leggings start falling apart.  Like literally like tearing on people's legs .  Like literally start tearing so that is interesting because that reflects a development that they do not talk about at all in the documentary which is like the actual bottom of any MLM pyramid - the manufacturing.  Yeah and those were not white middle-class moms.  These are not white middle-class moms. We are not talking about the bottom of that pyramid because we do not want to because acknowledging that would mean acknowledging a lot of other things about America.  Yeah.  But the leggings start disintegrating. And you know study after study shows that when the quality of product becomes worse that directly corresponds to a worsening of conditions for the people making the product.  And then the company briefly institutes this return policy. Then they are like oh sorry cannot do it anymore because everyone...  Yeah.  ...Wanted to send all the tights back.  Because everybody's trying to get their money back and then people start talking about class action lawsuits.  So then in spite of all of this crazy LuLaRich does not go away. They are sued by I think Washington state among others. People...  Yes.  ...Leave the company in droves. The reputation of the leggings themselves is in the garbage but LuLaRoe still exists. What is it about America and our culture that keeps us so wedded to MLMs?  You know MLMs are not going to go away until we make America less pyramid-shaped.  And I want to stop you there and have you define what you mean when you say that America's pyramid-shaped.  We can talk about how disgusting pyramid schemes are and we can you know laugh at white suburban moms for falling for the LuLaRoe legging thing all we want. But they fall for it because it looks like the market sphere right? Like it looks like America. America has a very narrow top that the only way you can get to it is by...  Just hustling like hustle culture right? Like...  Hustling yes. Yeah totally. Like selling people on opportunity is the American dream. Like that is literally what the American dream does. And you know they did not discuss it in LuLaRich. You know the cultural commentary in LuLaRich was basically like these women - they are over-educated. And they are in the home and they have nothing to do but they feel like they have to stay in the home. And so then this MLM comes in and they think it is a good opportunity but they are idiots. Really they should you know leave the home and do some real work. But the work of the home has dignity and importance and we build our careers on the underpaid labor of people within our homes right? Like we say like the work of the home is not liberating does not fulfill us. And then we hire women to work in our homes for way too little money - often women of color. And then we build on top of their labor. Like that is...  That is a pyramid scheme when you talk about it like that you know? Yeah.  It is a pyramid scheme.  I mean so OK - so I am hearing you say that MLMs are so appealing because a lot of the very central ideas to American capitalism are MLM-esque and pull on the same heartstrings.  Yeah absolutely.  If that is the case and I am guessing you think that should change there just has to be a level of truth-telling about our economy and what it is. I think that...  Yes.  ...One of the positive developments of the pandemic was as everyone had to really exist in this strange space we had time to just reconsider holistically our relationship to work. And a lot of folks said to themselves...  Right.  I am working too much for not enough money and I am tired. But I wonder...  Right.  ...What sitting with our relationship to work even more would feel like and look like and if we could begin to address some of these things that you speak of - you know this idea that there are all of these kind of pyramids that we exist in. And there are folks on top and there are folks on the bottom.  You are just absolutely right. You know when the pandemic happened some of us are at home not all of us. But as some of us were home I hoped we would start to understand that the home sphere and the market sphere are not separate. Like it is not two spheres. It is really warp and weft right? We are all woven together. What ended up happening was we took that concept of separate spheres and we brought it like into the house with us with our remote work. And then we just let it split the house in half. I mean like millions of women had to drop out of the workforce right?  Yeah.  Because we were not willing to rethink the way that we have structured the home and the economy as existing apart from one another.  Well I will say I am excited about our current moment because a lot of people seem to be ready to question a lot of things. And that is where change starts so I hope.  That is true. That is true.  Meg will you stick around and play a game with me?  Yeah absolutely.   Up next we play a game of Who Said That? Stick around.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders and we are about to play my favorite game Who Said That?   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  I have got two amazing contestants here this week and they both happen to know each other. They are friends even which makes it even more fun for the competition. Both of you tell us who you are.  OK so I am Meg Conley. I am a writer and I am so happy to be here. And I am so nervous because I have not been paying enough attention this week...  OK. OK.  ...To the culture .   You will be fine. You will be fine.  And I am Janan Graham-Russell and I also have not been paying attention. I like to think that I am you know pop-culture savvy. But I am also ready to be embarrassed today so let us go for it.   So when you are not playing Who Said That with me what is your day job Janan?  So my day job is - I am a Harvard Ph.D. candidate and also a women's studies fellow at the University of Utah.  So you two are friends. You kind of operate in the same spheres of conversation talking about Mormonism and family and all those good things. I want to say for this game leave your friendship and your connection behind.   The two of you are mortal enemies. You are competing...  I am coming for you.  ...Against the other.   There can only be one.   So this game is really simple. I share a quote from the week of news and you got to tell me who said it. I will give you a lot of clues but there are no buzzers and there are no timers. Just yell out the answer whenever you have it OK?  OK.  Gotcha.  Let us do it. Here's the first quote. It came from a particular social media platform this week. Just name the platform. The quote is hello literally everyone.  Twitter.   Facebook.  Yeah .  I am so happy.  It was Twitter.  Oh no.   So that tweet came from the official Twitter account this week...  Yes.  ...Because when Facebook and Instagram and WhatsApp went down for several hours on Monday Twitter was like we are still here.  And did you see all the responses beneath it? It was like so dystopian because it was like McDonald's like every brand just kind of like riffing...  Oh God.  ...With each other with Twitter. It was so exciting. I was like this is the bad place.  Yeah yeah. How did you all survive the great shutdown on Monday when you really could not post to Insta or like gossip on WhatsApp?  Oh it was great. I mean the clouds opened up. The sun shined through. Like I just felt like you know...   We talk about - you know just I was at peace. It was a peaceful time.  I will say I was surprised by how much it affected me. Like I did not mind Facebook being out. I do not really use Facebook at all.  Yeah.  But Instagram - I probably find myself refreshing and looking every half hour.  Oh really?  So it was a hard day. What is crazy though with this whole thing - so like Facebook Instagram WhatsApp it is all part of the same company. And in spite of you know us joking about not being able to post selfies and such you know WhatsApp in many parts of the world is a primary means of communication. So it was a big deal.  Vital yeah.  Yeah. And so anyway Facebook said that the outage was due to changes in its infrastructure that coordinates traffic between its data centers. All that to say they eventually had to send a team of people to a physical data center in Santa Clara Calif. to reset the server computers. You all they had to turn it off and then turn it back on again.   I love how you say that as like it was like middle school gossip. Like did you hear what she is - like that is - I just...   I am just loving this conversation because that is I mean what happened. And it is just - it is wild.  It is totally wild.  I am like imagining Mark Zuckerberg blowing in the video game cartridges...  Yeah.  ...And then trying again.  I kept like you know the scene in Jurassic Park where they have to like go get past the raptors to turn it off...  Yeah .  ...And turn it back on again - like the switch or whatever. I kept imagining that.    Mr. Hammond I think we are back in business. .  Yeah it might as well be Jurassic Park. It is about that hostile.  Yeah yeah yeah. Who got that point?  Me. It is my only point I am sure so I am claiming it.   All right. This one's totally crazy. Totally totally crazy. I think you are aware that I donated my kidney this summer right? Yell it out. Say something.  It is the Bad Art Friend.  Oh.   Yes it is the Bad Art Friend. Did you all both see this story?  OK could you bear to read it? I got like two paragraphs in and then I had to stop.  Janan did you read it?  I did not. I saw the headline and I am like you know what? I am just going to go live my life today.  It is - that is good. That was the right - like that was the right choice. It is like...  Well because they pay me to study stupid I read the whole thing and I am all up in the discourse. So that quote about the kidney donation that comes from Dawn Dorland. She was one of two main characters in this story this week from the New York Times magazine called Who Is The Bad Art Friend? And long story short this piece takes part in this writer's community a lot of writers who write together and write apart and are navigating the literary world. One of the writers Dawn Dorland - she gave a kidney to a stranger and then began to post about it on Facebook. She even shared the letter she would send to the stranger who got her kidney. And a lot of other writers that knew her thought it seemed pretty self-centered and obnoxious. Eventually another writer uses part of the language of that kidney letter in a short story that seems to be mocking a fictitious Dawn Dorland. Eventually they both sue each other. Group chats are unveiled during the course of these court proceedings and Dawn Dorland ends up seeing all the other writers kind of talking smack about her in the group chain. It is all a mess.  Drama.  Let me tell you though I was popping the popcorn. The story was good. At first I was like why is The New York Times covering this? And then I was like man I am so glad The New York Times is covering this.   Well - and like what is crazy is as soon as I finished reading the piece I was like oh this has to be a movie. And I was like who plays who in the movie?  I feel - I think one of them has to be Jennifer Lawrence. I just - I see her as this very dramatic character and just really you know just getting really into that role.   I totally like that. Who else could you all see? I could see Rosamund Pike as the kidney donor just a really uptight - very uptight woman.  Oh totally. Yeah. I - like just the thought of this like becoming a movie has like sent me into such a spiral. This discourse has lasted so much longer than I expected. If it became a movie and it like - there was more discourse around it I am not sure I would - like that might be the end.  Well I tell you what I will watch the movie. I will watch the miniseries. I will watch the documentary and I hope they find some way to put Nicole Kidman in it because Nicole Kidman.  Yes.  Why not?  Yeah. Yeah that - that would be good.  All right last quote for all the marbles. This one - this one's rough. Guess which celebrity said this. Famous singer - here we go. Quote to clear things up we pooped once together and we laughed and said never again. But he will hang out with me if I am poop-emoji-ing  because we soulmates and I legit miss him when I am away from him. And we pee together obvi .  OK .  Is there a lifeline that we can get with this one?   I will name the title of her most famous song...  OK.  ...Which is All About That Bass.  Oh Meghan Trainor.   Yes.  Oh yeah.  It is Meghan Trainor yes.  OK. Wow.  Did you all see this story either of you?  I did not see this. How did I miss this?  This is epic. So that tweet came from Meghan Trainor on October 6 and she was addressing some things that she had said on Nicole Byer's podcast Why Will not You Date Me? She revealed to Nicole Byer - and now to the whole world - that in the home that she shares with her husband Daryl Sabara they have - wait for it - side-by-side toilets.  No.  Yes.  Oh no. Oh no boo-boo no.   I can...  I mean because we are - if we are on the topic of social media shutdown like this is - like that is one of those times that Instagram - like social media like across the board should have shut down.  Shut down?  Just shut it down.  Yeah just shut it down. Like...  Just shut it down.  This should have like broke the algorithm and crashed all of the servers forever.  What? Why would they...  Yeah they have side-by-side toilets.  Like the people like building the house like installing the toilet like were they like what? What is happening?  I just love like imagining the first call to a contractor.  Yes.  Meghan and her husband Daryl are like yeah yeah no no no no no no. We want them together. But you want what? No we want them together. Like how far - four feet apart? But like together. And saying yeah together.  Yeah like are they close enough so that you can like hold hands?  .  Are they - like how do you decide the distance between two side-by-side toilets? Like what do you - what are you optimizing for?  Do they share one toilet paper roll or are there two?  Yeah exactly.  Yeah all good - a lot of questions.  Questions - lots of questions.  Yeah I am into radical transparency in marriage but like that is a step - that is something else.  How much would you all - OK wait. Wait. OK. I guess what would it take - money gifts service - what would it take to get you all to agree with having a side-by-side toilet with your partner?  Would we have to actually use it? I mean I guess you could build it and give me something. But I never ...  Is there a bidet? Like what kind of toilets are we talking about?  My colleague Jinae says that she would need her partner to donate their kidney...   ...To reveal  such a thing.  Ah that is so good.  Honestly - OK. All right. All right.  Honestly I am not even sure then - I am going to be honest.  Yeah.  I am a bad - I am the Bad Art Friend because I would probably just never be able to use the restroom. Like I would become severely ill .  Yeah. And like just staring at each other - like do you stare? Like what do you look at? Like...  Oh that is true though. Side by side's better than two toilets facing each other probably now that you put it that way.  My editor just said it is like the poop bathroom version of Indecent Proposal.   Oh my gosh - it is so - but I just...  Who plays who in the side-by-side toilet movie? That is the question.  Oh.  Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga.  .  Yeah.  I am going to go to the official scorekeepers for a tally. Do we have a winner? I think I know but I always want to check and make sure. Meg I think it was you.  Dreams came true today. I am not going to lie.   I am going to be able to like look my family in the face. And you know I am bringing the trophy home. They are going to be really proud of me. I am really excited.  Wow. Wow. Janan how you feeling right now? You OK?  You know what? I could not have lost to a better person so you know...   Oh.  It is OK.  Look at Susan Lucci.   So humble so kind so gracious.  Hey it is the Mormon in me so...  Thanks again to Meg Conley and Janan Graham-Russell.   Now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every week listeners share the best thing that happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag and they do. Let us hear a few of those submissions.  Hi Sam. This is Kim  in Cincinnati. And the best thing that happened to me this week is that my 16-year-old daughter Lena  just had her last chemo treatment. She was diagnosed in December of 2020 and has endured a really brutal regimen of chemo and radiation. She still has a ways to go in her recovery. But watching her walk out of the hospital and ring the bell for her last treatment is the best part of our whole family's week.  Hi Sam this is Rachel  from Pittsburgh.  Hi Sam.  My name is Adina . I am from Brooklyn N.Y.  Megan  from Lexington Ky.  Hey Sam. This is Lee  from Encinitas.  I was calling to tell you about the best part of my week which was when my 21-month-old son who has decided to enter the terrible twos six months early came up to me gave me a big hug patted me on the back and said mine.  And this week for the first time in 579 days I got to go back to work in a Broadway theater. I work in the wardrobe department. And I have been unemployed since March 4 2020. It was so exciting to be back to see everyone behind their masks and to feel the energy that moves through.  And the best thing that happened to me this week just happened. And that is that the Kentucky Wildcats just beat the Florida Gators at home for the first time since 1986 which is the year before I was born. So it is the first time that is happened in my lifetime. Go Cats. Woo.  I am organizing my second-ever event involving local makers. And I got 30 vendors lined up in about 48 hours. And I did not realize I had that ability or those amazing connections.  I have to share this really sweet moment that happened yesterday. I was out with a friend. We were getting a drink at a little bar that is down the street. And she had left to use the restroom. And I was practicing a dance piece that I am learning. I am part of a contemporary dance company. And I have a rehearsal today. And I pulled up the video. And I was just kind of reviewing it in my mind. And while I was doing that this woman comes up to me and just says I have been watching you. And I love what you are doing. And it is so beautiful. And how do I see you perform? And it just made my day . I - you know you do not get compliments like that every day. So you know it is a reminder to just say something nice to a stranger. That can really make a difference.  I love the show. Keep up the good work.  Thank you. Bye.  Love your show. Bye.  Thanks again to all those listeners you heard there - Kim Rachel Katie  Adina Megan and Lee. Listeners do not forget you can share the best part of your week at any point throughout any week. We still love to hear from you. Just record yourself. And then send us a voice memo via email - samsandersnpr.org. That is samsandersnpr.org. All right. This week's episode of It is BEEN A MINUTE was produced by Jinae West Liam McBain Anjuli Sastry and Andrea Gutierrez. Our intern is Nathan Pugh. Welcome Nathan. Our fearless editor is Jordana Hochman. And our big boss is NPR's senior VP of programming Anya Grundmann. All right listeners. Till next time be good to yourselves. I am Sam Sanders. We will talk soon.  