 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Hurricanes Harvey Irma and Maria have shown how extreme weather can destroy towns cities and islands. My guest Jeff Goodell is the author of a new book about what cities around the world face in a future of rising seas and increasingly intense storms. It is called The Water Will Come. Goodell is a contributing editor at Rolling Stone and has covered climate change for 15 years. He is also written about fossil fuels including the coal industry and their impact on the environment. Jeff Goodell welcome back to FRESH AIR. So Hurricanes Irma Harvey Maria  all the climate people say no one event can be attributed with certainty to climate change. But what about the confluence of these three consequential hurricanes?  Well I mean I think that we are seeing what is happening as we are warming up the earth's climate here. I mean it is a very wellestablished fact that as the ocean temperatures heat up that is going to increase the intensity of these storms. One of the complicated things about what is happening in our  as CO2 levels rise in our climate is that no one can predict exactly how these sort of new impacts are going to play out and what kind of consequences we are going to see. So you know these hurricanes these storms that we have seen this season are an indicator that you know we are moving into this sort of new age when the sort of old rules of how our climate works are off the table. And Mother Nature is playing by different rules now.  So just to sum up do you think that these three hurricanes are the result of climate change?  The hurricanes themselves are not the result of climate change. But certainly the additional intensity the fact that we have had a number of Category 5 hurricanes is likely the result of warmer ocean temperatures and higher CO2 levels.  So your book opens with a very upsetting description of what Miami might look like by the end of the 21st century. So give it a go for us. Describe what like  your dystopian fantasy of what Miami will look like as a result of climate change.  Well I mean one of the problems with Miami is that it is very  you know it is a very lowlying place. There is no high ground to run to. And so you know with only you know 5 or 6 feet of sea level rise which we could certainly see by the end of the century you know you are going to see major parts of the city inundated. You are going to see more and more flooding in residential areas. You are going to see more and more kind of pollution coming out of those flooded areas like we are seeing in Houston with Harvey  major infrastructure like the airport underwater or not functional massive losses in real estate investment along the coast fleeing from lowlying areas inland which are also going to be flooded out places like Hialeah and Sweetwater. I think the real thing that you are going to see that people do not really think about is just this sort of economic collapse and economic problems that are going to be caused by a plummet in real estate values which are really important to the Florida economy.  What actually is happening in Miami now? You spent some time in Miami Beach and you saw flooding just caused by high tides. Describe what you saw.  Well I started this book you know shortly after Hurricane Sandy hit New York. And you know there was nine feet of storm surge that came into New York. And I was talking to some scientists after that and they said you know think about this as a sort of you know experiment of what sea level rise will look like. Imagine if you had nine feet that came in and did not go away the way it did with Sandy. So then I started thinking about that and other scientists said well if you are going to really think seriously about this you need to go to Miami. So I did. And I happened to be there on king tides which is the time of  in the fall when the high tides are particularly high. And I started wandering around through Miami Beach on the western side of it in this sort of very wealthy neighborhood and there was water up to my knees. I mean there were people kayaking through the streets of Miami Beach on king tide. And it did not take a whole lot of thinking to figure out that if you had 2 or 3 feet of sea level rise much less 6 or 8 feet of sea level rise this place was in big trouble. And thinking about that and thinking about what the kind of trouble it would be in and the kind of trouble that other coastal cities would be in was really the genesis of the book.  What do the people who live there do about those waters that you can kayak in?  Well since then  this was four years ago and since then they have you know invested 500 million in building  improving the storm drainage improving  putting in a bunch of pumps. And so some of these areas are  you know in short term you know the flooding has been better. But that is just a sort of shortterm fix. And so what people are doing now is they are you know kind of living in a kind of denial. They are hoping that  you know a lot of people who live in Miami Beach are not there for  they are not thinking about being there for the next 50 years. They are thinking about being there for the next five years and how much fun they can have and you know how they can enjoy their retirement or their parties on the beach. And there is not a lot of longterm thinking going on in a place like Miami Beach. And so basically people's time horizon is the next five years. And will I be OK for the next five years  you know probably. And so that is where it is at. People who think more broadly about it  and there are a number that I know  are selling and moving.  What makes Miami Beach so vulnerable?  Well it is interesting. Miami Beach is a barrier island not unlike the Outer Banks or Galveston Texas or  you know there is many barrier islands around on the East Coast and on the Gulf Coast. So that is one thing. It is lowlying. Its elevation is 4 5 6 feet at max. But the real problem with Miami that makes it different than a lot of other places is that it is built on this sort of porous limestone. The particular kind of limestone it is on is full of holes. And so what that means is that you cannot build sea walls in the traditional sense around Miami Beach. In New York and in Boston and of course in the Netherlands there is lots of sea walls and they can be an effective if problematic way of keeping water back for a while. But in Miami that is not really possible because of this porous limestone which means the seawater can just go right underneath a wall and just pop up on the other side. And this has complications not just for kind of protection of the place but also because as that seawater rises and begins to seep underneath it gets into the freshwater drinking aquifer which is very shallow in Miami. And so there is going to be impact. There is already problems with the salinization of drinking water. So there is going to be a problem with drinking water in the very near term also.  What is Governor Rick Scott's position  the Florida governor  on climate change?  Rick Scott is you know a pioneering climate denier. Rick Scott has you know unofficially kind of prohibited government employees from using the phrase climate change in any kind of government communication. I mean he is this sort of prototype for what we are seeing in the Trump administration with EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt and others who are basically just trying to deny that this is a problem. And it is a particular disservice in Florida because Florida is you know so obviously at risk. It is not like he is the governor of Oklahoma or something where you know sea level rise is not going to be a problem. In Florida it is a direct risk not only to people's lives with flooding but also just to the economic future of the state.  If you are just joining us my guest is Jeff Goodell. He is a contributing editor at Rolling Stone magazine and author of the new book The Water Will Come Rising Seas Sinking Cities And The Remaking Of The Civilized World. He is been covering climate change for about 15 years. We are going to take a short break and then we will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Jeff Goodell. He is a contributing editor at Rolling Stone and the author of the new book The Water Will Come Rising Seas Sinking Cities And The Remaking Of The Civilized World. And he is been writing about climate change for 15 years. So let us talk about the ice sheets. Many of them are melting and that is affecting sea levels causing them to rise. And that is affecting climate change and ocean levels. So let us start with the ice sheets. You say that there is much more melting in the Arctic than in Antarctica. Why is that?  Well a lot of the heat from the warming of the Earth is sort of concentrating itself up in the north in the Arctic right now and that is the you know fastest melting place on the planet right now. And when we think about sea level rise you know there is a number of factors  the thermal expansion of the ocean the melting of glaciers on land you know landbased glaciers around the world  but it is really  when it comes down to it it is really all about Greenland and Antarctica. Those are the only two sort of big ice cubes on the planet that if they  when they go that is big trouble. So what we have seen mostly right now is a lot of surface melting up in Greenland and that is been a big cause for concern. We have seen  in 2012 there was a record ice melt up there. And you know we are seeing acceleration of the glaciers in Greenland. But ice physics is very complex and you know scientists up until recently sort of had this idea that they could calculate how fast a big ice sheet like Greenland can melt and have a good idea of what sea level rise rates might be like in the future. But recently a lot of attention is being focused in West Antarctica especially this couple of glaciers there called Thwaites and Pine Island Glacier where the real problem is that you have a warming ocean  the ocean absorbs a lot of the heat of  as the atmosphere warms. And that warming ocean is getting underneath the ice sheets there and that can cause big problems because you have melting from below. And one of the things that scientists are figuring out is that you can calculate to a pretty good degree how fast an ice sheet will melt but calculating how fast it can collapse is a whole a different thing. And some of the ice sheets in West Antarctica are a mile or two high. And if the water gets underneath them and they start to collapse that could mean very rapid sea level rise.  Yeah why is a collapse so catastrophic?  Well because you have an ice sheet that is you know a mile or two high. Imagine you know everyone  a lot of people have seen pictures of El Capitan. Imagine something like that or twice as high as that of sheer ice melting from below. And the physics of ice structure tells us that a cliff like that of ice cannot stand on its own. So it will collapse and as it collapses it falls into the sea and as it falls into the sea sea levels rise. And so the risks of this are a really new idea that are only in the last three or four or five years are scientists really beginning to understand. And that is why when you talk to the best ice scientists in the world you hear a rising alarm in their voice about what we might potentially be facing.  You have been to Greenland and you say you actually stood on land that you might have been among the first people to stand on because it was not  it was ice before.  Yeah it was a very surreal experience. I was there with a scientist named Jason Box and we were flying a helicopter over the Jakobshavn Glacier which is the fastestmoving glacier in the world. And he spotted this bare spot of ice and he said we have to land there we have to land there. So we brought the helicopter down and we jumped out and you know he shouted out new climate land. You know this is  this patch of Earth has never been  you know no human has stood here before and it has not been seen  you know it has not been uncovered in tens of thousands of years. It was very profound because standing there and being on that bare patch of ground and seeing these enormous glaciers all around me I had just been in Miami Beach I mean a few weeks before. And you really connected you know I really connected in a visceral way you know what was happening in this faraway distant place on this bare piece of ground that was being uncovered where I could actually see the ice going away fast with the rising waters in Miami Beach that I had seen and been wading through you know a few weeks earlier. And so this sort of connectedness of these places which is so hard for most of us including myself to really grasp I really felt in a very powerful way at that moment.  I have seen film images of some of the ice and snow  I guess it is mostly ice  in the Arctic darkened by soot. Like why is there soot there?  That is an interesting question. That is one of the things that I was up there to look at with the scientist who I traveled up there with Jason Box is you know we talked about wildfires earlier. As the wildfires in California and other  in Russia and in China and other places burn that soot gets picked up and carried up into the circulatory patterns in the atmosphere and gets dropped places. And one of the places a lot of it gets dropped is in Greenland and in the Arctic. And it is really remarkable that even a small amount of darkening of snow has a big impact on how fast it will melt. It is the same reason why you wear a lightcolored shirt on a hot day and you feel a lot hotter if you are wearing a black shirt. It absorbs the heat. And in Greenland where you have these vast ice sheets if you get even a modest amount of soot on those ice sheets both from wildfires or from industrial pollution like coal plants it can really speed up the melting. And one of the things that is happening as scientists think harder and harder about what is happening on the ice sheets is they are understanding that there is a lot of new factors that they did not consider before. Like you know 10 years ago not very many scientists were really thinking about the impact that darker soot would have on the melt rate of the ice sheets in Greenland. But now they know that it is a significant factor. And there is a lot of other factors that they think they have not considered very well that  including the friction on the bottom of the glaciers and the friction on the sides of the canyons as the glaciers move through them the warming of the ocean on the bottom of the glaciers. There is just  it is a  you would think it is a very sort of simple idea of trying to calculate melt rate of ice but it is in fact incredibly complex.  Let us look at Alaska. Alaska's in a kind of interesting situation in that it is very dependent on fossil fuel. It raises a lot of money from fossil fuel. And at the same time temperatures are rising in Alaska because of the whole phenomenon that we have been talking about  about how you know the Arctic is warming and ice is melting. So what are political leaders in Alaska saying about climate change and the impact it is having on the state and the connection of that to fossil fuels?  Well they are not saying much. I am actually just back from Alaska. I was just there for a few days. I just got back yesterday. So I have  and I talked to a number of politicians there and you know the basic problem in Alaska is that you know their economy is dependent upon fossil fuels. Eighty percent or so of the revenues of the state come from oil and gas. And so there is no real way that the state can continue to function by you know reducing the drilling and pumping of oil and gas. It is  they are just completely dependent upon it. So there is no conversation basically about you know reducing that. And in fact they are talking about expanding it looking into offshore drilling. Right now Congress is you know moving towards opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling and nobody there that I talked to in the sort of political establishment is anything but you know sort of embracing that. What is beginning to happen though is they are beginning to realize that you know no matter what they do they are going to be feeling impacts. They are feeling impacts. When I was there with President Obama in 2015 we visited the villages on the  in the Arctic Circle that are already in trouble because of erosion from sea level rise. They are just going to have to relocate many coastal villages because of  they are just at risk now because the seas are higher and the storm surges are bigger. So they are facing hundreds of millions of dollars in helping people adapt there. So they are beginning to have this like OKsohowarewegoingtoadapt conversation. What are we going to do about this? And they are beginning to think more about the future in diversifying their economy and trying to encourage kind of what they call this you know sort of transition from an oil economy to a salmon economy. That is a big issue. But basically it  they are in a really tough spot because they are really you know dependent upon the very fossil fuels that're doing them in. And it is a very vicious circle to be caught in.  Do you think political leaders are acknowledging OK we are dependent on fossil fuels but we acknowledge at the same time that fossil fuels are helping to lead to climate change which is having an altering effect on the geography the landscape the life of Alaska?  Yeah. I mean I do not think that they are  the political leaders that I have talked to up there  it is very hard to be a denier there in the sort of classic way of say you know Florida Governor Rick Scott or EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt because it is just all around. And the permafrost is melting. It is just you know obvious there. But the question is what can you do about it? And it is a really  for  if you are you know the governor or a senator from Alaska  and I am not giving them a getoutofjailfree card but you know for any politician you know keeping the economy going is the No. 1 job. And in Alaska keeping the economy going for the moment means you know oil and gas drilling. And that is just the fact and that is the way it is going to be in the near term. The question is how quickly can they diversify away from that? How quickly can they begin to build another a new kind of economy based on clean energy? I mean there is a lot of engineering ability in Alaska. I mean look at the pipelines they have built. I mean this is the headquarters of sort of big you know brilliant engineering. And the idea of beginning to you know apply some of that to adaptation to diversifying to building new kinds of clean energy you know is really appealing. And I was you know trying to make the pitch to them up there that they can be a real leader in showing how to adapt to these massive changes that're coming and how to change from a fossilfueldependent economy to something else. I mean West Virginia's a classic example of a state that never did make that turn and has been sort of beholden to coal for you know 150 years and it is just been you know devastating for the economy of that state.  My guest is Jeff Goodell. His new book is called The Water Will Come. After we take a short break he will describe how climate change is affecting the military and we will talk about climate deniers in the Trump administration including the head of the EPA Scott Pruitt. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Jeff Goodell the author of a new book about cities around the world that are being threatened by extreme weather caused by climate change. It is called The Water Will Come Rising Seas Sinking Cities And The Remaking Of The Civilized World. He is a contributing editor at Rolling Stone and has covered climate change for 15 years. Although your book is largely about how climate change is affecting cities you also write about how it is affecting the military because there is a lot of military bases at risk because of flooding. You want to describe that a little bit?  Oh there certainly are. I mean the military is really an interesting piece of this whole conversation. I spent a  I made several visits to the naval station in Norfolk which is the largest naval station in the world home to six aircraft carriers played a central role in you know the military operations in Afghanistan and the Middle East. And about 75000 sailors and civilians work there. It is just this giant complex. And you know I was there at high tide and you know it was flooding. I mean the military barracks the roads on the base were flooding. The  you know downtown Norfolk had several feet under water. I mean it is a huge problem for a base like Norfolk which is  you know the idea of relocating it  besides the fact that it is you know politically kind of toxic to even have that discussion and would be economically devastating for the region it is just  the logistics of it are mindboggling. But what is really striking is that the military  you know not everyone  but by and large the military gets it because as one commander said to me you know our job is to deal with the world as it is not as we would like it to be. So they get sea level rise. They get climate change. They understand this. But you know because of the way our political structure works and because of Congress they cannot really talk about it openly. So at Norfolk for example they had built several new  these enormous piers that cost millions of dollars. And they you know built them you know 4 5 6 feet higher than the old piers. And I said to the commander well did you do this for sea level rise? And he basically said yes but we did not say that because if we would have said that then we would not have got funding from Congress. They would have zeroed it out because they you know do not want to talk about climate change in any way. So the military's in this  stuck in this position of like having to deal with this thing called climate change  which is you know changing sea level rises you know destabilizing populations doing  having all kinds of impacts on their operations with water supplies and stuff  but not being able to talk about it because Congress will not  you know will not fund anything that has to do with that.  So the military is not only concerned about direct damage to military bases caused by climate change. It is also worried about the possible national security consequences of climate change. What are some of the consequences the military is envisioning in terms of national security?  What the military is really concerned about is you know the sort of increasing political destabilization of volatile places in the world. Secretary Kerry a few years ago called climate change a weapon of mass destruction. And by that he meant that you know increasing hurricanes like we are seeing droughts which caused political instability in places like Syria which we have already seen. And the National Academy of Sciences did a study on the causes of the uprising in Syria and they determined that the drought there had a catalytic effect on that. So in the biggest sense what they are concerned about is just the increasing destabilization of the world. And as we know right now we can see the problems of refugees of people moving around all of the political problems that that is causing. And when you add climate change to that when you add droughts and floods and destruction of places like Puerto Rico and where those millions of people who live there are going to go  are they going to rebuild their lives there? Or are they going to move to Florida or somewhere else? And if they do what will the impacts of that be? That is in the broadest sense what they are concerned about. They are concerned about what is essentially the operating system of the planet kind of going a little haywire and what the implications of that will be.  You have  in writing about climate change you have also been investigating climate deniers the climate denial movement. There are a lot of people who deny that climate change is a reality who are in the Trump administration now. Would you just do a roll call of some of the climate deniers in the administration?  We could just do a roll call of the entire administration. I am not sure there is anyone in the administration that I am aware of who would acknowledge climate change. I mean you know it starts with the president himself who famously called climate change a kind of Chinese hoax and has done nothing to kind of dispel that kind of absurd characterization despite being given many opportunities to. EPA administrator Scott Pruitt who was essentially brought in to run the EPA explicitly to roll back some of the plans like the Clean Power Plan and other initiatives that the Obama administration did to help reduce emissions and kind of meet the Paris climate deal goals  you know virtually the head of every agency especially you know in the Interior Department of Energy. I mean it is just a kind of empire of climate denial that is now running Washington D.C.  What do you attribute that to?  Money. You know I think it is pretty clear that you know the debate in America politically is skewered by enormous contributions from oil and gas industry from you know the Koch Industries  the Koch brothers. You know they have done a very good job of planting doubt about this and making it clear that you know this for them is a kind of cultural  a kind of litmus test. If you want our support you know you need to get on board with this. And one of the hard things about the climate change sort of debate in America now is that it is become this kind of cultural litmus test. It is like abortion or something like that. It is like  it is very difficult to have a kind of reasoned discussion about it anymore because it is one of those things that you are sort of either for or against. And it is very disheartening.  What are some of the things you fear will be undone? Trump is  President Trump is pulling the U.S. out of the Paris climate accord. What are some of the other climate change policies and regulations that you see being undone?  Well part of it is the you know rollback of the Clean Power Plan and things like that that were designed to sort of accelerate the advancement of clean energy. And that is really important. But you know I also think that there is a lot of investment in clean energy right now. And a lot of states like California and Washington and New York and others are really pushing forward on this. And it is very clear to everyone around the world  except you know the climate deniers in the center of the Trump administration and I do not even think they actually believe it  that the economic future not only of the United States but of the kind of global economy is in this clean energy revolution. We are not going back to coal. We are not going back to oil and gas. We may use them for a little bit longer. But the future is in solar and wind and other renewables. So there is the slowing down of that  is one issue. But you know and then there is another issue of the sort of lack of funding and thinking about any kind of adaptation for this. We need to think about things like sea level rise. I mean no matter how fast we cut carbon emissions  even if everybody sells their SUVs and rides skateboards to work tomorrow we are still going to have a lot of sea level rise. And places need to start thinking about that. We need to start thinking in a kind of bigger picture about this  not just about building sea walls but about moving people who are in highrisk areas out of those areas and doing things like relocating major infrastructure like airports and things like that. I mean this is  those kinds of things take a long time to plan and think about. And we need to start doing that now. And then the final thing that concerns me about what is happening is just this whole debasement of science just the whole question of like  you know that we do not make decisions about our future and about our future risk based on good science. And I think that is really what is the  when you get down to it the most disturbing and frankly frightening thing about what is happening in the Trump administration. It is just the  you know the complete politicalization of science. And not just about climate change but we are seeing it about you know air pollution toxic chemicals all kinds of things. And once you throw science out that is a very scary world.  Scott Pruitt the head of the EPA under President Trump you said that he is among other things trying to destroy the legal foundation for greenhouse gas regulations of any kind. How is he trying to do that?  Well I think  I mean I do not think it is too much to say that that was why he was given the job. I mean as the attorney general in Oklahoma he you know led the assault on Obama's Clean Power Plan. And you know he  that is the state where he  a very big oil and gas state and they do not like this because it hurts the oil and gas industry they believe. And so they want to get rid of that. So Pruitt is right now in the process of trying to rollback this  Obama's Clean Power Plan which reduced emissions from coal plants existing coal plants around the country. But you know it is not clear that he is really going to be successful in the long term on this because you know there is a Supreme Court decision that basically found that you know CO2 is an endangerment to human welfare and that as a  and is a pollutant and that as a pollutant the EPA is required to regulate it. So he is got to come up with some kind of a plan to replace the Clean Power Plan and it is not clear exactly what that will be. But you know it will be some sort of pale shadow of what we have now.  Well let us take a short break and then we will talk some more. If you are just joining us my guest is Jeff Goodell. He is the author of the new book The Water Will Come Rising Seas Sinking Cities And The Remaking Of The Civilized World. He is been writing about climate change for 15 years. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is  you are just joining us my guest is Jeff Goodell who has been reporting on climate change for 15 years. His new book is called The Water Will Come Rising Seas Sinking Cities And The Remaking Of The Civilized World. Something funny in the book because on the whole it is not a very funny book.   But something I thought was kind of funny is when you are in the Arctic looking at melting ice there. You are staying at a hotel and you say it is the hotel that Al Gore stays at when he is in the Arctic . I thought that was hilarious. Did  do you find yourself following some of the same like being in the same  some of the same places he is been in looking at climate change?  Certainly not knowingly but you know  and I have lots of respect for Al. It would not bother me if I did but that particular hotel in the Arctic is sort of you know there is  everyone goes to this one place to see this famous glacier called the Jakobshavn. And you know there is a lot of sort of you know climate change tourism that is happening now. And when I first went to Greenland I was struck by all the sort of middleaged people in North Face jackets who were wandering around and I was like well what are all these people doing here? And it is like they all come to see the ice sheets before they melt or to watch them melt. And this one hotel is particularly nice. It is you know there is not like  there is only like two hotels in the town so it is not like there is a huge selection. But you have an incredible view of the bay and the icebergs going out and you can drink  sit 