 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show - why Democrats cannot seem to pass President Biden's big spending bill. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. And on the show today to start we are going to talk politics. President Joe Biden and fellow Democrats control the White House the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House. And since they won all that they have promised a lot.   Historic investment in the nation's roads and highways bridges and transit and our drinking water systems and broadband clean energy environmental cleanup and making infrastructure more resilient and the climate crisis much more in our minds in how do we deal with it.  Child care and infrastructure and fighting climate change - all the things. Right now in fact Democrats are trying to get a really big spending bill through Congress one that could cost up to 3.5 trillion. But from the start this thing has been a hard sell.   And not primarily because of Republican opposition but instead because of two Democrats who have not been fully on board.   I want to talk to you real quick. I want to talk to you real quick.  Actually I am heading out.  Kyrsten Sinema.   We need a Build Back Better plan right now.  And Joe Manchin.   What is the urgency? What is the urgency that we have? It is not the same urgency we had with the American Rescue Plan.  These two Democrats could be considered moderates or mavericks or in Manchin's case kind of conservative. And for a while now they have both been thorns in Biden's side. I have been trying to figure out why Democrats even in the majority why they cannot seem to get their ducks in a row and get the Manchins and Sinemas of their party in line. And there is no better voice in my opinion to ask that kind of question to than NPR's own Mara Liasson. She is a senior political correspondent on NPR's Washington Desk and she is been covering this stuff for a while. Mara told me a few things. One Democrats have been like this - chaotic all over the place - for quite some time. And two just because Democrats have a majority that does not mean it is actually big enough to do all they want to do.  Here they are trying to do this very ambitious LBJ- FDR-style package of legislation with margins that are not LBJ- or FDR-sized margins.  .  As a matter of fact there are hardly any margins at all.  Yeah.  They are trying to put this gigantic elephant through the python of governing and it is really really hard. The Democrats also are a big heterogeneous coalition. They have Bernie Sanders and they have Joe Manchin. So those are the logical rational reasons why it is hard for them to do this. The things that are not that are mystifying and maybe less excusable is why could not Democrats have come up with a way to sell this package? To call it the 3.5 trillion reconciliation bill or more precisely to allow the press to call it the 3.5 trillion reconciliation bill is political malpractice. People look at that and all they think about is the top-line number...  That is a lot of money.  ...And how much Democrats are going to spend. Yeah.  Yeah. So big-picture - like top four or five points - what is in this spending bill?  What is in this spending bill is programs that will help people pay for child care and public preschool. In other words right now public school starts at kindergarten. The bill wants to make it start a couple years earlier. Lots of things to help Joe Biden meet his climate goals which is to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 50 by 2030. There are proposals in the bill - not all of them might make it to the finish line - but to expand Medicare so it covers dental and vision to allow Medicare to negotiate with big drug companies to get the price of drugs down - the price of prescription drugs down. There are proposal - other proposals on clean energy. There are proposals about community college which might not survive. There is a child tax credit which we already have but the president would like to make it permanent or at least extend it for a longer period of time. So it is an expansion of the safety net although it is not a good idea for Democrats to call it that 'ecause most people do not want an expanded safety net. They think it sounds like welfare. They just want jobs and help paying for grandma's nursing home and their kids' educations.  Which is I hate to ...  The safety net.  ...Social safety net .  But we do not talk about it. Yeah yeah. But that is - but getting back to the thing about why are Democrats in this situation they could not figure out a way to really sell this.  Yeah. So OK my - I have several questions and I want to get to Manchin and Sinema in a bit. But first if Democrats knew that the margins were so thin and they knew how large swaths of the American public look at programs like this why did they write a bill so big in the first place?  Well one of the reasons is that they felt this was their only shot. Most parties that have all branches of government lose Congress one house or both in a midterm election. They also knew that they were not going to get any Republican votes so they had to use a budget maneuver called reconciliation so they decided to put everything on one bill. They also knew that individual pieces of this package poll very well. In other words public preschool is popular. Having Medicare negotiate for lower prescription drug prices is popular. So they figured look you know these are things that test well. We are on the side of the majority of American people in wanting these things. And you know they were just going to go for it. The problem is that they underestimated how hard it would be to get all Democrats on board. And because they have such small margins as we just discussed they have to get all Democrats on board in the Senate.  Yeah yeah.  And you have heard Joe Biden say this over and over again. I have got 48 Democratic senators with me. We are just talking about two of them Joe Manchin and Kyrsten Sinema.  Let us talk about those two. I find them quite fascinating. And I also find them to be in love with the attention they are getting right now. It is like they just soak it up but you know...  Well they are a member of the United States Senate. Yeah.   So Kyrsten Sinema Democratic senator from Arizona and Joe Manchin Democratic senator from West Virginia - they have been the two Senate Democrats keeping this big bill from passing. What do they want and why are they saying - why they are doing this?  Well first of all they do not want the same things. There is Manchin and there is Sinema. It is not - they are not a bloc.  Yes. Yeah.  Now Joe Manchin is much easier to understand. He is not a liberal or a progressive as he constantly reminds us. He comes from West Virginia which went for Donald Trump by something like 39 points.  And it is a big coal state.  He comes from a very red state - big coal state. He is been very open about his priorities. He wants to protect coal and gas. He wants to make sure that everything's paid for. He is worried about the solvency of Medicare and Social Security. He does want to raise taxes on the wealthy and corporations. He wants to undo some of the Trump tax cuts. But he is - we know where Joe Manchin is coming from. He is the only Democrat in the Senate that represents a red state. Sinema is a much more mysterious character. She says she...  Please explain her to me.  Well she used to be a member of the Green Party. She was an environmental activist. She moved to the center won a Senate seat in Arizona. She understood where Arizona voters were. She is said to want to style herself after John McCain the famous maverick from Arizona. She voted against a minimum wage increase something that is very popular across the country but also certainly with the Democratic base. She is reported to be against any tax increases even for the wealthy or corporations. She does not want to allow the government to negotiate with Big Pharma to lower prescription drug prices. So it is unclear. She is been accused of doing the will of lobbyists. One of the reasons it is hard to understand where she is coming from is she does not talk to the press or explain what she wants or what her principles are. And because the Democrats do not have any margin for error in the Senate it means that any single Democrat gets to be the center of the universe and hold up the entire package.  Yeah. I mean high school civics class Sam Sanders is kind of saying to himself right now it is not supposed to be that way. Like...  Well that is a different question. It is not supposed to - well first of all as long as you have the filibuster yes it is supposed to be that way. As long as the rules of the Senate say that you have to have 60 votes to pass anything this is how it is going to be. Now there are a lot of people questioning this because the Democrats - 50 of them in the Senate right now - represent 41 million more people than the 51 Republicans.  That is the thing. Yeah. Yeah.  And as long as we have enshrined these minoritarian  institutions - and do not forget our country was founded with a system that protected minority rights as in the minority party's rights - they did not want the majority to just run roughshod over everything. The founders wanted to build in some protection for the minority hoping they could force some compromise. But there are many people who think that is gotten out of whack that the minority has so much more power than the majority right now that it is making people question the fairness of the entire system.  Yeah. Yeah. To Joe Biden what does it mean for him and his presidency if any part of this bill falls out or scales back in order to pass? How big of a failure would that be for Biden and Democrats if a failure at all?  Scaling back - OK. Failing - not OK. In other words the bill is going to be scaled back. Whoever thought that they could pass a 3.5 trillion package with no majorities to speak of in Congress was smoking something. So yes it will be scaled back. I do not consider that a failure unless Democrats are so inept at selling this and framing it that they act like they are really disappointed with what they get in the end. If they get a one-point-something trillion dollar bill and a 1.2 trillion infrastructure bill on top of the big 1 trillion COVID relief bill they passed earlier that will be a monumental achievement so it is up to them to explain it that way. But I think if it is scaled back it is fine for Joe Biden. If one of these pieces fails to pass it will be a big blow to him.  Yeah yeah. You know when I look at what is going on in the House and Senate and the White House or what is not going on I think my big takeaway from all of this is that oh yeah Congress still does not really get big stuff done a lot. And they have not really gotten big stuff done a lot and frequently for at this point as long as I can remember. But I am wondering for you Mara what is the biggest takeaway about the state of American politics right now from the back-and-forth over this big spending bill?  Well you know what you just pointed out is something that Joe Biden actually talks about a lot and he talks about it in a global context. You know he says democracies have to prove they can deliver. Democracies look inefficient incompetent. They cannot get their act together. And there you have these authoritarian systems that can just - you know the dictator just waves a magic wand and something happens. And he says we have to prove that democracies can deliver. And I think it is a really big test. It has been a really long time since Congress was able to work together to solve big problems whether it is climate income inequality health care education retirement - you name it. So I think this is a big crucial moment not just for the Democratic Party or for Joe Biden but for democracy itself. When the world's greatest superpower looks like it is tied up in knots and cannot get anything done that is not good for democracy everywhere.  Mara always a pleasure. Listeners if you want to hear more of Mara and her and my colleagues on NPR's Washington Desk listen to the NPR Politics Podcast wherever you get your podcasts. It is there all the time just for you.  Thank you Sam.  Thank you Mara. All right coming up we talk about the HBO drama Succession. It is a show that I have become obsessed with and I want to discuss what it says about class in America. We will also play Who Said That. Stay with us.   It is Succession time. If you know that theme song that we are playing right now then you know what I am talking about.   That is the theme for HBO's Succession my current TV obsession. So Succession's third season premiered last Sunday and it has become a show that I want to talk about all the time. For those who have not seen it Succession is all about this very rich and obnoxious family in charge of a massive conservative media corporation. Think Fox News and the Murdochs. The show centers on Logan Roy. So Logan Roy is the 80-year-old patriarch of the family and he has a problem. He needs to pick a successor for the family business.  And he has a bunch of kids and they all have these incredible terrible personalities. So it is all about his kids and also some tertiary characters vying for control of this juggernaut.  That is Doreen St. Felix. She is a staff writer and TV critic for The New Yorker. I talk with Doreen this week about why I love this show so much even when everyone in the show - everyone - is just terrible - like the worst. Here listen.    What I think he meant to say was that he wished that Mom gave birth to a can opener because at least then it would be useful.   Greg this is not  Charles Dickens world OK? You do not go around talking about principles.   Not to be crude about it but politics is what comes out the . Would not you rather be up front feeding the horse?  I think Succession is part of this trend of shows in which none of the characters are actually redeemable - White Lotus Nine Perfect Strangers The Undoing all shows which I binged. So what makes these kind of shows about rich and amoral and mostly white people - what makes them so compelling? Doreen had an answer for me and a whole lot of other big thoughts.  It is funny 'ecause we are in this era of pop cultural discourse where the goal of what we want television to do is to make us feel seen. We want to feel like we are relating to the stories that are on our screen right? That is what we talk about when we are trying to be our best consumerist selves. But there is a I think more realistic truer nastier part of ourselves that wants to watch bad people doing bad things.  And it can feel oddly - when I watch Succession I feel this odd catharsis where I do not have to be a moral viewer. If anything like I am casting morality aside because that is not really the matrix through which you can enjoy the show. If you are looking at this show as something that is going to be edifying then you are going to have a terrible time right?  Yeah.  You have to release yourself from some of these like weird dictums that have become really lodged in our idea of what television and film is supposed to do for us. This is not a show that is trying to do anything for you beyond entertaining you.  Yeah. Well and I kind of put Succession in this category of just like wealthy white people behaving badly. I think it is a whole subgenre now. I mean I am talking about White Lotus. I am talking about even like Hacks. And I find myself - when I watch these shows they give me a way to feel better about myself 'ecause I can say well I am not that bad. I am not that nasty. I am actually a good person compared to the Roy family. And that seems entirely antithetical to this idea that we talk about and that you mentioned of like representation in television and seeing ourselves on screen.  Absolutely. And I think also what attracts me to this subgenre as you so eloquently call it is that the massive amount of world building that has to go on - I think I have talked to some people who watched Succession and who did not even realize that it is really supposed to be like a Murdoch line item or that is like where the inspiration begins from.  Yeah.  And that is because the world is so finely designed and so finely tuned. That dialogue is just like - it is English...  Oh my God.  ...But it almost feels like  its own language...  Yeah yeah.  ...The way the writers are able to like put these words together.    Oink for your sausages piggy. Oink oink.   Oh Jesus Christ.   Oink for your sausages Tom. Oink.   Oink .   Oink .   No no. No halfhearted oink. I want fullhearted oinks.   I am not doing it.   Oink oink oink oink.  And that I think is what makes this show stand out even amongst the other shows that we are kind of obliquely and directly referencing here - is that there is no Trump allusions that are made. It would be so easy to make this kind of like a flatter funhouse mirror of what is happening in our country today. But if you really look at the texture the way the dialogue is written the camerawork it is of a completely different world. It is like happening on its own planet. And so that is what I think is one of the amazing things that the show is able to achieve.  Well - and it is something that you might not expect in a drama like this. When you describe world building we usually think about sci-fi or Marvel or like Dune. And this show - just about a rich media empire family - has its own very curated world. It looks and feels like something I would never experience at my income level.   Absolutely. And also something that I think about is when you first start watching the show - right? - you are like these people are crazy wealthy. And then as the episodes continue I would say that wealth is almost kind of besides the point of it. Of course this is a show about a class of people who are so elevated above society that they are not actually a part of society. And...  Yeah.  ...These people - their petty human dramas are exacting an actual immeasurable effect on the society that is happening beneath them. But we never actually see that. There are a few really poignant scenes. I am thinking in Season 1 where they are at that vacation house and they make that sweet young boy - they make him play a round of baseball some sport.  Yeah.  And if he makes a home run they will give him a million dollars right?    Do not worry about it. Can you hit a ball?   Yeah.   Great because I will give you 1 million if you hit a home run. I am dead serious. OK?  It is their like completely grotesque way of interacting...  Yes.  ...With people who are not real people to them. And he does not make the home run. And they are all just like ha that was fun. Meanwhile this kid's life has probably changed course for forever. But what the writers have decided to do - and I think it is the right choice - is to abandon him because he does not exist in this...  In their world they do not have to deal with him yeah.  Exactly.  When it comes to this idea of like liking and enjoying watching other people on-screen be really nasty and horrible how much of it is just being drawn to watching nasty people to feel like we are not that bad? And how much of it is wanting to watch rich people and white rich people in particular be terrible? I cannot tell when I watch Succession. Like would I enjoy a show with characters as nasty as Succession but they were middle-class and of color? I do not know.  That is an interesting question. It makes me think of Empire. Empire's another King Lear story but it was set in a Black world and the music industry world. And the characters were not - I feel like they were never fully allowed to be completely terrible even Lucious. All of the...  Yeah.  ...Characters were given you know that one flaw that justified some of their nastier behaviors. And that is something that obviously was a choice on the writers' part. But it also I think is a pretty telling indication of what we allow our Black characters to do how far we allow them to go in terms of being like bad because stereotype and caricature is always just around the corner right? I think the whiteness of the world - which is always implied right? It never has to comment on it.  Yeah yeah.  It allows us freedom. And as much as white people - I think when we use the phrase white people we are not even really talking about people really right? We are just talking about this idea of whiteness as unabashed freedom.  Yeah.  Whiteness is actually in my mind an infinite mystery right? White people do not even really understand what whiteness is themselves. And so I know there are a lot of arguments that there are too many of these shows right? We just had White Lotus. And then there was that Nine Perfect Strangers show on Hulu and then Succession is back. But I think really what the issue is is that we do not have more shows about Black people and Blackness. I do not think that this - I do not think that Succession is tapping a well that is already dry.  There is been some commentary around Succession and kind of the overall landscape of TV right now. There is a few essays that made this point. They basically are saying say for like big network shows everything else you are going to see either really rich people or really poor people. And there is this disappearing middle class in television right now. I am not sure if I agree and I have not done the research to verify it. But is that something that you have been seeing? And are the kinds of class representation on television right now becoming in any way I do not know polarized?  So that is an interesting question. The idea of landscape is something that I find myself using less and less when I think of television because the options are just like actually innumerable. But there are plenty of shows that represent what we understand to be the sitcom middle-class space but they do not receive the same critical attention as a show like White Lotus or Succession.  Yeah.  The - you know the living room couch is still on a lot of scenes. But I would say that besides reality television which is really what is taking over...  Yeah.  ...The medium there are plenty of these shows. It is just that - are people going to feel as peaked or as aroused by them as they do when they watch a show like Succession?  Yeah yeah. Well - and the certain kind of people that live and breathe and write and talk in those circles. Like when I think of like shows like HBO's Girls or even now Succession these are shows that are never really getting more than a million viewers an episode if that.  Absolutely absolutely.  But in the world of Twitter and the TV criticism space they seem like the biggest things in the world you know when in fact NCIS is getting literally eight times the ratings of those shows and we just do not talk about it. Is that a problem?  Sam that is - you are describing the existential crisis of my job these days .  Happy to do so .  Thank you. I will just you know lose my head after we hang up. But I feel a lot of pressure to address what the commentariat is thinking about and then you know turning on Hulu and looking at what is playing on network television. Like you said it is NCIS. It is Law  Order. It is The Good Doctor.    I could not save them. It is sad. They should have become adults.  I think people do not see them as representing the forward movement of culture. But the more difficult question is whether these shows that we put so much critical value on are actually even moving culture forward right? Or are they actually just if anything like outliers? And maybe...  Yeah.  ...The Good Doctor is what we should be thinking about when we think about...  There you go.  ...What it is that people want to watch when they watch television. So yeah it is like a really - it is a tenuous moment that we are at because these streamers have such a strong hold on people's idea of where television is quote-unquote going. And it causes us to not see the other side of it which is what is happening on network television what is happening in the reality TV space you know? It is kind of like how no one wants to admit that the internet is just porn.  .  Television is kind of just reality TV .  There you go. I like that. Will you stick around to play a game with us?  Of course I will play a game.   We are about to play my favorite game Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  I have got two distinguished guests here to play this week. I will let you all tell our listeners who you are.  My name is Doreen St. Felix. I am a staff writer and a television critic at The New Yorker.  Jazmine Hughes. I am a writer for The New York Times Sunday Magazine a reporter for The Times' metro section and most importantly one of Doreen's best and most competitive friends.  .  Oh I love it. I love it.  She is not lying friends.   So I want you both to leave the friend part by the wayside and just focus on the competitive part. This is a mortal combat. Take no prisoners. It is all about the win. The game is quite simple. I share three quotes from the week of news. You got to tell me who said it or what story I am talking about. There are no buzzers. There are no timers. Just a yell out the answer. But I am sorry to report that the winner will get nothing but bragging rights 'ecause it is public radio. We as not got that kind of money.  Bragging rights are invaluable to me so...  OK. OK.  ...I am ready.  I am sorry. Can I just...  Which - so...  ...Stop this for a second? I just got an error message on my app that said the recording has stopped.  Uh-oh.  So hold on I am going to stop that.  No worries.  The shadow period of Mercury retrograde is real and something that we are all dealing with every day.  I did not know there was...  .  ...A shadow period as well .  What is the shadow period?  We are basically...  What does that mean?  ...Always - Mercury is in retrograde.  off.  When does it end?   It never ends.  I do want us to preserve the Zoom recording of a Mercury in retrograde shadow because listeners need to know. I had no idea. What exactly does the shadow of a Mercury retrograde mean for my life? Please tell me.  Oh I do not know. I have not been gay for long enough yet.  .  But just circle back with me in five years and I will - like the information will be downloaded to my brain.  OK. All good all good. Well here we go. This first quote is from - it is about two people that you would expect to be friends but actually they are not. It is really spicy. Here it is. Quote the only time he gets press is when he talks bad about me. He claims 50-plus years ago I took away a camera angle that denied him 30 seconds more of prime-time TV. I am giving it back to him now by letting him spew his hatred for the world to see.  What?  What?  Yes.  You see...  This is a legendary TV star in a fight with a used-to-be co-star.  Oh my goodness.  Oh is this...  You see you are...  Is this like Katie Couric and Matt Lauer or something?   Fifty years ago Jazmine.  Even older.  That does not make sense.  Fifty years ago 50 years ago 50 years ago. OK you know there are no bad ideas in brainstorming but there are bad ideas in game shows. I understand.  OK.  .  That would be the '70s. Who was very popular?  This was two actors from a groundbreaking sci-fi show about space.  Oh this is George Takei and William Shatner.   Yes. Did you see this story?  I did not see this story at all.  Well George is always popping off. So I did not even see this story but I knew it had to be him.  Yeah so...  He is very sassy.   Apparently after William Shatner became the oldest person to ever go to space on October 15 - I think with Jeff Bezos - in a Page Six article Shatner's Star Trek co-star George Takei said quote he is boldly going where other people have gone before.   Oh my gosh.  George is messy. All right love it.  And then he also said about Shatner he is a guinea pig - 90 years old - and it is important to find out what happens. Wow.  Oh my gosh.  They should have a Real Housewives Of Space or something because this is nasty.   Well also - did you all also see - there is this video of William Shatner with Bezos and others I guess once they go to space and come back down. And William Shatner is trying to have this emotional moment with Jeff Bezos and talking to him about history and meaning and big stuff. And then some other folks come by with a bottle of champagne and Bezos just turns away from William Shatner to go drink. And it was the saddest thing. And you see William Shatner just become crestfallen. Do not be mean to him.  Oh.  Wow. I mean - but that is what you get for fraternizing with Jeff Bezos.  I know.  .  Sorry to say.  Like is Jeff really going to be a good friend to you? No.  He is got to go get his fillers done. He is too busy.   I knew something was up.  It will be speedy but not good. That is like the Amazon promise.  Yeah.  He will be there but not in a good way.  Who got that first point? I forget.  That was Doreen.  OK Doreen there you go.  Thank you. Thank you.  How much would it take for you all to go to space with Jeff Bezos?  He does not have that kind of money and he has all the money.   I think I would only go to space with Jeff if he agreed to stay in space and I got to come home by myself.  There you go.  I would take one for the team.  Yes yes. This is a great moment to note that Amazon is among NPR's financial supporters. I have to say that.   Oh my God. I hope we do not get your show canceled Sam.  All right next quote. Also actors fighting - something's in the air. Here's the quote - frankly I wish Nicole Kidman would take some time off.  What?  Damn who said that?  What actress said this?  I have an idea but I want Jazmine to guess first.  Do we have any more context?  This was an actress who sat for an interview for The New Yorker and she was asked what her next series would be.  Oh oh oh yes. This is Edie Falco.   Yes very nice. Very nice.  Ding ding ding.  Oh thank you.   So that quote comes from Edie Falco in The New Yorker. She was asked what her next big series would be after The Sopranos and Nurse Jackie and her recent role as Hillary Clinton in American Crime Story Impeachment. And then she goes on to admit that she was jealous of Kate Winslet on Mare Of Easttown and kind of jealous of Nicole Kidman. I suppose because like women actors of a certain age - I guess it makes sense that they are still having to compete for the same roles. It makes sense. It is sad but like yeah that is probably the reality.  I think in defense of Nicole Kidman Nicole Kidman is singlehandedly keeping the wig industry alive OK? She is stimulating the economy and we should give her her props. That is it.   Did you all watch Nine Perfect Strangers? That was just - and I love Nicole Kidman.  Oh my God.  That was foolishness. That was absurdity.  She knew it was too. That accent.    How did you get in here?   I came in through the door. I am Masha.  It is like Nicole think about what you are doing.  Miss Nicole I watched the finale of The Undoing. I am obviously going to follow you to many places. Nine Perfect Strangers - too far.    I do not want to suffer.   You are already suffering.  All right this last quote - good morning everyone and welcome back to yet another round of no bones.  This is the quote?  I do not understand this no-bone . This is a new meme. The days either have bones or they do not have bones. And I know this is a meme but I have not gotten to the root of the meme yet.  Wait what are the - the days have bones? What language are you speaking?  It is true. That is true.  Is this a TikTok meme Sam Sanders?  It is like today's a bones day. Today's a no-bones day. I know this but I do not know anything beyond that.   Yes yes.  Can I just put out a crazy name out there?  Do it.  Is this Drew Barrymore?   I wish it were.  Because I feel like this is something she would say on her talk show. OK all right. Cool. Just hazarding a guess.  .  Drew if you are listening please take up the bone discourse on your show. We would like for that to happen. But in fact...  When Drew finds out about the bones discourse next week she is going to love this. Believe me.  Yes yes. So this quote actually comes from Jonathan Graziano. He has a 13-year-old pug named Noodle. And Noodle has become a TikTok celebrity because in these videos that Jonathan posts he plays a game where they quote find out...   The game where we find out if my 13-year-old pug woke up with bones and as a result