  From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today is Tuesday October 23. We are two weeks away from Election Day. And when it comes to Election Day 2018 a thing that I have been hearing for months is this.   A record number of women.  A record number of women.  A record number of women are running this year.  All these women running - I think...  It seems everyone is saying that 2018 is the year of the woman. Record numbers of female candidates - data indicates female voters are incredibly fired up. The MeToo movement is on a lot of folks' minds as they prepare to walk into voting booths. And the resistance to President Trump in many ways is fueled by women. So today we are going to talk about it. Is 2018 a year of the woman? And if so how? This episode I am interviewing not one but two female candidates for higher office about what it means to run as a woman right now. Republican Elizabeth Heng - she is running for Congress in California. She is a 33-year-old daughter of Cambodian refugees. Also talking to Democrat Stacey Abrams - she is running in Georgia to become the first black female governor ever in America. You will hear from both of them in just a bit. But first I wanted to figure out exactly what we mean when we call 2018 the year of the woman. So I called up my friend and NPR colleague Danielle Kurtzleben. She is been covering women and politics all year. Danielle Kurtzleben how are you?  I am great. How are things in California?  Delightful per always.  I imagine yeah. OK.  So I brought you here to talk about the year of the woman which is what everyone is calling these 2018 midterms.  Not me. But yeah that is what people are calling it.  .  We could get into that but yeah.  Yes I want to.  Good.  But first what do people who do use the phrase year of the woman mean when they say that?  Look first of all one thing that I have been saying this year - and it is true - is that there is a - an absolutely record-breaking movement of women running for office this year. Whether it is the U.S. House U.S. Senate governorships statewide elective office women have absolutely - not just broken records - they have absolutely blown past old records in really bonkers ways - I think is the political science term for it.  Yeah. Can you give me some numbers that kind of speak to that?  Yes. So let us look at the U.S. House for example. This is one of the most fascinating ones. So the last record for the number of women nominees for the U.S. House - you had 167 women running for House seats in 2016 - so the last time that we did this. This year you have 235.  Wow.  Yeah and I mean...  Wow.  And an even more epic number to come out of that is when you - when you break this down by party overwhelmingly it is Democrats driving this. When you look at the numbers on the Democrat side this year there are 183 Democratic women running for House seats. In 2016 there were 120. So it broke that record by 50 percent.  Yeah now you said earlier when I brought up the phrase year of the woman that you do not use that phrase.  I do not.  What is that about?  I do not love it. Part of it is like you know we are journalists. We do not need to traffic in cliche. We are better than that. Am I right?  This whole episode is a cliche Danielle.  No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.  This is the year-of-the-woman episode.  Well find a better title Sam.  .  No that is not what I am saying. But like - I mean for one thing if you look just at voters every year is the year of the woman. Women always outvote men. They...  Snaps to the women for voting.  That is absolutely true. Now are women well-represented? Absolutely not. I mean women have never been president. Women are underrepresented in governorships et cetera. Women are 1 in 5 roughly members of Congress while women are like I was just saying just over half of the electorate. Aside from that I mean advocates - bipartisan advocates of getting more women into government will say listen if you call it the year of the woman it implies that this only happens once that it is this grand planetary alignment thing that only happens - as if you know getting a bunch of people who make up half the population at least to run for office is some sort of a really massively out-there thing when really it is not and it does not have to be.  All right. With that in mind let us get to my first chat with Republican Elizabeth Heng. This is her first time running for higher office. And to introduce herself to voters in California's 16th District she used this ad.   In Cambodia under Pol Pot's Khmer Rouge being young and single often meant a gruesome life and likely death. They approached my father. And in order to save his life he said he was about to be married. They asked him to whom? He pointed to the prettiest girl that he saw having never spoken to her before. The soldiers approached her. And she said yes. They got married the very next day.  There is a lot in this ad.  My goodness yeah.  Yeah.  I mean some of this is not about gender right? I mean from a very basic logistical level if you are a first-time candidate like Elizabeth Heng or a lot of these women you want to make a quick impact tell people who you are and get it to stick in their minds and get them to you know like you with that impact by the way right away.  All right. So a bit more about Elizabeth Heng - like we said she is 33 years old Stanford grad former congressional staffer in D.C. and she is running in California's 16th Congressional District Central Valley of California Fresno area. Heng's parents own a grocery store there. And she told me a few years ago she left D.C. moved back home and that is when she decided to run.  I came back to reconnect with my family here in the valley. I was planning on jumping right back into the private sector because I was kind of done with Washington D.C. But when I came back and it was truly sitting at that grocery store counting products with no English name on them and trying to figure out how to program them in the computer and the iPads. I saw that our community was struggling with the exact same problems that we have been plagued with for decades. Now whether that is economic poverty or education - here in the Valley we do not have water for our ag and community. And another big one was immigration. For far too long I believe that both Democrats and Republicans have punted this topic with immigration in our country. I understand...  Heng is receiving a lot of attention in Republican circles because she is a young woman of color running as a Republican in 2018. But she is walking a real tightrope in a state like California and even in her own district. So we are going to hear about 10 minutes of me chatting with Heng right now and then I will be back with Danielle with some thoughts.   This district is - what? - 60 percent Hispanic. Hillary Clinton won this district in 2016 58 percent to 36 percent. How likely is it that a Republican - any Republican even yourself - can win in that kind of district especially knowing how Hispanic voters have been trending in light of Donald Trump's continued incendiary remarks about immigration and Mexicans?  Yeah so in this congressional district I think it is highly competitive. With respect to immigration that is my No. 1 issue. I have gone up and down this congressional district talking about immigration because for far too long it is been long overdue right? With DACA - every facet of immigration is broken - DACA H-1B visas for our tech industry for our farmers and guest worker program for our border and national security. Every facet of it is broken. What I would say is that my opponent to date has never introduced a new idea to make immigration reform work for our community. And I believe that message is resonating incredibly well here locally and that we are going to flip the seat come November.  The loudest voice right now in the Republican Party on immigration is President Trump and he seems to set the tone for how the rest of the party seems to talk about and think about these issues. How in line are your stances on immigration with his?  Look I - you know overall - like I will agree with the president when I do and I will not where I will not. So the proposal in which I will introduce when I become a member of Congress would be to significantly move forward more visas for our ag and tech industries. And so that is kind of where I would be with that. I am very pro-immigration. I am anti-illegal immigration. I am pro-solutions but I do believe it needs to be tied to border and national security so that we fix immigration once and for all.  There has been some pretty awesome coverage of you and your campaign. A writer in The Wall Street Journal called you a potential Ocasio-Cortez for the GOP - not your father's Republican. Should you win I am sure you can already predict now the type of coverage you will get - you know the new face of the GOP. How do you feel about that coverage and the potential for that type of coverage?  Look I appreciate all of the national attention that this race has received. But at the end of the day I am getting into this race because I want to help my community and represent this congressional district. And I am going to fight for water and immigration reform and those education policies that work for this valley. That is what I want to spend most of my time on.  Yeah. I do know that I hear you telling me this is just about the issues but in some ways your existence as a candidate in the Republican Party who is this close to winning is a rarity. We know that of the more than 600 women who are running for Congress in statewide office this fall fewer than 2 in 10 is Republican. We know that your party has a lingering problem recruiting and helping win candidates of color. Do you think that your party is helping make way for more people like you?  I will be honest. Everyone has been so supportive of my race that I feel very blessed in a lot of ways. I had to you know make my rounds in Washington D.C. very early on in the race to go let them know that I am running for this race and if I could receive support. I had no problem getting meetings with the - Leader McCarthy and Whip Scalise and all of the different individuals who have been leaders of the party. And I do believe that they do - they want to encourage young people. They want to encourage minorities and women and everybody to...  But are they doing a good job of that?  ...To get into the race. You know when I got into this race I did not think - and I think the narrative is this right? Oh there is - we need to run for office because we are women. I agree that we need women in office. But when I got into this race I did not think to myself hi I am a woman therefore I am running. I got into this race because I believed we needed change and we needed solutions.  Yeah. Much has been made in the press that midterms 2018 may in many ways be an election all about women and this might be a year of the woman particularly in light of the Kavanaugh hearings particularly in light of the uptick in women running for office this year. At the same time we are seeing those headlines we are seeing polling data week after week that seems to indicate the GOP is hemorrhaging women voters and having a hard time appealing to them right now. Do you think your party is speaking to women well right now?  That is a good question. When I think about the messages that are currently out there I believe it is important that we always have representatives that represents all facets of society right? And I know earlier you were discussing about ethnicity of having more women. And I - that is why I am running for this race. You know I am a woman. You know that was not the original reason why I thought...  Yeah.  ...I could step up. But it is so important to have people at the table because if in fact you are not at the table you are basically on the menu right?  Yeah.  And that is a saying that we always said in Washington D.C. So as we are having these hard discussions - let us say with the MeToo movement for example - it is important to have those voices that are heard. But it is - you know it is also important to have individuals that can look at it in a very judicious way.  Yeah.  And so I want to be a part of that discussion and increase those - and I - when I flip the seat I will help increase those numbers of having somebody that could look at it from a very different framework. And so that is why I am running for office.  Yeah. I hate to belabor this but I will say I hear a certain disconnect. Your experience with the party has been very positive and they have offered you support. But particularly among suburban women voters - suburban white women - they are seeing the party as not as friendly to women as the party has seemed to be for you. Why do you think that disconnect exists?  I will be honest. I am not sure on that. But as I have been talking to - because when I walk around and I talk to suburban women and women of all ethnicities they are going back and talking about fundamentals and that is putting food on their table for their children making sure that their kids are going to school they are not dropping out they are not joining gangs and that they have opportunity. So although I consistently hear this in the media of the Republican Party are not aligning in that direction with people the message that I am getting as I am knocking on doors on both sides of the aisle is that this is the area in which they want to focus. They want leaders that will figure out solutions and provide more opportunities.   Many thanks to Elizabeth Heng a Republican running for Congress in California's 16th District. Back here now with Danielle Kurtzleben. Danielle how unusual of a candidate is Elizabeth Heng?  I would say she is pretty unusual yeah. I mean...  OK.  The Republican Party does not have a lot of women running and - I mean relatively speaking. And it also does not have a lot of women of color. She talked in that interview a bit about you know she is not embracing Trump super tightly either which a lot of Republicans this year are. So in that sense she also sits apart from the pack a bit.  Totally. There are questions about whether a candidate like her can be the future of the GOP in California or nationally. You know even if she loses does she represent a new face for this party or not?  Well one of the big questions being asked of the Republican Party is if there is a chunk of women they might be losing for good or if they have alienated some women you know for example by embracing Trump who many women do not like. And if you talk to Republicans Republican strategists Republican voters - I will often ask Republican voters who are you know voting for a woman candidate and I will say does it matter to you that she is a woman? Do you - are you excited to vote for a woman candidate? Republicans almost always tell me no it absolutely does not matter. Like I just want someone who is qualified. It can be a woman. It can be a man. They can be brown. They can be white does not matter. So...  And that is what she is saying.  Yeah. Well absolutely. And so as far as her being the future of the Republican Party I think a lot of Republicans might sort of reject the premise of the question. I mean the idea for them is that the future is purely about you know qualifications and issues. It is not about the Republican Party trying to - specifically trying to appeal to a particular group.   All right listeners - time for a break. When we come back Danielle returns. And we will hear from Democrat Stacey Abrams. She is running to become the first black female governor in the country. BRB.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. Earlier we introduced you to Republican Elizabeth Heng. She is running for Congress in California. I want to move now east to Atlanta. That is where Stacey Abrams was when I talked with her recently. Abrams is a Democratic candidate for governor and she is exciting women all over the country.  All right. Stacey Abrams can you hear me in your headphones?  I can hear you quite well.  Great. If you can just...  So in the last few weeks Abrams' opponent for governor has been making headlines. His name is Brian Kemp. He is currently secretary of state in Georgia and as secretary of state he is responsible for enforcing election laws. Kemp's office is currently blocking the voter registration of more than 50000 people for small clerical discrepancies like a missing hyphen in their name. Many others have been knocked off the rolls by Kemp's office for becoming inactive or not voting in previous elections. That could affect tens of thousands more voters. The majority of those affected are black and they tend to be Democratic voters. Kemp's office says he is just enforcing the laws and that activists were sloppy in registering new voters. Civil rights groups have filed a lawsuit against Kemp in response. We taped our chat with Stacey Abrams before all that news came out. But the race in Georgia was already dramatic. Polls have it basically neck and neck in a state that has not elected a Democratic governor since 1998 and that is gone Republican in every presidential election from 1996 on. So I asked Stacey Abrams if her momentum is driven by women. Here's our chat.  I think what happened in 2016 was that the election results put into sharp relief how important it was for people to vote especially women especially people of color communities that were vulnerable in some way. And so while I am deeply proud of all the women who are running for office and who are being elected most I am incredibly proud of all the people of color who have broken through what have been you know decades - or centuries in my case - of barriers. And so where I think the year of the woman and the year of communities of color the year of the vulnerable - the common theme is that we have a right to be heard and a right to be represented and we are not going to wait for someone to do it for us.  A thing that I noticed is that you did not say the word Trump in that answer. And this is a thing that I think a lot of candidates across the country are having to grapple with even in statewide or local races. What is your strategy with that?  Well for me it is not a strategy. I have been working on this for almost a decade. And I think for a lot of folks Donald Trump and his policies reminded us that what we enjoyed for eight years under President Barack Obama what we thought would continue under President Clinton had a shelf life. He is not someone I mention very often because he is not in my state. What is in my state are state legislators who are passing laws that make it more difficult for women to exercise reproductive freedom legislators and a secretary of state who are rescinding access to the right to vote. Yes he certainly is generating some enthusiasm on the ground. But again it is because he is proof that elections do matter and they do have consequences.  I definitely hear you but it seems to be that for Republican voters particularly his base particularly some Southern or rural white voters they are thinking about Trump a lot. When you try to convince some of those voters in your state that you deserve their vote do you have to talk about Trump with them? And if so how do you talk about Trump then?  I will address his policies. I think tariffs are terrible for agriculture and Georgia's No. 1 industry is the agriculture industry. So I talk to farmers about why he is creating a false trade war. When I have a conversation about why we have to expand Medicaid it is in the context of the fact that we have a leader who is trying to rescind access to health care and return us to a time where pre-existing conditions meant that you were not entitled to health care. And so for me it is about context but it is not about him as a person. It is not even really about you know his putative leadership. It is truly about what does that mean in terms of how do we move Georgia forward?  I have talked to Republican candidates and talked to Republican thinkers who have told me about the really interesting song and dance that some candidates for office across the country have to do to be Republican but distance themselves from the top of the Republican Party. There seems to be maybe to a lesser extent a distancing of some Democrats from the National Democratic Party in the midterms as well. Something you said recently was that Democrats are losing elections quote because as a party Democrats have been trying to recreate the coalition that last elected Bill Clinton. What do you mean by that? And is that a swipe at the DNC?  No no no. It is not intended as a swipe as much as it is a diagnosis. In the Deep South the last time we won on a presidential level was Bill Clinton and the last time Georgia elected a governor was 1998. And in both of those elections - '92 '98 - the coalition of voters just looked different. And part of what we are seeing not only playing out in my race but playing out Andrew Gillum's race in Florida playing out in David Garcia's race in Arizona is that a new coalition of voters are stepping forward. But traditionally both candidates and the party have really looked to do what worked the last time. My point is it is been a long time since that worked so let us look for something else. But I am pleased to have the support of the DNC. It is been true that there is been friction but I think it is incumbent upon all of us to keep our eye on what is at stake in 2018.  You mentioned that friction. What are the biggest friction points for you? I am thinking of some hot-button issues that Democrats in other parts of the country you are talking about that might not play well in Georgia - abolish ICE or impeach Trump tomorrow. Like are there moments in which other Democrats are getting in your way in terms of messaging?  No. They are not because I am very clear about my message. And I think that is really one of the narratives I want us all to understand. There is this clamor for there to be a single Democratic message as though there is one tagline that will unite us all like Lord Of The Rings.  .  That is not possible. What is true are our values the democratic values that cut across every region in every state. The values of believing that education is transformative and that everyone has access. The belief that health care is a right and not a privilege. Those are the values that drive us. How we talk about it depends on where we live.  This political season has raised a lot of questions about how men how politicians how we as a country deal with sexual assault and abuse. And Democrats have you know been pretty forthright about where they stand on these kind of things. Has the rise of those issues in the front-of-mind for lots of folks and the Kavanaugh hearings has that affected how your campaigning and what you are talking about on the trail?  I think that the MeToo writ large the Kavanaugh hearings most recently require that we give very sharp attention to sexual violence to sexual harassment and to our responsibility as Americans to protect women and to protect anyone who is a victim of sexual violence. And this is a moment for us to find our better selves and to create space so that women and men do not have to hide in the shadows. That is what this moment should be.  Yeah. In thinking about that it is also a time where a lot of people across the country are thinking about having a clean house. And you know we talked earlier about the coalition that Bill Clinton created in '92. Do Democrats to really own this issue and be forward on this issue need to have more of a reckoning with men like him who are still in the party's ranks?  I think that we have to continue to have conversations about our history but we also have to leverage this moment to prepare for our future. And my belief is that what we saw in the Kavanaugh hearings was not an attempt at reckoning or planning. It was a woman revealing her deepest pain and a man having a temper tantrum because he did not - he thought he deserved not to even face questions. And I think any woman who brings this forward should be listened to. I think within the ranks of the Democratic Party we have a lot of folks that we have to continue to address their past and talk about how we prevent this from ever happening in the future. And I would like to continue to be part of the leadership that makes that so.   Thanks again to Stacey Abrams a Democrat running for governor in Georgia. Time for one more break. When we come back I talk with Danielle Kurtzleben about this year of the woman and what we can learn from the last year of the woman 1992.   So Danielle we heard Stacey Abrams talk about the MeToo movement and coming off these confirmation hearings for Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Do we know if those hearings actually changed anything in the minds of women voters on either side?  That is a very good question that I have been spending the last week or so - more than the last week trying to get my arms around. I mean anger and frustration among Democrats was already at a 10 at least. And so it is not like it is going to inspire anybody to vote extra. What it might do though is inspire people to get out more go out and door knock more and canvass more which might inspire more voter turnout on the left. Now among Republicans there is mixed polling data on whether this has energized Republicans more. It very well may have. And this is something that we are just going to have to keep watching more. But even if it is a marginal effect on either side a lot of this year's races are toss-ups and a lot of this year's races are going to be won on the margins.  So we have now heard from two candidates for higher office a Republican and a Democrat. Even though you are not sure if you want to call this a year of the woman there was a previous year that was called the year of the woman. I am talking about 1992. This wave election put a lot of women in Congress. It came after the contentious confirmation hearings for Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court following a sexual harassment scandal that he had to deal with back then. Are there any comparisons to draw between this year of the woman and that one?  Yes and no I mean because back then women were kind of starting from zero or near zero. There were so few women in Congress back then. So I am looking back at my nominee's numbers here. It went from 69 nominees in 1990 to 106 women nominees in 1992. That is just not that many. This year a reminder we have 235 nominees. So...  Oh wow. This is like the year of the double woman.  Oh yeah. And even then though not even half of the candidates this year are women. So...   I mean it is - the other funny thing about calling this the year of the woman just to get back to that is that like when you think about it on a very basic level women are underrepresented in Congress which means that very basic parts of the human and the American experience are underrepresented in Congress. And so you can see why there is this way of thinking that yeah putting more women in Congress might change what Congress pays attention to.   If you want to hear more of Danielle's reporting on women and the midterms 2018 you can find her on Twitter titonka.  Titonka T-I-T-O-N-K-A.  And all of her journalism is on npr.org and in the feed for the NPR Politics Podcast. Thanks Danielle.  Yeah thank you.   Thanks again to Danielle. She will be very busy on election night Tuesday November 6. Turns out I will be too. I am going back to D.C. to host some of NPR's live coverage of the midterms. You can hear me and my friend and friend of the show Sarah McCammon. We will be on the air on your local NPR station from 9 p.m. to midnight Pacific Time. It will be great listening for you West Coasters. We will be talking with Danielle and other folks from the NPR Politics team. You can tune in for all the results and analysis and everything else you want to know. All right refresh your feeds this Friday for our weekly wrap. Till then thanks for listening. Talk soon.  