 We would get in this elevator with other people and you I would kind of watch to see if anyone hit six. So you know you would kind of look around is anyone else here for chemo treatment? As people would get off the elevator it was like who stayed on to go to six? Oh okay. You are here for that. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Four years ago I was visiting LA and I had a beer with my friend Collin Campbell. He and I had worked together in New York but then he moved to the West Coast. And it had been a while since wed really caught up. But I did know that he was supporting his wife through breast cancer treatment.  I mean Collin's a producer. So he sort of  kind of produced the cancer experience for me. Thats Kate Pickert Collins wife.  I was 35 when I was diagnosed with breast cancer. At the time of her diagnosis Kate was a healthcare reporter for Time magazine. But shed had very little experience being a patient. Her instinct as a journalist was to learn more. But when she went to look for a book that talked about the history of breast cancer and the ways we treat it she couldnt find it.  The fact that this book did not exist and women did not know this story is like something went wrong. So she wrote that book. It is called Radical The Science Culture and History of Breast Cancer in America. Kate first noticed something was wrong in the summer of 2014 soon after she and Collin had moved to LA with their then-three year old daughter.  I had some nipple discharge. Most women discover they have breast cancer because they find a lump. Um the second most common way to find out is through a screening mammogram. Um but nipple discharge was not something I had ever heard associated with breast cancer.  And describe for me just to when you noticed this discharge like what did you notice?  Yeah I just noticed like a few spots kind of inside my bra. I was like oh what is that? Did I like spill something? Like what is that? And just like tiny spots. Like it was not that much. It was just a little and um I had breastfed my daughter and I had stopped a while back. But you know your your breasts are kind of never the same um after you breastfeed a baby as you know. Um and so it did not really concern me very much and I waited to go to the doctor about it.  How long did you wait from when you first noticed?  I think it was like three months. Um maybe a little bit more. Yeah it was a while. I think that you know I was a healthcare reporter at the time but I was not someone who regularly went to the doctor. Um I I was and I think it was in part because I was a healthcare reporter. I just I just thought you know... this is so unlikely that this is something bad. I I look back on it and and and that was actually the the really source of the extreme I think fear and trauma I had right after my diagnosis was I... waited to get this checked out and my punishment is that I am going to die. I am going to destroy like my entire family um because of this dumb procrastination. But Kate also knew the statistics. Its really rare to be diagnosed with breast cancer as young as she was. Only 4 percent of cases occur in women under 40. And Kate didnt have a history of breast cancer in her family. When she finally went to the doctor she found out she did have cancer  a really aggressive kind. But she had to wait on more tests to learn just how sick she was.  There was this very fraught period of I guess like a week or two where I knew that I had an aggressive invasive cancer but I did not yet know if it had spread all over my body. Um so I was going through this series of scans so I had a bone scan to see if it was in my bones. I had an abdominal CT um to see if it had spread anywhere in my torso. And if you are diagnosed with stage four disease with metastatic breast cancer um it is possible to live quite a long time in some cases. But um in almost all cases you will die of the disease ultimately. Um and you will be in treatment for the rest of your life.  How did you talk about the possibility of your death with with your husband with Collin?  I mean this might sound weird but we really talked about it kind of matter of factly. It was like I might die. And he was like you might. Um and so we would really discuss it in a really honest way. Um I remember um having a beer with my husband at a bar. Um and trying to get him to promise me that he would you know figure out a way to move on with his life and get married get remarried. Um and he said I am not going to promise that. And I said I know it feels that way now but like it is really important to me that I know that you will you know be okay ultimately. And so this went on it was raining I remember and we were talking over beers at this bar and after like 45 minutes of this he said look maybe I will get remarried when Evie is grown up. Evies our daughter. Um and I that satisfied me. I was like okay. You know because when you think you might die you are kind like at least for me I was just thinking how can I like influence um life after I am dead? I think when you have cancer you feel like you have no control over anything. So I think I was also trying to exert some control. You know I think my husband was trying to comfort me but also knew that it was no use to try to tell me everything would be fine um because we both knew um that it was possible that it would not be fine. So that was a really brutal period um between finding out I had cancer but not knowing um if it was everywhere yet. It it is it was the hardest period of my life for sure.  What time of year was it?  It was December.  The holidays.  Yeah the holidays. Yeah. Um in the middle of it I went to San Francisco to spend Thanksgiving with my um in-laws. And you know I think that after I was diagnosed with cancer one experience I had was that everything in the world kind of seemed instantly like Technicolor. Like everything about being alive seemed kind of amazing. Colors scenes like moments with my daughter moments with my family. I I think that probably sounds a little cheesy but like it was so instantaneous that I could I was actually observing this emotion in myself. Like oh suddenly everything seems like I want more of this. Not long after the holidays Kate got some good news her cancer was only in one breast and her lymph nodes. It wasnt anywhere else in her body. But she did have to start chemotherapy immediately at UCLA.  I would get there around eight oclock in the morning and probably leave um around 4 PM.  Where would you sit? What was the chair like?  So they try to make you pretty comfortable at least at UCLA when you get chemotherapy. So there were usually two rows of kind of pleather recliners facing outward facing the windows. Um it was this light filled kind of airy space with gorgeous views. Um we could see the Pacific Ocean from the floor. Uh and um and it was it was interesting because you are there for this very terrible thing and so to be in this kind of beautiful um environment while poison is being you know literally pumped into your body um was a really weird uh juxtaposition. And uh to be honest I mean it was also kind of a nice time with my husband. And I guess that sounds weird but it was just this quiet time for us to kind of just talk and be together. And oftentimes we would both be working on our laptops kind of in parallel but there was something um there was something kind of peaceful um about being there with my husband. Um you know and to really kind of be in it together.  So you have some privacy?  A little bit yeah. And and there is sometimes chatter between the patients but in general everyone there is pretty self contained. I I did not really I did not ever talk to another patient uh while I was getting chemotherapy.  Why do you think that is?  I I do not think that  this is I think different than a lot of cancer patients but I did not have a strong desire to talk to other cancer patients while I was in treatment. I felt like um I wanted to talk to my husband about it and my family and some close friends. Um but I I did not really enjoy the experience when you are a cancer patient of sort of giving your stats which is something you kind of do on a regular basis you know people ask you the specifics of your diagnosis uh what treatment you have had or what treatment is coming up. And that was not an experience I enjoyed so much so I did kind of keep to myself. And there were other ways Kate wanted to keep her cancer diagnosis private which meant keeping it less visible. Like when she was starting chemo her doctors recommended getting a IV port implanted in her chest to make it easier for nurses to administer chemo drugs. But Kate knew she didnt want one.  I did not want to get a port in my chest because I knew it would leave a scar. Um and I knew that the scar would be visible if I was wearing like a v-neck shirt or a scoop t-shirt. Um and I I just so badly wanted to be able to return to normalcy afterward um that I really did not want that reminder of the scar. But I I had made an appointment to go get a port because everyone recommends it because the chemo drugs um can really destroy your veins if you just get a peripheral IV. Um and while I was there the um interventional uh radiologist um said okay we are going to put this port in. And I said okay can you put it low because I do not want the scar to show after. And he said well I cannot put it that low. What are your concerns? And very few people kind of asked me that question um in terms of you know kind of like superficial things like this. And I told him what I was concerned about and he said well we can give you a picc line. A picc line is sort of um is also a catheter but it can go on the the lower part of your bicep. Um and instead of a long cut um it is just kind of uh a dot that the that the tube goes in that runs through your veins to your heart to deliver the drugs. Um so I ended up getting that instead. And I do not have a scar.  When he said what are your concerns did that feel like um a nice invitation to articulate some things that you would not have otherwise articulated to him? Or did it feel like he was questioning your wishes?  No it felt great. It felt like here is an MD who is busy whose time is worth a lot of money who is going to stop and pull up a stool and sit down and ask me what I wanted and what I was worried about. So I think it was a really great moment and I um I do not even remember the doctor's name but I  I will never forget him asking me that. It was at a different doctors appointment that Kate learned about another way she could keep her treatment private... something called scalp cooling.  Basically like freezing my head literally um while I underwent chemotherapy. So my hair follicles did not get damaged and I did not lose my hair. I remember walking out of the appointment and just saying to Collin we are doing that. Like I do not care what it costs. If I do not have to go bald I really do not want to.  What do you know were you surprised that that was such a thing that you knew so quickly and would would pay any price to keep your hair?  It just seemed obvious. I mean she had told us I think that it was like a few thousand dollars um which is not nothing. And I  you know we put it on a credit card like we did with many many um expenses during my cancer treatment. I had great insurance but we still incurred I think about 10000 dollars um of expenses for various things um on on credit cards. Yeah I mean I think that keeping my hair uh just felt like keeping myself um that that that might be possible. And so you know I did not really look like a cancer patient. And so what that meant was that you know I just looked in the mirror and I could envision you know kind of a life beyond what I was experiencing at the moment.  How do they how do they work? Is it is it just like your head is very very cold?  Yes. Um they are sort of like you know those blue and white ice packs that they might give you in the hospital? Um so they were kind of soft and they were filled with this white gel um and they kind of looked like um almost like a helmet that like a water polo player would wear.  Uh huh. Um and it looked so crazy. It looked nuts! And then the the I mean the and you kinda I kinda had to laugh at this but like you have to keep putting the caps on even after the infusion is over. So I would have to leave the infusion center wearing a cold cap. Um and um on most of the chemo days I had a very close friend that lived nearby and we used to go over to her house for dinner um after each infusion and I would arrive looking like a water polo player um with this cold cap on and kind of wear it you know do the the final like 10 minutes or something um at her house. But yeah.  How amazing that you had a place to go. That was like a safe place to eat dinner in a cold cap.  Yeah. I mean I - Yeah I mean I told her recently too like that that I do not know that she fully she and her husband who used to cook um I do not know that they fully understand how much that meant to me to have something to look forward to on those days. And somehow we like managed to have fun dinner parties and great conversation um you know despite the fact that I arrived looking kind of like an alien and you know was in the middle of you know really aggressive cancer treatment. Coming up one other benefit of scalp cooling.  I also knew that that would allow me to get through treatment without my daughter realizing that I was very sick. Um and so that was extremely meaningful to me.   Most cases of breast cancer  including Kates  are not hereditary. But testing for mutations of breast cancer genes is on the rise. Especially among women who dont have a family history of cancer. A recent study found that the rate of low-risk women opting to get BRCA testing as its known rose 37 percent between 2004 and 2014. Testing positive does not mean you will get sick  but it does mean you have a higher risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer. A listener named Amy does have a family history of cancer her mother died from ovarian cancer at age 54. But she told us... that she still really wrestled with the decision of whether to get tested.  I really did not want to know if there was any kind of genetic link between her ovarian cancer and what I might face. I did not want to get sucked into the medical industrial complex of cancer screenings and fear and worry and I did not want to know how I was likely going to die Amy is 45. And initially she decided not to get tested. But then her aunt tested positive for a BRCA mutation and Amy changed her mind and then found out that she too is positive. Amy had surgery to remove her ovaries and now gets screenings for breast cancer every six months. And shes finding that the fear and worry she anticipated... is real.  I thought that these screenings would be routine after a while but they have not been that way... And I also have this countdown clock in my head. My mom died at 54. That is less than nine years from now for me. And I think I am going to be hearing that clock for the next nine years. Counting down and wondering if I am going to die. I could get prophylactic breast surgery to have my breasts removed. But I really am afraid of losing another body part of losing another part of what it means to me to be a woman and to be a sexual being in the world. You can read more of Amys story in our weekly newsletter. You can find it and subscribe at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. On the next episode  You know you say to somebody they are like oh what do you do for a living? Well I am in collections. Oh you are one of those. 71 million Americans have debt in collections. And I talk with someone whose job it was to get people to pay their overdue bills.  I actually even today I still feel like I was serving a really important purpose.  Which was what?  Was to recoup the funds into the economy that the banks and the lenders have let go to the wayside. The dirty little secret is that this debt that these people have... somebody has to pay for that.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Kate Pickerts daughter Evie was three when Kate found out she had breast cancer. Having a young kid heightened all the anxiety of her diagnosis.  I remember saying to my dad like if I could just get Evie to kindergarten then this whole thing would be maybe slightly less horrifying. Um and he said okay well let us focus on that then. Let us focus on keeping you alive for two years. Like that is an achievable goal. Um I was also thinking like will I survive long enough that my daughter will remember me? I mean the idea having a daughter and dying and her never remembering you is was just devastating you know. At the same time it was like is that better? Then she will not have to go through the pain of like seeing me die. Like how do I what what is the least terrible scenario here that I can imagine?  Did you tell her anything about your cancer?  We did not we did not tell her anything. Um she knows now she is eight now. Um but no I knew that it would affect her um and that she would not brush it off and that she would take it really seriously even as a three year old. And I also knew that there was no way I could explain the complexity of what was happening um to her at the time. And so we decided not to tell her anything.  And when it was time for Kate to have surgery  a double mastectomy and breast reconstruction  Kate and Collin decided to send Evie to stay with her grandparents for a few weeks.  The night before surgery um I uh... I had a couple drinks. Like by myself like kind of sneaking into the kitchen which is kind of a dumb thing to do. But my anxiety was um you know incredibly ramped up.  When you were preparing for your surgery which you knew was going to change the way your your body looked um for the rest of your life how did you prepare for that?  How can you prepare for that? I mean there was no way to be prepared. Um it was really hard to go to the hospital the morning of the surgery. We arrived at five oclock in the morning as you often do for uh surgery. And um you know they they started an IV I changed into a gown I had no-slip socks on. Um you know I was sitting in a small room um my plastic surgeon arrived and my my breast surgeon arrived. Um and I think the thing that was... the hardest moment I think was like lowering my hospital gown and the plastic surgeon drawing on my chest with that purple marker um that they do before plastic surgery um and uh you know just realizing like this is it. Like one final look down and that is it.  Did you consider not having implants?  Not really although I wish I had given it more thought. Um I do not feel that anyone pressured me but there was definitely an assumption on the part of my healthcare providers that this was something that I would want. But I think it is also rooted in kind of how we think about young women how we think about um a 30-something woman um as this... you know a 30 something woman is many things. But I think there is an element of you know a 30-something woman is also a sexual object and that this is um a way of kind of restoring that. Um I think looking back I mean there is kind of like no point in having regrets it is done now. But the reconstructive surgery because of the techniques used um my pectoral muscles were kind of sliced up and stitched back together to create like pockets for the implants and that left me afterward very weak. And I have regained a lot of my strength um in the years since but I will never have sort of the pectoral strength that I had before. So it is always going to be a little tricky for me to like pull down the hatchback on the back of my SUV. Um like it is really hard for me to open a jar because I just do not have that strength. And I have often thought that back when I was making this decision if someone had asked me would you rather have breasts or would you rather be strong? I do not know what I would have said! Um I grew up on a farm. Like I am a person that really likes to work outside and so that is a really important part of who I am. And there was kind of a mourning process of going through that. I remember going um for a post-op appointment with my plastic surgeon and saying like okay when can I do like downward dog again? Like when can I like will I when will I be able to do like push-ups? Not that I was doing push-ups all the time but I I knew that my pectoral muscles had been affected. And he said oh no that is over. And um I was like what?  Thats over.  Yeah that is done. In addition to both of her breasts Kate had 22 lymph nodes removed. And the recovery after surgery was painful  more painful than she thought it would be.  I think it was six days after my surgery. I was on all these opiates. I was like living in a recliner in the middle of my living room because to lay flat was so excruciating. Um and the phone rang and the person on the other end of the line was my oncologist um who was calling to tell me that um a pathologist had sorted through all the tissue removed from my body during surgery and found that all of the cancer was dead. Um which meant that the chemotherapy and targeted intravenous drug treatment I got had worked. So I knew that my chances of surviving without a recurrence were very high um higher than 90 percent. Um so it was the best piece of news I possibly could have gotten. It was a huge relief. But just also on a personal level I thought okay if the cancer was all dead then why did I just have this surgery um   Yeah. I mean did the doctor know to mention that? I mean is that is that something that people ask?  No I - I think it is just no I do not think that they I do not think doctors are yet sort of thinking about it in that way. They are just like this is great news. You are gonna live. Um and   Which is great news its fantastic news. Yeah.  It is fantastic news. Sure. Yes. Um but that occurred to me. And I thought why am I going through what I am going through right now then if it worked so well?  And looking back at being diagnosed when you are 35 in your life and and in many people's lives like your mid-thirties is this time of just like increasing momentum kind of? Like there was a lot happening in your life. You were a relatively new parent you were working you were married you are  there is a lot just propelling you forward. Um and your treatment happened during all of that. Um did did it feel like it sort of paused life or did it feel like something you had to just fit in?  It paused life. Um yeah I I did feel like we had all this forward momentum. We had just moved to California which we had wanted to do for years. I was in the middle of a really thriving career. We had this little kid we had a great marriage we had a lot of friends. It was a it was a life full of a lot of life. Like there was so much uh happening all the time you know. And um it did pause and I was very cognizant of the pause because I saw all around me my friends continuing forward. Um and uh... yeah I mean I kept working and you know my daughter did not know and our relationship you know stayed great. But yeah it did feel like that momentum just like  it just kinda like powered down um and kind of paused.  Right now in your daily life how much are you aware of your mortality?  Um... I think about recurrence of my breast cancer every day. Um when I ended treatment it was like 20 times a day. And now... it is been almost five years since my diagnosis. I think I am down to like once a day I think about it. Um about dying about it coming back about what that would be like. And... I think about it because it is an increasingly remote possibility but it is a possibility. Um I think one of the reasons that I think about it a lot is because a big part of the trauma of my diagnosis was not just the information and the news that I had cancer but part of the trauma was really rooted in the pure shock of it. Um it was so surprising to me it was so shocking um that I think I never want to feel shocked like that again. And I think there is a part of me that feels like if I think about it coming back then I will never be shocked if it happens. And so it almost feels to me like to think about that is sort of protective. I mean I do not I do not want it to recur cause I do not want to die either but that but the shock feels like something I can control. Thats Kate Pickert. Her book is called Radical The Science Culture and History of Breast Cancer in America. Shes been in remission for five years. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Facebook Twitter and Instagram. Kate and Collin always planned to have another kid. Cancer put that on pause. But a couple of days after Kate got her diagnosis they decided to do IVF and froze some embryos.  I do not know what we are going to do with them but I am really glad that they are there and that I still have that choice. And it and in a weird way whatever kid is there like if if we decide to use those embryos and have another kid it sort of feels like the kid I was going to have anyway because we kind of like froze time. So there is all kinds of of things I think about it that feel... quite miraculous. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.