  Hey you all. From NPR It is BEEN A m Sanders. Today we are going to talk about a movie that I cannot stop talking about. It is called The Sentence. I saw it this summer at the Latino International Film Festival here in Los Angeles. It is a documentary about Cindy Shank. She is a mom. She has three kids a husband a home a pretty normal life but one morning the feds come knocking. They arrest Cindy for something she was involved in years before. Her boyfriend had been a drug dealer and because she knew what he was doing and did not report it she was committing a crime. And because of mandatory sentencing laws she got 15 years. This movie is about Cindy's struggle to get out her struggle to keep being a mother to her three daughters who were only 4 2 and 6 weeks old when she got locked up. And the whole movie is directed by Cindy's brother Rudy Valdez. I talked to Rudy and Cindy last week. They were in New York City I was in LA and I had to start by describing the scene at their film's premiere.   Thank you both for being here Rudy and Cindy - brother and sister.  .  Double trouble.  .  We are very happy to be here. We are very humbled that you would have us on as well. Thank you so much.  Absolutely.  I mean I had to do it. Like I saw your movie The Sentence - I go to a lot of film screenings for work and I have seen all kinds of movies for work. And I swear to you I am not sure I have ever had the experience I had watching your film. Everybody in that theater was crying and like crying so forcefully that you could hear it. Seriously the last 15 minutes or so of the movie were basically scored by the audible sobs from the audience. Is this how it goes every screening for you all?  You know yeah in a lot of ways it is.  .  Yeah.  But I will tell you that screening in particular you know I do not really sit through the screenings anymore. It is too emotional for me.  Really?  And my producer Sam - yeah especially if I am going to do a talk after. Like I am a blubbering mess if I have just watched the film and then somebody's like tell me about your crying father and I am like I do not want to you know.   But I was - so we were actually sitting outside of the theater and one of the people who programmed us there came out and they were like I have never seen this before. And I was like what? And my producer was like what are you talking about? Because he knows I do not like to go in. He was like I am going to go check it out. And in my head I am thinking everybody has left.   Like I did not know what - like you have never seen everyone leave the you know Mann's Chinese Theater before. And he comes out and he looks at me and he was like Rudy I know you do not like to watch. He is like but you have to come and just look at what is happening in there. And so I came in and it happened to be at a part where there was like some levity in the film so people were bawling crying but also laughing hysterically and sort of hanging on every word of the film. And it was just such an amazing experience.  And so I guess - you know we are describing how folks watch this movie and they cry. We should tell our audience a little bit what the movie is about.   Cindy help me out.  Well it follows the life of my daughters. I was given a sentence of 15 years in 2008 and my daughters were 4 2 and 6 weeks old and Rudy starts to film their lives. And it films what actually happens to families that are left behind on these long sentences and what happens - what truly happens to the families.  Yeah. And these long sentences like there is a name for this kind of sentence - these mandatory minimums. We should explain briefly what the idea of these minimums is and how some folks say it has hurt families like yours.  Yeah. I mean they are all you know products of this war on drugs that started in the you know late '70s early '80s where these sentences were sort of imposed based on weights and based on different criteria when you are facing a drug sentence especially on the federal level. And a lot of people refer to what happened to my sister as The Girlfriend Problem...  Yeah.  ...Which is basically you know she was knowledgeable about what was happening in you know the household she was living in but she did not go to the police. And you know subsequently she was sentenced as if she were the person actually buying and selling the drugs.  Yeah. What exactly had your boyfriend - your ex-boyfriend - been doing? Lay out the case for us.  Well he had - he was a drug dealer and he had started selling drugs after we had started our relationship. And he was actually murdered and that is when the federal government came across everything that he was doing. And they initially indicted me in 2002 and dismissed my case.  Why did they dismiss it?  You know the feds picked it up they dropped it state picked it state dropped it and I got a letter from my attorney saying that my case had been dismissed. It was really trying time at that time because we are - you know it was quite a whirlwind with the murder and then being charged initially. And then you know I moved on with my life and built my life back up put my pieces back together and then only to have them come back later and take me away.  Six years later. And so - I mean Rudy you mentioned this Girlfriend Problem. Basically the thinking with this is that these mandatory minimums they unnecessarily catch up folks that maybe did not actually commit the crimes?  Yeah. And I mean I think - one of the things I say in the film and that I will always say and you know my sister says it as well you know this is not a film about guilt or innocence. You know when you look at the letter of the law did she know what was going on? Yes. Did she go to the police? She did not. So technically she is guilty you know and she is guilty because she knew what was happening. Now what our film tries to show is do these sentences make sense? You know she was given a 15-year prison sentence for a first-time nonviolent offense. And I think what sort of spawned this documentary and what I think is resonating with a lot of people is that we are very clear on the fact that Cindy's sentence while you watch the film and you cry and you know you feel for the family and it feels like this really special case and this outlier it is not. You know Cindy is emblematic of thousands and thousands of other people who are going through the same thing. And the film sort of asks the question why.  Cindy so what did they actually convict you of? I know it was some kind of conspiracy charge. Like what was the formal sentence?  I was actually given four felonies. I was charged with possession with intent to distribute cocaine crack marijuana and also conspiracy. I was charged with all of his crimes.  When they came to you - years after your ex-boyfriend had died years after you have moved on and started a new life with a new husband children of your own - when they said we are going to lock you up did you think that any sentence would be fair or do you think that sending you to prison at all was wrong?  You know I have gotten asked this question quite a bit and it is hard for me to say because it is me. You know obviously no I do not want to go to prison.  Yeah.  But you know I understand that you know people make a choice and you know I knew what he was doing. So yes I think that some sentence would have been fair you know on some level. But you have to also understand the prosecutor asked for 89 years for me.  Oh my goodness.  I was given the mandatory minimum. The judge went as low as he could go. His hands were tied.  That was the lowest?  Yeah that was the lowest he could go.  Wow.  He could go no lower because of mandatory minimum laws. I just feel you know hey maybe - I would never - I had never even had a speeding ticket.  Wow.  You know so it is kind of like two years three years maybe and maybe you know probation for you know 10 years. I have no problem you know checking in doing what I have to do and you know following the letter of the law. And...  Sorry not to interrupt but I think like the whole thing with the sentence with her getting 15 years is that it is such an arbitrary number you know what I mean? I think that as sentencing goes we should you know allow judges to do what we have entrusted them to do - take in the factors of the case take in the history of the case take in the situation of the individual and decide what can I hand down that is going to be fair?  So you know there is this moment in the movie that just broke my heart. Cindy your dad is - he cannot afford to go out to see you in prison but he wants to make sure you have enough money to use the phone to call your girls. And he is at one point collecting scrap metal to do that. I want to play some of that tape here.   You have to have it real clean in order to make a little bit extra. I probably got enough here to send Cindy another 40 for the week. You know that is what I try to do every day - just try and have enough money for her so I have never missed a week you know so she can have money. I cannot afford to go out there all the way right now and see her you know but I would rather have the money sent to her so that she can see - or she can hear talk to her kids every day every week or something like that. But I do miss her a lot. But I do not know what else to do. She talks about you know how good of a dad I was and that she misses me a lot and she misses my fajitas. She liked my fajitas.  You know hearing that scene back and watching it in the theater I thought of my own dad and if he were ever that tender in speaking about his love for me I do not think he would want it on camera. Did you have any moment where you said Cindy do not put the family out there like that?  I never have I guess. I never thought that no nobody should see this. If anything I am proud of my father and the man that he is and how loving he is towards us.  He loves you. He really loves you.  Absolutely. And who would not want to share that what a good man he is what a good dad he is? And he exactly did that. I never had to worry about not being able to call my kids and that is because my dad loved me so much and he still does. He calls me two or three times a week right now and we go to lunch just me and him. I mean we are really close. You know I am his baby girl and I would always be - growing up I would be the one you know standing on the board while he is cutting it or handing him wrenches while he is working on the car you know? I am his baby girl. Of course I would want to share his love for me to the world.  It was beautiful. And I think one that scene alludes to it. I love how much your family was brought together throughout the entire film through food.   There were these moments all throughout where like the food breaks the tension.   Yeah very much so.   Time for a break. When we come back how this movie is bringing together politicians on both sides of the aisle. BRB.   This seems like an issue that might transcend either party. You have people in Congress Republicans and Democrats who will agree that there are too many Americans in prison and that some of these sentences particularly for nonviolent offenders are too long. There is agreement there. You have got folks running the gamut from Rand Paul to Kamala Harris right? Why has there been no movement on this issue knowing that there is a pretty good consensus right there and everyone thinking this is a thing that needs to change.  So let me tell you this. So two days after we premiered at Sundance I was contacted by a senator - a Republican senator from Utah - Senator Mike Lee from Utah. He said thank you for making this film. One of his staffers...  Wow.  ...Had seen it at Sundance. And he said I believe in this I believe in this issue and I believe in sentence reform. So with Senator Mike Lee Senator Cory Booker a Democrat from New Jersey together in a bipartisan effort brought the film to Capitol Hill to show to staffers to show to legislators to show to the House to say this is how we need to approach this. It can no longer be me versus you. It is an us thing. So again it is an apolitical film that makes it more political.  Cindy one of the most striking features of the film was watching your children grow up on-screen knowing that I was seeing more of their growing up than you could. What was it like for you? I mean you got to talk to them on the phone as much as you could but you did not see them a lot.  No I did not. It is devastating as a mother to not be able to watch your children grow you know to not be able to learn their expressions and their you know mannerisms and their likes and dislikes and all the little things that every mother should know about their child. I did not get that. I did not - you know 'ecause OK one part of it was like me on the phone.   I love you princess.  I love you too.  Like I always knew. And I would say to girls on the inside you know it hurt me so much to think you know I am a phone to them.    You make me happy when skies are gray. You will never know Annalis how much Mommy loves you.  Yeah.  Mommy's a phone. And I had this idea that that is what it was. And when I would seen that on film wow ...  Yeah.  ...That hurt. You know people ask me all the time like oh what was it like the first time? I think I missed half of the film the first time I saw it because I was crying so much just trying to capture an expression...  Yeah.  ...I had not seen yet. You know and I am trying to sear it into my mind. Like oh she smiled and her dimple came out just so.  Oh.  And you know I am seeing different things I think than other people might see. I am - you know I am really focused.  Yeah.  So I have seen it quite a few times now. And I think I told Rudy - maybe it was about the seventh or eighth time. I was like I think I have finally seen it. Like...   Yeah she came up to me at Sundance. It was after like the fifth screening at Sundance.  Wow.  And she said wow it is actually a good movie. And I was like what are you talking about?   I was like what have you been watching?  Oh my goodness. What moment in the film most Cindy stopped you in your tracks?  There were quite a few but I think the one for me - one of them is when I - it fades to black. And then it comes up and they are dancing in their dresses.   Hey Daddy. Can we put on our dresses?  And I hear Autumn say...   Mommy's going to watch this video.  They were thinking of me too like I was thinking of them.  Yeah.  And it was really - it is really hard to watch that.  Yeah. Well and then you know you come back. You get out. Mom is back but Mom has not been there for so many years. Was it hard to readjust and be someone that you know told them to go to bed and brush their teeth when they were like we as not seen you in a few years lady?   I think - you know I think it is still - we are still adjusting.  Really?  You know I think we are - yeah. You know not so much that they know Mom's - Mom's strict. Mom has rules. And you know they know they need to listen to Mom. But at the same time you know they are kids. They push boundaries. And there is other things that I had to learn. I got to remember oh yeah that is right Ava you do not like cheese.   You know it is like certain - you know I am like always ordering cheese on for Ava. And she is like Mom. I am like no I knew that.  .  I know no cheese. You know I think the first day - literally the second day they were - like the next day after they had stayed with me I forgot to feed them. Like...   Oh you know all parents do that I am sure.  It was like around - oh my gosh. It was horrible. I felt horrible. They were like we are hungry. I was like oh my God you know? It was like...  If child protective services is listening they have been fed since.   They have been fed.  Yeah.  And shortly after they requested food they received food.  Good good. Oh man.  A short four days later...  .  Yeah.  ...They received food.  Were they mad at you over any of this over your return over your absence?  You know I think we had these discussions where Autumn kind of - like Autumn was the first. She had this discussion with me about you know she wanted to know why I was there. And she had written me this letter and she was just adamant. You know explain everything to me 'ecause I was explaining if you have not seen - you know you saw the film - how she was - had her understanding. She was so young I would explain kind of age appropriate at times. As she would ask - grow and ask more questions I would explain it to her more and more. But then when she was 9 she was just like no I need to know everything. And I explained it to her you know? And all the girls came into the realization on their own time and I explained everything to them. And they tell me they are not mad. And you know we have had different talks here and there. But you know they are - I think it is only natural I think to have some feelings of sadness and maybe from time to time resentment. And you know we are just going to work through that as a family.  Time for one more break. When we are back we hear from Cindy's daughters. We will be right back.   One of the questions I was dying to ask you Cindy as soon as this film ended was I guess the question I always want to ask when I hear these stories of people being locked up and then getting out - you know you try so hard to get your life back and rebuild all the pieces. But like what was the one thing you could not get back? What was the one thing you could not rebuild?  You know one of the things that I could not get back and could not rebuild was my marriage. And we were divorced four years in and I had to let go of that. During that time it is something I could not hang on to. I had to move on you know? And that is one of the things that were fractured and that was the cost that I had to pay for being gone.  I mean you had to go through a divorce while in prison. I cannot even imagine. How was that?  It was devastating. You know you have this idea of family. And you know we had loved each other so much. And you know we had this young family. And then we were ripped apart and you know it was part of my anchor. It was part of one of the things that were grounding me and to - I had actually had just moved to Florida. So I was already...  'ecause they moved you through several prisons.  Yeah. At this time I was - had moved to Florida. So now I am you know quite a few hundred miles away you know? And now I am not being able to see the girls as often. And then I was you know given the news of divorce. So it was just - it was just devastating to me. But at the same time I understood. You know I understood that he had a life and that he had a chance to make a life for himself and to you know maybe find somebody and marry someone. And maybe the girls could have a mom you know? And I - and you know I had to get over that because I had to focus on what was best for him and the girls.  Yeah.  And you know ultimately I just had to move forward and move on.  Are you guys on good terms you and your ex?  Yeah we are. We are really good friends. We are co-parenting the girls.  Oh.  And you know we are family. He is always going to be family to me. You know he is the girl's dad. And he is a good man a good father. And I could not be happier to have them - him as their dad.  Yeah.  And I am sorry to interrupt here but I - whenever Adam is brought up the girls' father I always like to you know give him proper credit you know because you know with the help of my family and his family you know these girls were loved and taken care of. I was able to go in and do these other things and fight in other ways.  Yeah.  He is a really amazing guy.  Yeah.  He will always be my brother. He will - you know he is an amazing man.  Are the girls there?  Yeah they are actually looking...  They are.  ...At us through a big window.   Yeah.  Autumn is waving at us right now.  Do they want to come say hi on the microphone to our audience?  They all just stood up as soon as you said that.  Ava jumped up.  Come on in.   Ava jumped up as soon...  Come on in.  Come on in.  Come on in girls.  Here they come.  Now they are pretending to be shy but they have this little...  .  ...Grin on their face.  And this little gleam and twinkle in their eyes.  They are like can we really do this? Yeah.  And tell them to get way up on the mic. Get all up on that mic.  Get up on the mic.  Hi friends.  Hi.  Hello.  Hi.  Can you all tell me your names?  Ava.  I am Autumn.  I am Annalis.  It is so great to meet you all. I saw your movie and I feel like I already know you. And I just want to say to the three of you you have been through so much and you seem so strong and poised and graceful. And I know I could not have handled what you all handled at your age. So I just want to say that you - all three of you are an inspiration.  Thank you.  Thank you.  That really does mean a lot to us.  Yeah. So I am guessing you guys have seen the film. What are your thoughts on it?  Well ...  Which of the three are you? Sorry real quick.  This is Autumn.  OK Autumn. Keep going sorry.  It is kind of hard sometimes to see us when we are younger and see our lives put on-screen and all the tough times and like the times that were rough to get through. But it really - it is also - it is great because it gets to show everyone else what happened and what really happens when someone like that goes away. So I think it would be - it is really something that was needed to be shared. So I am really glad that my uncle did this.  I did not pay her to say that.   For you three girls - for people that are going to watch this movie might hear this interview and then go watch the movie what do you want them to keep in mind or think about while they watch it?  Well like - it is Annalis. I think like maybe they will think - will keep in mind that there are still other families that - like still other families that like parents are incarcerated. And like their kids are going through like what we went through. And...  There is still change to be made. This is not the last time that - this is not the first time this has happened. And this definitely was not the last thing so to keep in mind that there are still things that need to happen so that this does not keep happening. So...  Yeah this is great. I thank the three of you for being strong and brave and sharing your story. Cindy Rudy same to you all. This is emotional work that you are doing and I appreciate your candor and your honesty and all the good vibes .  Thank...  Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Thank you all.  Thank you.  Thank you for having us  Of course. Also if I am ever in your neck of the woods I am going to make someone in that family cook for me 'ecause you all can throw down. I could tell.  You got to have Dad's fajitas. I am...   Dad's fajitas.  I am telling you...  Listen I am in.   Thanks again to Rudy Valdez and Cindy Shank for sharing their story. Thanks to Cindy's three girls Autumn Annalis and Ava. This movie The Sentence is out on HBO this week. Listeners want to hear from you for our long-distance segment in the show. I want to know what is going on in your neck of the woods. Tell us your story. Send me an email at samsandersnpr.org - samsandersnpr.org. We are back in your feeds Friday. Till then talk soon. 