Anna Sale And before we go to the episode just a heads up this is the second in our two-part series about student debt and how its affecting your lives. If you missed part one stop this episode and go back to the first one or youll be missing some key details and might get confused. And student loans are already confusing enough.  Jordan Gibbs Hello?  Hi Jordan?  Yeah this is she.  Hey it is Anna Sale from Death Sex  Money.  Oh hi how are you? Let me grab a room just one second.  Sure.  Hi!  Do you know why Im calling?  Yes and I did it by the way!  You did?!   Yeah I did. This Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. When we talked in 2017 Jordan Gibbs had been out of school for three years and owed more than 50000 dollars in federal student loans. She had never made a payment on those loans until a few weeks after our first conversation.  I set a freakin calendar reminder and I just bit the bullet. And I put down a hefty payment so that my monthly payments arent going to be crazy expensive like I thought they were gonna be. But yeah I paid like four grand on the first one and now I think I have like a 500 a month payment. So that was a nice little chunk of change gone.  How did it feel in your body when you clicked?  My body got really hot. Like it was just like Ohhhh you just did it like Ughhh. Just - like seeing your bank account be like four grand less than what it was was. Like you know when you are just like I know I am doing this for the greater good but its just like at that exact same time it is just like Ugh this so sucks so freakin' bad.  Did you tell anyone you made a student loan payment?  Absolutely not.  No? Its still a secret?  Yeah its just something thats super uncomfortable. Like I actually was with my dad for Fathers Day yesterday and he kind of brought it up in like a random sentence. He was like Oh yeah hows the student loans coming? and I was like Oh yeah I actually just paid a big amount off. I mean obviously not telling him it was my first payment in two years. But like kind of making him think that Ive been being responsible and doing what Im supposed to do. So I havent really told anyone about it to be honest.  Do you think youll tell your parents that you misled them about how you were paying back your loans?  Um. Maybe when theyre paid off like in a couple of years. My dad is one of those people thats so Type A so fiscally responsible so its like I cant - Im 25 and Im still terrified of having these conversations with him about money cause I just feel like he is gonna be so disappointed in me. So I dont think Id ever tell them unless I pay off all the loans and be like Hey guys in hindsight I actually screwed this up so bad but I got myself out of it so dont worry. First of all I know a lot of you with student loan debt would kill for an extra four grand in savings to put towards it. You sent us hundreds and hundreds of stories about your student loan debt. And you said sometimes the math just doesnt work. And you feel stuck. It feels like Im at the bottom of Mt. Everest in a way I guess. But we also heard stories albeit a lot fewer about how some of you have gotten unstuck. In the beginning it was very overwhelming. I used to worry about my student loan debt every single day. And then there was a moment when I finally realized that didnt have to be true. And I was like Im attacking those student loans. Ive managed to shave down a good amount. I guess I feel like Ive come out on the other side. You chip away at it. Every tax return every birthday check every extra penny I could find went to the debt. I remember people always being like youll always have student loans. That should not stop you from enjoying your life. But to me youll always have student loans if you never pay off those student loans. I think in some ways having this type of debt and paying it off is helpful as Ive gotten older because you know you have to plan for the future. Grayson Campbell I was selling burritos and I was like man I got do something. Grayson Campbell left school with an English degree and 45000 in student loan debt. When his first payment came due the burrito money was not cutting it. So he started a cleaning company. He called me from a job.  Im holding two microfiber rags one is pink and one is yellow.  Grayson wrote to us It is frustrating to have this debt but I feel like I would not have found this passion of owning my own business without it.  In some ways having this student debt and kind of forcing me into just making money has opened me up to understand that like oh there are other opportunities in the world. I can be an entrepreneur if I want to. Grayson says he is chiseling away his debt putting a little more than 400 towards it each month. But for others of you that incremental approach didnt work. Beth In 2014 I still was over the six figure mark.  Where are you now?  Right now I am at just under 32000. Beth is a lawyer. And thats not her real name. Shes not the kind of lawyer who makes a ton a of money. Shes a criminal defense attorney. Most often she is court-appointed for clients who cannot pay. She graduated from law school in 2006 with 30 years of student loan payments at eleven hundred dollars a month stretching out in front of her.  I tried to pay what I needed to pay but also to live my life and not really think about it that much. And it just did not work. I just felt like I am never gonna be in a situation where it is just gonna be a payment that I do not really think about.  Was there a moment when you decided this has got to change?  I was doing yoga on my living room floor one morning. And you know I am big into exercise and it is always been a stress reliever but I was so tense and so stressed because it was - literally money was all I was thinking about for days on end. And I was like - I stopped doing yoga in the middle of the floor and I sat there and I started crying. And I called my mom. And she was like What is wrong? and I was like I have to do something I cannot keep living like this. And thinking back to it it is - like I am right back in that mental place thinking back to it because it was just - it came to a head and I had to just do something different than the world had been telling me to do at that point.  Did you know what to do?  No.  Um I literally started Googling how to get rid of six figure student loan debt and I started listening to The Dave Ramsey Show. I do not know if you know anything about him -  I do. I love listening to Dave Ramsey.  Yeah. Oh you do?  I love like when you are like driving on the highway and you like cannot get anything and you are like Oh there is Dave Ramsey. Beth Yeah! Anna He is going to he is going to make me feel both like terrified and also empowered.  For those of you who havent heard of Dave Ramsey he hosts a call-in radio show about personal finance. Hes very anti-debt. Dave Ramsey Adults devise a plan and follow it children do what feels good. Everybody's all worried about everybody's feelings these days. I am not worried about your feelings. I make a living hurting your feelings. Let me tell you what feels good. Not having any dad-gum payments that is what feels good.  He can be kind of harsh sometimes and you know I do not agree with everything he says I certainly do not agree with him politically but the bottom line for me is that he is on the mark when it comes to living within your means and staying out of debt and being careful with your money and paying attention to your money. And that really just spoke to me in a way that nothing else had before.  So how - when you made the decision to significantly increase your monthly payments on your student loans did you know how?  I had just - I would never really kept a real budget. You know I started - I think I printed out a couple of months' worth of bank statements and just started highlighting things like okay these are all my grocery purchases these are all my - this is gas this is these are utilities this is rent this is my loan payment. And everything else I highlighted in like red and I was like this can be cut. This can be cut. This can be cut. This can be cut.  What is something that you would have bought yourself four years ago that you would never buy for yourself now?  Um. I never did this a lot but occasionally you know I would go shopping. I felt like I needed one thing and then I would you know go to Banana Republic or go into Ann Taylor and be like What do they have? What is on the sale rack? And come out with a hundred dollars worth of stuff. And I never ever ever do that kind of stuff anymore. Ever.  Ever?  Not that not that I did a lot then but no never ever ever now.  How much do you make? What is your salary and how much do you pay every month in student loans?  Last year I made just under 92000 gross but I am a small business owner and my taxable income was about 76000. And I paid - I think last year I paid about 34000.  Half your taxable income.  Yeah. Beth says shes on track to pay off her loans completely by the end of this year and shes going to hang on to the final statements.  Yeah maybe just frame them next to my diplomas. I mean I look at my diplomas now and I feel more ownership over my degrees the more money I pay off. Like I feel like they are mine more. Like I knew that no one could take the degrees away from me and I have still been using them these many years. But I feel like I do not know like I am more empowered to use my law degree in a way that - I felt like I was a slave to it for a long time and now I do not. A listener named Kelsey also puts her debt progress on display. She and her husband are paying off 84000 in student loans. Kelsey He gets really excited just thinking about the idea of being debt free. To me I cannot really picture that. You know? It is not concrete for me so I came up with the idea of a debt tree. Every time we pay a thousand dollars toward our debt I get to put a really colorful leafI cut out a leaf out of scrapbook paperand I get to glue it onto the tree.  Where is the tree? Does it hang somewhere?  Yeah it is in our living room so you can see it as soon as you walk in to the house.  Wow. So it is right there?  It is right there. I love it. Coming up more stories about how some of have you have shifted your outlook on student debt and where you found help.  After releasing these episodes about student loan debt two years ago we hosted two nights of live on the radio call-in specials where experts answered some of your questions about student loan debt. They talked about consolidation strategies for paying off loans and public service loan forgiveness. Our guests included Dr. Tressie McMillan Cottom and Rohit Chopra who was the countrys first Student Loan Ombudsman within the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau. Theres some really helpful information in these episodes. You can find them at deathsexmoney.orgstudent loans. Also there you can find updates on some of the people who shared their stories with us. Like Sharif whose story you heard at the beginning of the first episode in this series.  Hearing that there are so many other people out there just like me if not worse it actually made me feel like I was part of a community. Weve got even more recent updates in our newsletter which by the way we send out every week and is full of listening recommendations and behind the scenes updates on what were doing at the show. Sign up at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter.   This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When you sent in your stories about student debt a lot of you talked about having to make huge financial decisions when you were just a teenager. A listener named Josie is a teenager. And when we talked she was in her last days of her senior year in high school and had just picked where to go to college. She said there was one deciding factor. Josie For me it was definitely money. Um. It was down to University of Louisville and American University. At University of Louisville I would get in-state tuition and at American I would have to pay like 50000 a year. My mom and I were sitting at the dining room table just looking at all of the numbers that we had been given that were just impossible to figure out. Like we could not pay that much. So it was at that moment where I just said wow. If I went to Louisville look how much more money I would save.  Do youdo you feel like youre settling?  Yeah...I dont know. I mean yeah I am settling. But that doesnt make me as sad as I thought it would I think.  Was your mom disappointed for you or glad that you were making a prudent decision?  I think she was very disappointed. I think in some ways she felt it more than me because I think that was part of her vision for me was to be - to have more opportunities than she had because she did not grow up with a lot of money and she didnt go to college right out of high school. And we had spent so much time just looking at all of these schools and having these fantasies of how she would come to visit me in these fabulous places and I think it really hurt her to feel like she couldnt provide that for me even though thats irrational because I wouldnt want her to become impoverished. Like that doesnt make sense. Even though Josie chose the less expensive school she still has to take out some loans. And she wrote us Ill continue to wonder what wouldve happened if I splurged on my dream school. Nathan Hi Death Sex  Money crew. My name's Nathan and I am a physical therapist who is in massive massive debt. I have about 200000 dollars in debt. I made a few bad choices financially coming out of school. The first was going to work in Montana which is beautiful and that is where I met my girlfriend but that job paid very very low and didnt help me to pay off any of my debt whatsoever. So what I did was I bought a Sprinter van and I built out the inside to live in. So I now live in this with my girlfriend and our three dogs. Mallory Hi my names Mallory and Im Nathans girlfriend. I am the other person living in the van and Im learning a lot from this experience. I really want to go back to grad school and get my masters in social work and after seeing Nathan's experience with debt its made me rethink my education path. So something that Im doing in the van to work towards getting my education is trying to save enough money so that I dont have to get an insane amount of debt. Im sure Ill still have to take some loans out but Im trying to avoid the trap that Nathan has been placed in. This is something we heard a lot. How much your decisions about how to deal with student loans have been influenced by the people closest to you. Often because its not clear who else is out there to help. Krista I didnt know what to do. I felt really lost for a long time. When Krista graduated she had 40000 in federal and private loans. She initially stayed on top of her payments.  I was really good at it at the first few years until I moved to Baltimore where I ended up working as a teachers aide and I didnt make enough money to do much else other than keep a roof over my head. I was on food stamps and you know it was a pretty hard struggle. Krista stopped making loan payments altogether. Debt collectors started calling.  And I saw that you know everybody was sort of walking away from their mortgages because they felt their houses were not worth what they paid for them and that is exactly how I felt about my college degree.  Hm. It felt like I want to walk away.  Yeah. It felt like it was underwater because it was not worth what I had paid for it. And then Krista met a guy named Danny.  Danny what do you do for a living? Danny I am a financial aid advisor.  So you are like the perfect boyfriend for Krista to meet in this moment in her life?  I suppose. When they met Krista had been avoiding paying her loans for several years. But in front of Danny it was harder to ignore.   It definitely came up pretty quickly because you know of course with his professional background he was like No you have to take care of these you can make a phone call and you can talk to them. And I am like...I did not have the courage to do that ever in my life. You know?  Danny do you remember that conversation? Danny  I do. And we...remember we called one of your lenders and we made a payment?  Yeah I do remember that. Yeah.  Wait the first time you disclosed your debt you made a payment together?  Yeah.  We were just like well lets just call now since I know the lingo. And so I called for her and we made a payment together. It was like our first date.  That is the most beautiful sweet thing. Like 'ecause Krista it sounds like you felt so alone around your debt.  I did. Yeah. Yeah I felt very isolated. But then you know having met Danny I just did not feel that way anymore. It stopped becoming my identity and it started just becoming something that was consequential but inconsequential at the same time. Something that can be controlled and doesnt control me. And that was a huge revelation. Student loans though have not always brought you closer to people in your lives. Jessie For him it was a hard line. It was non-negotiable. He considered it really a moral issue. Jessie is 29 and she told us about how her 63000 in student loans were causing problems in her relationship.  So you wrote in your email to us My student loans are currently at the heart of whether I will call off my wedding. And that was a little over a month ago. What is happened since?  Um we called it off.  Huh. And how were your student loans involved in that decision?  Um they were a really significant component. Um I do not know if deciding factor is really the right term but after we got engaged we started talking about planning to have a family one day and then because of some other problems we decided that we should seek a couples' counselor. And it was when we were in couples' counseling that my ex said that he did not think that people should have kids if they have student loans or they have debt which was - it was a blow to put it mildly.  Yeah.  And I guess the thing that always just kills me with it is that student loans are the only debt that I have. I do not even carry a credit card balance. I buy used Toyotas. I am an incredibly frugal person. I had talked to him when I made the decision to really prioritize retirement savings rather than paying as much as I possibly could on that debt. I paid as much as I possibly could toward my 401. And he was a part of that conversation. He supported it.  Who who called off the wedding?  Um it was a mutual decision. There was literally a moment where I had to ask my ex point blank Is this - is this something you are willing to move on in order to stay with me? And he said no that he felt how he felt and we agreed that that we were going to have to call it.  Where are you right now?  I am sitting in my car. I am sitting in my car in Cortez Colorado on the drive back to my mom's house in Washington State.  So you are moving?  I am. Um when we called off the wedding I spent a few weeks trying to take a deep breath and kind of get my emotional bearings again. But I had no support system there he was my support system. I would lived with him until yesterday morning when I started driving.  Oh. Jessie you are right in the middle of this.  I am.  When you think about your student loans today and the plan that you have had to slowly pay it off and also save for retirement do you feel comfortable with that?  Um one of the things I did in the intervening weeks before I moved I reexamined my loans and looked at my retirement plan and really took a big picture reassessment and I felt good about where I am at with it. I feel like I have made really smart decisions.  Do you feel any shame about your student loan debt?  I used to in a way that I think a lot of young people feel shame about about being broke about being poor. In the last probably year maybe even two years though I am actuallyit sounds bizarre to sayI am a little bit proud of my debt. I came from a family where I was the first person to graduate from a four-year university. You know I was born to an 18-year-old mother. I overcame a lot to do what I did. And the fact that I have these loans? Yeah it stinks that that I am burdened with repaying them but it also shows that I did something. Thats a listener named Jessie. Shes now settled back in Washington. And she already has a new job there which came with a promotion and a raise. Thank you to all of you who shared your student loan stories with us. You can see a lot more of them at deathsexmoney.orgstudentloans. And were still collecting your stories. Because I have a feeling this wont be the last time we deal with student loans on this show. You seem to have a lot more to say. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn who composed original music for this series. Thanks also to Destry Sibley Elaine Chen Jillian Weinberger Jenna Kagel Marine Boudeau Alison Morgenstern and lots of other people at WNYC who helped us with this series. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney and our email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And do not forget to check out deathsexmoney.orgstudentloans. We hope you come away feeling like a listener named Sarah. Sarah I know I am not alone......a loan...didnt mean to do that pun. But I know Im not that the only one with this problem. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.