 Once that trust has been lost it takes a lot to get it back. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Diane Gill Morris in for Anna Sale. And recently I talked to a woman named Maria Caldwell.  Hey Maria can you hear me?  Yes I can.  Hi!  Hi. Maria lives in St. Paul Minnesota. She has four kids. Her only son Marcus is 18. And last summer on his way home from the Minnesota State Fair Maria says Marcus got beat up pretty badly.  Probably all parents fear that someone is gonna harm their child. But never ever has it once came to my mind that that person that would offend my child would be an officer. Marcus and his two friends were waiting for the train at a light rail station. They were horsing around...Marcus stepped onto the tracks and then got back onto the platform. According to a pending lawsuit two Metro Transit officers approached Marcus and asked him if he was drunk. They also asked to see his ID. When he said he did not have one the officers tried to detain him. Police reports say there was a struggle. And then Marcus was taken down to the ground by an officer and put in a neck restraint.  When did you find out what happened to him?  Actually a neighbor that was driving down the street is the one who called me. No one ever called me. No one ever contacted me while he did eventually go to the hospital. They would not even let me see him for four hours. The Metro Transit Police would not let me see him in the hospital for four hours.  And then once you saw him what was your reaction?  I was ready to take a vengeance for my son to say it nicely. I was just devastated and crying andhe had a busted head...busted lip. He had choke marks on his neck. He had what they told me was an impression of maybe something pressing down on his neck other than an arm or a hand. He was beat up like he had got hit by the train and survived. We reached out to the Metro Transit Police about this incident. They declined to comment. The two officers in their response to that pending lawsuit is complaint have denied all of the allegations. But Marias story about her son Marcus really scares me. Because Marcus is autistic like my two sons Kenny and Theo. You might remember that I talked about them last year on Death Sex  Money. My older son Kenny is about the same age as Marcus. And Marcus is black like my boys. I hear stories like this about interactions gone wrong between police and autistic people...particularly those of color. And I think how do I make sure that something doesnt go wrong between the police and MY kids? Today Im going to introduce you to someone else whos been trying to figure out the answer to that same questionfor himself and for the people in his community like Maria.  I cannot make up for what another department did. And I cannot apologize for what a department did. But she lives in the city of St. Paul and I want to make sure that we never have an incidence like that happening again. This is Robert Zink. He is an officer in the St. Paul Police Department and he has two sons with autism.  Jerrys more Aspergers so he really doesnt present as being on the spectrum in most cases but he does have the Aspie tendencies. The reading of the social cues has always been a major problem.  And so your younger one hes 11?  Correct.  Tell me a little bit about him.  Gabe is the human tornado is the best way to describe him.   Yeah.  Hes always moving hes always funny hes  always creative. Hes totally unique in his own being and theres no one like him. He has this weird ability its a flash memory where you know he can be in a room for two seconds and be able to memorize and know everything thats in there and see it with precision.  Yes we have we have learned never to doubt our younger son whenever he says - we go to the grocery store and he says we need something. Its like buy it. He almost is - he is always right.   And it is happened to me an ungodly number of times where we are ready to leave the house. Get in the car and my son Gabe will go Dad you do not have your phone. And then it is like OK where is my phone? Every time it is exactly where he says it is. For most of his career Officer Zink kept his home life with his kids and his work life as a police officer separate. But then about three years ago his commander came to him with a problem.  We had several bad incidences you know with police contact with those on the spectrum and Commander got a hold of me and said Hey Rob I have no background on this. And they said Your sons are on the spectrum. Is there anything you can help us with?  What were the issues? What - what was - what was it about the interaction that went wrong?  Well officers may not read the cues of what the person is presenting. Because oftentimes some of these cues other officers may view them as cues of is it drug interaction? Is it a mental health issue? And read those cues wrong. And then when they make their approach the simple act of just touching somebody on the arm to go Hey come with me now turns into a fight because the reaction of the touchthe officer reads it as an act of aggression. And we go down one path and it gets worse and worse. And now suddenly you have a fight between someone on the spectrum and a police officer that can turn kind of rough unfortunately.  And when you are - when you were reviewing those instances where things did not go right what was your emotional reaction to that as a father?  Well one um I never want to see something like that happen to my sons just because something they did was misinterpreted. And then having to get in a physical confrontation with a police officer scares me because my son Gabe at 11 is a very tall big kid. If you looked at him you might look and say he is 14 15 years old and he is 11. You know so the idea of an 11-year-old at 5'8 5'9 he has the mind of an 11-year-old on the spectrum. If a police officer comes up to him you know there can be varying circumstances. It would not really happen with him just because he has so much interaction with police officers. But if his father was not a police officer what would those interactions end up being? This is something that I think about a lot. Because I know that those interactions can end up being deadly. Just a few years ago police were called to a home outside of Chicago after a 15-year-old autistic boy got upset. The officers followed the boy into the basement and he slashed an officers arm with a knife. In response the officers shot and killed him.  One of the problems with police work is our standard response to things generally has the inverse reaction with those on the spectrum. You know greater command presence you know yelling shouting out orders actually makes things worse instead of trying to you know show your authority to control the situation. And you have got to learn what its gonna take for you to back down try to figure out what things you can key on that they may be saying or reacting to. You know if you can take a different approach itll make your job as a police officer so much better. Officer Zink now teaches other officers how to recognize the signs of autism through the program he founded called the St. Paul CARE project which stands for Cops Autism Response Education. And he teaches cops how to interact with people on the spectrum especially when theyre in crisis.  As officers you have to treat it as a safety issue first. The number one thing iscommon term we use ismake sure the scene is safe. And then if you are able to make the assessment this person's on the spectrum the route you take of how you handle the situation is vastly different than dealing with a neurotypical person.  Do you see your children in the people that you encounter in the community when you are dealing with crisis situations?  Yeah I do. It is all the little behaviors. Um...I think the key thing for me thats been helpful in this job is taking a lot of the calming techniques I have worked with my own children. One of the common techniques I use if a kid's in that crisis meltdown mode is Okay we are not going to talk we are not going to do anything we are just going to go for a walk. When you are ready to talk talk. And I have had it where I have gone a mile and a half when it is 90 degrees out in full police uniform with you know bulletproof vest you know I am about to pass out because it is it is so hot and I am sweating. And then finally at about a mile and a half theyre - you have brought that energy level down so now they are ready to talk. Time is always your number one. You know I have had an incidence where I had one kid it took me 45 minutes to talk him down. And he was destroying everything in the living room everything in his bedroom smashing stuff. But just by spending some time talking walking trying to get him calmed down it - it worked. And no physical interaction was needed.  But most cops probably would not do that.  I agree. But that is why we are trying to change the whole scenario on this. And if - if you are not dealing with a life or death situation obviously someone with a knife someone with a gun and there is nobody else in potential harm's way slow down stop and take your time. Because 45 minutes of talking somebody down versus six hours of paperwork because you had to take action or use force or had to book themI am sorry I will take the 45 minutes any day.  But then obviously at some point sometimes physical interaction is the - is necessary perhaps because someones in danger.  Mhm. And we have had - I have had instances with it. And it is gotten very physical trying to restrain them because theyve gotten to the point where they are either going to harm themselves or harm somebody else. And you are notwhat people have to realize is you are not looking at it as This is a police-criminal action that I am going to be taking them to jail. You are looking at as a - as a medical issue because taking one of these kids to jail or one of these people - adults on the spectrum when they are having that kind of issue jail is not the place for them.  So um when you are looking at the news and some of these instances that have happened. Just even a month or so ago when um in Florida when there was an autistic man who had ran from his group home and his support worker was trying to get him to come back and an officer ended up aiming at the autistic man and shot the support worker instead. What is - I mean what is your reaction? Is - I can imagine - you must have a dual reaction both as a police officer and a parent and I am wondering how you - what your feeling is when you hear something like that.  Well the reaction is the same as an officer and as a parent is they did not under-and this is from the outside looking inI think the police assessment should have been to stand back and let the caretaker do what he needed to do. Because I will do that as aeven though I deal with kids on the spectrum on a constant basisI will not be able to communicate with someone that severely on the spectrum. And that you need the individual that has a direct one-to-one contact with that person to be able to understand what they are trying to communicate and how they can be calmed down.  So when you see something like that instance are you thinking that person needs to lose their job or that person needs to face criminal charges that officer?  I cannot make that assessment because there is too many other variables. Did something go wrong there? Yes. But what needs to go further from there? I do not have that direct answer because I do not understand what their training is. Every - every department is different. Was it lack of training? Or was it just a mistake? Was itthere is so many variablesto make a judgment of what should happen to that officer is something I cannot really comment on.  Does it make you angry?  It is a sad situation any time someone gets shot. So there is a reaction to that. But making snap judgments and assessments based on limited information is - is not a not a good thing to do. The police shooting of that caregiver Charles Kinsey is still under investigation. Coming up I talk with Officer Zink about some of my fears...that my sons skin color could put them in harms way. And I find out more about how Officer Zink juggles his duties as a cop and his duties as a father.  The amount of time you spend not at work running them to therapy running them to other special eds or special needs stuff you have to do it is a lot of time a lot of dedication for a parent to do it much less also doing your full workload and actually trying to have an active personal life.  So how do you handle it?  I do not have an active personal life.   Yes.  You know what I am talking about though!  I can relate to that!    Hello? Anna Sale Hi Diane?  Hey Anna!  Hi how are you?  I am doing great. How are you?  I am good thank you.  How is baby June?  She is good! She is gettin' bigger every day!  Awesome.  So how was the experience of hosting this episode for you?  It was amazing. The whole experience was just kind of like I cannot believe I get to do this.  I want to ask you abouthave your sons - have Kenny and Theo interacted much with police officers?  Well the only time we ever had to call police was uh Kenny was about 8 and we had a chain-link fence around our backyard. And what I did not know was that Kenny could climb the chain-link fence. And so I was inside the house...Theo was inside...Kenny was outside. I was thinking He is good. I go out to check on him...and he is not there! I......searched my house...could not find him...called the police. You know and actually they were amazing. They came - went looking for him they found him they got him to get into the car with them brought him back home and they were very understanding and very good with Kenny. Thankfully that is been our only real interaction. You know certainly now my kids are a lot older and so I am trying to get the boys more associated with the police in our area.  Oh what are you doing?  Well so...Kenny loves to bake. And so what we did was we made a batch of cookies and took them down to the police station. My big challenge is finding a recipe that does not intrigue Kenny so much that he eats them all before we can get to the police station.    What were the cookies that - what were the cookies that did not make the cut that made it to the police headquarters?  Well Kenny is not a big fan of chocolate. So we made oatmeal cookies but we put chocolate chips in them instead of raisins which he was not amused by. He was very annoyed when we did that. But he ate a few of them but just was not his usual Let me just polish all these off kind of attitude. So we were able to salvage enough to them to get to the police station.  Diane what made you decide to do this police outreach? What was the - what was the - the event that made you say...this is what we we need to get this done and we need to start doing this?  I do not know if there was a specific event or just pretty much everything that is happened in the past year year and a half. Right? I mean we have had - there have just been so made incidences involving black men and police and you know also I just look at my boys and I just recognize that people do not see what they used to see. People used to see these really cute kids and when they were having trouble nobody...I did not get the stares that maybe I get now. The way people react is just different. Because they feel like this could potentially turn into a dangerous situation and I have to recognize that police officers may have that same reaction. That if one of the boys is having a tough time at the moment that they might consider this to be a danger and be thinking about how they need to protect others and protect themselves. And not thinking about what they need to do to help bring this situation to a calm and peaceful conclusion.  Yeah. Well Diane it is so nice to talk to you again. And I - I am so glad that we got to do this with you and we can continue to hear from you and also hear the questions that you have for this mom and for this police officer. I am reallyI am just so glad we got to do this.  It was so great to talk to them. It was such a really interesting and enlightening conversation. And of course it was absolutely my honor and privilege to do it. I enjoyed it so much. And here's what is coming up next week on Death Sex  Money. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Diane Gill Morris in for Anna Sale. As the parent of two special needs kids I know that balancing work parenting health relationshipsits all a daily challenge. So I was curious to know more about how Officer Zink finds that balance. Its clear that his wife is a big part of that equation. Her name is Patina Parktheyve been married for 15 years. She runs the Minnesota Indian Womens Resource Center which serves American Indian women and their families.  Whenever my wife introduced me because when she tells people who she is worked with that her husband is a police officer and her being a Native American female they expect to meet another officer of color. And they see a big white guy. They kind of go That is your husband?  So she works full time?  Full time.  Now I know that that is something that my husband and I have - have tried and failed at the idea both of us working full time jobs. It becomes too stressful for the family.  We have been lucky because what it used to be ismy wife's running joke was we used to live as two single parents. Because I worked nights she worked days and we would see each other a couple of times a week. But with her work transitions my work transitions and the boys getting older being able to adapt you know it has not been nearly the issue. And when you actually have two decent incomes coming in the flexibility to do some stuff is you know is not so stressful.  The flexibility is everything isnt it? Its just - it is everything.  Its huge. And one of the things Ive seenand this goes for almost all the families I probably work consistently with probably about 20 families on a regular basisyou know the ability to just as a parent to have a date night is hard.  Yeah.  Or the ability you know to have some time to yourselves independent of your kids because you are at the point of I worked I had to do whatever with my children that suddenly it seems that the only thing I am doing is sleeping. And I am sure you have had those experiences.  Yes  I am familiar. So how has it impacted your relationship with your wife? I know that time is obviously really difficult.  We have learned our limitations. We always knew our limitations. And my wife is an attorney by trade so she understands law enforcement you know with her previous work background. So we have learned never yell never fight and if we get to a point where we think we are in that angry mode that we haveit is kind of the things you have learned with your childrenis once you start to see them peaked out is the last thing you want to do is kind of push those issues. You want to try to find a diverting way to deal with your - the problem at the time. And it is worked well for me and my wife for all these years. So there is always - there is always stresses in any marriage in any family especially with special needs kids. But I do not think it is been a problem for us.  Yeah I know with me and my husband it is been - it is been stressful but we have developed a really strong partnership in making sure that everybody is taken care of including each other.  My wife said there is no way she could do it on her own and there is no way I could do it on my own. Because I am sure you have the same kind of perspective too you could not do it without your husband your husband couldnt do it without you.  Oh yeah right. Yes exactly. Yes Ive told my husband as well. He is not going anywhere.   Exactly.  Hemy husband about eight or nine years ago he had a ruptured brain aneurysm.  Ooh.  And recovered and he is fine. But I was just like Do not you even think about dying on me.  That is not allowed. That is not an option. Does - between your job and raising your boys do you ever just feel emotionally drained?  Uh yes.  And what - do you - have you - have you ever seen a therapist or do you have somebody to talk to about that?  I talk to my wife. My wife is - is my outlet. Police work nowadays independent of other stuff is stressful enough as it is you know and you have to kind of...work with yourself and understand you know you cannot go down that rabbit hole of emotional hell because if you feed on it you will never get back out. And otherw- you know I have had - I am lucky enough to have a good support structure whether it be with the police my wife my own extended family that I do not think it is been an issue for me.  Well I - I applaud that. I know that - I just try to imagine. Because as a parent and I am raising these two kids and I often find myself just emotionally drained. And I do not have a stressful job. My job does not require me to interact with people in a crisis situation or put myself in danger at all. So the idea of that on top of these challenges just seems to mein myin my mind seems that it could be overwhelming.  And there is many a days you just get home and go Honey I do not want to talk. I just want to veg out whether it means playing video games for a couple hours or it means just laying on the bed or just going for a walk for two hours. You know there is those nights like that you just do not know how to react to it. But you - you have to have your outlet mechanisms to be able to deal with it.  One thing that also comes up for me as a - I am a black woman my children are black young men. And the - the challenge of the fact that they have autism and are black is something that I just think about a lot. How do you see the issue of race playing into police interactions with people with autism?  It is hard for me to say because most of my families I work with are families of color you know. And I think that more has to do with the economic level than it does you know as a race-based issue per se. Because many of those in the community that have not had access to services are going to have more interactions and more contacts with police. Unfortunately economically the disparities between the black community the Hispanic community and the Asian community versus the white community is vastly different.  One of the things that you were talking about earlier this question of whether or not somebody is on the spectrum or perhaps on drugs or something is something that I worry about a lot. I have a son who talks to himself a lot. And I have always worried that ifas he gets olderhe is only 15 nowbut as he gets older and becomes an adult if somebody would misinterpret that as being on drugs or something like that. My fear is always that an officer sees a black man and they will immediately go to the idea of this being a person on drugs versus this being a person with disability. I mean in the media most of the people that we see with autism are white. The ideaI do not think a lot of people are aware that there is a really large population of minority children and adults with autism. And so I feel like an officer just may make an assumption because he just doesnt really think of autism - autistic people being of color.  And I hope that is something I change becauseone social group the Somali community up here in Minnesota the ratio is not the 62 or 82 to 1...it is astronomically high in the Somali community and that is not brought up much. And now if you suddenly have a disproportionate- that large disproportionate number of kids on the spectrum you know you are going to be dealing with a lot ofwhether it is now or in five yearsyou are going to be dealing with those issues especially in that community.  I wonder withlike you said many of the families that you work with are of color. Do they ever tell you that they are afraid to call the police?  Well unfortunately what I have gotten is more parents have me on speed dial and they call me directly. And what a lot of times happens is if I am not working or if I am not available thatI get names of officers that they feel I can trust come to their homes. I will find the officer and say I am going to send this officer. You can trust him. Just let him do what he needs to do. But this is one officer I trust to work with those on the spectrum. People on the spectrum like Marcus Maria's son.   Oops hold on one second. Maria how are you doing? Marias one of those people who now has Officer Zink on speed dial.  Okay where are you at? After the incident between Marcus and the Metro Transit officers last year Officer Zink reached out directly to their family.  Sounds good. Thanks Maria! I asked Maria to stop by the studio to talk with me and Officer Zink.  When you first met him did you trust him?  I did not trust anybody but I was willing to give him a chance when I found out his situation at home was similar to mine. Marcus did not want to have anything doing with it. But you know we discussed ways of things that Marcus is interested in what his likes and dislikes are how we can better improve on him talking to the officers.  Officer Zink what was - what was your experience when you first met Maria knowing what she and her family had already been through?  I felt the resistance and I understood the resistance. And that whole situation it did not turn out well. And it shouldnt have turned out that way. And I want to have Maria to be able to say Officer Zink we are having an issue today can you stop by?  Maria when Officer Zink comes over over what do you all do? What does he do with Marcus?  He comes over when Marcus is having a bad day. When he is tore up my walls. Put holes through the doors. He is been there for a lot of things. He takes Marcus out of the home so he can get himself together and everything.  And how does he feel about police officers now?  It helped a little bit but he is still having nightmares the fears the shakes the sweats of any officer other than them.  Is it hard for you to trust still?  With Officer Zinks help it is getting a little bit easier. But no I still do not trust anybody.  Mmhm.  That is understandable. And I agree with her. It is like any relationship. Once that relationship's been betrayed the amount of effort it takes to get that trust back is large. And there is no expectation that trust is going to be gained in six weeks six months six years or sixty years. It iseven though you may not have it back right away you still have to work to get that trust back. Thats Officer Robert Zink talking with Maria Caldwell. Officer Zink was named the St. Paul Police Departments Officer of the Year in 2016. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. You can find more episodes of Death Sex  Money including the one where I shared my story by visiting deathsexmoney.org or subscribing to this podcast in iTunes. Leave a review while you are there. This was Officer Zink's first time being a guest on a radio show. But he has had SOME experience in front of a microphone.  Hey were copsif were on a PA or a mic its like This is the St. Paul police. Please disperse. Im Diane Morris in for Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.