 As a 28-year-old it is time for me to get to the big leagues or get out. And so I was I was really optimistic that this year was going to be the year. And now that there is just no year at all like you know there is a lot of uncertainty. We do not know what is going to happen next year. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. And this is our series Game Changer. Across the globe sporting events and seasons have been cancelled or postponed because of COVID. And thats meant big changes for athletes who make their money from the games they play and organize their lives around them too. Mitch Horacek is a minor league baseball pitcher who went from spring training with his teammates in Florida to working out his arm alone in a park near his grandmas house in Breckenridge Colorado.  I would just throw my baseballs at the net go pick them up and then scoot back and throw them again. Minor League Baseball was cancelled this year but Mitch still needed to stay in shape.  All of the gyms were closed so I actually went to Home Depot which was one of the only places that was open and bought a bunch of concrete and flowerpots.  Uh huh.  And fastened my own set of weights. And I basically I was mixing concrete on the on my driveway and you know with with like rubber gloves on and I poured the concrete into the flower pots to let it dry. And basically made these homemade 45 pound plates. I have four of them.  Are they like terra cotta flower pots?  I do not know what terra cotta flowerpots are but they are -  Like orange like the kind of orange flower pots. That just like -  No they are 18 inches in diameter and I think four inches deep.  I see like a plate. So its like flat.  Yeah.  So did you figure this out you are just like cruising around a Home Depot with a cart and like what am I going to use? Like what - .  Yeah! I mean it is it is a you had to get creative! Mitch and I talked in early August nine months after hed gotten picked up by the Minnesota Twins to play on their minor league teams.  I was probably slated for AAA baseball this year um which is the closest level to the big leagues. And he says going into the season he felt like there was a good chance hed get called up by the Twins to make his major league debut. Mitch was signed to the Twins on a free agent contract  his first since being drafted after his junior year of college.  I was finally able to negotiate a salary on the free market.  Uh huh.  It is a it is a huge problem in baseball. You know the minor league salaries are really really low you know the contract that everybody signs out of the draft is a seven year contract.  Seven years!  Yeah. And so the only way to get out of that is either to get released or to basically get called get to the big leagues and get onto a major league contract. But so I knew I knew that the wages were going to be bad but uh there is you know the the very widely held belief among Minor League Baseball players especially the ones that are just signing. Um you know it is like it will only take me a couple of years to get to the big leagues. So I will just live off my signing bonus and everything's going to be okay.  How did you think about how much money you were going to earn after that signing bonus? When you are becoming a minor league baseball player?  So so I signed  this this is public information  I signed in the ninth round in 2013 for a hundred thousand dollars. After taxes it came out to be like 70 something.  Okay.  It is a good chunk of money for 21 years old.  Yeah.  It is a good chunk of money. I got I did not get it all at once either. I got it over the course of a year and a half. So um but I did get that money and I knew that you know beside that signing bonus the salaries the wages in in minor league baseball were ridiculously low. Um you know the lowest being 1200 a month to the highest in triple AAA being like 2100 a month. You only get paid during the season. And before you know it you know you are in the minor leagues for year after year after year. And at certain point you know you have not made a reasonable income for you know five six seven years. And you look back and you are like wow I wish I wish that things were not like this.  Hm. And what did you do with your signing bonus?  So I did not do anything with it honestly. I the only thing that I bought was uh uh a few books on investing. So I I learned how to I learned how to invest. I saw a lot of my teammates buying cars and buying all sorts of toys and um you know I realized that that was probably not a good idea and that you know 70000 is not a ton of money. Like it can go pretty quick if you do not save it the way you should.  I want to move ahead to you are like four or five years into your contract. So when you are making you know at most 2100 a month um how did you do it?  So I mean Minor League Baseball players including me um are like militantly frugal. Um like we are very creative um when it comes to saving money at least most of us are. The ones that that do not have you know the million dollar signing bonuses. The way I have played it um every season is that I try to break even while like during the season while I am playing. Like for example last year 2019 2018 uh I was in AA for most of those years and I was making about 770 after tax biweekly. So I mean it is not a lot of money.  No.  But you know when you are working every day it is not you do not really have a whole lot to spend your money on besides food food and shelter basically. This last off season I had an apartment with another baseball player and you know of course we were not getting paid in the off season. You know we were working you know side jobs and trying to make ends meet the best we could but we furnished our whole apartment on Craigslist free. So you know we just collected it from all over the city in Denver from different people. And then at the end of the off season we were able to sell some of it um and make a little bit of money back.  Can you tell me a little bit more about what that apartment looked like when it was fully furnished with free stuff from Craigslist? What were the items?  It was it was a it was a hodgepodge of stuff. Um we had you know I found these really old dirty um like like bar chairs that this guy gave me for free. My roommate and I went to go pick up this powered reclining chair um that this that this this guy had. He was it was an 80-year-old guy and he was trying to sell it but he could not get it out of his apartment. So um you know people had come over to buy it for I think 300. But they could not lift it out of his out of his house. And so finally he gave up and agreed to give it to us for free. Um only if we could lift it out of his apartment. So we went over to his house and we were able to lift it. Um but it was not an easy easy task. Actually that was the only piece of furniture we had was that couch.  So since you signed how many how many different cities and apartments have you lived in?  Oh my God. So many. Um yeah so I mean since my career started I have lived in Maryland. I have lived in Connecticut Texas Arizona um Florida New Mexico. Um the way - the nature of Minor League Baseball is such that you need to be able to get up and go at any time. Last season in 2019 I was playing for the Albuquerque Isotopes which is the AAA team for the Rockies. And I was not pitching very well at all. It was a really tough tough spot in my career but you know I had an apartment in Albuquerque. And I was not pitching very well. And the Rockies organization decided to send me to Hartford um in like the middle of May. And I got I got the news that I was go- I was being demoted during the middle of a road trip. So I was in Tacoma Washington you know with a suitcase for you know a seven day road trip. And they sent me to Hartford with just my suitcase and I never I never went back to Albuquerque um to clean up my apartment. My brother had to do it for me.  Wow.  You know you can be sent across the country you know at a moment's notice.  And did you like just say to your teammates like see you later?  Yeah pretty much. I mean they they all understand you know the nature of - the nature of the game. I mean so it is a crazy business. I mean you gotta be able to get up and go at a moment's notice. And you might stay there the whole summer. You might be there for three days. You really just do not know. So.  Yeah. I want to understand so your seven years - you did your seven year commitment and then this season was supposed to be a one year free agent contract with the Twins.  That is correct yes.  Does that mean you were making more money than than you had before?  Yes I was - I was making considerably more money.  Is that public. Can you tell me how much you are making now?  I would prefer not to.  Okay. Is it like you feel like  enough money that you can feel like you can buy furniture for yourself?  Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. It is it is it is not I mean it is I - and by all means I was not gonna get rich but um it was definitely like it was a it was a comfortable a comfortable wage um you know to support myself the whole year. And so I I would only I would still only be paid during the season but it was enough money to comfortably support myself you know as a 28-year-old you know the whole year round.  Got it. So seasonally paid but enough to fix you for the year.  Yes. Yes. And so and and it is um it - what really sucks is I had that contract and it was signed and executed. However the the Twins are not honoring it. Um since the season is canceled um they they they do not feel as though they they are obligated to pay me that salary which has been very frustrating in and of itself.  So you are not getting paid right now.  Not - it well so Minor League Baseball - all of the teams agreed to pay their minor leaguers 400 a week stipends. I do not know if all teams are still doing it. Uh the Twins are so I am getting paid 400 a week. After taxes like five 560 biweekly. Um so it is something but it is it is a it is a long shot from what I was uh what I was expecting.  So you were expecting to have a salary that was going to make you feel like you could finally be comfortable as a 28-year-old and now you do not have that.  Exactly. Exactly. Yes. The most upsetting and difficult part of this is that you know a baseball career is very short. And as a 28-year-old in the minor leagues you know I will be at the high minor leagues. Um I am considered you know old um for what I am doing. And so you know it is it is it is not it is not a great feeling knowing that you know I lost a whole season you know especially when I was so close and you know it is just very frustrating. Coming up Mitch turns down his only opportunity to make it to the major league this year.  The way I saw it I was going to the only chance I was going to be invited back is if either one a whole bunch of guys got hurt. Or two and more likely a whole bunch of guys got sick. Like that is not a circumstance in which I want to come back anyway.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Only about 10 percent of Minor League Baseball players ever make it up to the majors where they have a union and much much higher salaries. And at the start of the summer after minor league spring training was cancelled Mitch Horacek still thought he had a chance to get called up to join the Twins roster. So thats how he ended up lifting weights hed made himself at his grandmothers house in Breckenridge.  I could not go for months and months without lifting especially lifting heavy. I mean there is only so much you can do that is sufficient to stay you know powerful and explosive for baseball. So I was like man I gotta figure out a way to you know move around some weight.  So when you say that you are trying to stay in shape in case you get called up like like how have you thought about that as the months have gone on and you are trying to think about Oh can I have that candy bar? Or like Do I need to do that run? Or you know like how have you thought about staying in shape and what your obligation is right now?  So it is it is kind of evolved as the time has passed. So you know earlier in the spring there was a debate um you know as to how MLB was going to resume play. And so you know I felt like I had a chance to be invited back when play started started again. And I did. I mean I was I was you know one of the I was one of the top you know Minor League Baseball players in the organization with the Twins that um that was not on the roster. So I like I was not on the team but I was pretty close to being you know like one of the guys that would be a replacement if another guy got hurt for example. So you know in April May and even June I was training really hard. I was training six days a week you know really trying to stay in shape. And MLB finally figured out a plan to resume play and that was like mid June maybe? And then they finally released rosters uh you know the names of all the guys that they were going to invite back on June 28th. And on June 28th I got a call from the Twins uh and they basically said look we are not gonna invite you back now but there is a chance that if something happens we are going to invite you back. So we want you to stay ready. And so you know I had been staying ready. I was ready to go. Um you know I was I was in shape ready to be invited back you know whenever they called. But when I got the call from you know the organization telling me that I was not going to be invited back but they still wanted me to stay ready? I was I was kind of faced with a dilemma right? Here I have an organization who wants me to continue training in suboptimal circumstances. At the same time they are not paying me what my contract has on it.  Yeah. I bet that did not feel good.  No it did feel very good at all. So at that point I told the Twins basically like you know I am - do not call me.  You did.  Yeah. So it you know - 'ecause if you know if they are not going to keep up their end of the deal why should I? Especially like why should I come work for them you know contributing to their billion dollar enterprise um if if they are like gonna put me in a bad situation financially and then perhaps a bad situation you know from a health standpoint?  Yeah. Was that a phone conversation with someone or was it email? How did you communicate that?  Yeah multiple - it was multiple phone calls.  When you hung up the phone did it feel like the end of your baseball career?   Yeah I am - I do not I do not know. I mean yes and no. Um you know I have a one year contract that expires in November. Um you know I would like it I would like for that contract to be renewed. Um but I I do not know if that is going to happen. So you know that is - you are right. I it could be the end of my career. I I really do not know. Um at a certain point you know I am not going to be bossed around or or bullied around um you know just because you know the quote unquote the dream. I want an equitable deal. You know if - I do believe that if you know I the season happened this year and I was pitching well you know right about now. Um and there was a spot open it could have been my number that was called. You know I was like you know pretty close honestly.  What is it feel like when you say like if this had been a normal year I might be I think I would have been called up right around now. What is it feel like to say that?  It it makes me I mean it is not a good feeling at all. I am - it is been a pretty sad and depressing uh couple of months. You know I put a lot of time and effort into into something and then it just kind of disappears almost overnight. And it is it is definitely it is it is definitely upsetting. I mean it is it is it is it is just uh it is some adversity and you know I recognize that there are Americans all over the country that are in different but equally um crappy situations right now. And you know I I so I am I am not I do not want to be interpreted as as complaining about it but it it does - it is unfortunate. It is just a very exciting and exhilarating you know thing to be able to compete against you know some of the best athletes in the world. Um you know it is you cannot really replace it.  When you think about a professional life a career after baseball what are you picturing for yourself right now? Mitch Every off season I have tried to you know work on developing my skills um in order to you know jump it - like hit the ground running uh after baseball in some kind of you know career. Uh one year I took the LSAT because I was like meh maybe I will want to go to law school. Um you know and I have done all sorts of little things but this past off season I got into web development. I started learning how to code um websites and you know I built a few sites this off season. I built a site a website for the gym I was working out at and I also built a website for uh one of the club like youth club baseball teams that was working out at the gym. And so you know I had this little side gig going and the pandemic hit and I am sitting up in Breckenridge like man I need something to do especially to make money. And um you are just through a very lucky turn of events you know I had a tweet that went viral um and you know I had a lot of people looking at my pro- my Twitter profile. And at the same time you know I came across uh another baseball player who was doing something similar. Um he had more experience than me in web development. And the two of us um I had a bunch of jobs lined up you know from this tweet. And he has a bunch of experience doing web development and we decided to start a little business together. So I think we we we got together in maybe like late April? Early May? And we started a little company called In The Zone Web Development.  In The Zone!  In The Zone yeah. So it is like a it is like a play off of like being in the zone coding but also in the zone is like like in the strike zone.  Yeah I get it! I am with you. I got it.  Yeah. So so we so so that is what I have been working on uh you know this - since being home. This little web development agency. Um you know we have done we have a whole bunch of different contracts um but we specialize in uh baseball - the intersection of baseball and the internet.  Now that you are not throwing baseballs in in a training mode right now um when you think about throwing baseballs and being out there on the pitcher's mound like do you miss it?  Oh yeah. Tons. Yeah. I - it is it is been really hard especially because you know baseball started back up again like it is happening now and it is on TV. And so I have been watching some of the games and I am watching a lot of my former teammates and some of my friends out there competing um like yesterday. One of my longtime teammates made his Major League debut. Um and you know I am very happy for him but at the same time I am like damn like I wish - I wish I was out there too like making my debut. Um so it it is it is been it is been very frustrating and it is I am definitely sad to not be competing. 'ecause that is what I love to do.  So at 28 have you looked back at yourself as a junior in college and thought should I really have signed that contract?   Yeah I mean it it that is a good question. I mean it is it is always been a dream of mine to play baseball in the big leagues. And so I I do not really have any regrets. I mean it is been it is been a really hard path. Um you know there is a lot of things that that have not gone my way necessarily. But at the end of the day like I do not regret playing baseball professionally. It is it is been you know it is very cliche and I do not really like cliches but um you know chasing your dream is something that I put a lot of value in. I mean I you know I have I have the opportunity to go work you know go get a quote unquote real job um whenever I am done. So um while I still can play baseball I feel that I should. Thats Mitch Horacek. Since I spoke with him hes left Colorado and moved to Florida with his girlfriend. He is no longer getting that weekly stipend from the Twins but he has started going back to the gym to get in shape for next season. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im usually based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Anabel Bacon produced this episode. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Special thanks to Garrett Broshuis for his help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And if youre not already subscribed sign up for our weekly newsletter at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. Thanks to Ronnie Cardinaux in Hayward California who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Ronnie and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. The pandemic upended a lot of Mitchs plans...but he says theres one way that his career has prepared him for a big setback like this.  Baseball especially is a sport where failure is is the norm rather than the exception I mean if you are a if you are a uh a hitter and you your batting average is 300 you are getting you are getting a hit 30 of the time which means that 70 of the time or you know you are getting out you are failing. And so you know and a 300 hitter is among the best hitters in baseball. I mean that is that is like the benchmark for a really really good hitter. And so failure is is something that happens every day. You gotta you gotta get used to it. You gotta pick yourself back up and go get them the next day. Look out for the next episode in our Game Changer series coming on Friday. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.