 From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Today we are talking politics because the midterms are coming up because it is always a good time to talk politics but also because I am here in D.C. for a few weeks. So why not? In this episode I am asking two very smart people one very big question - what is it like to cover the White House in the age of Donald Trump? I ask that question and a lot of other ones to my two guests Katie Rogers and Geoff Bennett. Katie is a White House correspondent for The New York Times. We worked together years ago at The Washington Post. You have heard her on this show before. And Geoff is a White House correspondent for NBC News. He is an old friend from our days together on the NPR Politics team. So I am going to be honest here and just say I love this conversation not just because I think the two of them are really swell but because they told me so much more than I thought they would. They talked about their work. They talked about their lives outside of work. They talked about how those two things never stop colliding. They also told me what it feels like for the White House press corps to be a character in the president's ongoing reality show. And they talked very openly about what they think the White House press corps is getting wrong. I went into this conversation thinking that I had a pretty good understanding of what it means to cover a White House. I did not but I learned a lot in this chat and I think you will too. All right let us get to it but just one more note - we taped this conversation last Wednesday August 29. And because President Trump you will hear some news break during our chat. All right. Here I am talking with Katie and Geoff in Washington D.C.   Katie Rogers White House correspondent for The New York Times thanks for being here.  Oh you are welcome.  Geoff Bennett White House correspondent for NBC News thank you for being here.  It is a privilege.  Fun fact - I worked with you both before.  Yeah.  And gosh our paths diverged.   But we are all living our best lives...  I know.  That is right. That is right.  ...So it is amazing.  So I was worried for the last two weeks about this conversation because I said well they cover the White House. If something happens they got to go. And then I was like would I be able to do that thing where you know when you are at dinner and someone's like all right everyone iPhones on the table face down - first person to pick it up pays for dinner I was like what is the radio equivalent of that?  Well for me this is my day off...  Oh OK. So you are good.  ...So I would not have to leave which is why this was the perfect day to...  Katie is on full duty right now. So I will let you be on your phone for a bit.   I had to take a few calls in the lobby on the way up. You know if my phone rings I might have to put us all on speakerphone with somebody.  With a source? I am down for that. Break some news here.  That is the life of a White House reporter.  But luckily - just shout out to Michael Shear my colleague who is babysitting right now...  Aw thanks Michael.  ...In my - yeah in my absence.  Appreciate you.  Yeah.  How long have you both been covering the White House now?  I have only been covering it since January.  What?  Yeah.  I thought it was longer.  Is not that crazy?  That is crazy.  I know.  So less than a year.  Yeah less than a year.  How long you been doing it?  So I have been covering the White House for a few years. So I covered the end of the Obama administration for New York 1 which is a well-known station in New York City.  I love New York 1.  And then when I came to NPR I was first a producer but then a reporter. I covered the White House for NPR for a few months and then jumped...  For a few - literally.  Literally for a few months - and then jumped to NBC News and I have been at NBC for eight months.  OK.  Wow.  So then my next question for you both is you have been covering the Trump administration - Geoff since the start - Katie for a few months - in your time covering the Trump White House what is the wackiest craziest reporting story you guys can tell me without getting in trouble? The story that you tell your friends at bars when they ask how crazy the job is.  Oh.  I have to think about it.  I mean I had a story a couple weeks ago that sort of illustrated to me how involved the president is in coverage about him which is not unusual. Presidents care about how the media covers them. But I was on the Europe - did you go on the Europe trip?  I did.  So I was on the Europe trip and I got a heads up from a source at the White House who just had this email that showed that he got on the plane at some point during the Helsinki trip and freaked out because the first lady's TV was tuned to CNN.  Oh.  And he like threw a fit. And now - and got the military office involved like to make standard operating procedure Fox News on all the TVs going forward.  Let me pause you real quick. You are saying Donald Trump was so mad that his wife was watching a network other than Fox that he changed the protocol?  Yes. What I am not clear on is whether she was you know sitting in her area watching it of if...  Or just on.  ...Her TV was tuned to it and it was on. And he flipped his lid.  Wow.  And you know I came in possession of like a string of emails saying like oh...  Because you broke that story.  ...Yeah - just standard operating procedure going forward in the hotel suites. And that was actually confirmation that they sleep in different rooms too - like first lady suite president suite you know? So that is I guess the wildest.  In the press cabin on Air Force One that is all you can watch is Fox News.  Really?   Yeah - it is almost hardwired.  Unless the photographers change the - like the photographers are in charge of the movies so...  Why?  I do not - it is like the photographers get really possessive and territorial. They are nuts. Like they will pull pranks on each other. When we were on the Europe trip they put like a big bottle of lotion on somebody...  Ew.  ...Like while he was sleeping in a van. You have to be really careful.  There is a lot of down time so they come up with creative ways to make it interesting.  Yeah that is true. And you have to always - it is like you have - it is like being at a slumber party when you are 11 years old somebody's going to put your hand in warm water if you fall asleep so...  Except you are the Fourth Estate.  Yeah right.  Exactly. So...  Yeah.  That is - oh sorry. What is...  Oh tell me your crazy story.  So my...  And it can be...  Yeah.  ...A story that is reported out or just like a behind the scenes...  This is a behind-the-scenes story that is not necessarily crazy but at the time told me so much about who Donald Trump is. So it was my first encounter with him because I did not cover the campaign on the road. But when he came to Washington for Ted Cruz's stop-the-Iran-deal rally...  Oh I was...  It was...  This was...  This was...  That was during the campaign or was that after?  It was during the campaign.  I covered that. Yes.  Yes. So there were two episodes there that I think were really kind of phenomenal. And because - he was not the nominee so you could get relatively close to him. He had security but you could go up to him and ask him questions right? And so we all did. And so there was a big crush of reporters and photographers and we were all asking questions and he wanted to answer this one question from a reporter from one of the cable news networks. But because of the way we were sort of organized around him all in a big circle the reporter was separated from her photographer and he sort of instinctively knew that because he knew the network. So he gets the question and before he answers it he says where is your camera?  That says it all.  And she points...  .  ...In the direction of the camera and he turns his body and answers her question so that the sight line to the camera was just right and he knew where the light was from the sun and...  Yeah.  ...So that the shot...  Wow.  ...On television was perfect.  Wow.  And I saw that and I thought huh. So he gives his speech and as he is leaving he has to - because this is outside of the Capitol and there was like this embankment that he had to walk over and they put these fake stairs. As he was walking over these temporary stairs to get to the car he stops at the top and turns around like you know Eva Peron from Evita and waves to all of these people...  Really?  But nobody was waving at him. It was just for the cameras. And so I guess he wanted to have this you know vision of himself ...  Really?  ...Waving to these adoring fans.  Do we...  So...  ...Want to talk about the reality of this job right now?  What?  The president just tweeted announcing that Don McGahn's leaving his job this fall in the middle...  Which...  ...Of...  My goodness.  ...This conversation...  Right.  ...Confirming an Axios scoop from this morning and now I am panicking silently.  .  And of course we knew that Don McGahn was going to leave after the...  This is the White House counsel.  The White House counsel who as reported threatened to quit when the president ordered him to fire Jeff Sessions - the White House counsel who apparently you know spoke at length with the special counsel so - and we knew that he was eyeing the...  Yeah.  ...Exits and would probably leave after the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh the Supreme Court nominee. But now the president as Katie mentions in real time is confirming...  .  I mean it is just...  ...The Axios reporting.  So like OK. This is one example of how different and out of the ordinary this administration is. Usually when there is a departure you hear buzz about it first then it is confirmed and then there is like an official statement. This was just a tweet.  And this happens a lot.  How does that change stuff for you all?  A lot of times what happens is the president will say something he will tweet something. And so what happens is you have the White House staff trying to make the reality on the ground reflect...  Mirror the tweet.  ...What the president has said or tweeted about. Yeah.  And then sometimes you will catch Sarah Sanders out there doing the world's hardest job trying to keep up with that.  She has the tough job.  And so for instance with this issue this McGahn forthcoming resignation this morning Sarah said when we have an announcement we will let you know...  .  ...Suggesting that...  That she would do it.  ...They were working through the process...  Right.  ...Of coming up with an announcement. There was - I am sure there was a plan...  Yeah.  ...To get in front of this. But yet the president it appears cut it all off with a tweet.  Well with personnel stuff he keeps things really close to his chest a lot too. He knows that stuff leaks. And with departures or hires or appointments you often have little visibility into it because he understands - like to your point about knowing where the cameras are I mean the man is like the foremost like media scholar...  Yeah.  .  ...Of our generation - of anybody's generation. I mean he knows...  And this is the thing no one wants to admit.  He knows...  Yeah.  ...How the big reveal works. He knows that in - like he is honed that skill over three four decades.  Yeah.  He knows how to kick start a news cycle. He knows how to barrel forth when things are not looking good.  Yeah.  Like the McCain flag thing feels like that happened in April...  Yeah.  Yeah.  ...You know? He...  Well Cohen and Manafort feels like...  Right.  Right.  ...It happened in...  Yeah.  ...2012.  Yeah.  And I think we like just do not really - I do not...  You know what the most interesting thing about covering this president is - is going to rallies. I have covered more rallies...  Yeah.  ...Than I can remember.  Yeah.  And watching him work through a message - and this started - I remember him doing this with the NFL stuff too where he would attack the players for the silent protests. And he would say a line. And if it did not get the right kind of applause he would...  Yes.  ...Switch up the words...  Workshop it.  I would see this in the campaign.  And he would say it again and let it land and see how it works.  I always said he was like a comic trying out new jokes...  Yeah.  ...Before the comedy special...  Yeah.  ...Like the comic that goes to the dingy comedy club on a Monday night and just tries the lines out.  And he fancies himself that he is not a politician. But he is president.  At this point you are.  ...A politician. And like all good politicians he knows exactly where his base is. He knows exactly what motivates them. And that is one of the reasons why he says what he does about immigration about the NFL. He is - you know he is trying to position himself as a nationalistic culture warrior...  Yeah.  ...And has not really moved beyond the skills if you want to call them that that made him successful as a candidate...  Yeah.  ...Because his supporters have not required anything other from him.  Exactly. Exactly. So - and you know just thinking about this news today with McGahn and talking about how a lot of times Trump staffers are trying to keep up with Trump - how does that affect sourcing? Like is it harder to talk to someone...  Oh...  ...And know what is what knowing that things could change on a dime?  Things are true until they are not. And it took me a while to be able to figure out how to say that on television. And then I just started saying that.  How do you say it?  I just say it - like as of this moment here's what we know. This could change.  Wow.  But you know things - in this White House things are true until they are not true.  How much is that - how different is that from the last administration?  Oh it is night and day. I mean I remember during the Obama administration you would get a sense of how the week was going to play out on a Sunday. There would...  Like the whole schedule?  Yeah. Well not the whole schedule but you would get a good like roadmap.  Yeah.  They would use the Sunday shows to message you know what they wanted to talk about that week where the agenda was headed. And I remember there were some White House staffers in the Obama administration who would apologize for last-minute changes to the schedule . You know what I mean?  Apologize .  Yeah it is like we are very sorry to have to do that.  That is quaint.  Yeah exactly.  .  And that is just not the way - and granted every White House takes on sort of the personality of the president. And so we know the president enjoys chaos and so this White House...  Yeah.  ...In just the way it operates is chaotic and that - it becomes a part...  I am not sure they...  ...Of our work.  ...Enjoy it though.  Oh yeah the staffers do not like it.  Oh for sure. I do not...  Yeah.  ...Think they do either.  I mean I think that they have learned to live in it.  Do they ever tell you off the record or indicate or show any emotion that would indicate that they are not happy are deflated are tired are weary?  I think that they - I do not get that feeling a lot. I get the feeling that they feel like they are in trench warfare. And I feel like they really believe that the president has accomplished a lot...  OK.  ...On behalf of the people who voted for him.  OK.  You know they can live with tax cuts. They like that. They like the relocation of the embassy to Jerusalem.  A lot of folks like the tariffs. The economy's doing well.  They - yeah. A lot of people do but a lot of people are also going to be hurt by that.  Yeah. Yeah.  So you know what he has not delivered is this wall that he largely you know ran on and won on. So I think that those staffers feel as they reflect the president's grievance that the press has not given him enough credit...  Yeah.  And that is energizing for them I think.  Yeah.  And you know what is different about that versus other administrations? Because every White House has staffers that feel beat down just by the...  Yeah.  ...Nature of the grueling...  Yeah.  It is a hard job.  Yeah.  What is different though in having talked to people who worked for George W. Bush and president - former President Obama is that those two men I think engendered loyalty and inspired their staff in a way that Donald Trump does not. So whereas - I feel like a lot of the people in the current White House are driven to a certain degree like by the kind of grievance you talk about and by some of the president's policies. I do not necessarily - at least in my conversations - get the sense that they are driven to do their best work on behalf of the man in - you know who sits in the Oval Office in the same way that people who worked for Presidents Bush and Obama did.  Well....  Yeah.  And this is like part of...  The point.  This is part of his strategy though right? Like he is someone from his reality TV days and like real estate days - he likes to have competing factions and interests...  Yeah.  ...Working for him. And so like if you are doing that you actually are not trying to inspire loyalty. You are trying to inspire competitiveness.  Yeah.  And that takes me to like another sourcing question. Like when you get leaks from sources are you saying to yourself well how is this faction of the White House trying to attack this other faction? Like do you...  A hundred percent.  Yeah.  ...Question sourcing?  Yeah.  Always question the motives yeah.  Yeah.  How do you work through that?  And I think that with certain people there are certain themes. So like you can sense why they talk about what they want to talk about...  Really?  ...You know and who they do not like or who does not like them. And...  Give me an example without saying names.  I just...   I can tell you that a lot of people - if you are thinking of somebody like John Kelly like you know who to reach out to in the White House who will offer you a word in defense of him and also a word not so defensive...  Huh.  ...Of him. I mean you just...  You know who to go to.  Yeah there are certain figures...  And you need to talk to...  ...That are lightning rods and - yeah.  You cannot just take it from one person.  You have got to get multiple...  Like oh this is...  Yeah.  You know it is just - you have to do comparative...  Yeah.  Right.  ...Analysis.  Which is why I love the stories you all have when it is like in talking with 37000...  I know.  ...Unnamed sources...   Well that is the thing. Journalism when done well is a team sport right?  Yeah.  And so The New York Times has a team. We at NBC have a team.  Yeah.  We have five producers five correspondents. And so you know as we are working on these stories we bounce you know sourcing off of each other and leads off of each other and that is how we get a good sense of what is actually happening.  Yeah you are right. And then some people talk - you know favor reporters over others have longer relationships. And sometimes a shorter relationship is helpful...  Yeah.  I mean as I - I have no other option.  Yeah.  So...  And that is why it drives me crazy when the president suggests that we just take anonymous sources and basically you know report things that are fiction as he puts it. Because...  Yeah. He did that this morning.  You takes so - yeah that is right. He tweeted this morning. It takes so much time to get it right...  Yeah.  ...You know? I mean that is...  Yeah.  ...At the core of what we do  is...  And also do not be mad at you all. Be mad at the folks in your White House that are leaking stuff. Like...  Yeah do not be mad at them.  Do not be mad at them yeah.   I like my job.  But like he is the master at being an anonymous source.  Yeah.  He would call New York tabloids. He would make up an identity.  With a different name.  John Barron loved anonymous sourcing.  .  I mean he helped - you know he created a media climate and helped you know engender...  Oh yeah.  ...A lot of this - I do not know - hatred toward anonymous sources when he was a master at it.  He was an anonymous source.  Again...  You know...  ...Foremost media scholar.  And you know what is scary though? That his - that fake news stuff that he does on the trail - that line lands every time...  Sure does.  ...With every kind of crowd. I am talking...  Yeah.  ...Like members of the military...  Yeah.  ...Blue-collar workers in West Virginia establishment Republicans in...  Yeah.  ...Florida...  Right.  ...And in Ohio. Does not matter where it is at this point - when he goes like fake news media - look at them all back there...  Yeah.  ...And he points at us you know in the press pen.  Is he still doing the press pen?  Yeah.  Because I was in the...  In the center of the room.  ...Press pen in the campaigns.  Yeah.  It was so weird.  That line works every time for him. And it is sad but it is also a little scary.  It is like being at - I think - I keep thinking of professional wrestling...  That is exactly right.  ...Which the president has...  Which he used to do.  ...A background in.  And because...  He needs a heel and the press...  Yeah.  ...Is easier in some ways than the Democrats.  Yeah.  And so much of it is so performative. And it is like theater.   All right. Time for a quick break. When we come back - how Geoff and Katie handle doing their job as White House reporters when the president makes them part of the story. BRB.   So you are obviously the heel for the president. And you are now part of his narrative and part of his storyline.  Right.  How does that affect you in your work knowing that you are a character in this plot arc as well?  I mean I think for a lot of us it is uncomfortable. I mean it is weird to even talk about it right now. It is just instinctive. Like you do not want to talk...  You do not want to make yourself part of the story. Yeah.  ...About it as if you are a character. But when he does things like call out individual reporters or institutions you have no choice. He is the president and he is dragged you into it. And you know I think a lot of reporters - and like I have not always been perfect about it too. Like we will tweet things that - we will say wow look at this.  Yeah.  You know the flags are up at the White House but they are down at the monument. Wow this is jarring. And...  Yeah.  ...You know that is - people in the White House watch that. And they take that as editorializing. And you know I do think to be perfectly honest and transparent like reporters are humans too. And like sometimes they cross the line. And the White House pays really close attention to that. And they...  Yeah.  It builds their argument that we are willing...  Yeah.  ...To be characters. And...  Yeah.  Do you think you have crossed the line before?  Do I think I have?  On Twitter maybe.  I think there was one time I did. And it was something about reproductive rights I think just to be honest.  Yeah. What happened?  I think I just retweeted something. And I was just - I was like - I think what I did was I said something about - I am from a rural area. My high school had a daycare. We had...  Wow.  ...Abstinence-only education.  Oh.  I worry about the women and children in those communities having access to education and services.  And you got some blowback.  Yeah. It is just kind of like people watch you so closely.  Oh yeah.  Yeah. It is hard to do what we do in this era where the president has made the pursuit of truth a partisan enterprise. Do you know what I mean?  Yeah.  And so you know I think now more than ever it is really incumbent upon reporters as Katie's saying to not let yourself become a part of the story when there is...  Do not let yourself be baited. Like just...  Do not let yourself be baited.  And they - and that is something he understands too - is the art of the bait. And the advisers who help him write his tweets or get - like they all understand that.  Yeah.  And it is really easy for them to get - I mean there are a lot of reporters in Washington covering the White House. And not everybody is perfect all day long.  And you know what I try not to do anymore on air? I try not to - and this really only affects broadcast. I do not read the tweets anymore. I try not to read the full tweets.  The president's tweets?  I do not read the stuff that is not pertinent - the Trump tweets.  Oh.  Because in the beginning you know on cable news it is oh another tweet from the president. Let me read all four of them.  Yeah.  And so now...  Often they are filled with untruths.  The stuff that is not edifying or true I do not try to give voice to. I only try to stick to the pertinent stuff. And that is my way of trying to stick to what is real what is true...  Yeah.  ...And to not get baited into whatever distraction or reflection strategy.  Yeah I mean when he talks about the press it is such a like - it is like OK you know back to work you know?  Yeah. Yeah. You know speaking about like not being baited as members of the press because they want to bait I think so long and hard about one particular White House correspondent at CNN Jim Acosta...  Yeah.  ...Who has taken up this enemy of the press back and forth...  Heel.  ...As like his cause.  You know?  I in my heart of journalistic hearts think that is not the right way to handle it. Are there conversations about the right way to handle the enemy of the press stuff and how much you should be in that story line amongst the White House press corps?  You know every administration seems to have that reporter who is sort of known as being the thorn in its side right?  Right.  So Sam Donaldson was the guy in the '80s who would shout questions.  Really?  And then I guess it might have been Ed Henry at Fox News who did that for the - did that to the Obama administration.  Was it always the TV guys?  More often than not.  OK.  Yeah.  because it does...  The print people were just like...  That kind of interaction does not translate in print.  Yeah.  The print people are like what?  When Peter Baker's got - I think Peter's gotten yelled at. Or the times...  Yeah.  ...He is been yelled at and Peter's just like thank you and just answers his question.  .  You know like the print people are a little bit more like all right you know because we are...  Yeah. So it is a personal decision on behalf of that reporter that correspondent and on behalf of that news organization you know as to how to handle it.  Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah.  I just think that there was - you know when we are in the briefing room though I do think it is important when we are trying to get an answer on something that is meaningful and the White House has learned to just stonewall and play us against each other.  Right.  I mean they - White House aides have told me like we are a team as opposed to you guys you know?  Really?  Yeah totally. And...  And that is why - I am sorry. Go ahead.  And I just mean when Jordan Fabian - he works at The Hill - kind of gave Hallie Jackson the floor...  Oh yeah.  Sarah tried to move on. I forget what the question was. But Jordan - he did not do any grandstanding. Like I am seating my question. All he did was say Hallie go ahead if you want you know?  Yeah.  And it is like those are very small gestures...  Yeah.  ...That make us look less petty.  Yeah.  And it would be nice to see that kind of unity...  Yeah.  Yeah.  ...Just like low-key.  Low...  Just move - yeah.  Low-key unity.  Yeah low-key unity.  Speaking of unity are there unified answers to these kind of questions within your newsrooms? Are there disagreements...  No. Sorry.  Tell me more.   Why do not you go? You talk.  Unified answers to questions about like how to deal with the president that kind of thing?  And each other.  Like in these big questions about how the White House press corps and White House correspondents deal with this press environment is there a unified front or stance or point of view on that inside your newsroom?  Sort of - in the sense that we at NBC have all more or less agreed that the story is primary right?  OK.  We try not to make ourselves the center of the story.  Yeah.  And that goes both in how we report it and how we conduct ourselves in the briefing room how we conduct ourselves in interactions both on and off camera with White House officials.  Yeah.  But there are no sort of like marching orders that we have received from on high...  Yeah.  ...About how to deal with this...  Yeah.  ...Administration you know day in and day out.  That is a very diplomatic answer.  Yeah it is.  Well no it is true. I mean but what is interesting though is that if people watch the briefing you can see how Sarah will strategize you know how she is going to give her answers who she calls on...  Yeah.  She is smart.  ...How they delay the briefing. So say for instance the briefing is supposed to start at 2 oclock.  Yeah.  And the president has an event on the schedule that starts at 3.  Got to keep it moving.  And she does not walk out until 30 or 45.  So you can only have so many minutes.  You have 15 minutes. And so she will - she often will call on the front row because it is the wire services it is the TV correspondents who need that interaction for their nightly news piece. But if she wants to change the subject she will call on a business reporter in the back of the room. She will call on an international reporter because she knows they do not care about Michael Cohen or Stormy Daniels. They want to know about trade or you know whatever topic.  She is smart.  Yeah and so that is how sometimes she will hit the release valve. If there is tension in the room she will call on someone she knows does not - is not asking about the same question.  Yeah yeah. Katie these arguments about you know what the stance of White House correspondent should be - you said there is no unified front in your newsroom either.  I mean there is just - I mean I guess I should not have answered so quickly. There is just discussion over how to handle it. I think that there are White House correspondents who have been covering administrations on our teams since like Clinton I think - goes that far back. And you know applying sort of historical context to how to interact is important. But there is also an acknowledgement that this is a different president and a different White House. And they have - they eat the chess pieces. You know they do not play chess. They eat them. They eat the board.  Yeah that is great.  Wow.  And it is hard to deal. You know it is hard to strategize for that. And I think you know when people see somebody yelling at Sarah I think all of us are just like God you know like this is not helpful.  It is not.  You know but then there is also an acknowledgement that like maybe if she is doing the strategic thing like you are talking about you know how do we deal with that. Or when they try to hold like off the records with 50 reporters like why are we agreeing to this? Do we take ourselves out of this? Or do we go you know? So those are not easy things to address or answer.  How do you address them internally? Like do you have conflict inside of yourself?  I always - I feel like the tenants of good journalism are solid no matter what. Like no matter who is occupying the White House. And so I just try to stick to that even if you have a president who eats all the chess pieces right?  Oh yeah.  Like if you have...  But if you have been taught the rules of chess you have to play it differently.  But then if you get sucked in - I feel like if you get sucked in and you start to compromise what you know to be good journalism to deal with the current environment then that is how you...  Yeah.  ...Get tripped up.  So you guys hear all of the critique of the White House press corps coming from the left and the right and the middle and the up and the down. What is the one critique of White House coverage that rings truest to you? And how do you try to address that critique in your work?  I always say journalism and education are the two professions where people who have never worked in them think they know how to do the job better than the people that do.  Oh my gosh. Yeah.  Right. Like yeah I have never been a teacher but I am sure I have been like if I was a teacher I would tell...  Yeah. Yeah.  I do think sometimes we cast about on stories that do not necessarily matter in a true sense but that matter in the moment because they are interesting and entertaining and they might drive ratings.  OK. Give me an example of one of those stories.  Like the tweet du jour.  Yeah.  And sometimes we dissect a tweet. And we you know do not still cover the fact that there are some 500-plus children who are still separa