 Hey you all this is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR National Desk reporter Nate Rott and University of Montana journalism professor Jule Banville. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all Sam Sanders here It is BEEN A MINUTE. This song - we are definitely going to talk about it. But first as Aunt Betty said we have two of the best and brightest stars in Montana. Thank you both for being here. Listeners you are hearing Montana music from Merle Haggard because we are in Montana taping today in Missoula.  Yeah Merle Haggard. How did you choose Merle Haggard Sam?  So I knew that we were going to be in Montana and I asked the people of Twitter like what are some good Montana songs to play? Got a lot of suggestions. Frank Zappa's Montana was a close second but that song was kind of out there. So we are playing Merle. The lyrics on this song which is called Big City are kind of interesting. It talks about this guy leaving the big city for Montana.  This is you. This song is about you.   Merle Haggard speaks for me. Let us let us play some of it clear for a second. I want to hear it.    Turn me loose. Set me free somewhere in the middle of Montana...  I can get down with that.  Yeah.  Like the lyrics to this Merle Haggard song Big City are quite interesting. Turn me loose set me free somewhere in the middle of Montana and give me all I have got coming to me. And keep your retirement and your so-called Social Security.    So-called Social Security...  Big city turn me loose and set me free. Merle keep that money.  Keep the money.  Keep the money Merle.  Yeah.  So before we get to it for listeners that do not know you guys Nate you probably hear a lot on the radio. Nate Rott covers the West and public lands and everything for NPR's National Desk.  Disasters yeah.  Based in LA. You were just at which hurricane?  Harvey.  OK.  I was down in Texas...  You were.  ...For a week.  Yeah. And Jule Banville is a professor at the University of Montana teaches journalism. Did you teach Nate?  I did not have the pleasure no.  .  I taught his brother Noah but...  OK.  Yeah the better half.  Yeah.  You teach podcasting and you have your own podcast called Last Best Stories. What is that about?  They are kind of really cool stories that either my students sort of start with me and then help them make them better that we can do in class or I do some myself or I commission some from independent producers.  Well from what I have heard podcasts are going places.  Yeah.  I mean I heard everybody's got one.  Yeah OK. First we are going to start the show as we always do. I want each of us to describe how this week of news and stuff felt in just three words. Who is going to go first?  Not it.  OK.  Those are two words.  Yeah all right OK. I picked as my three words check the locals.  Check the locals.  Check the locals.  Why is that?  Well for me the big thing that I have been paying attention to is Hurricane Irma so...  Because you got family in Florida right?  Yes so my folks live between Tampa and Orlando right smack in...  Yeah.  ...Central Florida where they...  Are they OK?  They are OK. This morning I was able to talk to my mom for about 60 seconds before her phone cut out. So the water was turned on. So they had not had water for five days and they need to flush.  Yeah.  So it is been rough.  Was there pressure for them to evacuate? What was the situation there? Were they told to leave and stayed anyway?  They were told to evacuate because they are in a double-wide so...  Oh.  And their double-wide made it through the storm.  Those are the things that got just like - the trailer parks I saw where the places - just trailers all around - got nailed in those storms.  But your parents - their trailer survived?  Their trailer survived.  Wow.  So the next door double-wide - the roof did not make it.  Speaking of checking locals did you find yourself following local news or national news when you were trying to figure out if your parents were all right?  Yeah that was the thing. So my mom says turn on the Weather Channel. And I was like what is happening where...  Where you are.  ...Where you are? And I worked for a local newspaper for 10-odd years in Erie Pa. and so I started checking the websites for the newspapers so the Orlando Sentinel and the Ledger which covers Polk County where my parents are. And they were killing it.  Yeah.  Like amazing accurate specific information from where my parents were and also all these like really human stories. I was reading the Tampa Bay Times and there was this...  A great paper.  Yeah.  Such a great paper and they were really in trouble because their newsroom is in a building that is made mostly of glass.  That was the thing that just totally blew me away. It was all these people that were like - I mean they were evacuating towns and cities. But then people were hanging out in the newsroom just gathering in the middle of the building in case a storm really gets bad.  So just - I mean shout-out and snaps to our local journalists.  Absolutely and you know they have homes and they have families who are right there...  Exactly they have to evacuate to. It is something else. It is something else so - Nate you got three words?  I got three words and they are kind of an abridged version of more words. But OK here we go. Three words are jarring events jar OK? Stay with me.  OK I am with you.  So it is a less profound kind of shorthand version of this quote that I heard earlier this week from a guy that was doing this story kind of looking at do the politics of climate change and the conversation around climate change - does that get shifted when there is all these - you know you have two giant hurricanes. You have got the wildfires that are burning out here in the West you have got all these different issues. So this one guy said - this guy's Bill Miller. He is a Texas. You - Sam you are from Texas.  I am.  Do you know Bill Miller?  I know Bill Miller Bar-B-Q.  It is not. I do not think he does Bill Miller Bar-B-Q.  OK that was...  No so Bill Miller is a - he is a political lobbyist. He is just like - he knows everybody in Texas politics. And he - I was talking about this like hey do you think that the politics of climate change are going to change at all after Harvey right? I mean have one of the largest - the largest city in the state is basically under water.  Fourth largest in the country.  Fourth largest in the country.  Yeah.  And it was interesting. He said profound events have profound effects. And so you know he did not say - we are not going to see this change overnight. It is a really red state. But he did think that the conversation might change. People are going to start having these like - you know when they are rebuilding a bridge or they are rebuilding something you might think OK well usually we build this for the 100-year flood but these 100-year floods are happening...  Ten-year floods.  ...Two or three years you know whatever.  Yeah.  So maybe we need to start looking at it in a different way. And yeah it was really interesting because I think you know I have talked to people who basically say well maybe we just should stop calling it climate change. Maybe we should just talk about in a localized way. Like I talked to a guy in...  And what would you call it?  Well it just like whatever the effect is in the place that you are. So like in Montana where we are now it could be like longer droughts right? And people...  Yeah and bigger fires.  Yeah people can relate to that but they might not relate to climate change. In Southern California I talked to a guy who is like I just call it coastal flooding - increased coastal flooding. And everybody's like I do not want to see that. So I do not know. It kind of got me thinking. You know I wonder if people are sitting around and having these conversations about like man maybe I do not want to put up with the weather in this way.  Exactly. I have three words.  What are they?  My three words are everything is fine. And that can come with a period or a question mark depending on how you feel. But I say that because there are some new metrics out from the Census Bureau with some really interesting data points. Some positives - median household income in the U.S. went up between 2015 and 2016 an increase of 3.2 percent in real terms to make median household income in the U.S. 59039 last year. It is pretty good. The poverty rate fell between 2015 and 2016. The poverty rate now is 12.7 percent. About 40 million people in poverty. That is pretty much taking that number back to pre-recession levels. And at the same time the number of people without health insurance is down. Now only about 8.8 percent of people in the country lack health insurance. That is a really good number. And so there is all these great metrics about the economy and the state of the average American. But from talking to people and from watching the news you would have no idea.  So is that why? I mean where is the question mark come in? I mean everything is fine.  Everything is fine? Like everything with these numbers seems to be fine. But do Americans feel like everything is fine? You have crazy weather. You have got crazy politics. You have got nuclear brinksmanship throughout the world. And it just feels like even in spite of these good economic indicators there is this layer of anxiety sitting over the entire country.  Yeah I mean those numbers are actually pretty surprising to me.  Yeah.  Right.  But then I thought maybe he said everything's fine because he came to Montana.   And everything here is...  Everything is fine.  I love it.  All right. We are going to hold right here to take a quick break. We will be back with Long Distance where we call a listener and see what is going on where they live. And we will swap some stories. Each of us will share a news story from the week that meant a lot to us. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. I am Sam Sanders. BRB.   OK now it is time for a thing we do every week. It is called Long Distance.   Cute dance moves right there.  Yeah.  This is where we call a listener out in the country and talk about what is going on in their neck of the woods. Today on the line we have a really really long long distance. This caller is from Canberra Australia. Did I say that right - Canberra? - she will tell me. From Australia Clementine Wraith . Hi Clementine how are you?  I am good thanks Sam how are you?  I am good. Did I say Canberra right?  Yeah you did spot on.  Yes OK. All right so what do you do there in Australia?  I am a student at the Australian National University doing Middle Eastern Studies and Arabic and I work part-time as a barista.  Wow so you reached out to us and wanted us to talk about a pretty big thing happening in Australia right now that a lot of other countries really are not talking about. There is what is called a plebiscite happening right now in the country over gay marriage. This is a non-binding vote by mail over whether or not same-sex marriage will be legalized in the country. Is that correct?  Yes absolutely.  Until you emailed me I had no idea this thing was happening. And the first thing I thought when you emailed us I said oh I did not know that like Australia has not resolved the marriage issue yet. Do a lot of folks feel that way there?  Yeah absolutely. I mean I remember you know five six years ago going to protests about equal marriage and that sort of thing. And after it was legalized in the U.S. I think everyone just assumed it would happen here within sort of 18 months. But it is pretty unbelievable to think that it is 2017 and we are still having this raging debate over whether two consenting adults can get married.  I mean I read a bit into the politics of it. But it seems as if for the most part a majority of Australians want this to be legal. So like why is not it just legal yet?  I think the reason it has not been passed yet is essentially just politics within the Liberal Party itself even though most Australians do want it to get it passed. And you know the other two major parties in Australia Greens and Labor also want it to get passed.  And so just to clarify in Australia the Liberal Party is the conservative party?  Yes.  OK.  Yes I know it is confusing.  It is like the way that the water spins the opposite way down there too right?  It does?  Yeah exactly.  You know when you flush the toilet.  The parties go the opposite way.  The parties go the opposite way and then...  Woah.  Blow your mind?  Mind blown.  Yeah so...  I cannot even wrap my mind around it.   The more you know.  So how is this vote - like what is been the mood and the tenor of the conversation around this issue as this goes on?  I think at the crux of it it is about - the country is really really divided at the moment which is a really sad thing to see. Like you cannot really - not trust but you are depending on your friends and family and neighbors to sort of determine your future as an LGBT person in Australia and determine whether or not I can get married to you know my future partner.  Yeah. And you know I was reading this morning like the level of campaigning around this issue has been pretty heavy. What is been the nastiest thing that you have heard around all of this?  That was a horrible horrible advertisement put out in the form of posters saying that LGBT parents are more likely to abuse their children than heterosexual parents which you know was really just a mean and really nasty thing to say. And I think it plays into this thought that LGBT families are less valid than heterosexual families which is certainly not the case.  Clementine I just wanted to ask you - just so I can sort of keep on top of this - when is this plebiscite happening? When do people turn in their ballots and that sort of thing?  It is happening right now. I got my ballot yesterday and we have to turn them in by - oh I think the cut-off date is November 4. But I think you have to mail them in earlier than that like October 26 or something. So yeah it is happening right now.  So how common are these plebiscites - these mail-in non-binding votes?  They are not common whatsoever.  Really? OK.  I am not even sure we have had another one before this. I cannot tell you off the top of my head but yes - plebiscite has not happened while I was alive I believe.  Really?  And that is 19 years.  Well on a lighter note if you are not studying or a barista-ing what are you going to do for fun this weekend?  The weather finally warming up here so hopefully - Canberra has a lot of really cool like...  Oh it is getting warm down there. Other side of the world. This is crazy.   All right so it is getting warm. What are you going to do?  I am hoping - I have got yeah a lot of study to do. But on Sunday it is supposed to be really nice and sunny so hopefully go out to one of the nature parks around and go hiking or something. Canberra is situated in a very nice part of the world. It is sort of - my house is like a 10-minute drive from the bush so yeah hopefully get up tour a bit of that.  That is awesome. All right hey Clementine thank you so much. Have a great great weekend.  Yes thank you so much guys. You too.  All righty. Bye.  Bye.  Bye.  OK bye.  We also got a real-time live fact-check in our ears from our editor Steve. Nate you are full of lies. The water does not spin in the opposite direction.  I just - and I actually - I tried to fact-check Steve by looking it up while she was talking there at the end it is - you are right. He was right. It is true.  I want us to leave...  But that is a myth that I feel like you know...  ...The error and the correction in.  Yeah.  I think it is funner that way.   All right listeners we want to talk to you for this segment as well. If you would like us to give you a call and hear about anything going on where you live drop me a note. Tell us what is happening samsandersnpr.org samsandersnpr.org I cannot guarantee that Nate will be giving you fake news when you call but someone will talk to you.   But reach out. I would be happy to.   Now it is time for the part of the show when we swap some news stories from the week that was. I ask our panelists to bring in a story but this week I picked Nate's story for him...  .  ...Because I know it is a thing he knows a lot about - the fires.  The fires forest fires.  So first back story. As a reporter at NPR you cover a lot of fires out in the West. But also Nate you used to be a firefighter correct?  I was yup.  For how long?  I guess it would be five seasons five and a half seasons.  Wow.  Yeah.  OK so you got a lot of expertise in this. This is a thing that I feel like - there is been a ton of fires all throughout the West. It seems to me that they have not been getting enough coverage. Quickly tell me how big and the scope of these fires across the country - this part of the country.  So just the number figures and I know this like number figures sometimes are kind of hard to get your head around. But more than 8 million acres have burned in the U.S. this year. That is basically the size of Maryland - the state of Maryland...  Wow.  ...Has burnt.  Is that average for every year or is it more than average?  You know it is more than average for this time of year right now. But it is not Montana where we are. Some of these places you know they are kind of coming to the end of their fire season. But like in California where I live now I mean fire season - it is going to be on for a couple more months if not the rest of the year because we are kind of in a cycle now where the fire season - you know it used to be fire season was a few months in the summer. And now it seems like fire season is just year-round in certain parts of the U.S.  Why is that?  Well a lot of people want to say climate change.  OK.  And most of the fire ecologist people you talk to I mean that is - there is been a lot of good research on that that I mean you think about it. If the climate is warming if the air is warming that is going to dry out trees faster. It is going to cause more droughts. It is going to allow for more invasive species - bark beetles and like pine beetles here have devastated a bunch of the forests in Montana. Usually a really cold winter will stop the spread of these beetles. And we just do not get those cold winters as regularly anymore. So that allows them to kind of proliferate and go all over the place.  What is been the most unusual thing about this fire season? Has it been in any way out of the ordinary besides just feeling like it is - the whole West is on fire?  On fire? Yeah I mean and I do think people have not paid as much attention to it this year because I mean I think it is because there is so much other news right?  Yeah.  Yeah.  And it is - it is hard to compare apples and oranges when you are talking about hurricanes and fires because I mean these hurricanes - hundreds of thousands of homes that have been destroyed.  Yep yeah.  Fires - there are hundreds of homes that have been destroyed. Thousands of people have been evacuated but it is different. I do not know - I mean in the state of Montana the numbers - there have been bigger fire seasons.  OK.  But one of the things that is different this year is usually when we have these big fire seasons a lot of the acreage that burns is in the eastern part of the state.  Gotcha.  And so Montana for somebody who does not know it is kind of two states in a way. You have like the eastern part of the state - it is this prairie. It is the grassland you know. And over here in the West we are surrounded by mountains. And so a lot of these fires that have been burning this year are burning in the mountains in this thick timber. And those fires it is hard for them to get this big because if you think about it - right? - you start a piece of grass on fire it is going to burn pretty easy.  Yeah.  Try to start a log on fire takes a lot more heat...  Yeah.  ...Lot more time. And it takes that much more time to put out too. So that is one of the issues is these fires are really ripping through heavily forested areas.  Yeah. What is it been like for you living here through this? The smoke was heavy.  Smoky. Yeah super smoky.  Yeah.  I was not in an area where the fire's right there and I had to evacuate my house. And that is certainly happened to a lot of people around here.  Yeah.  But the air quality has been essentially hazardous for a long time.  For weeks.  I mean...  Yeah.  But you came and you brought the rain.  .  So thanks.  That was me. You are welcome. Yeah. Well it is funny I was talking with your mom Nate about like how places like Missoula have had to adjust to all the smoke. Children are having to go to school in different places. A lot of kids ended up going to class in like a resort...   Yeah.  ...Outside of town.  There is this resort called Paws Up which is kind of a swanky cool place.  So swanky.  It is very swanky.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah too swanky - I have never been.  .  But yeah they were relocating kids from a high school...  Yeah.  ...To Paws Up to this resort for their classes...  Yeah.  ...And for everything because the air was...  So bad.  ...So bad where they were.  Your mother told me that the cross-country athletes at her high school they cannot run outside. So they have been running laps over and over in the school.  Yeah.  It is something else. Well and then it is like just thinking about that from what I understand there are kind of two schools of thought about how to deal with these fires. Some folks say this is the circle of life. Let it burn. This is how this stuff works. And I am sure other folks are saying keep the smoke and the fire out of my backyard.  Yeah I mean...  Not much they can do about the smoke to be honest.  Yeah yeah. But like...  And there is not much they can do about the fires.  OK.  I mean one of the things that is kind of newsy and relevant especially this week the interior secretary Ryan Zinke who is a Montanan is directing his land managers and everyone to take an aggressive new approach to trying to mitigate the chance for wildfire - prevent wildfire.  OK.  And by doing - I think I had it written down because it is a very wonky term. He calls it scientific fuels reduction management.  What does that mean?  Which means logging.  Which - thinning logging - thinning I mean it basically means...  So he is saying...  ...Cutting down more trees.  ...Cut down trees to prevent more fires.  Yeah. So there is a popular kind of refrain that you hear in a lot of the West - and especially around here. I mean a lot of the communities around where we are right now we are logging communities that are - since do not have any windmills or anything. I mean the logging's kind of died. And a lot of people are angry about that politically.  Yes.  And they blame the Obama administration previous administrations that have closed areas and calls them national forests. The Montana senator Steve Daines had a tele-town hall the other day where he blamed radical environmentalists for a lot of these fires.  Really?  Because he says they are blocking logging projects that would otherwise come through and clear out the timber. I want to be very clear. I mean the science is really complicated. I have talked to a couple of fire ecologists about this. It is not that cut and dry.  OK.  It is you know logging...  Pun intended.  Yeah. Pun not intended but it should have been intended.  OK.  Logging can help prevent some fires in some ways if you do thin out a forest and you get rid of a lot of the overgrown stuff. But logging can also make fires worse in some places.  Really?  We have seen like in British Columbia this year there was these huge fires. And a lot of that is because it is areas that have been logged trees had been replanted. But they are replanting the same tree. And so if you have no biodiversity in a forest if you have one pest come through that really loves that tree...  Yeah.  ...All of a sudden your entire forest is destroyed.  Last question.  Yep.  Given all this happening this year with the fire season will things look different next year in the way that people fight these fires talk about them deal with them or just going to be another season next year?  It is going to be another fire season.  OK OK.  And there is only so much you can do. I mean the forest is going to burn. And I do think though there are conversations about funding and how we do that that are taking place. And hopefully that jarring event's jar right?  .  Back to it.  Right back to it.  It is called full circle.  Yeah.  Yeah. All right. Hey you all. Sam Sanders chiming in here real quick from my rental car in Polson Bay Mont. just to say quick note in this following section we talk about physician-assisted suicide. But we do not use that clinical term. Jule uses the phrase death with dignity. That is what some laws around this procedure are called. And it is also what some supporters call this procedure. So we know that there is more than one way to describe this thing. But we only use one name for this conversation just to make the conversation flow a little bit better. All right? All right. Your story Jule I think is a little depressing too.  Yeah.   Hit us with it.  No we are here to pick everyone up today.   You are though - everything's fine.  Everything's fine.  Everything's fine.  I was sort of thinking - I do not know this three-word thing that you do...  Yeah.  ...With It is BEEN A t of - it is catching on. I mean I started thinking about my life in three words. But anyway - so the three words to the stories that I am going to talk about are death with dignity.  Oh OK.  And this is a concept that a lot of states are knocking around but...  Basically allowing you to...  Choose when to die.  Choose when to die and how to die.  Basically what it actually means is can a doctor prescribe you the right medications so that you can decide to fill that prescription and then to take that medication to end your life?  How legal is this? It varies state to state right?  It varies state to state. So there are six states and the District of Columbia. So it started in Oregon.  Yes.  So it is Washington Oregon California Colorado Montana but Montana is sort of the outlier. And I will talk about that in a sec. And Vermont. And then D.C. passed it last year. So in Montana they did it through the courts. So they are the only ones who did it through the courts.  So will this spread to other states? What is the lay of the land?  Well in Utah there is not a plebiscite. But there are polls out there that show a majority of Utahns support this. But you know it is less than 60 percent at this point. In D.C. for instance - so D.C. just - their law's pretty new. So this week though the House passed - as part of this huge appropriations bill - a couple of riders that are going to affect D.C. and how they govern. And one of them is to basically negate the death with dignity law that was passed in D.C. So the City Council passed it. The mayor signed it into law. It went into effect in July. But depending on what happens with the Senate it could kill what D.C. said it wants.  The U.S. Congress could just negate that.  The U.S. Congress could negate it and the House has already voted to do that. So now they send it up to the Senate and it is kind of up to the Senate whether they are going to take it up.  Really interesting. Now you did on your podcast a story about someone who...  Yeah.  Talk a bit about that.  Yeah so we talked to Ethel Barnes . And her husband Irwin had cancer three times by the end there was Parkinson's. And he was a party planner. He loved a party. He loved food. He loved his family - had six kids. He and his wife were married for 63 years. So he planned a party. You know and by this time he could not eat. He was having trouble swallowing but you know he planned the menu. And he filled the prescription. And his medical care provider put it in his I.V.  His I.V.  And he was the one who opened the tube.  Wow.  Wow.  And he died. And he died in this really peaceful way surrounded by his family. And so we talked to Ethel. And Ethel just talks about how it was so beautiful. Like you do not think of death as beautiful. And this person - I mean she is been married to this guy for 63 years. You can imagine how hard it would be to see him die and the way that she talked about it was in this really peaceful loving way you know that he got to go out the way he wanted to...  He wanted to go out.  And he would always say you know we need to be the driver of our own bus. You know and that is what he did.  Where can folks hear that podcast of the story you described?  Last Best Stories.  And what is that episode called?  That is How to Die in Montana.  Wow. I will check it out.  OK thanks. I need like 12 listeners. No I need - not 11. I need 12.  Listeners help us up. Check out this podcast.  It is awesome.  All right. I have got a story for you guys.  All right.  This maybe a little more uplifting.  OK.  I do not know. It might not be actually.  We need it.  Have you heard of bodega gate?  Yes.  Bodega gate.  Yeah. Oh Nate let me tell you. So you know what a bodega is?  Yeah.  This is a mom and pop neighborhood store most popular in New York. There is believed to be 12000 bodegas in New York City alone. And these are usually run by immigrants by people of color. And they are these shining examples of the success of small business in America. And they sell everything and also make a good sandwich for you too. Like bodegas are a thing. A lot of them have cats. You know bodegas. Anyway...  And if there is 12000 bodegas I think there must be like 13000 bodega cats.   Yeah yeah. So bodegas - everyone loves them right? Well two ex Google employees have started a new company making a product that they are calling bodega. It is a 5-foot-wide pantry box filled with nonperishable items that you might pick up at a convenience store. An app allows you to unlock the box like with your phone. And then cameras powered with computer vision register what you pick up. And that will automatically charge your credit card. And the entire process can happen without a person actually having to man the store. They are calling these bodegas. The logo is a bodega cat - a nod to bodega cats. And so...  We are going to nod to the thing we are killing basically.  Yeah. And so like one of the founders of this said the vision here is much bigger than the box itself. Eventually centralized shopping locations will not be necessary because there will be 100000 bodegas - their bodegas - spread out with one always 100 feet away from you. So they are basically saying we kind of want to put bodegas out of business and we are going to call our thing - which is fully automated - we are going to call that Bodegas. Well let me tell you what. The Internet was not having it.  People are mad.  People are really mad about it because it is just like the audacity.  I mean it is kind of like - it is a little like what is happened with maybe taxi drivers and Uber right? Like all of a sudden...  But they did not call it Taxi .  Yeah. That is true.  They did not call it Taxi.  They did not call it Taxi. It is just so brazen. So there was - I mean the Internet was like oh no you will not. And just like a day or two later the founders had a post on Medium and they apologized. And they say is it possible we did not fully understand what the reaction to the name would be? Yes...  Maybe.  Clearly. And so what - the thing is though they said in their response and in the first story about it that was in Fast Company they said well we polled a cross-section of Latinos. And 97 percent of them said it was totally cool. And I am like...  .  I do not know. I cannot speak for Latinos.  Was this a mail-in ballot?   But that sounds suspect. Did they have a plebiscite on Bodega? But what I do not understand - well actually what I do understand is that like this is just another glaring example of Silicon Valley living in such a bubble where they just do not understand or see what feels like is the real world. How did that whole office of people...  Not...  ...Not say actually maybe...  Let me play devil's advocate for a second here.  Well you do not - yeah.  Not that I want to see that but what I like - if you think about what Amazon is doing - right? - or like when you go to the airport and it is like all of a sudden there is like the Best Buy dispensary right? I mean you dont have to interact with a human anymore for...  Yes.  ...To buy a lot of things. I mean could not you say in a way that like look the world's g