Anna Sale Who knows about your student loan debt? Jordan Gibbs Umm the government. Actually...I...its pretty - its a secret for me. Definitely a secret.  So youre coming out in a big way.  Oh god. Im sweating right now. Yeah it is. And Im hoping this is going to make me keep myself accountable to actually starting these student loans. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. And this week we are revisiting your stories about student loan debt. We first brought you this series back in 2017 three years after our listener Jordan finished college. A few months after her graduation she got her first student loan bill.  I just didnt pay. Like I just felt like how can you expect me to start paying you 700 a month? Which is just a crazy number and like I cant even afford to pay rent so paying 700 a month is just not feasible.  How much do you owe in student loans?  Oh god. 58000. In the years since graduating Jordan had never made a payment on her student loans.  You start getting emails all the time like Hey Jordan your student loans are past due and then you get like one of those pink envelopes in the mail. When its like - when you get the pink envelope youre fucked.  How long have you been getting pink envelopes?   See the trick is when you call the student loan office and you say like Oh like Give me this information I want to start the process theyll get off your back for like a month or so. Maybe like on and off for about a year. When Jordan sat down with me she told me it was time to stop running from her student debt. And she wants to be open about it.  So first and last name youre fine?  Jordan Gibbs.  Okay Jordan Gibbs.  I do not mind sharing my identity. I think it is actually a little bit of a cathartic way to get me to pay my loans so I am okay with it.  So you want to use your full name because you think it will hold you accountable?  Uh...if I actually do it would be a miracle but I think its the right step in the right direction. We have a lot of student debt in the United States. More people... Everybody has student debt. Are taking out more loans... I thought I was gonna be able to pay all this off in a snap. and taking a longer time to pay them back. And the phone calls come and the emails come and the letters come and they treat us like criminals. We have more student loan debt than credit card debt in this country. Over one trillion dollars split among some 40 million Americans. I am about 88000 10000 241000 One-three-four-zero-zero-zero Thousands and thousands of dollars into student debt. When we asked you for your stories about student loan debt hundreds of you responded. Its the biggest response weve ever gotten in fact. But even though so many of us have student loans many of you said they feel like a secret. My own husband he has no idea. I have blatantly lied to my friends about student loans. I carry guilt but mostly embarrassment In so many ways I felt embarrassed. I feel like a big fat freakin' loser.  Did you talk to anybody about student loans? Sharif No! Because I couldnt. I felt like a total complete idiot that I put myself in this position. I think the only person I told was my mother and she was like ah youll be okay. Because she doesnt really - I mean she didnt want to tell me how fucked up the situation was! This is Sharif. When we talked he was in his car parked outside his office. None of his co-workers know he has more than 100000 federal and private student loans.  I do not know how else to put it except that I almost made it. I am still unsuccessful financially. Sharif is a chemical engineer and he makes just over six figures. Hes married raising a family...  I have two beautiful kids a three-year-old daughter and a one and a half year-old son. He was born in Bangladesh and moved to the U.S. when he was 13. He took out loans to put himself through college. He thought it was just what you do in America.  I mean when you grow up in Bangladesh right U.S. is like the fantasy land where everything is so easy and possible. So that was the impression I had. I had no idea that college was going to be so expensive.  What do you know now that you did not realize then?  Oh that how interest would - how compounding interest would just pile up. Like minimum payments work - it is just not enough. You will never get out of debt. That is something I had no clue about. So yeah that made me recalculate what America meant to me.  Sharif likethere is part of me that is thinking about you get a degree in chemical engineering and you have some loans as a result of that. Why do you feel like that was a bad decision?  Why? Because before I went to college right I was working for a hotel. I was making like around 3000 a month. And that was a very good living at that time. Versus going through school getting a jobI do not know what to call it let us say a prestigious jobmy situation my financial situation hasnt really improved. Even my lifestyle hasnt really improved that much. So when I compare the two it almost seems like if I hadnt gone to college I probably would have been better off. Sharifs education has allowed him to get a job that comes with the appearance of success...but without the money to show for it. Hes not alone in that. Alyssa Savage Im called Dr. Savage um I wear a white coat and I have a bunch of letters after my name. Alyssa Savage is a veterinarian in Pennsylvania.  Theres no way to get bored in this job. You know I cant imagine not doing this work.  How much student loan debt do you have?  I have 517249.79 in student loan debt.  You have half half a million dollars in student loan debt?  Yes I do. Its actually more than 200 greater than just two or so weeks ago. Alyssa knew shed be in debt when she finished vet school. What she didnt count on was getting divorced halfway through. Then she took out more loans than shed planned to to cover her bills.  It starts to feel like Monopoly money. It is 350000 in debt and 400000 in debt. It starts to just feel a little unreal. I mean of course now I think about the shame I feel. You know all these things that you know have kind of compounded that didnt feel like it was gonna really affect me in the long run but it really turned out to.  Whats the shame about?  Oh its just theres this big thing like - I have incredible privilege you know? I make more than most people do. And here I am going Oh my gosh Ill never retire or you know Ill never be able to buy a home. And who am I to think that having a fulfilling career is that important? Alyssa consulted a financial advisor right out of vet school. He told her that her best bet was to just pay minimum payments based on her income until her federal student loans are forgiven in 20 years.  That seemed to be the most efficient way to still possibly have some retirement money. Or there is alwaysI started working late so 20 years from now I might not be here. I might not be alive. So then I wouldnt have to worry about it  which is such a dark and horrible thing to say but that does cross my mind a little bit.  Youll be 57.  Yeah yeah.  How does it feel knowing that youll never - with the plan now youll never have that feeling of having your debt paid off?  Yeah its um...yeah it just feels like a little bit of heaviness in the back of everything. Im sure that there are so many people that live their lives that way. Its not - its not a way that I had expected to. You know I dont have credit card debt. This is really my only debt um is this student loan. So. Its something that I think of in some way every single day. I mean even I bought this really nice dish rack because I moved to an apartment that had no dishwasher and just even buying that I just felt like such a jerk. Like Why dont you put that money toward your student loan? And yeah so it just kind of just pervades everything.  How much did the dish rack cost?  Oh my gosh its so embarrassing. It was 60.  60.  Thats an expensive dish rack! Alyssa followed up with an email after we talked. She wrote I could not admit it while we were on the phone yesterday but that dish rack...it was 79.99. She added It IS really great though! Still you told me there are a lot of big things youre NOT spending money on because of your student loan payments. Im afraid to spend money Im afraid to save money. Because Im still barely able to support myself. With 350 a month we could gosh. The possibilities are endless. Thats money that were not setting aside for a rainy day or putting into our emergency fund or saving for retirement. Im engaged and we are pushing off our wedding because of the debt. Im still not sure Im gonna have kids because kids cost money! But I also feel like at this point I need to live. When I think about my future I dont think about buying a house and I dont really think about ever buying a car. I just think about paying off the student loan debt that Ive accumulated. And your student loans...they arent just about you. They are often a family affair especially between you and your parents. Isabelle You know Ive sent them my budget. I show them how much utilities are you know how much my rent is how much I spend on food. I show them all of that. Isabelle is 27 years old. Thats not her real name. She lives in Vermont with her boyfriend and she is paying off her student loans. Her parents took out loans for her too and they agreed years ago that she would eventually take over their payments. Isabelle They pay about 600 or 700 a month on those loans. And currently Im only about able to afford giving them a 300 check a month to help them out with that.  Do they have the money?  Um they both have jobs right now  um but they are looking to retire in nine months. So in all honesty they really need to stop making these payments so they can survive.  Will you be ready in nine months?  I do not know.  I am hoping so.  Do you ever feel like you have towhen you want to do something nice when you want to do something that costs money do you have to hide that you are spending money from your parents?  Yes yeah we do. Like...I just - last Thanksgiving we bought a TV. And we got a Black Friday deal so it was pretty good. And then like months later we were out to dinner and my boyfriend mentioned it. And my parents were like Oh you bought a TV? And I was like Uhh... Like I was caught in a lie. But I just didnt ever tell them just because I was like you know that was 80 that Id spent on something that I didnt necessarily need. It is really it is like um it kind of feels isolating. Like I have to remember what I have not told my parents and what I have. You know it is just - I feel guilty a lot about it. Carla Rodriguez Hi Anna my name is Carla Rodriguez and I went to an art school a very expensive art school in the Midwest and accrued about mm probably like around 40000 in student loan debt. Which I never once thought that I would be able to pay them all off. And uh recently my dad committed suicide. He was really mentally ill for a really long time. And he had a life insurance policy that was able to pay out even though he did what he did. And I was very well aware of this life insurance policy because he talked to me about it all the time when he was suicidal about how much better um - sorry  our lives would be if he was gone and how we would have all this money and... But yeah to bring it back to the student loans yeah I was able to pay them. And the day that I decided to do that that that was the right thing to do because I had to think a lot about it because of where the money came from I just kind of sat there and cried at my computer afterward. It just made me feel so bad that my dad had to die in order to pay for my education. And at this point I actually lie about still having student loans because I dont want anyone to know that I have already paid them off and why. Because I do not - I just feel so ashamed about it for some reason. And I dont know its not an ideal situation but it is what it is at this point. So uh thats my story. More of your stories about student debt coming up.  Since we first shared this series about student loan debt  two years ago the student loan crisis in the U.S. has continued to evolve. The total amount of student loan debt owed in this country is now more than 1.6 trillion dollars. 11 percent of borrowers today havent made a payment on their loans in 90 days or more. And the fastest growing age group of people who owe money on student loans are people 60 to 69 years old. On the bright side almost 30 percent of people who graduate with a bachelors degree do so debt free. But even those of you lucky to finish school without student debt feel its effects. A listener named Forrest in Lexington Kentucky graduated six years ago. He didnt grow up with a lot of money but he had a scholarship in college and didnt have any loans. And thats made getting together with his old college buddies sometimes weird. My husband and I do not really have to worry about money and they do so you run into this situation where it is like well do we not invite them because we dont want them to feel bad that they cant afford it? Or do we offer to pay for part of it for them? Or how do we go about handling that? Talking about money is hard. And its always been in the years after college. Your public school teacher friend and your friend in finance start to have lives that look really different. Student loans make that gap wider. If you feel overwhelmed by student debt it is not just you. Theres been a big change in how much higher education costs and how people are paying for it. So we made a website for you to learn more about where you fit in this new world. Go to deathsexmoney.orgstudentloans. You can enter in how old you are how much you owe in student loansif anythingand you can see how you compare to national averages and to other Death Sex  Money listeners. You can also add your student loan story to our interactive map. More than 4000 of you already have. Again thats at deathsexmoney.orgstudentloans. On the next episode in our series coming tomorrow stories of how some of you stopped feeling stuck because of your student loans. Beth I used to complain about it tooa lotand it never felt good to complain. And I would whine and I would cry and it felt horrible. So now when I see other people do that I say Okay how much do you owe and what is your income? But a lot of times people do not even want to go there. A lot of times it is just It does not matter it is too much. And I should not have to pay it back. And that really frustrates me.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Heres the thing thats so tough about student loans. You resent them but you also took them out. You or your parents signed for them and you cashed the checksto pay for increasing tuition costs your books the rent on your off-campus apartment. And of course theres all that stupid money I spent at Urban Outfitters. Oh my god. So you feel some shame about your individual choices. But you also told us about feeling lost inside a huge system thats not looking out for you. I feel fooled and bamboozled about the American dream. I was just so naive. Its a stupid system. No one talked about this. It was probably about a half to  of the way in when I realized I had been duped. You do not really get a statement after every semester. Like it just piles on top. I got myself into over six figures of student loan debt as a teenager. Even at that time though that number didnt feel real. It was so large that I couldnt comprehend it. I honestly dont see the way out right now. Vivian Those private student loans have ruined my life. A listener who asked to go by Vivian sent in this voice memo from Michigan.  So to be frank I ended up remarrying my ex-husband because I couldnt afford to pay my bills. Vivian is 34. When we talked she told me she owes more than 50000 in private student debt despite working while in school and getting a partial athletic scholarship. She got married while in college then graduated and had two kids.  But we ended up getting a divorce. And when we got divorced I had been a stay-at-home mom for quite some time and was making little to no money and got a job working in banking which was what I had done prior to us having children. And my private student loans um they would not work with me. They - I mean was getting harassed by debt collectors so I ignored it. Fast forward a few years the debt collectors found out where I worked. I was managing a retail bank and the debt collectors found out where I worked and garnished my wages. And so I lost income to the point where I was barely40000 trying to take care of two kids and pay bills was not a ton of money where I am at. And then to have 30 of your wages taken away um I could not pay my bills. And so I went to my exwe were on pretty good terms at that timeand we agreed that I would move back in and we would try to make it work.  Do you have any help? Like financial advising or - is anyone helping you?  Um do you wanna hear what is funny about that? I worked in banking for ten years I now work at a wealth advising firmum I mean I just do support therebut I work with multiple wealth advisors who are really smart. But they do not know anything about student loans because they have paid for all their kids to go to school with cash.  Yeah.  I feel like they are out of touch with what is going on. I do not think I am the only - I think my generation has a lot of people dealing with this. And I feel like - I talk candidly about this with one of - I have an advisor at my firm in his 50s and him and I get along. We do not agree on anything politically or anything like that but we can disagree about this. And he went to U of M Ann Arbor and he paid 5000 a year when he went there. So we had a conversation about that. About how different college is for my generation than it was 30 years ago you know?  And just to go back to when you were a college studentdid you know what you were getting into when you took out these loans?  Um...I think about that a lot. I have a lot of guilt and shame over that. I had the mindset I think of I will say a lot of 19 20-year-olds where I had really great expectations for how successful I was going to be. And so I did not think that I would have any issues with these loans. And so no I do not think that I thought of the ramifications of taking those loans. I just took 'em.  What is your degree in?  Management and organizational development.  Are you glad you have that degree?  Hell no.  Yeah.  I could have made every dime that I have made in my career with no college. Its been two and a half years since Vivian and her ex got re-married...a decision that didnt solve their student debt problems. Its made it harder for her husband to afford his student loan payments. They went up because theyre based on their joint income. So they have decided to split up again.  The papers are sitting  the papers are sitting on our counter . Um but if we do that - I think the biggest thing is I do not have health insurance anymore but if we do it that way then his payments will get lowered on his repayment plan and I could potentially get into a repayment program towards having my loans forgiven so it feels like that is what we need to do you know? Its a mess .  Yeah. Do you like being married?  Um. No.  I do not. It is a lot of work. And um...I do not know we have two kids together so I feel like we will always be married in some way right? But this I am sure for everybody just finances put a lot of stress on a relationship so.  How old are your boys?  Seven and nine.  And when you think about what you want for them when they finish high school what do you think about?  Um not this . That - that - it scares me honestly and I feel like there is no way to explain this toI mean maybe there isbut there is no way to um to explain this to a child. I mean how do you say to a kid I do not know if you should go to college or Yes you should but you need - . I feel really in-equipped to talk to my kids about it because I am doing such a poor job of managing it. Dena My name is Dena. You had asked how student loan debt has impacted your life which is such a huge topic for me and my husband. We have been out of college for ten years and we have had some very difficult times where we did not know how to pay for......sorry this is really emotional god who knew? We have not known how to pay for groceries or gas or um you know we felt like we were being really bad parents . So anyway we are at a better place now but still looking at it we do the math and we are going to have student debt until our son is graduating from college. I mean we are gonna be like you know 60 years old by the time we are out from under this. And so you sort of feel lost and like you totally screwed up somehow. Because you just like could not figure it out. And the rest of the world is making money and they are paying their bills and there is this subculture of individuals that are book smart and world stupid. Or at least that is how it feels because you are struggling so much to make ends meet and it just does not make sense because that is not what we were told. We were told that doors would open and you would get a good job.  Did your parents know you werent paying? Jordan Gibbs No. They still kinda dont know that Im not paying my student loans .  Kind of? Or dont know.  Dont. Definitely dont. Yeah. They dont know at all.  They dont know that you havent made a payment?  Umm I think Ive actively lied to my parents about making payments too. Just like theyll bring it up on occasion and Im just like yeah yeah yeah I got it dont worry about it. This is Jordan again first and last name Jordan Gibbs. Whos never made a student loan payment. She wrote in when she heard we were collecting student loan stories.  I didnt actually expect anything to come of it. Like I was just really writing because I heard so many other people talking about student loans and I was just like Maybe this is just a way for me to get all of this bad juju off of my shoulders. And then when Katie emailed me I was like Oh my god. Ah! This is actually a real thing that I havent been paying my entire life.  Before you heard us ask for student loan stories when you would think about your debt what would you do to stop thinking about it?  Go out and spend some money . Yeah. It is like um have you ever heard the term flexing for the 'gram?  No.  Its like oh god its like when you make your life look so fun and wonderful on Instagram but in real life -  Oh 'gram like 'gram.  Oh yeah like Instagram.  I see.  So it is like I feel like Im just living for the 'gram sometimes. You wanna like keep up appearanceslike in the back of my mind like yeah I can afford to go drop 200 at the bar this weekend. I have the money. But like shouldnt I be using that money to pay off my debts? And its just like Im really bad with making the right choice at the right time. And Jordan says thats accelerated since she got her current job as a recruiter at Facebook.  You know you want to fit in and I dont feel other there but you know being like the black girl that works at Facebook I want to project out that like Im successful and Im doing well even if Im not doing as well as Im projecting.  So youre saying this all out loud.  Yeah.  Is it something that you say to yourself?  Umm -  Or is this a new thing?  I dont think Ive ever said this to myself before. Ive never vocalized that. Im feeling myself get goosebumps right now. Its like a really bad state of denial. Like Im like fake rich you know what I mean? Id rather spend money and look rich than actually like take care of the debts that I have on my own.  If you started making regular payments now what will you be paying monthly?  Umm ballparking it should be in between 700 to like 800 but the idea of paying the same amount of money in student loans that I am paying in rent is just like I could be living in a nice place by myself instead of having to have roommates.  Wait youre paying less than 1000 in rent?  Yeah .  So that means you have extra money for student loan payments.  Oh god you sound like my mom.  Except your mom doesnt know! Your mom doesnt have an opportunity to tell you this!  God.  When do you think youll make a payment?  Well...my goal is to make my first payment above what theyre asking me. I want to do like a bulk pay down of a couple grand at one time and just get the ball rolling from there. My goal is to do that um... oooo... June 15.  June 15?  Yeah. And on the next episodecoming tomorrowfind out if Jordan made that payment.  Oh god. I just. Oh god. I hope I can hold myself to it. Thank you to all of you who shared your student loan stories with us. We have a lot more of them in our special expanded website for this episode at deathsexmoney.orgstudentloans. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville California. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn who composed original music for this episode. Thanks Andrew. Thanks also to Destry Sibley Elaine Chen Jillian Weinberger Jenna Kagel Marine Boudeau Alison Morgenstern and lots of other people at WNYC who helped build all the cool stuff for you at deathsexmoney.orgstudentloans. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. You can email us anytime at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And check your podcast feeds for the next episode in our series all about your student loans. Part two is about the things youre doing to try to deal with your debt.  What I did was I bought a Sprinter van and I built out the inside to live in so I now live in this with my girlfriend and our three dogs. I couldnt imagine paying back my loans in any reasonable period of time if I had to pay rent. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.