 I mean nobody admitted my mother was schizophrenic and she was talking about Elvis being her dad. They are like No he is not gay. And maybe Elvis is Patty's father. Shut uplet us all have a nightcap. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. I am Chris Gethard filling in for Anna Sale. I know everybody out there misses Anna. I do to trust me. We are going to catch up with Anna a little later in the show. I myselfa former guest on Death Sex  Money. I am also a comedian. Anna talked to me a while back along with my wife Hallie about comedy and depression and anxiety our careersall the things you have come to expect from this great podcast that I am lucky to be a part of. Now like I said I am a comedian. And lookwhen you are a comedian you are just around comedians all the time. You get numb to it. Comedy becomes like static you just watch all these comedians...it is just background noise comedy after awhile. Then I met...Tim Dillon.   A couple of years ago there was a tragedy. A young gay student prematurely ended his life by jumping off the George Washington Bridge. I told my friends and family that I was gay the same week that happened. So you can only imagine the phone calls and the emails that I got. They were like We hope you would never do anything like that. And I was like as bad as things get for me do you have any idea how long of walk it is to the middle of that fucking bridge? I did a show with this guy a few years ago. I had to follow himI had to go after his set. Did not go well. He was too funny. He was like a hurricane it was like a hurricane or a tornado hit the room. He is so smart and manic and just throws all these opinions against the wall. And he can tell me the perspective of a drug addict and he can tell me the perspective of a conservative and of an angry guy...all these things that I think I am not. He makes me understand.  I was a child actor. I started doing coke at 12. My mother's a schizophrenic. I was a closeted homosexual. I am politically all over the map though I lean conservative. I was in the mortgage industry. I idolize hucksters thieves cons and cheats. My dream is to be a traveling salesman through America. And if comedy works that is nice too.  Now I have heard of people who say like they smoked their first cigarette at age 12. You even hear some what I would say are generally concerning stories of someone who says Oh I started drinking when I was 12.  Sure.  You are the only person I know who says they have started doing cocaine at the age of 12 is that true?  Well I did a line of cocaine with my friends in-in my friend Tina's backyard and we did a few and then we started to do it somewhat regularly you know. It was the adult thing to do. I come from a town on the South Shore of Long Island that when my Dad moved there in the 1970s described it as like tough. And by the time I was growing up it was the '90s. But we were awash in drugs you know? It was the end of this erait was before 911 so it was really the end of this era ofso that I think it was like to be a kid then was amazing.  No I have to jump in and say...that you have to understand.  Yeah.  Because you say things like this...  Right. ...and I am always fascinated.  Yeah yeah yeah.  You have to understand most people do not say that Oh oh it was before 911.  Well no but what I am trying to say is it was a great time to be a kid. You did not have a cell phone nobody was bothering you. I was hanging out with people much older than me. I was learning. I was spending time in crack houses. I learned some of the greatest lessons of my life in crack houses I mean...  How old were you when you started hanging out in crack houses and you say you learned lessons?  Thirteen. I learned a lot of lessons.  What are the lessons you learned at 13 at a crack house?  That crack has positives and negatives is one of the lessons. And that life has positives and negatives. Nothing is all bad nothing's all good.  What are the positives of crack?!  Someone said to me in a crack house this is one of the greatest things I ever learned. This guy Vinny. I was 13 I was with my friend and Vinny said to me he goes Do you wanna know the secret of life? I said yes. And he was he was eating a tomato like an apple which was very disturbing but then someone told me that Sicilians did that. And I did not know that and I did not know I was being ethnocentric and trying to make everyone conform to my idea of knives. But he was eating a tomato and then he said to me I do not hang out with anyone who is lower than me or anyone who cannot do nothing for me. And I said Well what a great statement! Like...the idea of no I do not hang out with anyone lower than me or somebody who cannot do anything for me is such a cut-to-the-chase philosophy. I thought that was amazing.  So you have been from a young age living a pretty hard life. Does not sound like a traditional safety net was provided to you as a child.  No you know I do not think so I mean I was a child actor and I failed. You know so I deserved the no safety net. I came really close to so many parts and just could not clinch them you know?  What was your highest-profile success as a child actor?  Well I toured around the country with Annie Get Your Gun. I played Little Jake. I was with my mother and we would you know we were a ragtag group of actors actresses ex-Dallas Cowboy cheerleaders pothead musicians this crazy Ethel Merman impersonator and we were you know traveling around the Eastern seaboard bringing the show that no one asked for to their town. And playing in some great theaters that were filled with tens of people that came out to see Annie Get Your Gun. I was on Sesame Street three times. I was in a Comedy Central stupid little skit about O.J. Simpson called Just Say No-J. Again the high point of...you know. But again I was not the guy. I had the same voice I do now which was very disturbing to casting directors. Very gravelly voice you know. I mean nobody wants that. Yeah I mean it was very tough. I got a rej- I remember after an audition once I said to my parents I said I did not get it but can we still go to McDonalds? And my Dad goes That is a kid with a real great sense of proportion like he is not beating himself up. No that is a kid with an eating disorder.   I was eating at McDonald's five times a day because I grew up in a home where my mother believed she could retire by collecting Disney movie toy sets at McDonald's putting them in plastic bags and selling them to other crazy people at flea markets for increased retail value.  Speaking of your-your mom. I do want to know... I speak very vocally about my own mental health issues and...I do not...if it is I mean we have talked about it...  No I talk about everything.  When did you realize your mom was...  When I was in seventh grade my mother and my friend and me were in a car and my mother was talking about being followed and people tailing her and I had known as a child I am like oh this does not this is not good. And even my friend was like kind of likewe were hanging out at crack houses and nobody thought they were being followed so I was like this is not a good sign. They are more lucid than she is. It is a problem. You know we are doing acid with these people they seem to have their head screwed on straight. What is going on with my mother? So I started to notice things like that and then you know by the time I think I was twenty she had a breakdown and she went into an institution and then's been in and out of institutions. She is in an institution right now I do not know if she will be there forever I do not know that she will be able to live...I mean I visit her once a week and she is supportive of me and my career and everything like that but her mental and physical health is not great. And unfortunately we do notthere is a tremendous stigma with mental health. It was very hard to force her into an institution and she desperately needed to be there.  Did you have to participate?  No because I was not even old enough. Like it was like my my my grandmother and my aunt her mother and her sister had to really kind of say that this is somebody's a danger to herself and others she needs to be somewhere. So it is very tough and I am very conscious of how delicate people's mental state is you know? Because I think she was probably - had these issues her entire life and I think she was kind of just pushed over the edge by circumstances. And that is unfortunate you know?  What is it like when you visit her?  She is lucid I mean she says hello we talk we discuss things I talk about my career in comedy and you know. She is very supportive and she tells me that I am too fat to be on TV consistently. And she is right she goes they will put you on occasionally but to be consistently on TV you are too fat. And I said no that is probably right you know you know? But every now and then it will flare up the paranoia will flare up and she will describe how her sister who is done everything for her is trying to scam her. Or she will tell me one of her ex-friends was an FBI agent who was just following her and tailing - and I am like well this does not make any sense. So every now and then it will become an issue.  And as your grandmother just passed away recently...  Right.  Which is very sad. Does that put more...are you starting to feel more weight on your shoulders to take care of her now that your grandmother...  You know I am but there is also the reality of like...I...if I had a million dollars and I had a home and I could move her in and pay all her bills she would not be better. I want to be a good son and I want to be as helpful to her as I can. But there is no I cannot - the amount of success I have cannot fix this. It just cannot you know? And I think that is an important thing for me to realize and go Okay I can do everything I can I can be really loving towards her. But you know if I had the money to put her in a big house she is not going to not think she is...you know one day she told me that she thought there was a good chance that Elvis was her father. She could be saying that in my mansion if I sell 10 shows and she goes You know I think Elvis is my dad. It is like oh well this is still an issue. I mean I would love to have more money to make her life easier but as far as fixing you cannot fix that.  And I know like when I first fell into...  Unless Elvis is her father and she is in a hospital for no reason which is completely plausible. I mean if that is the case then I feel really bad and sorry Mom we will let you out.  I know when I I first fell into some mental health stuff in my in my 20s and when I finally got help and talked to my parents they revealed to me that there was a long history of this in my family that I never knew about. My grandfather had been institutionalized I - all over the place. It can run in families. Do you worry about your health? Is that something that you stay on top of? Or...  Um no I do not worry. I mean I do not give it a ton of thought. I do not - I think that there is a very good chance that anything can happen to anyone at anytime. People have aneurysms people have all kinds of things. They die in their sleep you know. Am I going to worry that one day later on in life it is a possibility that I am going to develop some type of illness? You know mental instability imbalance things like that? I am not going to really worry. I am just going to try to be as funny as I can and and that is what I am trying to do. And whatever happens kinda happens. Coming up Tim talks about selling subprime mortgages on Long Island...and even taking one himself. He used it to buy a house that he would never seen in person.  Are you like financially -  Yes.  Are you still recovering from the...?  Yeah no sure. I mean credit-wise my credit is shot. But I mean what am I going to do? I cannot lease a BMW. Uh oh!    Hello? Anna Sale Hello!  Is this Anna Sale?  Mr. Chris Gethard. How are you doing?  I am pretty good. I am a little intimidated to fill your seat. It is a daunting task. I feel like you are just a straight-up better and more professional human being than I am. And I hope I do not drop the ball and disappoint you.  How do you feel like it is been going?  I think it is pretty good. I tell you I am talking to a guy - luckily I picked a guy who is like one of the - he is either the smartest maniac or craziest genius I know in the comedy world. And I feel bad for your editors because he has a lot to say. And also a lot of inappropriate things to say. If the outtakes of this one ever hit people will be perturbed.  Well it seems to me that like your career is just taking off in even more exciting ways than when we last talked. Do you feel good?  I do feel good. There is been a handful of times where it is seemed like my career was about to take off. I have learned not to count them before they are hatched and whatnot. I think last time we got lunch I told you I was starting a podcast and that is become like a big thing for my career.  Huge!  I never expected it. This podcasting gig it is a pretty sweet racket.  Good! I love your show. I think it is really it captures what you are most particularly and uniquely gifted at in terms of letting people feel safe to just tell you crazy vulnerable things.  Yes.  It is really beautiful.  Thank you. And a producer just came in my ear and said do not be bashful. You can say the name of it. It is called Beautiful Stories from Anonymous People if anybody wants to check it out.  And how is married life? When we talked you were just getting married.  It is really good. We bought a co-op in Jackson Heights Queens.  Cool!  Yeah it is nice out there. It is like now we are at this new phase where it is like how do you build a family when you have a career when you do not know - you might make a third of the money you made last year next year. Or you might make three times. It is all luck. It is all rolling the dice so.  Well you figured out how to get a mortgage with your creative lifestyle. I think you can figure out how to raise a family.  Ooh. It was...the co-op board everything in New York is a co-op they said we do not want just your tax returns. We want all your W-2s and 1099s. And I was like Ooh you do not know what you are in for. Because every time I do stand-up in a different state I get a new 1099. And they said our co-op board application was the longest one they have ever seen. It was over 800 pages long.    Well Anna it is been so nice catching up with you. And I am sure the listeners are so happy to hear your voice. And I bet both you and the listeners would love to hear a little bit about what is coming up next week on your show.  Yes! Diane Gill Morris Im Diane Gill Morris. Last year I was on this show talking about my life with my two teenage sons who both have autism. Next week Ill be guest hosting and talking with two other parents of autistic kidsone whose son was injured in a confrontation with police... Maria Caldwell He had a busted head busted lip...  ...and one whos working to prevent things like that from happening again. Robert Zink I never want to see something like that happen to my sons. One of the problems with police work is our standard response to things generally has the inverse reaction with those on the spectrum. And if you can get it clear to guys that if you can take a different approach itll make your job as a police officer so much better.  This is Death Sex  Money. I am Chris Gethard standing in for Anna Sale. Comedian Tim Dillon was not always a comedian. The 31-year-old only started doing stand up about six years ago. Before that he worked all sorts of jobs. Including as a tour bus guide.  And just imagine that. Just imagine from what you have heard so far...  You also told me that you would be regularly reprimanded for ignoring tourist -  Yes.  - sights and instead pointing out homes rich people lived in.  Yes I would not point out the Empire State Building because I - if you need me to point out that building I cannot help you. And what I am trying to do uh you know...the only thing interesting about New York is the massive amounts of money. That is the only thing left about New York. And that is fascinating and I love money more than anyone. And I love the people that make it.  Now you have told me which New York socialites you love the most you have also -  That is my Pokemon is New York socialites. I wanna catch them all. That is the way I - I love money and I love the rich because they do not love me and never will and it is so purifying. It is clear it is clarity in a world of mishmash and nonsense. I love it.   I was out of work recently. Anybody else? Good. Nobody. I like that. I only perform for financially secure people.  Now maybe you would be willing as a man who is obsessed with wealth but living a stand-up comedian's lifestyle...  Sure.  ...you quit the tour bus job within the past few months.  Yeah I was doing good enough in stand-up I could kind of quit.  So you are doing good enough in stand-up. I think -  Right.  - as a comedian maybe you could walk me through the past few weeks.  Yeah.  What types of gigs have you worked?  So I have done gigs in open-air fields. I performed in Central Park last week for disinterested tourists and corgis. I did comedy for two people sitting at a table you know once in a restaurant because they thought it would be funny to have a comedian come. I did an all-Russian birthday party where I praised Vladimir Putin much to the chagrin of the man in the crowd who then told me that Putin had his friend killed. It was a tough...I had to dig out of that hole. It was not easy. But you know they came around at the end I have some very strong frozen yogurt material that everyone found relatable. You know so these are the things.  Now you were a tour bus guide.  Yeah.  You have had other jobs over the years one I know that we have spoken about.  Yeah.  You were an actual mortgage salesman.  Yeah I was a - I sold subprime mortgages in Long Island yeah.  Like The Big Short.  And I sold good - like I sold federally insured ones like the FHA ones. But I also sold like you know the products that blew up the entire economy.  You were you are admittedly...  Yes.  And you have told me that you were aware while selling them that it was a bad business.  I did not think it was great. You know but I did not know how bad it was going to get. I mean I took one myself.  How old were you?  I took a mortgage myself that foreclosed. My credit is completely destroyed and I had no idea that was gonna happen. I mean I took this loan thinking I would be able to like everyone else refinance out of it to a lower fixed rate. That is literally what we thought was going to be able to happen. We had no idea the world economy was going to crash. I was 22 years old.  Now this house you purchased. How many bedrooms?   Two fo...it was like a four-bedroom mother-daughter house on the South Shore of Long Island.  You are 22 years old.  24 when I bought the house. I had never saw it before I bought it.  What?  I just saw a photo of it I never actually visited it. I just saw a photo of the home.  Why did you...you are one of the smartest people I know.  I know.  Why did you do that?  Well I mean it was a good deal it was it was a good deal and I said let us just do it. And I just kind of jumped on it. And I was in the car with my friend. This was how crazy times were back then like I said I am going to buy a house! And he did not say to me like How? or Why? He just looked at me and he was like You are doing good. You are doing good. And then I just said all right we will buy the house.  How much did you spend on it?  I think 570000?  Twenty-two years old you purchase a 570000 four bedroom home?  Yeah.  No one stopped you.  No but I mean you know this this is the way it is. This is the way it was. You know? I mean um looking back now it does not seem prudent.  Now artists traditionally some of the most liberal people. People who moved to New York to pursue art New Yorkers in general very liberal people. The gay community generally viewed as a very liberal culture.  Right.  You have posted some of the most extreme conservative opinions I have ever seen a comedian post on Facebook.  Right. You know my whole big thing is I do not subscribe to any team. And I would disagree with Republicans and conservatives. But there are certain things that I - I am very skeptical about the government and the government's ability to make me happy or to make me prosperous. Now listen Republicans  and I am a gay person  Republicans said horrible things about gay people. You know most of them incorrect. And I think that you know that is unfortunate. But political coalitions are not built because you agree with everything that the people around you do. When you are an adult you go all right I do not agree with you on this and I do not agree with you on that but I think you have a point about this and a point about that.   I am a gay person but I understand homophobia. Anybody homophobic in here? That is cool. I understand homophobia because I think you should always understand the discrimination against you because 99 of the time it is going to be ridiculous. And 1 of the time it is going to be strikingly accurate.  How did you know you were gay how old were you how did you come out of the closet?  I watched Jonathan Taylor Thomas on Home Improvement I was like 11 or 12 and I think I felt gay then because I felt like oh this is weird. I think that was the first inkling I had and then throughout junior high and high school I was kind of getting it because you are coming to terms with it more. But I still thought it was something that I might be able to alter or change.  So you resisted it.  I resisted it yeah. I came out at 25 that is very late.  Yeah. This is something I was not aware of. Did you once publicly say that you were married in Vegas?  Yes.  Is that true?  It was true.  You have never told me this.  Oh. I do not know yeah well I was married. I married a girl in Vegas. As like a gag. Not a gag it was like 12th grade. We did it. It was like a girl that I was kind of like dating.  Were you 18?  I guess so. But it was not like it was not like a legal marriage it was just one of those sham things in Vegas you know.  But did you have to get divorced?  No because it was never legal. It was just like a...like you have to fill out the paperwork like later on. Like we never filled out the paperwork.  So you never followed up.  We never followed up.  So was there a part of you that was serious about it?  No.  And then you bailed?  No no. I think it was kind of just like a drunken thing. I do not know it was not like I mean I would not like....maybe for the show it would be better if I was like It was very serious and we really wanted to try and make it work. No it was kind of just like a fun thing.  So yeah because in my mind this was the drama of maybe like in your in your closeted stretch maybe your most uh profound effort to dive in.  No no. I wish no. I tried dating girls I tried to become straight. I had sex with girls I took them out to dinner you know. I mean what are you going to do it just did not work.  Not your thing.  It just was not my thing.  When you were still closeted and dating women -  Yeah.  - were you also quietly dating men?  Yeah no I was doing stuff with dudes. And you know I did not date a ton of women I was dating some. I was trying it out you know what I mean? But uh there was a lot of like dinners more than like hooking up. There was some hooking up but it was more dinners with chicks. Like I would go out to really great resI love foodso we would go out to great restaurants you know? It is a lot of women that maybe have trust issues because of me also had the greatest meals of their lives.   I was out to dinner the other night with a guy at a steakhouse and the waiter asked what he he wanted to drink. And his response was a flute of pink champagne. At that point just order the cup of semen.  And when did you first start dating men? Or experimenting with men?  I think that like...there is all these high school experiment things that kind of do not count and then there is like - I think the first the first guy that I hooked up with was off Craigslist. You know and he was like a firefighter in Brooklyn you know?  Wow.  So that was the first he was my age you know.  That is a pretty pretty good for your first time out of the gate. Firefighter?  Yeah no yeah yeah yeah it was not bad. I mean I do not know if he was a fire- like he was in the program studying to be a firefighter. I do not know if he ever made it. He might have just lit places on fire I do not know. But I met him and he was a dude who said he was not gay which was great because right before I blew him he said I am not gay. His penis was in my mouth and I took it out and I said Oh no I know I had thought this whole thing made us gay but it did not! So. I felt great about it. I said well this is fine he is not gay either.  What was the reaction amongst your family...  Well my dad was great about it you know it did not involve him working extra hours so he was happy. I am kidding I love my father. My mother was like you know I kind of wanted grandchildren which was nice of her. I said Well thanks I wanted a mom who did not tell people Elvis was her dad. So we are all -- she laughed at that. My grandmother did not care. She was just drinking scotch I think I had said  literally Michele Bachmann's husband who is like a pray-away-the-gay preacher was on TV and I said I should make an appointment with him and straighten myself out. And my grandmother was drinking scotch and her eyes never left the TV. She said Why Timothy? Is he also a nutritionist? So she was tough you know? Nobody - she was tough. These are very tough funny people. There was no like We love you! There was none of that. We are just we are just they are funny acerbic people.  That is the most harsh way. Because your grandmother effectively saying -  You are fat!  - your homosexuality does not matter to me but your nutrition is concerning.  Right but she is right!  I mean when you think about it it is one of the most harsh ways to show -  It is hilarious!  - support that I have ever heard of.  How great is it? It is true! It is like why do not you take care of yourself and live you idiot? Who cares who you sleep with you know? It is one of those things that when you think about it more it makes more and more sense.  And how is your...  I mean I do not date people as much as I would like to I do do a lot of stand-up. I will meet people here and there you can hook up with people but I do not have like a steady boyfriend. You know I do not know why with all my opinions you know.  So have have you ever been in love?  No. Probably not. Well I mean not with somebody who is been in love with me in a reciprocal thing where it is like we are both in crazy love. I think I have been in love with people who were like Eh. And then it is been the other way around where people really like me and I have been like Eh. So I have never had that real I think reciprocal love. It is been close.  You have had relationships that were important to you?  Yes but it is been close. But I do not think it is beenit is not the movie stuff.  What is the longest you have dated someone? Or the most important person?  I think on and off like maybe four months. You know it has not been that long and it has been it has not been the thing that I ever like -- it was never a thing that I was like This is a forever thing.  And that is something you are actively seeking.  Eventually. If it happens it happens but you know it is gotta be uh I think someone will come along who is been broken by some circumstance and we will connect you know? But who knows you know.  Right now it seems like you are in a place that I have been at and where I think many people have been at where it is like the professional life comes now the personal life I will fill it out later. You are in that stretch that is both exciting and terrifying of picking up the gigs like month-to-month. How far into the future do you plan for?  I mean ugh I am not thinking that far ahead. Some of this comes from being a drug addict. And going I am doing today today today. Shows. I want to do a million shows. And I want to have new material and I want to work it out. But that longer burn of like No what is the vision? That that I do not have.  Yeah.  People say what is a five year plan I said I do not know.  So when you say that the you know the recovering drug addict live for today attitude infects that. Is that something you are still in the thick of? Is staying clean still a concern?  That is a big deal to me. But I am not I am not suffering in the way like day-to-day I am thinking of drinking. I am never thinking of driving but I am still cognizant of like being in the mindset of doing the right thing treating people the right way. But if I were to have a few months of being really lazy or really inconsiderate and really dishonest or really selfish or reallybecause drinking's not a problem drinking is a solution to all of those issues. So if you get angry if you get jealous if you get resentful that is when the alcohol that is when the little drink voice goes Why do not you just have a couple of drinks tonight? And forget about this.  So how do you keep that in check?  I try to work as hard as I can and I try to be a better son and be a good friend or be this. All of that proactive stuff. Then you do not have time. You do not have time to be resentful or negative or selfish because you are you are effectively just doing good things you know in the space that you would be doing bad ones.  How many shows a week are you doing now?  I try to do two or three a night if possible.  Seven seven nights a week.  Yeah.  Do you know the most you have done in a night?  Five maybe.  Okay.  You know...  And by the standards of a New York comedian that is like solid but there is people who...  Nah there is people doing a lot more than me.  Yeah.  People that do nine or ten.  And what would have to happen for you to slow down a little bit? What is the type of thing that you see?  If I fell deeply in love with somebody you know I would then then that would be something that it would be hard to kind of...um...I do not know I cannot predict what would happen. But it would seem like really meeting somebody that you connected with and that...that might...but I mean outside...and and I am not saying that that even would slow me down I am just saying that could that could.  I feel like the only thing you do not have completely a fully-formed opinion on is your own future.  Yeah. Right.  Tha's the only thing you cannot snap into an immediate instinctive opinion on.  It is true no I mean that is a very good point. I mean I do not know who knows you know? I mean it is very possible that in five years I am selling real estate in San Diego. I hope not. But it is a beautiful city.  You think they would let you sell real estate again?  Absolutely.  That is Tim Dillon. You can hear him on his own podcast Tim Dillon Is Going To Hell. Take a look at his Instagram TimJDillon for a look at some of his favorite tasting menus and all sorts of fancy buildings around New York City. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. You can find me Chris Gethard on Twitter ChrisGethard which is spelled unfortunately like Get Hard. ChrisGetHard you will find me. Do not ever pronounce it like that please. You can find more episodes of Death Sex  Money including the one where Anna interviewed me by visiting deathsexmoney.org. You can also find it and other episodes on iTunes. And if you are interested in me one exciting thing I have got going on is an off-Broadway show. It is presented by Judd Apatow directed by Kimberly Senior it is called Career Suicide and you can buy tickets at www.careersuicideshow.com. Tim's still looking for love. And he told me... he is not totally opposed to being with a woman again.  I would try again for a very wealthy woman. I would try again. If a woman had a net worth of 10 million I would marry her. I mean I would prefer 100 million but 10 million you are still talking some nice interest. And God bless the people that would not. That is all I will say. I am Chris Gethard in for Anna SaleAnna congrats again on everythingand this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.