 Hey you all. Thanks so much for listening to the show. Before we start a quick plug for another show Up First. It is NPR's morning news podcast. Up First is about 12 minutes long and it is produced and posted at 6 a.m. every weekday morning. The show makes you real smart real fast and I listen every day. You can hear Up First on the NPR One app or wherever you get your podcasts.  Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show NPR's Science Desk producer Madeline Sofia and education reporter Claudio Sanchez. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. This is NPR. Sam Sanders here. It is BEEN A MINUTE. No theme music - each week we start with a different song. I will explain this one in a second. But first as Aunt Betty said two great folks here in the booth with me today. Say your names guys.  Claudio.  I am Madeline Sofia.  Sofia.  I am going to change it after Betty said it.  No that is my fault.  No I am going to change it.  I gave her the wrong pronouncer. She hates when I do that. Sorry Betty.  Betty you did not do anything wrong. This is on Sam.   She also did not say Claudio with enough zest.  Who did not say it with enough zest?  Aunt Betty. Claudio - the way you said it.  Claudio as one of my sixth grade teachers used to say.   I like it. All right anyways Madeline Sofia producer on NPR's Science Desk and Claudio Sanchez from NPR's education team we are here to talk about what happened this week in the news the culture. We are talking about the latest in higher education and Title IX a certain salamander species that is trying to go back into the wild.  Trying to make a little comeback.  Yeah yeah yeah. Also DACA and Trump and a whole lot more. But first this song - do not you guys love it?   Cool.  Do you know what song this is Claudio?  Is it Beyonce?  It is. You win. She turns 36 this week so I am playing this song in her honor. She turned 36 on September 4.  The song is called - you know it.    We can skip the small talk. Let us get right to the chase.  I do not.  It is called Get Me Bodied. It is one of my favorite songs from her album B'Day. It makes you want to dance.  Oh yeah. That is from B'Day is not it?  Which is a great album.  Happy birthday Queen B.  Happy birthday Queen B. So fun fact - she had a birthday cake that Jay-Z got her. It cost at least 3500.  No.  The kind of cake she got - it was from Cake Life Bake Shop. It was a custom geode cake. The prices for these geode cakes start at 3500.  Why?  What is a geode cake? When you cut it is it a geode?  It looks like it had geodes on it like little crystals.  Like the rocks?  Yeah.  I want to know why.  All right you guys wanna see the cake?  Yeah I want to see that. Oh man. I do not know if I would eat that.  It looks like you should not eat it.  You know what I mean? Like I feel like my number one rule when I see a cake is I am going to eat that cake.  .  You know what I mean? But now for this - now I do not know what to do with this.  This is art.  Why?  Because Beyonce.  Because you are Beyonce.  That is no excuse.  Oh that is the reason.  .  Do you not love Beyonce?  What is your favorite Beyonce album or song Claudio?  The one I just heard.   You might - we might have to ask you to leave Claudio. I love it. First we will start the show as we always do. I want us each to describe how the week felt in three words. Madeline Sofia.  That is it.  So fire. You go first. Three words.  I went with give me shelter.  OK.  You know whether that is from hurricanes nukes earthquakes anything...  Yeah.  Give me shelter.  Yeah.  It was a scary week for sure...  It was. I was telling someone this week you know you have got the fires in the West Harvey in Texas Irma in Florida earthquake in Mexico. Some days it feels like the Earth is trying to evict us.  That is a good way to put it.  It is like just like get out.  I read something that said Irma would have more tornado-like winds than other hurricanes.  Oh my Lord.  I was like what is going on?  What is happening?  Hurricanes are tornados earthquakes...  And now I am seeing these maps that show that Irma could possibly just wreak havoc over the entire state of Florida like the line of the storm would be exactly over the state. For all of our listeners and for everyone down there please stay safe. What do your folks say about the storm Madeline?  You know we do not know what exactly is going to happen until we - until it makes landfall - but the idea being that this is one of the stronger storms to come through I mean following in Harvey's footsteps which was one of the strongest storms to come through... And the idea being that this one is really - has a lot more power behind it where Harvey seemed to have just a lot of rain behind it...  Just a lot of rain and just sat and rained.  Yeah yeah...  This one is like the winds are going to be crazy.  Yeah and of course the fact that it is going to be hitting Miami which is already a city that is pretty much below sea level.  I did not have a sense of how powerful the wind can get...  Yeah.  ...Until I saw in the - a few of the islands these enormous towering cranes bent...  Oh my goodness.  ...Like toothpicks.  Yeah it is terrifying...  I mean 155 miles per hour.  That is crazy. Yeah.  And that is...  Also sending good vibes to the islands out there that have already been hit.  Absolutely.  Yeah.  I think Puerto Rico did not get it as bad as folks thought but some other parts of the Caribbean were really damaged severely. And just...  The other thing that people are obviously pointing to which is I think even - if you can imagine even worse - is the rebuilding.  Yeah.  I mean there are places that have already been hit that cannot rebuild for at least another six to - months to a year.  Oh my goodness.  I mean if you think about what that means for people who live there - going without electricity water...  Yeah.  ...For...  Months.  ...Almost a year...  Yeah especially on the islands right?  Yeah.  Where there is not...  You are isolated. You are stuck.  Absolutely.  Anyway I hope it is - I hope folks are OK. What are your three words?  This week was rescind rescind rescind.  OK...  Yeah.  Now this is in reference to...  This is in reference obviously to the Trump administration's essentially putting an end to DACA - the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals - that has given 800000 kids a reprieve from being deported...  Yeah.  ...And allowed to stay. And of course rescinding Title IX which is the 1972 law that essentially oversees the whole issue of sexual harassment and sex discrimination on college campuses. These are huge.  Yeah.  These are two big programs two big policy issues that within a week are pretty much on life support.  It is a lot to unpack. And we are going to save a little bit of this conversation...  Sure.  Because that is your story for later on in the hour. It is a very interesting story.  Yeah.  We are going to get to it.  Not your typical back-to-school story.  That is very true. My three words are Chuck and Nancy.  Chuck and Nancy.  Chuck and Nancy.  Chucking Nancy?  Chuck and Nancy - you know who those people are...  Oh and Nancy. I thought you were chucking Nancy.  I would never chuck Nancy...  Chuck Schumer...  Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi who seemed to be President Trump's best friends this week.  They were giddy.  It was insane. So some backstory. There had been a need to approve some relief funding for Harvey victims but also a need to approve a raise in the debt ceiling to allow the government to keep running. And instead of Donald Trump working with members of his own party to craft the deal this week after a meeting with leadership from both parties in the White House Donald Trump sided with Democratic leaders Chuck Schumer Senate Democratic leader and Nancy Pelosi Dem House leader. This was crazy.  Yeah not the great across-the-aisle man that you thought you were going to get.  Yeah it was so unexpected...  I think what was crazy was the reaction of GOP leaders in Congress. They were stunned.  Well apparently - yeah.  And maybe that is not even the right word for it.  Well and it also makes you wonder who left in this city in D.C. is really on Donald Trump's side or vice versa. In spite of Schumer and Pelosi crafting this deal with him this week they are not on his team.  Well the question...  They will throw him under a bus as soon as they can...  Yeah I mean think about...  Yeah.  ...All that stuff about him fake crying - you remember that? Was not he calling out Chuck for fake crying?  Oh yeah.  Like what?  And then the next day Nancy Pelosi apparently called up Donald Trump or vice versa. And Nancy Pelosi was telling Donald Trump what to tweet. Then he did.  What?  Yes.  I did not know that.  Nobody tells Donald Trump what to tweet.  Well Nancy did.  Nancy Pelosi.  Chuck and Nancy - it is something. All right let us hold right here for a quick break. We will be back with Long Distance where we call a listener and see what is up in their neck of the woods. BRB.   All right now it is time for a thing we do every week. It is called Long Distance. So for today's call we are going to be talking to a DREAMer - a recipient of DACA. But before that I want to make sure that we clarify what DACA is.  Right DACA in the summer of 2012 was an attempt by the Obama administration since Immigration reform was dead in the water...  Since Bush.  ...And still is to essentially give a temporary Band-Aid to the problem of undocumented young people.  These were kids that were brought in by their parents when they were kids.  Kids who were no older than 16...  OK.  ...And who were brought by their parents as toddlers as teenagers no younger than 16. And so they are brought to this country. Unbeknownst to them they are undocumented. And the Obama administration felt that this would somehow create at some point a pathway for people who had not committed crimes who did well in school...  And America was their home country. It is pretty much all they knew.  ...And they knew no other country...  Yeah.  ...Other than the U.S.  And so for these kids it allowed them to get a reprieve from deportation. They got permission to work to study to get driver's licenses. And there were questions about what Donald Trump would do with this program. The thought was that he might end it. And 10 attorneys general from several states said that they would sue Trump if he did not end DACA.  Right and now remember it was not that he might end it. He said he would end it.  But then he also said that he loves the DREAMers.  Right.  He was all over the place on it.  He was all over the place...  Yeah...  ...To this day.  Yeah you know so there was a thinking that because these 10 AGs from several states threatened to sue Trump should he not end DACA the thought was that he would just end DACA outright this week.  Right.  He did not do that. Jeff Sessions came out his attorney general and said we will end this program in six months. And we want Congress to act on it.  Right you know I do not know how true this is. But the president supposedly was waffling over this and at one point was considering just leaving DACA in place...  Yeah...  ...Reportedly.  Yeah...  Mr. Sessions made sure that did not happen.  So that is the background. Thank you Claudio for your help with that.  You bet.  Let us get to the call. Today on the line from Fresno Calif. we have Hugo. Hugo you there?  I am here.  Hey man happy Friday.  Happy Friday to you.  How are you?  I am doing all right. Let us just say I have had two tubs of Rocky Road this week so...  Oh my goodness.  ...Hanging on.   OK so what do you do out there in Fresno?  I am a nurse.  What kind of nurse?  I am a licensed vocational nurse. And I work for an internal medicine physician.  Sounds like hard work.  Yeah you know you have good days and you have bad days. But overall I have been doing it for about eight years.  OK.  So I really like it.  Sweet well you are on the phone with me and two my friends Madeline and Claudio. Say hi guys.  Hi guys.  Hey there.  Hello there.   So every week we have these calls. And sometimes we pick the calls based on a thing that is been in the news. That is the case today. You are a DREAMer.  Correct.  OK you have said that you are not usually outspoken or active in politics but this news is really affecting you this week. How is it affecting you?  So directly right now as it stands you know my life just goes on. You know I come to work. I go to the gym. I meet with friends or whatnot. But you know just thinking about the fact that in six months or so you know if something happens I might not be able to come to work anymore. I might not be able to pay my bills. I might get deported to a place I have never been since I was 6. It is kind of - it is hard to just have it in my mind all the time.  Yeah so you are 29 years old. Your mother moved here with you when you were 6 from Mexico. So I mean pretty much America is all you really know. Why did your mother move here with you?  She was running away from an abusive relationship she was in at the time.  OK OK.  And she had some family members up here. And she just - it just kind of happened. It - really there was no plan. From what I remember there was no planning. All we did was grab a couple of clothes - a bag - and we got on the bus. And before I knew it I was over here.  Did you always know that you were undocumented? Or did your mother have to sit you down at some point and have a talk with you?  Me personally I always did know because my mother was always very clear about that. She always made a point to let me and my brother know you know we are not in this country legally. You have to be careful when you are outside. So I grew up knowing that. In fact I remember when I was in fifth grade we had a trip that we were going to do with a school to SeaWorld. And I always want to go to SeaWorld and I would tell my mom. But she said we cannot go to San Diego because there is Border Patrol down there. So we - we are not going down there. So I was like OK can I go with the school? It is my only shot to get down there so I can go to SeaWorld and see the whales or whatnot. And - so I remember knowing from a very young age.  Yeah. You know you wrote us and you said that one of the reasons DACA was so important to you is that it lets you get a driver's license. And you talked about what it felt like to drive before that. What was that experience like?  It was difficult. I mean I remember at 16 my mom started to teach me to drive. And I you know I started learning just like everybody else. But I knew I do not have a driver's license. So she always made the point you have to be very careful. You have to make yourself not noticed. So I you know I would do my best not to get noticed. But you know even then you know when a police car you know pulls up next to you or behind you or you see them you know on the other side of the street - you know your heart just starts pounding like hell. And you are like do not get noticed do not get noticed just keep going. And it was hard. I mean you know you definitely live your life differently than you would if you do have a driver's license.  You know the latest polls show that a clear majority of Americans think the DACA recipients and DREAMers like yourself should be allowed to stay here. And they do not want this program rescinded. But members of Congress and the White House cannot figure it out for whatever reason - for many reasons. Are you mad at them? Are you mad at Congress? Are you mad at President Trump? Are you mad at Jeff Sessions? How do you feel towards those people that kind of hold your fate in their hands?  What I can say is for a very very long time - especially throughout my young adulthood - I felt very resentful about the situation I was in. I would not say I was necessarily angry just resentful. And...  Towards who?  Just towards the whole situation I guess. I was not free because I - you know I wanted to travel go to a different state you know to go to a different country. And I could not do any of these things. So I just - I felt trapped. I felt like a prisoner. So I think that brought a lot of that resentment on. But more recently after this whole DACA thing happened and I was able to do a lot of different things you know that kind of went away. And I was just kind of thankful. And now in terms of you know what they are doing it just makes me sad. It just makes me sad because most people who do know me - they know me - that I am an OK guy. You know I just come to work. I do my thing. I do not harm others. You know I am just living my life like everybody else. And there is people who they think they know me but they have never actually made the effort to know me. And they have already made up their mind about me. So it just makes me sad more than anything.  Hugo can I ask you a question?  Yeah go ahead.  Did you ever get to SeaWorld Hugo?  I did. I did. I went to SeaWorld once.  All right Hugo. I was trying to make you laugh there for a minute. I am glad you got to make it.  Hey Hugo this is Claudio. Something that Attorney General Sessions said stuck with me. And that was this argument. Those young people who have been so accomplished successful have actually taken up the jobs that Americans U.S. citizens should have. What do you say to that?  I plain out disagree with it because personally I have been very lucky that because I do work hard and because I do a good job as best I can whenever I get a job offer they often you know do not want me to leave when I do leave. Or for example where I work right now the job that I have - the job did not exist. The only reason that the job exists now is because of me because the person who hired me knew me. And they said I want you to come work for me I want you. And I am like you could hire somebody else at a lower rate that you know can do pretty much the same work for less money. He said no I want you. So I would disagree about that because the majority of us you know we just make such a huge effort to just follow the rules and do good work and just push forward to help those around us.  And I guess you are all good drivers too.   I guess so.  Well let us lighten the mood a bit. What are you going to do fun for yourself this weekend?  Well tomorrow I work...  That is not fun.  ...Because I have a part-time job on the weekend...  That is nurse life though. That is nurse life.  What is your - a part-time job on the weekend. What is your part-time job?  So on the weekends I work for a nursing registry and they send me pretty much anywhere they - where there is need. So it...  Wow.  ...Could be a nursing home. It could be a clinic. It just varies around here the Central Valley and Fresno so...  So that is Saturday. What about Sunday?  Sunday. Sunday I will probably go hiking.  Where are you going to go hike?  I am not sure yet. We are having a couple of fires over here by Yosemite and Tuolumne. So I am still not sure. I tried going last weekend and it did not work out. But I might go to the coast...  Look at - OK yeah.  ...Go hiking over there.  Do you like scary movies?  I do not.  Oh I was going to say I am going to see It this weekend at some point.  Ew Sam.  Oh no I cannot. I remember watching the...  Because the trailer was so scary.  You know I cannot. I cannot that is my - I hate that movie.  Agreed. Hugo 100 percent agree.  I thought...  I hate it.  ...We were going to be friends Hugo.  No way. I cannot. I am - you know maybe if you hold me I will watch it with you. No.  Noted. Noted. Hey well Hugo thank you for being so open and willing to share your story. Thanks for your time. Have a great weekend and do not work too hard.  Thank you. It was so nice talking to you guys.  All right man have a good weekend.  You guys are awesome. I listen to your show every week.  Thank you for listening. Tell your friends.  I will.  Good luck Hugo.  Good luck Hugo.  Bye bye.  What I find so interesting about this is the different expectations Americans place on DREAMers. Like there was a lot of talk about a young DREAMer in Houston after Harvey who drowned trying to rescue somebody. And supporters of DACA said look at how heroic these folks are. We got to save DACA because these are like superheroes. And sometimes my thing is like what if a lot of these DREAMers and DACA recipients are just normal folks like you and I?  There are. And there are lots of them.  Yes a lot of them are.  I mean there is 1.2 million DACA-eligible young people running around.  Yeah. And like do they all have to be Superman?  No no no.  Do they all have to be Spider-Man or Superman and like...  No no and I have always wondered you know I mean this whole undocumented college students issue has been around for ages.  Yeah.  And I was talking to the president of Miami Dade Community College Eduardo Padron the other day. And he was saying you know I have been in this 23 years and I have seen these kids come and go. They are not all heroes. They are not all good students. They are not all accomplished.  Yeah.  What is different about DACA though was that it opened the doors precisely to the kinds of people that this country says it needs. And that is the irony.  Yeah.  That at a time when you are getting very - people like Hugo who was doing...  Working two jobs.  Two jobs - and doing something and contributing something the thing that kills this whole idea is the fear of different people being given amnesty by cheating.  Yeah.  You know that is the perception. These people cheated. They got in front of the line. They leapfrogged over everybody who wants to come here and they do not deserve this. I do not care how talented they are. That is the attitude.  I guess. But also though it is like when you think about Ellis Island decades and centuries ago when you came over from Ireland or Germany or wherever you did not show up with papers.  But that is the thing Sam...  You just showed up.  But that is the thing. That was a different time. That was a different era entirely.  Yeah. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. Here with Madeline Sofia - Sofia - I love that - from NPR's Science Desk and Claudio Sanchez from NPR's Ed team. People forget me and Claudio go way back. Fun story quick story - I will keep it quick. Claudio and I had to go out to a breaking news event. And I do not know if you were going to drive or I was going to drive. But we were trying to figure out...  I was going to be your...  Your navigator.  Your navigator.  Yes yes. But listen Madeline Claudio's like I got this. He pulled out a paper map.  OK Claudio.  A paper map.  Not just any paper map. It was a Rand McNally map OK?  He was very proud of it. And so he is like putting on his magnifying glass trying to look at where to tell me to go on the highway. And I was like Claudio put it down. If you look over here in this phone is a supercomputer that will take us there. And ever since then I kind of have solely converted Claudio to the wonders of Google Maps.  All right Claudio has he converted you though?  He did.  You trying to tell me you do not whip out those maps sometimes when you are on the road?  I keep them next to me but I have to say...  Little security blanket.  ...I am a convert.  OK now it is time for the part of our show where we talk about stories from the week that was. We each bring a story. First up is you Madeline.  It is me?  Yeah.  All right it is my big break.  It is your big break. Do not mess this up.  Just - can you be cool Sam? Do not ruin this for me all right?  I am trying .  OK so this is a little story about salamanders.  Love it already.  So I am going to give you some nicknames of these salamanders...  OK.  ...Which is part of the reason why I went on this story to be - to be honest.  OK. You are already laughing.  It is perfect because I am a little congested - snot otter boom first nickname. Lasagna lizard OK? Devil doggies. Allegheny alligator.   You are making this up.  I am not making this  up.   OK I know how allowed to swear. Am I allowed to swear?  We will bleep it.  OK. I am not making this up.  Alligator what?  Allegheny alligators.  Allegheny alligator.  Yeah.  Can you show me these things?  Yeah. I sent you - you do not read anything I send you. I send you so many emails...  I wanted to be surprised.  You never reply to me.  I wanted to be surprised.  OK so I am going to paint a word picture for you Sam.  .  Look at me. They are this long. They are from the tip of my middle finger all the way up to my shoulder when they are fully grown.  That is humungous.  Madeline if I go to the zoo can I see one of these?  It depends on which zoo you go to. Now you - generally speaking you should be able to see them. But they are endangered in a lot of different states.  How endangered?  So this particular type which is the Eastern Hellbender is all in the Appalachian region right...  These live up in like...  Oh yeah they are in Ohio Sam. They are in New York.  So like these things are everywhere. They have been endangered for a while.  Well they are in the Appalachian region.  Yeah.  But basically what happened is that due to - be it in Ohio in the creek that I went to - so I actually went to a release of these critters.  So why are they being released now? They are being released from like zoos and...  Yes so basically this guy Greg Lipps - who is like the Hellbender man - calls me up. You know when you have got a background in salamanders like I do. And he is like hey we just grew up a bunch of these Devil Doggies. And we are going to release 150 of them in Ohio. So basically what happened is these creeks in Ohio were so polluted after coal mining and farming and deforestation that the Hellbender populations dropped...  Yes.  ...And dropped real hard - like 85 percent.  Oh wow.  And so what these people did was after they got the creeks cleaned up - after the EPA came in they went and captured a bunch of them as eggs from their nests grew them up in the Columbus and Toledo zoos. And then we went back and we actually took these Hellbender babies which are called pups and we slipped them under rocks in a healthy creek and - to try to re-establish the population.  OK that sounds cute.  It was - we - there is going to be a video.  So why...  I got in a wetsuit on camera.  I love it. So why this now?  So basically the reason now is because they are having a really hard time finding young Hellbenders. So...  In the wild?  ...Yes. And so they know that if they do not do something now these entire populations are going to die. Now that the creeks are healthy enough they are saying OK we have got it in a place where we can reintroduce them. And they live to be 30 to 50 years old right?  What?  So you get like...  It is like the Highlander of lizards.  Yeah and they only - this is my favorite part. They only move like the length of a football field in their whole life. They are like I am big and fat. I do not have time for this. They find a rock. That is their place. When it is time to mate if they feel like it they will squiggle out find another Hellbender. The dads actually take care of the nest. They are good pops. And then they go from there. But because these things do not move very far you know you get to - I have - you know you get to see the same Hellbender over and over.  So you have Hellbender friends?  I am not trying to say - yeah - like I am in - like I am cool...   Yeah.  ...To the Hellbenders.  My question is a lot of the protections for these endangered species and their natural habitats is supervised by the EPA - the Environmental Protection Agency. They have a new sheriff in town...  Right.  And a new administration in the White House.  Yeah.  How does that affect endangered species like Hellbenders?  Well I guess the general thought is we do not really know yet.  OK.  Not a lot of things are actually you know changing to a point where they are coming down to the state level and changing them. But the idea being - I mean I am sure that some of these conservation biologists are thinking like now's the time. Like let us get this stuff you know before there is big changes in the way the EPA works. But the other reason that I went down there is because the project that I work on which is called Joe's Big Idea - shout out Joe Palca for your Big Idea - is to kind of get into the minds of these scientists. You know...  Yeah.  What makes scientists actually tick?  Yeah.  What is it like to be a scientist from the day to day? Because I think we have this idea of them in lab coats. And you know and I am going to tell you what. I barely wore my lab coat when I was a scientist Sam. Like it is - that is not real.  Also sidebar you got a Ph.D. in what?  Microbiology and immunology.  Look at you wow.  Stop it.  Smart.  Stop it all you need to do is give up your 20s and get - be willing to pay - get paid 4 an hour and it is easy.  .  No but - so these scientists - I am talking to them in the field and they are just like we literally just like cannot go to bed knowing that we did not do anything to help these because they are going to be gone. And so that is what drives them is they are like we are - I mean a third of all amphibian species in the entire world are in decline Sam.  Really?  A third of all amphibians and...  How long has this been the case?  It is been actually fairly recently. That report came out in 2004. But it is thought that it is been happening you know for decades before that.  Well I am hoping these salamanders do OK for a while.  Yeah and we got a crew.  When is the video posting?  So the video should be posting late next week.  OK.  So check it out. It will be on NPR.  Stay tuned folks.  Yeah they are real cute...  .  ...As Sam has been saying - has been hating on them so hard.  I Love it. I love it. Thank you.  Yeah.  Claudio you are next. And I kind of picked your story for you. I gave you an assignment. I wanted us to get caught up on the latest with the Department of Education and with Betsy De Vos as secretary and the latest on Title IX and what is going on with that. So...  Well Title IX...  Let us define it first yeah.  Right Title IX is a 1972 law that essentially was supposed to monitor - or make sure that colleges were not discriminating in terms of sex on college campuses. And initially it was an effort to get some equity or at least some balance in terms of...  In sports right?  Right Title IX is - that is what it is known for has been known for - so that women's sports were not being defunded that you know women had the same access to organized sports as men did on college campuses. All of a sudden this becomes a huge issue when we started seeing this - I am not sure it was an uptick - but certainly more prominent stories about sexual harassment and rape on campus.  Yes and after that became a big issue the Obama administration said we want to use Title IX to also protect women on campuses from sexual assault.  Exactly and they did. They cracked down. They imposed and in no uncertain terms told colleges you better do something about this if you have got a problem on your campuses.  And if you do not do anything about it you can get de-funded.  Exactly. And of course federal aid to colleges is their bread and butter. So they acted very quickly. Some went a little farther than others. So along comes Secretary DeVos the Trump administration who says look we are going to look at all these cases. And there were many instances that they found that for example football players would be accused of rape - raping a girlfriend. And the girlfriend would eventually say well no we were just horsing around or would say no please do not charge my boyfriend with rape and of course destroy his life. In this instance there were some cases that the administration has used to point to what they view as an overreach.  Yeah.  And now Secretary DeVos has called for public comment and feedback on the guidelines that Mr. Obama and his administration had imposed and revisit this whole thing. And essentially the message is we are going to lay off this whole issue. The response has been - at least from groups like the National Association of University Women - saying you are now making rape acceptable. You are comparing the victims of rape...  To the perpetrators.  ...To the perpetrators and what they have gone through. I mean this is something that is so polarizing on campuses - and certainly politically - that it is going to be interesting to see what kind of feedback the...  Yeah.  ...Administration gets because you know this is not exactly something that regardless of what the a