Sonia Manzano There were two things you could be when I was a kid. You could get married young like my cousin who got engaged at 16. Or you could be a bad girl. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lotand need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  I do not know if it was a cultural thing but you would never would question an adult. Sonia Manzano grew up in the Bronx in the 1950s. Her parents moved there from Puerto Rico.  Adults always told you things whether you understood it or not was meaningless to them. You would - you could not say But what do you mean by that? They would say either Youll know when you grow up or Shut up and get out of the way.  And what were the things thatthat you never asked your mom about when you were a little girl?  Well when I was little I did not ask her why - you know why she would change her mind so much about my father. Sonias mother left her father repeatedly when Sonia was a kid. Theyd move out get a new place and then her parents would reunite. Sonias father drank a lot and whenever he drank hed beat her mother.  I was always standing between them. When I was five six seven and eight I was standing between them. Until Sonia was 21 years old. It was Christmas.  We are waiting for my dad to come home and it is getting darker and darker and he is not home andwhich is not a good signand we are all knowing that he could come home in a drunken and violent mood. And he does come home and he attacks my mother with a telephone as a matter of fact. And I remember deciding that I was going to put an end to it.  Were you able to?  Yes that was the moment where put the wheels in motion for her to get a separation and a divorce.  Did your mom want to get divorced?  No. No and that is something that I am kind of facing now as an adult that she did not want to that this was her life that this is how she might have defined herself.  Did you and your mother discuss the divorce after it was final?  Years later yes we did and she was happy that she had gotten a divorce and I asked her about our life and why she allowed it to go on. I was still the kid wanting to get an answer. And she said Well you know I just thought that when you guys grew up you would understand. And I remember thinking You might understand but you do not gain the childhood back.  Sonia couldnt get her childhood backbut she became part of all of ours. Shes Maria from Sesame Street.  Excuse me Maria? Maria? What does hola mean?  Hola means hello in Spanish!  Huh! Well what do you know! For 44 years she explained numbers and letters and life to little kids.  Elmo needs to know how to say No! Do not do that! Or No! Elmo does not like that! Is not that right Maria?  You know Elmo you are right. It is important to know how to say no. No one said these kind of things to Sonia when she was growing up.  Do you think of your childhood as kind of a confusing time?  Oh sure. Extremely confusing. A kid sees things black and white. Yes and no. There is good guys and bad guys. And a lot of kids are in the middle of disparate concepts. How could I love my father when he battered my mother? How could I love the music he played? How could I love my motherwho kept us in this situationhow could I love her sense of humor want her approval yearn for her caress at the same time that I was critical of the situation that we were in? There is the rub. And for Sonia things only got more disorienting when puberty hit.  What did your mom and your older sister tell you about dealing with men?  Nothing.  You just kind of - they - actually they used to um when someone got married they would say about a year later So how did he turn out? Did he turn out good? Or bad? So it was like the woman had no choice it was like luck of the draw. However he turned out you were stuck with it. And then there was the whole pregnancy thing. That was pretty hilarious. My mother said Well you know babies come when people get married. When God see that you are married babies come. But all these girls would always get pregnant and the expression was le hicieron el dao the woman was wronged. So I would say to mom Hey Mom God makes an awful lot of mistakes in this neighborhood because none of these girls are married and he keeps like blowing it! Sonia left that neighborhood. She got a scholarship to study theater at Carnegie Mellon. It was the late 1960s.  Society was on my side. American was an idealistic place and they wanted people like me to succeed.  Did it feel like that when you were 18 and 19-year-old young woman that America wanted you to succeed?  Yeah.  Would you have said it that way?  Yeah yeah...  That is a powerful way to say it.  Yeah people were listening. Still when Sonia landed at school in Pittsburgh it felt like she didnt fit anywhere.  It was like being on Planet X it was so foreign to me. I was around a lot of white people for the first time. They you know they did not know what a Puerto Rican was or a - and there were hardly any students of color in that school at that time.  Did you find yourself kind of trying to fit in or did your Puerto Rican-ess become more pronounced as a way to express who you were?  I choose column two.  From column two exactly I became more more more Puerto Rican in ways that I had never been Puerto Rican but I had to stand up for myself you know all of a sudden I had to play Aretha Franklin like 247 just to show these white kids what they had been missing or what they should have been listening to. Latins were very - were invisible at that time so I sort of tried to align myself with black people and uh and their social issues. Then the Young Lords happened in El Barrio in '69 and they tried to sort of fashion themselves after the Black Panthers as well. They wanted you to embrace being Puerto Rican but part of that culture was machismo and the domination of men over women. Well you can romanticize it and say it is part of our culture uh or you can say I do not care I know it is part of my culture but I do not want that part. Coming up Sonia talks about how she got hired on Sesame Street and what its like to look back on those first years of playing Maria.  Some of that old footage it looks like I rolled out of bed and did not comb my hair! And I went a little bit overboard. I could have tweezed my eyebrows every once in awhile. Weve been asking for your stories about death and money. Weve heard from a lot of you about wills paying for funerals and sorting out estates. A listener named Ben told us what happened after he unexpectedly inherited 10000 from a relative hed never met. Ben The first thing I knew I wanted to get with the money was bariatric surgery for my wife who is been overweight pretty much her whole life. So we get the surgery and what ends up happening is that as she loses weight she starts gaining more confidence she starts going out more she starts reevaluating our relationship and I do as well. And we end up actually getting a mutual divorce only a few months after she got that surgery. And April left us a voice memo about what happens when there isnt a will after a death. Her best friend and her best friends husband were killed in a car accident. Their infant daughter survived. April Trying to predict what my friend and her husband would have wanted for their child trying to plan for what to do with their money and with their home and with all of their belongings was very very painful. My therapist would tell you that that actually caused more pain for me and for their loved ones then their passing. Were still collecting your stories about money and death. Record a voice memo on your smartphone and send it to us a deathsexmoneywnyc.org or write us an email there. On the next episode I talk with a woman that were calling Emma. Shes a single mom. And a sex worker. Emma I mean we all do our work for money. So thats just the way it is. But if I didnt have to do itif it wasnt the best pay by far just so above and beyond anything else that I can makein the time that I spend doing it I wouldnt be doing this. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Sonia Manzano didnt mean to get into kids TV. She moved back to New York from Pittsburgh to perform in an off-Broadway show. It was called Godspell. Sonia was in the original cast. Thats how she was noticed by this public television show for kids.  I remember watching Sesame Street at Carnegie Mellon. I walked into the student union and there was James Earl Jones reciting the alphabet in this very deliberate manner A...B...C and the letters flashed over his head. I said What the heck is this? And then I get the call after I am doing Godspell to come in because they wanted Latino representation. So they call me in and there were not that many Latin actors I have to admit to choose from. And I got cast on the show. And then I met Emilio Delgado who plays Luis on the show and I did not even know he was an actor. I thought he was an activist because every time you saw him he would pin a boycott grapes button on you. So I thought it was all - everybody was in this fervor of a better society.  Maria! Why are you walking around like that muttering to yourself?  Well I am trying to figure out the right way to go in there and ask Luis to give me a raise.  Oh I see. Maria? What is a raise?  It means I am going to ask him to pay me more money for the work I do in the Fix-It shop!  Oh! That is very important!  You are telling me!  Do you remember how much you were paid when you were first hired?  500 a week. It was an enormous amount of money. But I will tell you something about money kids ask me a lot am I rich? And I never knewI was not sure how to answer it 'ecause you know. But now I know I thought about it actually because next kid I am going to say this It all depends on where you came from. From what my parents had I am rich. Compared to J-Lo I am poor as a church mouse.  So you are in your 20s when you start on Sesame Street you did not get married until you were 36?  Right yeah.  Did you feel ambivalent about marriage? After your parents' marriage?  Yes I was in no hurry to get married. But when I was a little girl I never was the one who said I wanna get married and uh I wanna have children. That was not me.  What was it about your husband that made you wanna commit to him?  He uh created order. He created um there is milk in the refrigerator. There is toilet tissue. And coming from a chaotic backgroundI love that. And you know of course you have to love someone you have to fall in love as well but I think it was his sense of order and the way he can create a home.  What did your familyyour husband's white?  Yes.  What did your family make of him?  My mother was thrilled. She was so happy that I was so old and finally getting married. I cannot tell you.  As Sonias life moved into this new phase. So did her characters on Sesame Street. For years Maria had worked alongside her friend Luis in the Fix-It Shop. Then things changed.  I should tell him should not I? I should tell him. Do not you think?  At least tell me!  Big Bird. I am in love with him! I am in love with Luis!  When I got married to the character Luis on Sesame Street I was four months pregnant in that white dress on the rooftop. And um you know Maria's life uh kind of followed mine. And the purpose of that was we were going to show Latin people with the same hopes and dreams as anyone else. You wanna get married wanna have a nice job at the fix-it shop and fix the toaster you wanna help your friends you wanna have a baby you wanna look for daycare and you want you child to have an education.  What did you wanna make sure children understood about love and family when you were thinking about how to tell that story?  Um because we were two characters on a show who had known each other for years the writers were wondering how do we justify them falling in love all of a sudden? And we did not want to do the cliche where a man and a woman know each other but suddenly she takes her glasses off and unpins her hair and he sees what a beauty she is and they fall in love. So uh Maria comes upon Luis as he is nurturing a sick kitten and as she sees his sensibility as he loves his kitten her heart melts and that is how they fall in love. Maria soon got pregnant which incorporated Sonias real-life pregnancy into the show. Sonias infant daughter Gabriella even played Marias daughter Gabriella for a time which allowed Maria to explain some of the more perplexing parts of new parenthood to the kids on Sesame Street.  You are feeding Gabriella right?  Yeah! She is drinking milk from my breast.  Is that the only way you can feed her?  Oh no sometimes I feed her this way and sometimes I feed her with a bottle.  Babies change everything. It changes the way you look at the world. Uh this new person is living with you. And I thought you know maybe I could share this feeling with children.  What - what was your relationship like with you daughter? Like how was it different than what your relationship with your mother was like?  Oh well I was really um a hover-mother.  I was really involved in her life in you know in every aspect of it. Probably too involved I went the other extreme. I do not think my mother was interested in my girlfriends whereas I was very interested in my daughter's girlfriends. And having her when I was 38guess I was 38 when I had hershe had friends who had younger mothers so all the mothers were not on the same page as to what was appropriate. Whereas my mother everybody was on the same page. All parents - all the grown-ups were Girls can do nothing. They all agreed in that. It was a certain sort of - a little bit of comfort there. Sonias parents are both gone now. She stayed close with her mother until her mother died. Her father was not a part of her adult life.  I did want to exclude him. I just wanted to - to uh to eradicate him from my life which is impossible. You can not see someone but - you know you can hang up on them when they call but you really have to face people to really get rid of them.   Hm. What was going on in your life when you thought I need - I need to cut this off.  I was in love. I had a baby. It was going to be about me now.  How many years had it been since you would spoken to your father when you reached out?  Oh I wanna say I had not spoken to him for a good 20 years.  How did it feel?  I was really quite nervous and you know I walked in he said Hey Sonia! How are ya? God it is great to see you! Just as if I had just seen him a few weeks ago. Or maybe you know not - not that there was any bad blood. It was all sort of like this kind of acceptance of things happen. You could cha - put in another word for things if you like.  Did you feel that way?  No I think you are still you know theI think the younger you are the more you want answers to things and you want to explain things. The older you are the more you are willing to say You know at the end of the day we are all going to die. Or something. There is no sense wasting time explaining what you cannot explain. Sonia Manzano. She retired from Sesame Street this year. She has a new memoir called Becoming Maria Love and Chaos in the South Bronx. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop  Emily Botein James Ramsay Destry Sibley and Joe Plourde. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. If youre not already subscribe to the weekly DSM newsletter. You get updates on the show podcast episodes we love and behind the scenes stories like our teams recent field trip to take a trampoline exercise class...that turned out to also be a taping of reality show Mob Wives. Subscribe at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. And...yes...when I was talking with Maria from Sesame Street...I did bring up sex.   What are you going to ask me about that?  Just how do you think about sex at this point in your life?  Sex um uh  nice work if you can get it and you can get it if you try. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.