  Hey you all Sam Sanders here. It is BEEN A MINUTE. For today's deep dive we are talking with someone at the top of his game from the world of television - Prentice Penny showrunner for HBO's Insecure. Insecure is this comedy series that just wrapped its second season this summer. Its star and co-creator is Issa Rae - may've heard of her. She plays the 29-year-old woman in the show whose life is just kind of stalled and she is trying to figure out dating and relationships and identity and race and work stuff and just being kind of awkward. If you are not watching this show trust me you should be. But there is no need to watch the show to enjoy this conversation. Prentice and I cover TV Emmys diversity in Hollywood what a showrunner actually does how Prentice became a showrunner and why five years ago no one was talking about showrunners at all. All of that is in the conversation. Also a bit of background - Prentice has been in the industry for a while. Before Insecure he was a writer for TV and a producer on the Fox sitcom Brooklyn Nine-Nine. He wrote for literally my favorite sitcom of all time Happy Endings on ABC. And he worked on a really classic show called Girlfriends this UPN sitcom from the early 2000s - hugely underrated. Also like Insecure that show was about strong black women trying to figure things out. Anyway we go there talk about all of that. And we also have a small fight about Drake. I know. All right here's me talking to Prentice Penny. I was here in D.C. He was in L.A. We taped this just a couple of days after the Emmy Awards. All right enjoy.   I have seen enough of you on the Internet. You dress snazzy. You have got a fresh taper. You keep it together every day. That is work. How do you commit to that? Because I cannot.  I - you know it is so weird. Like I have always been like that so it is almost - like right now I am so bummy  today when like...  Well OK but like what is bummy  for you? Like what - like...  No this is pretty cool. I am going to the gym right afterwards. So I am actually like in like sweats and like something I would like - if you were here in person I would not dress this way even if I was going to the gym. So I would still...  But they are probably like designer sweat though right? Do not lie.  No they are the most basic Champion no-name-brand Ross Dress For Less sweats.   OK speaking of how you looked - were you wearing a tuxedo on Sunday at the Emmys? Were you there?  No I was not. Well we were not nominated so I was not actually at the event. Although I know Issa was there.  Issa was there yeah looking sharp.  And I got - obviously I got invited to a party or two. But you know it was - it is weird because you know the Emmys are over at 8 - or at least 8 oclock you know West Coast time. And you know I got kids. I got three kids and we got school the next day.  I hear you.  And we were not nominated. And I do not think the thought of like - and I have done - I have gone to a few parties like that. And the thought of like getting dressed up at like 8 oclock to go to a party to drink to know that I got to wake up at 6 oclock to get my kids up for school was just like not. And I have been super busy with the show so I - you know I have been trying to spend as much family time as possible before I go back to work. So nah I just stay at the house. I had a couple drinks at the house and watched it.  So three kids - how old are they?  Three - my oldest is a couple of months away from being 10. And then my twins who are boy girl are 7.  That is a lot of kids.  It is a lot of kids man.   So you watched the Emmys. Two - at least two folks that you know well had some fun moments. I enjoyed watching Lena Waithe win.  So happy for Lena.  You know I interviewed her on this show a while back and she is the sweetest.  Oh really?  Yeah. We talked gosh about an hour and a half. And I was like I do not want you to leave. I love you so much.  Nah she is the best. I love Lena.  Well and then someone who you work closely with right now Issa Rae had a moment on the red carpet.  Yes .  ...That started some chatter.  I loved that.  For those listening that have not heard when asked on the red carpet who she was supporting to win awards that night at the Emmys Issa replied - what'd she say? - all the black ones.  All the black people .  All the black people. How did you feel about that?  I loved it. I mean like - I mean one it is like you know she is a comedy person. So it was like - it is a part - part of it is a joke. And then like part of it is also real. It is like we do not really always get moments to be nominated. And so like it is no different than black people who were pulling for Obama or when - I remember when I was a kid watching the Super Bowl and Doug Williams was in the Super Bowl. You like - you want the black quarterback to win. You want to feel like yes we can compete on the same playing field across all areas.  Platforms yeah.  ...As our contemporaries. And so yeah like you - of course you do.  Yeah you know it is interesting. You know like Sunday night was a night of validation for a lot of people of color - you know Donald Glover winning twice Riz Ahmed winning Sterling K. Brown winning - I mean such support for your show Insecure - like this seems like a very specific moment specifically for TV made for and by people of color. What made everything happen and kind of at the same time it feels like?  I mean I do not know. You know I mean obviously you know we are not involved with what Atlanta's doing and you know. But I definitely feel like that the absence of it for so long was like hey where - where are we? I feel like while I was like working on - on mainstream shows where I was the only person of color in the room or the only - certainly the only African-American person in the room like Issa was incubating and seeing that and being like well let me - I want to do something that represents me. Like when I left Girlfriends...  Also slide bar snaps for Girlfriends.  There we go.  Love that show too.  That is what is up. That is what is up. But after - like when I left Girlfriends after - that was '07 during the writers' strike I did not work with another person of color until - I mean another black person - until Insecure in 2015. So you are talking like...  Wow.  ...I worked on every other show I worked on and I am very happy to have those opportunities but I was the only African-American person in the writers' room. And - and a lot of the shows were being canceled at the same time. So you are talking eight years or seven seven eight years of not seeing anybody who looks like you on network television unless they are like in an ensemble drama on CBS or...  Yeah. Doing some Shonda stuff.  ...Or whatever. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah. So I just think like people were - after a while it is like it took like those eight years - seven eight years for people to be like hey I want to see myself you know?  Yeah. Well and you know what I found really interesting when I talked with Lena it was almost as if there was this like Underground Railroad of black folks in the industry like helping each other get that next gig get that chance get that shot. And she talked about this litany almost of black women that gave her shots and chances that other folks would not. And I was reading about the way you got with Insecure. You basically made your train on that railroad yourself. Like you wrote Issa Rae out of the blue and were like you need me on your show. Talk about that. How did that happen?  Yeah. I did not say you need me.   What'd you say? But you did like write her out of the blue and were like hey what is up?  Yeah. What happened was I was on Brooklyn Nine-Nine...  What happened was .  . Like you need me girl.  . This is what you need.  Yeah it is what you need in your life. Get me in your life.  .  But no like I - I was on Brooklyn Nine-Nine.  Also a great show. You are always around great shows.  I am just very thankful that smart people have given me opportunities for sure.  Yeah.  But I saw that the show got picked up to go to a pilot and...  That Insecure got picked up.  ...This was like February of - January maybe-ish February of 2015 and that they needed a showrunner because Larry Wilmore who had - who was obviously going to be the showrunner with her got his - his nightly show on Comedy Central so he could not do both duties. And they needed a - they were going to be - they were like the showrunner search is about to begin. And so I was like OK. So I emailed my agent and was like yo get me an interview to run this show. And just...  Had you run a show before?  I had run a show my own show on this network called Fuse around 2012 called The Hustle.  OK.  Which weirdly the two leads of that show were Y'lan Noel who ends up playing Daniel on our show and this guy named London Brown who is also Reggie on Ballers. So it is so weird that we are all now on HBO and we had done this little - so it was on Fuse and it was like a hip-hop entourage. It was like a six-episode show and...  OK.  It was - Fuse was trying to get into scripted and...  Yeah.  But it was the time I got to hire my own writing staff and run a show and do all that stuff. So I had done that. And then so I emailed my agent was like hey get me a meeting. And it was a blessing that one of the agents at CAA who is now at William Morris Ashley Holland was like I went to college with Issa. I know Issa very well and why do not you write her a letter - 'ecause I did not know Issa - why do not you write her a letter about like why you think you guys would be a good fit - why you need me?  Did you write it or type it? Why you need me. Did you write?  I mean I wrote it free. I mean I typed it eventually but I wrote it as a free-hand thing. So I basically - what I basically said to her was you know look like you do not know me. Here's who I am. Here's what I have done. You know here's my background and I would like to be your showrunner. Here's what I love about your script. And I just talked about how what - what was relatable. To me in the script what is - why it was important why it is relevant. I talked about what I could bring to it. I thought - I talked about that. And either way even if she did not go with me or not I was just happy to help her in any way possible.  Yeah.  And I wrote her that letter and then...  She was not weirded out.  She was not weirded out. She was like let us meet. And so she was like I have a book-signing at Eso Won Books in Leimert Park. So she and I talked for like 15 minutes afterwards.  Yeah. And she was cool and you were cool.  And she was cool and I was cool. And we - you know we realized hey we grew - we both grew up in - in Windsor Hills in View Park.  In LA.  In LA. And really now we both live in Inglewood a block over from each other...  I-Wood.  ...So that is weird. We live in I-Wood. And then - but yeah we just - we just hit it off. And then after about 15 minutes she was like yeah let us do this.  Wow. So right there on the spot at her book signing she is like you got the job?  And then - I mean obviously I still had to be cleared through HBO and 3 Arts the production company and her managers. But on her side I was like good. And so that is really how it happened. And...  That is so cool. That takes some bravery. I mean I feel like I have never in my life written a letter to somebody being like hash tag you need me.  .  Were you scared to do that?  I mean it is so funny. Like the only other time I have written a letter weirdly was I wrote Larry Wilmore a letter. Like he was speaking - this was like so many - I mean I think I was in college or maybe just graduated from college and I heard him speak at like the writer's . And I wrote him this letter basically like hey I will intern for you or you know whatever. You know I just - I am a young writer blah blah blah . And you know of course I never heard from him 'ecause like you get a bunch of letters. You know it is like who is this guy? I do not know this guy from anybody else. But that was only other time weirdly I had written a letter. And so at this point I was just like - and it was also a lesson too in like when you want something - right? - like it reminds me of when I was watching The Defiant Ones and Jimmy Iovine was talking about like when you are trying to be or do something that you think is great. And like it is not about your ego at that point. It is not about like anything else except being like if you want to be a part of it figure out how to be a part of it and help make it great help make it better. And so you know if I wanted to I guess I could have been on like some ego. Like I have written all this stuff da-da-da-da-da . Like - but that never even entered my mind to even approach it like that or think like that. I was just like yo  this is dope.  Yeah.  I think I want to be a part of something that is dope. I never get to work with people of color.  Yeah.  You know you just have to you know just say hey how can I fit in there as opposed to thinking about your ego and all that other type of stuff.  So now you are showrunning. And you are doing so at a time when showrunning is kind of like a big deal. I feel like five years ago no one was talking about showrunners or you did not know what showrunners did.  Right. Right.  Now you guys are part of the celebrity of these shows. One why is that the case? And two what exactly does a showrunner do?  That is a - those are good questions. I think in terms of why it is the case I think - I think television taking on an air of freshness that movies used to have - like when you think about movies now it is like...  The same Marvel remake.  It is like a lot of - it is a lot of tent-pole - right? - 'ecause that is what they are trying to make a lot of their big money on right? So it is the next Iron Man the next whatever the things are - Batman whatever. Or you have these really small movies like La-La Land or Moonlight that are kind of like these little things that kind of are being made very small. Like the middle-of-the-road like movies like when in the '80s when I was growing up like the Vacations or the John Hughes types of teen movies or - they do not really kind of make those movies that much anymore because it is a weird price point to make them in. And they have to make a certain amount - you know what I mean?  Yeah. Yeah.  Like it is just a weird thing. They are banking on spending no money...  Or spending a lot of money.  ...Or spending a lot of money.  Yeah.  But this mid-level like 40 to 50 million movie is just like...  They do not do it.  They just do not it anymore. So...  Whereas with like TV and streaming especially - it feels like with the advent of streaming there is just more space for creativity. You can have a season be 8 10 13 episodes all that.  Absolutely. And I think streaming made it like one you can take more chances right?  Exactly.  So it is edgy. You have other voices coming to...  And they are cinematic.  Yes it is very cinematic right? And now there is not this taboo of like oh if you are a movie star and you do TV you are like taking a step back. Now it is cool.  Yeah. Now it is like Nicole Kidman getting Emmys for being on TV.  Yeah you have got Nicole Kidman. True Detective you have got Matthew McConaughey Woody Harrelson. I mean you just have a ton of people who are like wanting to do TV. And so I think in the wake of that people go well who created that?  Yeah. Yeah.  Who created that? So that is cool. So in the way that people know directors for movies - right? - people now know writers for creating worlds right? Game Of Thrones you know again Stranger Things whatever those shows are. And then also in the advent of tweeting and tweeting as shows are happening and you can talk to the show is creators. And like all of that has put the creators I think specifically also in television front and center in a way that like movie directors are not in a way that movies I think also still feels inaccessible to people. Like I do not know if Martin Scorsese's on Twitter but I would probably guess he is not.   I would say no.  And if he is he is not tweeting with you. You know what I mean? So like...  Yeah whereas you are there with...  Right.  ...People watching your show.  Yes.  All right. So tell me exactly - because I feel like the more I read about showrunners the more I am like oh my God they do everything. Are they in charge of craft services too? Like what else do you do?   So basically the showrunner's job - so like in terms with Issa and I like we do things like really like 50-50 on everything from us figuring out sort of what the season's going to look like kind of coming up with themes and ideas to hiring all of our writers to sitting with the writers and sort of shaping out and sort of molding the clay on the arcs of the season. Breaking all the stories with the writers. Supervising all the writing. Supervising all the rewrites. Casting every single actor on the show. Hiring every single director. Hiring our producers who are going to handle our crew. Hiring our directors of photography who are going to shoot the film. Dealing with the network and addressing notes. Figuring out how we are going to address rewrites.  It is too much.  Being on set. Being there with the editors. Cutting the film. Cutting the show. Putting together music.  That is a lot.  Yes. You know talking to marketing once it is done. I mean literally from the moment the first thought of a season is conceived...  You are in it.  ...To when you finally see the end of the season that is what the showrunner's responsible for.  How long - so how long is your average day?  You know we do not actually have bad days. I am not a believer in long days. So we usually start a day...   Snaps to you sir.  ...Around 10.  OK.  We are usually done like 30 6. Like...  What?  ...I just - yeah. Like you can stay and work until 10 and 11. I hear about those shows. And I have been on those shows. And it is like at a certain point what you are doing at 11 oclock - because people just check out.  Yeah.  And sometimes you are just - then you feel like you came up with the fix at like 2 oclock in the morning. But really you are just like - everybody's on this like second wind and like you do not know if it is going to be any good. You get back there the next day and you go what the hell is this? This is crazy. And you have got to start over anyway.  Exactly.  And so the other thing is like our show is about people who - our show specifically is about people who are dating and who are living life. And so it does not behoove us to have - and a lot of the writers go out and have stories...  From their dates.  ...And they bring those stories back. And they live their life right?  Yes.  And they bring those stories back right? But if you are in the writers' room all day it is very easy - I have seen very - I have seen bad examples where writers' rooms can kind of become echo chambers of other writers' stories. And you are more so talking about what you think is happening in life versus like what actually is happening.  They need lives.  They need lives. And so...  Yeah. I get it.  ...That is just a very important part of the show.  OK. So like you are working on the show Insecure. You were on Girlfriends. How did you get so good about putting yourself in the head space of strong black women?   I was - I mean I was raised by some strong black women.  There is that .  My mom my grandmother - I mean my grandmothers. You know I am around one every day with my wife. But yeah like you know I do not know. I feel like you know it is weird. Like there - obviously there is some parts of being a woman I will never be able to tap into just because I am not a woman.  Yeah.  But I mean I think there is a human part - I mean my friends always say I am a Drake type dude. I would be in my feelings a lot. So maybe that is why I can write it good.  You do not like Drake do you?  Yeah I like - what is wrong with Drake?  He a little too emo for me.  Why - everybody want to hate on Drake. But let a Drake song - let Started From The Bottom drop right now and we would both be in the studio...  I mean I would...  Of course you would.  He makes bops.  Hey Back To Back drops right now it is banging. I mean I will say - we can all - we can say what we want but it is what it is right?  I will tell you one thing. The only good Drake albums are his mix tapes.  No. Take Care is a good album and...  Take Care's fine.  And the one started - the Started From The Bottom album is gold.  So Far Gone is good.  Worst Behavior? Worst Behavior's not good? PoundCake? Stop it. Do not let me start playing this album.   I will keep my...  You can just cut this short - you can just cut this short and make the podcast about Drake. Do not - everybody want to hate but everybody bumps Drake.  Well every now and then I will bump some Drake.  I went to a Drake concert. Drake's concerts are insane. Nobody beats...  Not better than the Kanye concerts.  Huh ?  Not better than Kanye concerts.  I mean I have not been to a Kanye...  You have not been to a Kanye show?  No I as not been to a Kanye.  I went to his tour just after Graduation dropped and it was like I literally recommitted my life to Christ on the floor of that stadium.   No I hear it is religious.  Yes.  I hear it is mad spiritual.  Yes. Yes. Yes.  I just cannot - I do not know if I could be on the long - like the 45-minute rants about commercialism.  I was seeing him before he was doing that before he went off that deep end. Anyway how did we get here? Kanye. Drake. They are both the...  Oh we were talking about black - we were talking about how I could write black women.  Yes.  But...  And Drake thinks he can too but he cannot.  Hey do not tell Issa Rae that. You will catch some hands.  I know. What was that line she had in Insecure? She was like I just feel like he gets me.  That is right he gets her. Yeah we had a Drake - we had a Drake go-out  lyric all of season one. Last season was Frank Ocean. We will figure out who we will do this year. But yeah I mean I think like just - I think the one thing that - I am not sure. Except I say that like the things that I like to write are about being emotionally truthful.  Yeah.  So I think women are more truthful about a lot of things than men can be. So...  I will snap to that.   So I think maybe that is why. But yeah I do not know. I do not know.  OK.  I just tapped into it.  Yeah it worked. All right time for quick break. When we come back we will talk about how Insecure is part of this larger moment in the culture right now. I will also put some questions to Prentice from Twitter. BRB.   So like you are heading this show that feels like it occupies a very unique space in the landscape of prestige television right now. Like it symbolizes so much. Like how do you think Insecure fits into the current state of TV right now?  Yeah. I mean I definitely think like you know obviously we - you cannot predict like who is going to become president and all that type of thing. But I do think the time we are in in terms of - look we are in like - you know I mean we are in a crazy time right? So like Insecure - obviously we have a lot of things that deal with race right?  Yeah.  And sociocultural issues. And so I think in the world we are talking about where race is constantly at some point in the day being discussed whether it is by the administration whether it is by our citizens whether it is internationally race right now in this country is unavoidable. And I think you know we try to either A address that B poke fun at it C make you look at it from a different perspective than maybe you thought. And I think also too like I think right now we are at a thing where like people want to categorize or demonize people of color - right? - whether it is black men with the police department. And people be like I am so afraid. I just saw a thing the other day where this security guard shot himself accidentally and blamed it on a black man who shot him.  I saw that.  It is wild right?  It is just like - yeah.  Like we are human beings. And I think Insecure does something where we show black people specifically...  Being human.  ...Being human and being flawed and being imperfect and loving...  Yes.  ...And being - and just being fully dimensionalized as human beings.  Exactly.  And I think that is where our show hits a spot right now in the cultural landscape. You know it was so funny. I had a friend of mine who - a writer I worked with on another show. And he - a white guy. And he tweeted at me - he DM'ed and said hey man I just started watching Insecure. And he said I just have to say like the show is amazing. And I asked - I said hey can I ever share your tweet? And he goes yeah. So he goes I am playing catch-up - I am reading the DM. It is so good. It is also making me think a lot - and he is a white guy...  Yeah.  ...A lot about perspective and race and how you guys are showing me stuff I did not know I knew about even though I considered myself woke. I now understand your experience of being the only person of color in a writer's room full of white guys. And then I go well what made you say that? I said thank you obviously for saying that.  Yeah.  It is a weird thing. And he goes - I said well what has it made you think? And he responds. He says it is made me think about how to approach representation in my own writing. He said there is a fine line it seems between writing diverse characters and cultural appropriation. And I was just like can I share that?  Yeah.  And I said that is such a - like I think our show is like highlighting that right?  Yeah.  That like we are letting you in on a window that black people experience that you may on its surface - you may think oh I know about this. And then - but we are kind of letting you in on a window of like oh no maybe - do I do that...  Exactly.  ...You know? And it is not from like an accusatory standpoint - just from like a wow I did not know that is what it looks like from your guys' perspective.  I did not know exactly yeah.  Yeah.  Well - and I also love the way that you deal with race on the show. You admit that black characters like Molly and Issa can also sometimes get it wrong on race.  Oh for sure.  Like there is this plotline where Issa - with the principal of the school that she works in they are kind of doing bad by brown students you know? And it is like - honestly it is refreshing to see that and have you guys say black folks do not know it all either. Like...  No.  ...When she is meeting the guy for the date who is a Latino.   Right.  I am just like girl what are you doing?  .  And like even when her and Molly have that dinner - this Arabic dinner - and like they are dressing up like they are Arabic. I was like this feels weird.  .  But you guys went there. And I am just like - it was refreshing to see that even people that look like me that some people expect to be perma-woke all the time...  No not at all.  ...Can get it wrong.  Can totally get it wrong. And I think it speaks to just a human thing which is like you are sympathetic to the perspective in which you see things right? And if you do not see it from that perspective then you like - or you do not have that experience you find it hard to tap into it. And I think - you know we often criticize white people for not doing that. But I was like we are just as guilty. Like we are saying it is like we are fully dimensionalized.  Yes yes.  Like we are not always - like one of the things that really frustrates me sometimes is when I see - some movies or some things that present us...  As magical Negroes.  ...As magical and very Martin Luther King...  Yeah.  ...All the time. But we are not always like these people who can rise above a situation. You know what I mean?  Exactly.  It is like we are flawed and imperfect...  He was flawed.  ...And all these things too yeah.  I mean like Dr. King had a few classes where he almost failed. He stepped out on his wife sometimes. Like we should be able to say that.  Yeah he was not a perfect human being. Right he was - but I think there is this thing that like everybody always has to be you know doing something for the movement. Or we are always these sort of like - you always assume the black person you know - like the one black guy you know can dance. Or you always assume that like your black friend - like if you are white you might think like your black friend has the best advice.  Yeah you might assume that your black friend likes Drake.  Right - whoa whoa whoa.   I am kidding. I am kidding. I am going to let it go now. What is your favorite Drake song?  Ooh I mean I love Started From The Bottom just because it is just like...  Yeah.  But I also love - like Marvins Room is so dope.  OK.  I love How 'Bout Now. How 'Bout Now is my joint when I am on like some petty stuff.   I like - and this was from the first mixtape - the one with Lil' Wayne I am Goin In.  Oh yeah I am Going In. That is dope too.   I support a good song. Yeah.  See you coming around.   When did you know that you wanted to do this type of work - showbusiness TV?  I was always interested. I grew up an only child. And I grew up at a time when like I had like - not grandparents - like grandparents now are cool. They travel. Grandparents are on Facebook and Twitter. Like I grew up with like '80s grandparents...  .  ...Who were like - who had a floor-model TV who watched the news for four hours straight did not play outside with you. It was like go play and just come back before the streetlights come on. You know what I mean?  Yeah yeah.  And so I was the only child so I had to entertain myself. And so I - you know when I was done doing my homework or whatever I would just watch a lot of TV. I did not want to watch what they watched. So there was like a little black-and-white TV sometimes at my grandparents' house or - and wherever I would watch and I just...  So what'd you watch?  I would watch I mean everything of that day like Diff'rent Strokes The Jeffersons Growing Pains Family Ties It is Your Move with Jason Bateman. Shoutout to that show. People will sleep on that show. Valerie's Family - you know all those - all family thing - you know all the classic '80s shows - Love Boat Fantasy Island Dukes of Hazzard.  You watched a lot of TV.  Yeah it was - I was - a lot of TV. So I would just write my own stories. I would write my own versions of those stories or whatever.  ...Of the show that you watched.  No just of like whatever. But I understood like oh a character has to speak so I would do - I mean I did not know how it - what a script looked like. I was writing like it in like a - more like probably like how plays are written and sometimes it was just like in that kind of a style I guess.  So you were writing your own TV shows as a kid.  Yeah as a kid.  How old were you when you were doing this?  Maybe like 8 or 9 maybe 10. And...  Wow. You were ahead of your time. I mean when I was 8 or 9 I was not writing my own scripts.  Well I like to write. You know like my parents used to make me like cut out the newspaper and do like current events like once or twice a week.  Oh wow.  ...And like do the who what where when why and how of an article you know? So like writing to me - and my mom's an attorney so she was a writer. And like she writes a lot obviously. And my grand - and two of my grandparents were teachers so like writing and all that was very...  It was in the air.  Yeah - in my house growing up a lot like some - like seeing writing as a thing.  So your grandparents were in the house with your mom too.  No. And but like when my mom - when my parents split my mother decided to go to law school. And so when my mother was going to law school at night...  They would watch you gotcha .  I would be at my grandparents' and so they would watch me certain evenings. And so but yeah but I was also really interested in marine biology. I loved the animals. I loved the water. It was a - it is a weird thing. And then I remember when I got to high school our school was kind of by the water so we had like a marine biology like elective. And so I remember I took that and I was like this is really dope. And then I remember I started to have to make a choice about where I was going to go to school because I was either looking - I was looking at USC and NYU obviously if I wanted to do writing. And then I was looking at like UC Irvine and other schools that were more geared towards a life of doing things in the ocean.  Wow.  And I remember I had to make a hard choice about where I was 