 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. I first heard the music duo known as The Handsome Family on season one of HBO's True Detective when their mysterious haunting song Far From Any Road was used as the theme music. I liked it so much I went back and listened to their other recordings. They have a new album called Unseen. So of course we invited them on the show. Brett Sparks writes the music. Rennie Sparks writes the lyrics. Brett sings lead and plays most of the instruments. Rennie sings backup and plays banjo and autoharp. This description is from the magazine Absolute Sound. Quote Rennie's creepy modern tales of sudden death paranormal mysteries descents into madness and Godfearing maladies unsmirkingly meld with Brett's achingly beautiful melodies and tender ballads unquote. Brett and Rennie have been married since 1993 and have lived in Albuquerque since 2001. The southwest desert helps set the mood for some of their recordings. But as we will discuss some of the dark atmosphere in their music comes from dealing with their own dark moods. Let us start with the opening track of Unseen. This is Gold.    Got a tattoo of a snake and a ski mask on my face but I woke up in a ditch behind the StopNGo. Lying in the weeds with a bullet in my gut watching dollar bills fly away in the dust. Now the sun's sinking down spilling gold on the ground but I am going out tonight out past the last lights of town.  That is Gold from the new Handsome Family album Unseen. Brett and Rennie Sparks welcome to FRESH AIR. I love your music and it is a pleasure to have you on the show. So let us talk about the story behind that song  so just like the story itself. So this character wakes up in a ditch behind the StopNGo with a bullet in his gut. This is definitely like the start of a story.   Yeah.  Yeah.  Do you know what happened? Do you know who he is?  We  it is based on an actual occurrence that happened when we first moved to town. I went out to buy you know a six pack or whatever and went down to the local convenience store. And I got out of the car and there was a swirling twister of dust. And in this twister were dozens and dozens of bills like singles fives twenties just in the air. And yeah it was just a really  very surreal experience. So I got home and told this to Rennie. You would not believe what happened to me. I got 56 in loose bills that were flying through the air. And that is where...  Well that is  the difference between the two of us was I think clear there because you came home so happy. And I immediately thought there has got to be someone dying in a ditch...   ...Because that is the only way anyone lets go of a fistful of dollars in this town.  Yeah and  to me I really liked that first line I got a tattoo of a snake and a ski mask on my face. When I read that  Rennie gives me the lyrics. The way we work is always lyrics first and then music. And when she gave me that lyric I think that lyric was in the fourth verse. And I read that line and I was like that is the perfect way to start a record  just like you know a onetwo punch.  The other funny true thing about this  well not so funny  is that at our local Wells Fargo there is a sign in the lobby. And this is New Mexico where you do not wear a ski mask really except to rob a bank...   You do not wear a ski mask for any reason yeah.  ...There is a sign that says please no ski masks...  Or baseball caps.  ...Or mirrored sunglasses to be worn in the lobby just to  you know that way they can clearly see who is there to rob the bank give them like a fivesecond lead.  It is the wild wild West. So it is kind of a song that has the trappings of that wild wild West stuff like all the Morricone kind of sounding bells and stuff like that.  Yeah well Rennie in your lyrics I mean there is a lot of sun. There is a fair amount of like snakes and creatures that seem to be very much of the desert and you know poisonous plants and the kind of thing that you would not find on the streets of Philly for instance.  Yeah it is amazing out here that the insects are  when I first moved here I would almost have like a feeling like I was having a psychotic break when I would see these insects that were just  my brain could not fathom that they were real. But they are incredibly beautiful and frightening.  So I want to play this song that you are probably best known for Far From Any Road which was used as the theme song  the opening theme music  for season one of HBO's True Detective. And I watched the series. And one of the things I really looked forward to every week was hearing the theme.   Thanks.  And yeah so...  Us too.  ...Yeah I can imagine. let us hear it. And then we will talk about it. So this is Far From Any Road The Handsome Family. And you will recognize it as the theme from season one of True Detective.    From the dusty mesa her looming shadow grows hidden in the branches of the poison creosote. She twines her spines up slowly towards the boiling sun and when I touched her skin my fingers ran with blood. In the hushing dusk under a swollen silver moon I came walking with the wind to watch the cactus bloom. A strange hunger haunted me. The looming shadows danced. I fell down to the thorny brush and felt a trembling hand.  That is The Handsome Family and my guests are Brett and Rennie Sparks. Let us talk about what you intended when you wrote this song because you wrote this song years before it was actually used as the True Detective theme. And it is the kind of song where you can debate like what does it mean? Is this character dying from a rattlesnake bite from a poisoned flower or is this character just haunted by the hallucinations brought on by a cactus psychedelic plant? So you tell me.  Yes.   All of the above right.  Well that is what is great. I mean those are  my favorite songs are the ones that have holes in them. And you have to you know leave the listener something to try to puzzle out for himself you know?  There should be some space for...  Sure.  ...For many different theories.  To me that was the first real desert song that we wrote too. And we wrote it almost as pastiche to me. Like we  I really want to nail like that sound you know? So I took the sound of the castanets as insects from Sketches Of Spain and using classical guitar you know and sounds like that and kind of the Morricone thing. And it is an obvious homage to Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra. That is undeniable in the exchange between the woman and the man.  And then it got used for yeah a cop show set in Louisiana so go figure.  But that is what is so wonderful about it I think is that a song should have space that it can take on many meanings and take on many lives and can be put in different contexts and fit perfectly. So to me that was just like the most gratifying thing you could have for a song to be bigger than you could imagine it to be. I do think though once again it is about insects because that was completely inspired for me by this horror that I had as an Easterner. I grew up in New York. And when we first moved out there that I  when I discovered the hard way that ants can bite you viciously...  She was working out in the driveway on something  I do not know  paving the  repaving the driveway or something. And yeah she got bit by all these big fire ants you know like almost the size of your pinky. And yeah you...  It went on and on and on for days that pain.  You hallucinated the lyrics to that song.  I do remember distinctly though that that summer we were recording that song that was a summer of cicadas you know that is like every seven or nine or you know odd number prime number years that the cicadas come.  Seven I think.  And they were deafeningly loud outside. And you were getting them on the track. And I think it kind of  you kind of worked with it.  I think they are on the track. And instead of  you know looking at Brian Eno's oblique strategies  instead of like trying to save the track and get rid of the noise and the cicadas I decided to put more on there but more through the use of actual instruments like claves and you know castanets and guiros and stuff so that when you mixed all this big mess together it just sounded like this big giant chorus of insects which is what the mandolins are doing in the chorus too. They are like these fluttering wings you know like having that mandolin multed seven or eight times like a mandolin choir. That to me sounded very insectoid too. So...  And you have a home studio  a home recording studio.  Yeah that is why I can do these stupid things . That is why I can do these  get these ridiculous ideas in my head and then actually you know pursue them.  So how do...  It is really hard for me to work in a regular studio anymore. It is very difficult.  Let us take a short break and then we will talk some more and then hear some more of your music. So if you are just joining us my guests are Brett and Rennie Sparks who together are The Handsome Family. They have a new album which is called Unseen. We will be right back. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guests are Brett and Rennie Sparks who together are The Handsome Family. They have a new album called Unseen and they are best known for having written the song that became the theme for season one of True Detective. So Brett you have this really deep voice. And the deepness of your voice seems to match the tone of the lyrics the darkness of the lyrics. Were people like Leonard Cohen and Johnny Cash important to you not only because of their songwriting but because of how deep their voices are?  Well those artists are important to me for what they are. I guess  I do not think they were really  I do not really consider them influences. I think more about people like George Jones and Frank Sinatra and like  I do not know  like classical music when I sing. I do not really  I do not want to sound like Johnny Cash. I never did want to sound like Johnny Cash even though I probably do sometimes. It just  yeah it is just  I am stuck in that baritone world or bass world which is good because you can do a lot of  you can do  go lower and go higher.  Did it feel limiting at first?  Actually it was very very  it took me a long time to  I hate when singers say this. But it took me a long time to find my voice you know? It did take a long time to figure out that  or just accept the fact that this is what my voice sounds like and I am going to learn how to use that.  What were you singing before you figured that out?  You know when I was in my  well when I was in my 20s and you know teens 20s and 30s I was singing much too high. I was singing an octave octave and a half. I was writing pop songs and you know new wave songs and stuff like that  whatever. And I was singing way too high because pop music is sung by people with tenors you know The Beatles. And those are all tenor singers. But then yeah you start realizing oh well this is what  a lot of it had to do with  in college singing in choirs and singing  sing  I hate to admit it but singing like operatic arias like learning how to sing classical music. And you know there is so much stuff out there. And it is  so much of it is great. Like the Schubert lieder was a big big thing for me in you know getting in touch with you know having a low voice. So I do not know yeah it would not be Johnny Cash. It would be Schubert .  So Rennie do you think you had anything to do with helping Brett find the voice by providing lyrics that were so suitable for it?  No I would love to say I have you know some power to shape other people in their you know their own journeys. But I find it so difficult to write lyrics that I am just amazed when I finish anything let alone something I think is appropriate for Brett or shaping our journey or you know a plan. I just want to finish a story that I find mysterious and will resonate. And it is always a mystery whether the lyrics that I give him are  what they are going to sound like because I always have a very different idea in my head what kind of music goes with the lyrics and what melody should be. And that is part of the excitement of working with him is that he will come back singing these words in a very different way and bringing a whole different mood to them.  Yeah it is almost like a third person is writing the songs but  that is not one of us that just has little pieces of us you know. And that is cool. And the thing about Rennie is that  I mean Rennie was a writer before she ever started writing lyrics. So as a writer I think she is a little more you know attuned to changing voice within a song or not necessarily writing in her own voice but in an assumed voice. And at the time we were also really into folk music. And in folk music the emphasis is not on the singer you know? The emphasis is on the song. So I mean a lot of them are anonymous. So the singer's just kind of irrelevant.  Well I am really repelled by the the cult of personality in pop music. I do not  I find that kind of enjoyment of music is really empty in the end whereas a song like  an ancient song like Barbara Allen which is a song that anybody can can sing and anybody can put themselves in that song it makes everyone feel like their life could be a little bit bigger by listening to the story. I want these stories to feel like they make people's lives  their emotional lives  wider and faster rather than to make you feel like wow I wish I lived a cool life...  Yeah...  ...Like that guy in those leather pants.  I wish I was that guy yeah.  .  He is happy.  So it is more like I wish I murdered my lover like the singer of that ballad .  Well no I think there is  I mean I think that really...  He just died. It was...  It does bother me though because I do not think that I am interested in songs that have murder in them or death in them because I like murder or death. You know there is  it is catharsis. It is a safe place to experience really terrifying things and that is what art's for. So to say you know there is nothing in common between a serial killer and someone who writes about about killing I think art has a real purpose there in giving us a place to experience these really really terrifying emotions.  So your songs are largely not autobiographical but there is at least one song that is kind of an exception. And it is called My Ghost. And...  Uhoh...   And...  You know I...  Yeah.  I was just going to remind you though that I write the lyrics. So you know there is only so much autobiography in a song that I have written about someone else's experience.  But you are writing...  Yeah so there is a lot of weird...  ...It for Brett to sing so yeah...  Yeah but there is a lot of weird ambiguity going on when we  yeah  when she writes because that song  well go ahead and finish the intro...  Well let me just finish the thought. Yeah so...  Yeah.  To finish out that thought Ghost is about having been hospitalized after a bipolar episode probably an episode of mania. And...  I think yeah.  That is how you get locked up.  Yeah.  Calm moments they really do not care about .  And this character is basically not getting out of the ward until he is able and willing to comb his hair and brush his teeth and things like that. So  and I know that there was a period probably in the '90s Brett when you did have a break and...  59'95...  Yeah...  ...Was the...  ...Palindrome.  ...The palindrome date drove you over the edge. I remember.  Yeah yeah that is right.  So why do not we hear the song and then we will talk? So the song is called My Ghost. The music is by Brett and the lyric is by Rennie. This is The Handsome Family.    My ghost drives around with a bag of dead fish. Falling neutrinos drift through the trees. He staggers and reels runs up credit card bills and clogs up the toilet with bottles of pills. Here in the bipolar ward if you get a gold star. But I am not going far till the Haldol kicks in. Until then until then I am strapped to the this expletive twin bed and I will not get any cookies or tea. Till I stop quoting Nietzsche and brush my teeth and comb my hair. Days pass slow in slippers and robe but my ghost still bangs on the roof...  Brett and Rennie Sparks will talk more about writing that song after a break. The Handsome Family has a new album called Unseen. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross back with Brett and Rennie Sparks the music duo known as The Handsome Family. They are best known for writing and performing the song Far From Any Road which was used as the theme music for Season 1 of HBO's True Detective. Brett writes the music; Rennie writes the lyrics. The Handsome Family has a new album called Unseen. When we left off we were listening to the song My Ghost from their 1998 album Through the Trees. The song is based on one of Brett's manic episodes that led him to be hospitalized. He has bipolar disorder. Can you tell us the story of writing that song?  So that song was started by me about trying to write about my experience...  In the hospital.  ...With  yeah mental illness in the hospital. But I do not write lyrics. That is not my thing. So  but I thought the idea was good so Rennie took up the lyric and turned it into a lyric  or took up the idea and turned it into a lyric. And so that is weird. I mean that is another level of strangeness you know bouncing back and forth between the two of us. That song is tough to do and we get a lot of requests for it. And I am usually just like no I just do not want to go there.   It is tough to do because  not for technical reasons but for emotional ones.  Well it is not even that. It is more like kind of  I mean dealing with this illness I have come to realize the fact that there is nothing cool about it.  Most people in mental hospitals are not artists they are just very sick people.  Yeah they are just really really sad screwed up people. And it is not  it is a place that  it is something I do not really want to reinforce with people because I think they take it as kind of funny and it is funny and that is where I was at when I wrote the song was trying to make some fun out of it. But it is really not funny anymore. It is just...  Well...  It just is you know? And it is not the greatest song in the world. It is a simple onesixth. You know it is a doowop song basically. It is. It has that same chord progression as like Heart And Soul or whatever.  Let me ask you about a specific line in the song my ghost drives around with a bag of dead fish.  Oh yeah.  Yeah that was a bad day.   That was a bad day. Yeah I had this fish tank. I was really into fish when I was a kid like I was really into aquariums. And people who are bipolar should not be allowed to keep fish tanks.  It did not end well.  It did not end well.  No you were driving around with those fish in the car and you were making some kind of recording antenna to reach...  Yeah.  ...Outer space people...  Yeah.  ...In the car and there was  he was eating cat food...  Yeah that was really  had all the clichs.  It was a mess. It was pretty ugly stuff.  Champagne and cat food.  But yeah afterwards...  See I am making fun of it now .  ...You know it is funny to go you know  while you were in the hospital I was going around returning your purchases. He spent like thousands of dollars on pillows...  Pillows.  ...And I went to Bed Bath and Beyond and I said my husband was  had a manic episode  can I return these pillows? And people were nice about it. When you say someone did this when they were crazy they will usually take the pillows back.  Well this is why I do not go there.  Well I will ask about one other line. You referred to this he staggers and reels and runs up credit card bills and clogs up the toilet with bottles of pills. Were you not taking your medication?  I think you were just...  Well that is weird.  ...You were prescribed the wrong medication is what was happening. You were being prescribed things for depression...  You know that may have just been a good rhyme...  That could be.  ...That is a damn good rhyme.  No I remember you were taking the wrong  I think that may have brought you into a manic state...  Runs up credit card bills is a classic bipolar trait...  Well...  ...Overshopping.  A lot of people are put into manic states by being prescribed antidepressants...  Right.  ...Because they first go to a doctor because they are experiencing depression. And no one's seen the manic side of it so...   Yeah because nobody goes when they are manic.  So it is a bit dangerous when you first take antidepressants. You can end up in a very dangerous manic place.  Rennie do you have a mood disorder too? Because that is  I read something along those lines.  Oh yeah .  What is your thing?    I am just a very depressed person I guess when I am  you know I am hopped up on a lot of antidepressants and this is as happy as I get. But yeah I think both of us recognize that without modern pharmaceuticals we would  neither of us would have survived this long. So we are  you know we are fortunate that there is medication out there that can help us have a life.  Has it helped you understand each other knowing that you both have to deal with a mood disorder?  I think the funny thing was I think we had a discussion about this once when we first met that I was secretly thinking well he will be my rock because I know I am going to be crazy. Turns out you know...  I think...  ...Drowning together we have managed to tread water.  I think it is made us a lot more patient with one another and...  Yeah.  ...Tolerant with one another. And I think quote unquote normal people sometimes lose patience with each other and that is where their relationships disintegrate. But I think we know that sometimes the other person needs a little extra slack.  My guests are Brett and Rennie Sparks who perform under the name The Handsome Family. Their new album is called Unseen. We will talk more after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. My guests are Brett and Rennie Sparks who perform under the name The Hansome Family. Their new album is called Unseen. I know you both like a lot of traditional music and so much...  Yes.  ...Of the traditional music you know the American like folk traditions and British folk traditions there are ballads about lost love about murder about you know  country music too about like sinning and  having lost...  Sure.  ...Your way. And you do do a couple of traditional things. So I want to play a traditional song called The Lost Soul that you say you first heard on the Doc Watson Family album and this is a really dark song. Do you want to quote some of the lyrics before we hear it?   What an awful day...   What an awful day...   ...When the judgment comes.   ...When the judgment comes.   And the sinners hear their eternal doom.  That is a good time religion.   Though for help I cry but it all in vain. For alas I am doomed for aye I am doomed for aye. Yep happy stuff.  Why did you decide to sing this?  Oh seems obvious .  I think it is  for me it is comforting. I do not know why. I guess just because I think I am also  I really like horror movies and I like books about disasters because they kind of match the mood that I am naturally in. So that song makes perfect sense to me. That is the way I  you know that is how  the way I leave the house each day.  Go ahead sorry.  This is a song about no salvation.  At all.  Salvation is an impossibility for this person and they are doomed. And you...  But they can still sing.  Yeah and it sounds like you overdubbed your voices to have a kind of chorus effect as if like there is a whole family of singers or a whole room of singers.  Yeah it is just Rennie and me.  And I think there is a comfort in that. At least we are all together in hell singing.   OK. So this is The Lost Soul The Handsome Family my guests Brett and Rennie Sparks.    What an awful day what an awful day when the judgment comes when the judgment comes and the sinners hear and the sinners hear their eternal doom their eternal doom. At the sad decree at the sad decree they will depart for aye they will depart for aye into endless woe into endless woe and gloom endless woe and gloom. I am paying now I am paying now the penalty the penalty that the unredeemed that the unredeemed must ever pay must ever pay. Though for help I cry though for help I cry it is all in vain it is all in vain. For alas I am doomed for alas I am doomed for aye. I am doomed for aye. If I could recall if I could recall...  That was The Handsome Family which is my guests Brett and Rennie Sparks. The song is The Lost Soul. It is a traditional song that they learned from a Doc Watson album. And now they have a new album which is called Unseen. That is just so chilling. I really love your recording of that. You know it makes me think like what were you first taught about death?  Wow.   Well my parents always told me do not think about it which of course does not really work.  Well I was probably closer to the content of that song. I was born and raised in the Southern Baptist church. I mean I grew up  I was a born again Christian when I was in high school  junior high and high school  so you know I grew up in that guiltridden you know mess in Texas where I am from. So that  I mean I have heard stuff like that sung in church. I have sung stuff like that in church. But...  I think for me though it is  my family are Jews. And I think they are the kind of Jews that after World War II said there is absolutely no point in religion anymore and we are just going to try to live our lives as best we can and not consider what is  what kind of order there can be in the universe because there cannot be an order that involves gas chambers. We cannot have that. So you know when you  when I started hearing gospel music to me it was sort of  even a song like The Lost Soul is better than the world view that I came from  which is no order. So this at least is saying someone's  there is an afterlife. It may be awful but it is something.  Yeah.  That is ok. Maybe that is a certain kind of religion.  There is something but I do not know what the hell it is.  Like we were saying the other day I mean you know this planet we live on is mostly full of insects. And I do not mean to harp on them but if there is a God he certainly prefers insects.  Brett when you were growing up in the Baptist church did you like the songs? Did you like the hymns?  Very much. Very much so. That is where I learned how to sing harmony. I would just you know sing a song and I would sing the bass then I would sing the tenor then I would sing the alto then I would sing the soprano. There was always four verses  so there was ample chance to do each of those things. So that is kind of like you know where I figured out those kind of  how to  how those things work. And then you know I went to church for years and years so it is a huge influence. It is the first place I probably played with other people. I played piano in the church choir and you know stuff like that. I still have a hymnal. I still sit down and will read through Amazing Grace or Just As I Am or whatever...  It is undeniably beautiful music.  Oh they are unbelievable. And the thing is to me I am obsessed with J.S. Bach. So it is basically just the beginning of  it is  has so much in common with the Lutheran tradition that is behind Bach's music that it all kind of blends into one for me.  And you know something about like hymns there is no irony in them. Like there is a lot of irony in pop music.  It is lovely. And I think even if...   That is funny.  ...Even if you cannot you know if you  I cannot embrace the cosmology of you know JudeoChristian world every day. But when I sing one of those songs I can live inside the song.  Yeah there is something really beautiful and poetic about some of them too.  For the few minutes you are in the song it is real. It is true.  You have songs like  leaning leaning leaning on the everlasting arms. I mean that is just a beautiful...  I feel better just hearing that.  Yeah.  I mean it does not have to be whatever God. It is just...  It is just beautiful and comforting.  Yeah it is nice.  And you do not have to...  It is a beautiful melody too. It is a perfect melody.  You do not have to know why you like it. You just can  just let it comfort you.  Good.  Yeah.  So you have  Brett you have an interesting music background because you studied classical music. You were also in New Wave bands. But on one of your albums you have two prepared piano tracks. And that is like a John Cage thing where you kind of stick stuff inside the piano on the strings so that when you press one of the keys you get this really odd sound not a piano sound. So...  That is when I knew I was going to marry him was...  .  ...When he prepared a piano in front of me. Once he put a screwdriver in between those piano strings I thought that is the man for me.  Oh yeah. What a dreamboat.  Did you think you were going to become a classical composer or musician?  When I was very young I think I might have been naive enough to believe that.  A classical composer or musician?  When I was very young I think I might have been naive enough to believe that. I started playing piano when I was  when I was young  yeah and I was 5 or 6 or something like that. My mother taught me piano lessons. So I have been playing piano a long time and it is kind of all I ever did and studied. I studied here at UNM. I graduated from here with a degree in music history because basically I started becoming more interested in thinking about music than actually playing it. I do not know I am kind of obsessed obviously with music. And I go through phases and I devour as much as possible. I mean last year I listened to almost nothing but Bach. I mean I even went to Leipzig to see m