 This is FRESH AIR. I am Dave Davies in today for Terry Gross. When birds flock near airports and get sucked into jet engines or when deer run onto highways and cause car accidents or when bears wander into towns and campsites where food remains are plentiful they cause problems for us. In all these cases of course the animals are just following their instincts. They fly. They run. They forage for food. They seek mates. But when they interfere with our way of life and break our rules some humans often people in ranger hats and uniforms or lab coats have to try and figure out something to do about it. Our guest the science writer Mary Roach has a new book about the many conflicts between humans and animals including bears elephants monkeys mice and how different societies try and deal with them. Roach has a way of handling sometimes uncomfortable subjects with wisdom and wit. Among her six bestselling books are Stiff The Curious Lives Of Human Cadavers and Gulp Adventures On The Alimentary Canal. That book about what happens in the human digestive system from top to bottom brought her to FRESH AIR in 2013. She is back to talk about her new book called Fuzz When Nature Breaks The Law. Mary Roach welcome back to FRESH AIR.  Oh thank you so much.  You know anybody who is owned a cat is aware of this conflict between natural instincts and rules we try to impose. What got you interested in this question?  Well I wish I had a tidy origin story. But what happened was I was flailing around looking for a book topic as happens every few years and I got interested in the forensics of wildlife crime not when the animals are the quoteunquote criminals but when the animals are the victims. So I was  I got interested in the forensics of animal trafficking specifically a woman who published a guide for wildlife law enforcement on how to distinguish real versus fake tiger penis that is dried which is sold medicinally. And I thought that is kind of a bizarre expertise. And I spoke to her and I kind of got interested in wildlife forensics. Unfortunately I was not allowed to tag along on any open cases and I always like to kind of be on the scene in my books. And so that was a dead end. But as often happens it morphed into a related topic which I kind of turned it inside out. What if the animals were the perpetrators of these crimes? And I am using crimes loosely. They are obviously just animals as you said following their instinct. But I got interested in this field human wildlife conflict which I had never heard of. And any time I hear about a pocket of science that I have never heard of before I get kind of excited. And I think maybe this is a book. And lo and behold it became a book.  And you traveled many continents researching it . And I got to say...  I did.  ...It is a fun read. You have a lovely touch with this stuff. You know you begin by telling us of a case in the 17th century of some towns in Italy who undertook legal action against caterpillars that were munching on crops and gardens actually issuing a summons for the caterpillars to show up and appear in court. This actually happened?  This actually happened. This is from a  it is a 1906 book called The Criminal Prosecution And Capital Punishment Of Animals. And I initially thought  because it is so bizarre I thought is this an elaborate hoax? But it is very welldocumented. And the individual who wrote it was a scholar and a linguist and has several appendices that have the legal documents in the various languages of origin many of them Latin. And I realized it is real. It is for real. The caterpillars needless to say did not show up in court that day but the magistrates or whoever was in charge went ahead with some legal proceedings and decided well there'll be  there will be alternate land set aside for the caterpillars. And you know that took some time to do. By that time of course the caterpillars had pupated were no longer eating the crops. And everybody went away happy. And  but the book is  it is fascinating because there were you know in the appendix there'll be like an expense report filed by the bailiff who kept the pig in prison  the expenses of keeping the pig in prison awaiting trial for killing a child. There was a trial. The pig was executed. Just kind of amazing which led me to think you know OK the legal system  probably not the best way to deal with these animalhuman conflicts. Like let us see what science might bring to bear.  Right. You know it is  what is fascinating is that you know in the 17th century there was not a lot of time to spare for frivolity I think. What was the point of issuing a summons for caterpillars or...  .  ...Bringing a criminal charge against a pig?  Well in the case of the caterpillars  and a lot of the wildlife  I mean the pig is  I think that is a little different because it is somebody's pig. So that is kind of a...  There is a property interest yeah.  Yes. That pig is property. But wild animals are the province of the state. So the way that the author explained it was that this was a way for these magistrates these leaders to say we are so powerful that we control even nature. We can resolve these problems because we have ultimate dominion over nature and over you the population and we will step in and be allpowerful. And that was his interpretation. Whether or not that is the answer I do not know. But that was what made a certain amount of sense because otherwise it kind of makes no sense .  Right  planting the flag in this battle. You spent time with people who investigate cases of where hikers or campers might have been attacked  fatally attacked by animals. What sort of things did you learn to look at? I mean what did you want to find in the bodies?  It was a seminar  a training seminar for you know people who work for wildlife agencies or  which have different names up in Canada. A lot of these folks were Canadian because there are so many bears up there. So it was a fiveday training course for people in wildlife agencies mostly. And there are a lot of fascinating similarities with a crime scene where a human has killed another human. In other words the scene of the crime if you will is taped off. The officers come in. They secure the scene. They are gathering evidence putting the little evidence flags down. They have to do it very carefully 'ecause there may be a bear or a cougar in the region because these animals tend to cache their victim and hang around and come back and feed again. So they come in very carefully and wellarmed. But they are gathering evidence. And the first thing that they are having to figure out is  and this is not something that cops on CSI would do. The first thing they need to figure out is what species killed this person? Was it a human? Was it a cougar? Was it a wolf? Was it a bear? And so we learned all the kind of hallmark telltale signs of a bear attack versus a cougar attack. And they kill very differently and for different reasons. So we learned all of that and then you move on to actually identifying the individual. And this was amazing to me because you know you have a suspect. In other words if you trapped an animal on the scene say a bear you would do  you if you were the predator attack specialist would look at the DNA of the animal versus the DNA of the victim and you would be establishing a link. And if the link was not there the suspect is released. So some of these bears  there was a case up in Canada where two bears were trapped and they were not the right bear and they were let go. So it is  it has these fascinating overlaps with the human jurisprudence system.  Yeah. And this is fascinating because you know we are not going to hire the bear a lawyer and go to court. I mean what is the point of  well what do you do when you have positively identified that yes this bear attacked a person?  Well the bear  a bear  in this country and in Canada a bear that attacks and kills a person is destroyed. But the point is to not destroy the wrong bear to not just shoot  like oh yeah we saw one on the scene and we shot at it and killed it. There was one case that my group  we broke down into teams and my team had a situation  and these were based on real cases  where a woman called 'ecause her fiance had disappeared. Someone from the sheriff's department came out and saw a wolf assumed that it was the wolf that had attacked the guy and shot the wolf. And it turned out it was not the wolf it was not a wolf at all. It was a bear.  So there is  it is important to get the right creature...  Yes.  ...And I guess the point being a bear that attacks once  a human once is going to attack again and one that has not attacked a human may not. So...  Yeah. There is no reason to  we do not want  we being the public in general  does not want an animal destroyed  especially a bear  does not want a bear destroyed for no reason. So there  and that is lovely. And I did not necessarily expect that all that work goes toward finding the right creature making sure that you are not destroying an animal without any evidence that that animal committed the crime  quote unquote crime.  So give us one of the distinguishing characteristics of the wound of say a bear attack as opposed to a cougar attack on a body.  Bears tend to do what they do when they fight amongst themselves which is they go for the face. The face is lightly furred so they kind of go teeth to teeth when they fight with each other. And horribly that is kind of where they go first when they are attacking a person. So there are a lot of wounds to the face and to the upper body. And there is also  because of the  you know a cougar is a killing machine. It is a predator. And it kills for its living unlike a bear. Bears are omnivores. They are eating nuts and berries and insects and other things. So they are not  their teeth are not equipped for that kind of quick killing bite which is what a cougar does. It leaps from behind often does a killing bite to the neck kind of severs the spinal cord  very effective very clean kill  versus a bear which is  bear victims it is a messy scenario. A lot of kind of bite bite bite kind of  you know they have got molars for grinding and chewing. They do not  they are  it is messy Dave.   Some ugly fake crime scenes you have witnessed I guess?  Yeah.  Yeah.  They had these soft mannequins that they had recreated wounds from actual attacks up in Canada and some in the U.S. So they had them laid out on tables. And this was  the conference was held oddly enough in a casino outside Reno. You know it kind of rotates year by year. So it was kind of a surreal setting. There was a bingo game going on in the next conference room.   Let me reintroduce. We are going to take another break here. We are speaking with Mary Roach. She is a science writer. Her latest book is Fuzz When Nature Breaks The Law. We will be back to talk more after a short break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is 're speaking with science writer Mary Roach. She has a new book about conflicts between people and animals and some plants. It is called Fuzz When Nature Breaks The Law. So apart from identifying individual bears or cougars that may have harmed a human there is this general problem of bears encroaching in upon civilization which is of course I guess really a reflection of civilization encroaching upon bears' habitats. But you visited Aspen Colo. I think it was where  and talked to people on  who have to try and prevent bears from coming into towns and raiding garbage cans. It was remarkable how resourceful bears could be and discriminating in their pillaging of homes and garages was not it?  It was. It was. There was  one of the women who investigates these things and tries to prevent them  she is actually at the resort Snowmass. She said that the bears of Pitkin County they prefer the premium ice cream brands. They will not touch Western Family ice cream which is I guess the budget brand there   just something she would noticed. They are discriminating. And they  the wildlife control the parks and wildlife guy that I was traveling around with on  there was a bear breakin. And we went to the house. And he was talking about how the bears will  first of all French door handles the building code forbids those because it is so easy for a bear to just push down and push in. Anybody with a paw can do that. So those you are not supposed to use those even a hollow doorknob because the bears can crush  get a grip with their teeth crush it and turn it. And then obviously automatically opening doors are a problem. There are bears that walk into ski resorts and hotels  just through the automatic door  makes it very easy. So they are very very resourceful and sometimes very delicate in their depredations. He said  this officer told me that they will sometimes see you know a bear has reached in taken out a carton of eggs and set it aside. There was one case where a bear unwrapped a Hershey's kiss and ate it. This is hard for me to believe but this guy would know  that they will pull a door off its frame. But instead of knocking it  you know throwing it over the deck they will just lean it against the wall next to the frame of the door . So sometimes they are quite  yeah they are quite resourceful but also sometimes quite surprisingly delicate in their  you know they will come into a house on the lower floor go upstairs through the living room to the kitchen not knock anything over  just go straight to the fridge open it up take out what they want and then go.  Wow. That is sounds so civilized.  It does . It does.  Are people less traumatized by bears that seem to know how to go for food as opposed to be  you know be aggressive and ready to attack?  Yes. And they are also more tolerant and less likely to call it in like to call in the breakin because they are  they will say  they will just look around and go my God you know he broke in here but he did not even break anything. So they just  rather than call  report it to parks and wildlife they will just let it go. And that is nice because if you do call in and report a bear breaking in and it is  you know it is getting that close to people that bear  the end point of that is usually that the bear will be destroyed and people know that. So people in this area a lot of them just  they do not call in these bear incidents because they do not want the bear destroyed.  Well do these bears who who make a habit of finding food do they end up also attacking people sometimes?  Well not  none of them that is been on  it  there was one one death in Colorado. I think this year was the first time in 10 years I think that someone had been killed by a bear in Colorado. Usually what happens it is similar to when a human breaks into a house and somebody is home. Then suddenly you have got a defensive burglar and an angry resident. And sometimes there is dog. If a dog in the house gets involved the bear and the dog go at it the human tries to intervene. And then you have something called attack redirection sometimes where the bear might just turn on the person. And so that is a possibility. It is quite rare. It is not  I mean bears tend to be  you know they are crimes of opportunity. There is food. The bear is trying to get to the food. And if you get in the way for example if you have food in your tent and a bear breaks into the tent and you sit up and scream and you know that things can happen in that scenario. So yes that is you know sometimes that happens but it is surprisingly rare given the number of calls. I mean there were  the time I visited Aspen between the time when the bears came out of hibernation and spring through to the end of the summer when I was there 421 calls about bears damaging property breaking and stuff like that. But nobody had been killed.  But local law enforcement and wildlife authorities they want to do something about that. This is not a good thing to have bears routinely moving through town. And you know there are laws about bearproof garbage receptacles but people restaurants violate them all the time. What are the authorities that you spoke to  what are they trying to do about this?  Yeah. It seems like it would be pretty simple and straightforward. You get bearresistant containers so the bears are not likely to come into town and go after food because they cannot get. It seems pretty straightforward. But the problem is that sometimes you will have one dumpster with several restaurants sharing it huge numbers of staff coming in dropping bags in. They are in a hurry. They are not necessarily remembering or caring to shut the container the dumpster. So a lot of times they are left unlocked. A lot of times they are damaged and not fixed. I was in an alley late at night 3 in the morning in Aspen behind a bunch of restaurants. And there were broken containers. There was a  we came across two bears having a lovely meal of you know sustainable Skuna Bay salmon and other things from one of the restaurants. And even you know down the alley away there was one of those big grease deposits where people empty the cooking grease. And the researcher that I was with said he would seen you know bear prints and grease leading away from that. Like they are just using it as a drinking fountain because a bear you know bear's looking  especially before hibernation  for a concentrated source of calories. So they are like this is great. It is less work than wandering around looking for you know berries and acorns. So  but the problem also is enforcement. Like you  how many  all these restaurants or in a condo development multiple people sharing the same garbage container. When you issue the fine the ticket  who does it go to? And how do they  how do you know you know how  so they can say you know it was not me. How do you know? Right? I always close that thing. So that is a problem  enforcement. Also the you know it is a small police department. They do not really have a lot of personnel. So  to be patrolling takes time. And so it is just not as simple. Then vacation. But also these are  a lot of these are vacation rentals. So people coming in for a weekend they do not know. They do not understand the scenario with bears or that you are putting the bear in danger of being destroyed by leaving your garbage out and you know attracting the bears. So that is a problem also.  So if authorities have trouble controlling human behavior the trash is going to be out there. They obviously focus sometimes on the bears. What can they do or is there anything they can do to discourage the bears from coming in? Or do they capture them and relocate them? What do they do?  You can try to translocate the bear. I mean you can relocate. Just sort of put it back in the nearest wilderness. Or you can move it farther afield. The thing is that bears are very good at finding their way back. I think the record is 142 miles finding their way back to their home terrain. So they are very good at that. And the other issue is that when you translocate a bear to a different wilderness area and it  you being an agency and that bear ends up in the community closest to that wilderness area and it starts doing the same thing breaking into trash and homes now you the agency that put the bear there are legally responsible. And so there have been  and there have been lawsuits. And that is one discouraging factor.  Let me reintroduce you. We are going to take another break here. We are speaking with Mary Roach. She is a popular science writer. Her latest book is Fuzz When Nature Breaks The Law. We will talk more in a moment. I am Dave Davies and this is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. We are speaking with Mary Roach a science writer who is written six bestselling books. Her latest deals with conflicts between humans and animals such as bears cougars elephants monkeys deer and others  and a few plants. The book is called Fuzz When Nature Breaks The law. You went to India where elephants can be a problem. Hundreds of people a year in India are killed by elephants. I mean I guess this is as is so often the case caused in part by elephant habitat being restricted as  you know as human civilization advances. Is there a typical way that people are killed by elephants?  Yes there is. Like you said their land is being encroached upon. And India is a very populous country. And there have been military bases and roads and communities of refugees. And that part of India where the elephants roam the elephant corridor has become kind of broken up. And so these elephants sometimes get stuck. They call them pocketed elephants which is a term  I love to picture an elephant in a pocket .  Yeah in a pocket. Yes.  They are pocketed elephants. So they are kind of trapped in this patch of land. And elephants they are social animals. They move around in groups. And they eat a lot of food. They are very big animals. So they start running out of food and they tend to look to farmers' fields. So imagine you are a villager. And you have put the crops in. They are starting to be ready to harvest. And this group of elephants comes in and first of all tramples a lot of it and also starts to eat your bounty there. That is an upsetting thing. It often happens at night. So you have got people from the village running out maybe with fire on a stick you know or loud noises just trying to scare them off in a way that is quite chaotic. And so you have elephants freaked out and panicked. And you have people running around and screaming in the dark. And as my mother liked to say somebody is going to get hurt. And that is how that happens frequently. The elephant  you know elephants are not preying on people. They are not stalking them and killing them. But they are large. And you just need to get knocked over or stepped on and you can be killed. So that is often the way it goes down.  Right. Right. It is not a trivial thing for a farmer to lose a third of his crop to elephants. So it is understandable that they would react in an aggressive way. It is interesting that many of these deaths are by accident. And you write that there is a gruesome way to distinguish people who have been killed accidentally by an elephant from those who might have been killed intentionally.  Yes. This was  one of the elephant response team leaders said  because they come in and do a kind of a forensics similar to what we were talking about earlier with American wildlife. They will look at the victim. And he said if an elephant has the intent of killing someone it will be in pieces. I mean the way an elephant feeds you know it will wrap its you know sort of trunk around a branch and sort of pull off the leaves. It is a natural behavior to kind of grab something and pull. So apparently that happens.  Literally pull a person apart? Right.  There is a list of five or six different ways. That was  that one kind of stayed with me. But I mean they may stomp on someone. Or  I mean there is other ways that they can do it. But that is sort of unique to the elephant.  Yeah. It is interesting that you write that inebriation is a problem with farmers who may try and run elephants off but also with the elephants themselves.  Yeah. Elephants like to drink. This is something else that surprised me about elephants. They particularly go after  there is a homebrew kind of a fermented drink called haaria  HAARIA. And elephants enjoy that very much. And it is quite fragrant. So they can smell it inside a home. So people will try to bring it inside you know thinking  to keep it safe from the elephants which is a very bad idea because an elephant can very easily take down the wall of the structure to get at this fermented drink. And elephants when they get drunk they are for the most part not a mean drunk. But sometimes if it is a male elephant in musth which is kind of a period of hormonal tumult you do not want to be around a drunk male elephant in musth because they can be very aggressive. Otherwise they tend to kind of wander off and wrap their trunk around themselves one study reported and just you know sleep it off.  When they are drunk? Wow.  When they are drunk yeah.  Some of the most colorful stories in this book involve  this is also in India. The rhesus macaque monkeys  am I saying this properly?  these cute plentiful monkeys I mean really plentiful in some parts of India. What kind of problems do they create?  Well they are very mischievous. And they will grab things from people. They kind of  do this amazing maneuver where they will stick up and grab your sunglasses or your cellphone. As far as I know monkeys they are not using the cellphone. They are holding it hostage basically. And people know that if you approach then with a piece of fruit or a treat of some kind the monkey will take that fruit and hand you back your sunglasses or your cellphone or your keys whatever you had in your hand. So they are quite slick these monkeys. There is been...  Wow.   Yeah.  The monkey rackets. Wow.  Yeah I know. So there was kind of a bizarre epidemic of people falling to their deaths from balconies because macaques. And they are usually in a group a troupe. They come down from the roof. And they jump onto a balcony. The person is startled or tries to keep them from getting into the house the apartment you know through the window. Either they lose their footing and fall or the monkeys push them. It is kind of unclear. But multiple  there are something like five deaths of people falling off of balconies because monkeys had jumped down onto the balcony in an effort to get into the apartment and ransack it for food. So they are not just pesky they are actually in some cases killing. But they are a little unnerving. I was mugged by a macaque while I was there and it is a little unnerving. I mean I...  You were mugged by a macaque? How did this happen?  I was kind of asking for it. I walked up this trail where I knew there were a lot of macaques. And I walked up holding a bag of bananas. I just wanted to see what would happen. I was curious you know? Nothing happened for a while. And I am walking along. And suddenly this little head pops up from behind a boulder. And I was like there he is uh oh  kind of like the bandits waiting for the stagecoach. So this head sort of pops up. And this monkey steps into my path. And I stop. And I am like OK this is it. But then meanwhile there is been one behind me on the other side runs  darts out into the trail and grabs the bag and takes off. And I do not know if they were a team like I will distract her and you grab the bananas. I do not know if that is what was going on or whether they were competing bandits. But anyway I got mugged.  You were relieved quickly of the bananas you had brought.  I was. I was. Yeah. Yeah. You know one of the interesting things about this is that these are in cities and villages where these monkeys roam in bands and go to find food. And they are probably more likely to be in places where affluent people live because there is more vegetation and trees around their apartments right?  Yes.  What are some of the things that more affluent people do to deal with this issue?  They will hire what is called a monkey walla who is somebody who has a langur. A langur is a bigger burlier monkey that is kind of scary for macaques. So they will sometimes hire a langur guy who just patrols with a langur. But this is actually illegal now because it is against the Wildlife Protection Act. It is not fair to the langurs.  I want to just set the picture here. This is a langur on a leash right?  Yes.  Right. So it is kind of like you have your muscle.  Yeah.  And you have somebody who is walking around with a langur on a leash. And does it do the trick? I mean...  It is quite effective. But now they have to do it surreptitiously. And the woman that I spoke to who is a  she is an attorney there who works in the area of trying to get the city to do something about monkeys  she lives in an affluent community. And she said she goes to the same club where Prime Minister Modi goes and the monkeys are getting in the swimming pool. She said they have been in the halls of Parliament. They come into the courts.  They come  and they are all over.  Tell the story about the hospital them coming into the hospital and pulling out the IVs. This is amazing.  This attorney told me a story of a macaque that would go into the All India Medical Institute I believe it was called and run into rooms and pull out the IV if somebody was getting you know glucose  a glucose drip  and suck on the needle like it was a popsicle sort of . This was kind of an amazing stunt for a monkey. They are inventive. But the  going back to what I wanted to mention it is illegal to use now the langurs. But some affluent people will do it illegally. But they will also  you can hire somebody to go around and have the langur just urinate on the home like the smell of urine. And there was this great quote. I think it was in the Times  in The New York Times  the guy saying I have 65 langurs urinating on prominent homes.   So it is a business. You are the langur pee guy.  Yeah...  Oh wow.  ...Exactly. The city itself New Delhi trained some men to impersonate langurs not in a costume although some media said that they were in a costume. They were very adept at doing the calls of langurs which would scare the macaques away. So they would wander through these affluent neighborhoods making macaque calls. So there is been a lot of interesting and creative efforts.  Yeah kind of strikes me as a thing that is not going to make a permanent difference  right?  if you can ...  Exactly.  ...Giving a screaming langur call around you it is OK for a while. But eventually the monkeys sense the all clear and come back right?  Yeah. They call your bluff pretty fast.  Let me reintroduce you again. We are going to take another break here. We are speaking with science writer Mary Roach. Her new book is Fuzz When Nature Breaks The Law. We will continue our conversation in just a moment. This is FRESH AIR.   This is 're speaking with science writer Mary Roach. She has a new book about conflicts between humans and animals and some plants and how humans are trying to deal with them. The name of the book is Fuzz When Nature Breaks The Law. We have a lot of issues with birds.  there are a lot of birds. There are birds that you know feed on crops and you know farm food and all that. And it is fascinating that you write that in the past there have been cases of people using military hardware to actually try and deal with this problem. There was some years in Australia where emus were a problem for farmers and they actually got the military to come out and use machine guns on them. How did that work?  Yeah. I like this story because the emus won. There was a group of farmers in Western Australia  I think 1932  who were dealing with large mobs of emus that would come in and feast on their grain their wheat. And they contacted the military and first asked can we borrow some machine guns? And the military said no  you cannot borrow our machine guns. However we will send General Meredith and his men and they will take care of the problem. So General Meredith shows up with a coterie of machine gunners who set themselves up waited for the emus to come. Emus were very good at not ever really getting within range. They also seemed to be able to withstand the bullets. I think they