 This is FRESH AIR. I am David Bianculli in for Terry Gross. Last year the Hulu streaming service premiered a very unusual very daring and very funny comedy series. It was called PEN15 was set at a middle school in the year 2000 and starred the show is creators Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle. They play seventh graders who are navigating everything from romantic crushes and puberty to peer pressure and the general awkwardness of adolescence. A second season of PEN15 begins next Friday on Hulu. What makes the show so distinctive and often so intentionally uncomfortable is that Erskine and Konkle are in their early 30s yet play young teen versions of themselves opposite young actors who are the age of their middle school characters. It is a tricky illusion to pull off but PEN15 does it with a surprising amount of tenderness and intimacy. Many of the stories in the series come from Erskine and Konkle's real tribulations in middle school. A headsup to parents  this interview includes a couple of brief nonexplicit mentions about how they dealt with those kinds of sexual situations when they were in their teens. Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle spoke with FRESH AIR producer Sam Briger last year when PEN15 first premiered. They started with a clip from the show. Anna and Maya are having a sleepover after Anna has just had her first kiss with her first boyfriend Brendan. But it was not how she imagined it would be. Maya asks her about it.    And then like were your lips close together when you guys were standing close together?   Yeah they touched.   They did? That is like romantic.   No it was not. It literally was not at all.   Why?   He put his lips like all the way around mine...   Ew.   ...And like sucked.  .   It is not funny.   Wait. And then what? Was that it? Like he just sucked?   No. And then he put his tongue in my mouth. And he like did like a torpedo cat tongue and like drilled my mouth.   Like what was it like? What did he do with it?   Like this.   Ew. Ew. Stop.   Yeah. I cannot. I wish I could.   What did you do with your tongue? Did you do it back or did it just like...   It was pinned back like it was in trouble you know?   That is crazy.   I know. It was awful.   I am sorry. Well at least you have like had your first kiss you know?   I wish that I had not.   Do not say that.   I really do. Everything's just different. I do not know. I just have to break up with him so...   Really?   Yeah. He is not the Brendan that bought us snacks at the bowling alley you know? He is like the Brendan that drilled the back of my throat with his tongue.   So?   It is up to you to get the next boyfriend.   That is a scene from the Hulu show PEN15 created and costarring my guests Maya Erkine and Anna Konkle. Welcome to FRESH AIR.  Thanks.  Thank you.  Thanks so much for having us.  You know those early teen years are such a strange time. And you have these bodies that are starting to sprout in adulthood but you have minds that are probably not ready to handle that yet. And you are having to cope with these more adult situations. And the thing that makes it so worse is that your emotions are just so intense. Like everything is just saturated and overwhelming. Like just the way that teens respond to music like it is so important. And it is like their theme music. So everything feels so consequential. And you know and then they are talking  they are thinking about romance. So like everything is a powder keg.  Yeah. And there is so many misconceptions too.  Right.  It is like in real life Anna  me  I thought kissing was going to be the ultimate feeling of romance. And like that is all I wanted. Like I was not interested in sexuality at the time I just wanted to like hold someone's hand and fall in love and kiss like Zack and Kelly on Saved By The Bell. So when the real version happened which was just this weird tongue...  Yeah  ...Like just drilling me I  it was a shattering of expectations. But you are  and I think that is true in a lot of different ways. But you are fronting as though you either enjoy it or you get it or whatever. And there is a lot of sadness and humor that I think that comes with that.  Yeah.  Did you guys feel targets of bullies at that age?  I would not necessarily call them outright bullies but I had friends that would put me down a lot. And I did not really comprehend what they were doing until years later. But yeah I would not say necessarily bullies that would...  Outright bullies yeah.  Yeah.  I had a weird thing happen where there was kind of a cycle in my school where the older girls would harass the younger girls. And that was even more in high school. But in middle school there was a rumor that went around about me that I masturbated with an ice cube. It was really fun for me that rumor. And they came up with a really brilliant nickname called Ice Box  unfortunately like brilliant. And that followed me for you know the next  well really till I graduated high school.  That is awful.  And with it came this kind of sexualization of me that I was not ready for. Like I was very much a prude at the time you know quoteunquote and was not going there. And yet there was this like thing there about me out there. And I was labeled as a slut essentially. I mean there are posters put up about me that said slut and...  Really? Wow.  Yeah. It got really extreme. And in other ways like I was simultaneously accepted. I mean I had you know groups of friends and had found my place in high school. But that followed me.  You were saying that you felt like you were accepted too at the same time. And in my memory I was not accepted. But when I talked to people who went to my middle school they always say you seemed so happy. Like you were friends with everyone. And you were doing OK  while I was going through this private misery I guess. And I looked in my yearbook recently. And I got overflowing messages of love. But in each message it was  you are the cutest Asian I have ever met. Oh my God. I love you so much. You are the cutest Asian Maya. Oh screw those other Asians. You are the best Asian. You know that that was the majority of these messages in my yearbook. And I am sure I took that in as a kid and in my heart of oh no one likes me for me.  Well you addressed that in one of the episodes called Posh which has a really funny preface where you guys are doing like a public service announcement at your school. And there is like five girls. Some of them are like the scarier popular girls. And you are going to be the Spice Girls but you are like  you are now elderly and you are suffering from osteoporosis. And you drink milk which makes your bones feel better. And then you can dance right? So...   Yes.  It is very funny. But then you know Maya wants to be Posh Spice. And  but these three other girls not including Anna says  well no you should be Scary Spice. And for people who do not remember the Spice Girls Scary Spice is the only Black member of that group. And they are like you should be Scary Spice 'ecause you are tan and you look the most like her. And Maya's  the character Maya's like well OK I guess. And then things start getting really bad. Like the popular girls are like you should bring us the milk 'ecause you are  should be the servant. And then they start calling you Guido the Gardener. They are sort of like freeassociating like all the racist things that they can think of. And then you know your character does not know what to do 'ecause it seems like she is not totally clear what is going on. She is like this is uncomfortable but maybe I will play along 'ecause the girls are laughing. So maybe I am funny. She starts acting like how they  she thinks they want her to act. And that is really uncomfortable. And that is true right Maya? That came from  that is your experience is not it?  That did happen to me a lot. And I would play into that role really easily  to become the jester. And I would make characters up and imitate my mom with a thick Japanese accent and it would cause kids to laugh. And I thought OK I am doing good. I am a funny person because they are laughing at me. But really they were laughing at my mom's accent the thick accent. And I did not put that together as a kid. And it never penetrated me the way we show it in the show at the time because you are just trying to survive.  Yeah.  So I think we were trying to show you know a lot in 30 minutes. But what is that like when it is kind of hitting the person? And what is it like when you first realized for the first time that you are not like your other friends? You are not white. You do not sound the same. You do not look the same even though this whole time you have held this belief that you are the same person especially as your best friend. And so that moment of recognition in the mirror of  oh I do not have eyes like Anna or those girls. Why do not I? I wish I did  and that hitting harder. That was something that I do not think I fully explored till we started writing this show.  Do you remember that first time when you felt that way?  I think I remember when I went over to a friend's house and we were putting makeup on. And when they would put eyeliner on they had you know double eyelids  so you could see the skin above the eyeliner. But when I would put the eyeliner on it covered my whole eyelid. And I will get emotional thinking about it.  Anna's crying too. And not having it look the same was such  it made me hate myself. I hated my eyes. I hated that I did not have thick double eyelids like my friends because that is all I saw around me. And I did not have any ideals of beauties to look up to really when I was a kid growing up  of Asian beauties. Aw Anna is so sweet.  No. I am  do not make...  Sorry .  Sorry . Yeah it is not fair. Watching you go through that in the scene and the girls talking to you that way was extremely moving. And you know it is a bunch of white girls and I am one of them. And I am the best friend and I am not saying everybody stop. It  it is a mirror of that. And it is a mirror of now in the sense of you know I have been raised from a small girl in real life in a very liberal progressive  you know I went to a Unitarian Church. And the way that diversity was dealt with was like we should all be colorblind; we are all the same. And that is as far as it went. And I think that you can see in the episode the negative results of that really  of Anna just going well we are the same. That is just funny and that is just humor. And I  something feels off but like it does not  it is not important.  And the other thing I wanted to say was just reiterating how important it was to not vilify those girls because they were not aware fully of what they were doing that it was somehow ingrained in them. And I was so grateful that we got to write an ending where Anna acknowledges...  Yeah.  ...How Maya feels that I do not think I ever received that in life. So to have your friend say you are right. I do not know what it is like to be like you...  Right.  Right.  ...And I am sorry.  We are listening to the interview FRESH AIR producer Sam Briger recorded last year with Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle creators and stars of the comedy series PEN15 which returns next Friday on Hulu. We will hear more of their interview after a break. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. Let us get back to the interview FRESH AIR producer Sam Briger recorded last year with Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle the creators and stars of the Hulu comedy series PEN15 which returns with new episodes next Friday. In real life Erskine and Konkle are in their early 30s. But in the show they play middle school versions of themselves.   Could you describe what you guys were like in seventh grade? I mean are these characters pretty similar to how you were?  I was the same and different. I think that the version of me in PEN15 was more me in fourth and fifth grade. I think in real life by seventh grade I learned to hide the things that I realized that made me you know a target. In fourth and fifth grade you know I would tell people not to cheat. I would tell people not to swear. I do not know. I was just like generally annoying.   But it came from who I really am and always will be which is you know  there is a good and bad to it you know?  Yeah.  Yeah.  And I think for me I was full of contradictions. I was incredibly insecure and then brazenly confident at moments...   ...Delusionally so.  Let us talk about how you decided to actually play these characters yourselves. Like why did you think that that would work? You are women in your 30s and you are acting like 13yearolds. And the rest of the middle school actors are actually teens. How did you think that was going to fly?  I mean we did not know it would work necessarily. But we knew that if we wanted to explore a lot of the real things that happened to us at that age we could not ethically or legally put 13yearold actors in those positions.  Right. Sure.  And then you know Anna and I are  we are first actors. So we always approached telling stories through character. And it would be great to be 13 again you know go through all of this trauma. But there was a lot of fear and questions of how is this going to actually work with real 13yearold kids? And so we had to film half a pilot essentially to see if it would work as an experiment.  Yeah I think it totally worked. Like you look awkward and look insecure. And you do not look like everyone else. So that sort of embodies how you must have felt at the time.  Exactly yeah.  And it is even funny like  Anna like you like tower over all of the seventh graders too.   What did you guys do to your appearance and like physically to embody those younger versions? Like what did you do in terms of makeup and just also how you held your bodies?  I had braces. And it was kind of like Invisalign with you know braces put on it. So it just slipped in and out. But I did start using wax on set.   It got very method because it starts you know scratching the inside of my mouth. And then yeah we had kind of like binding straps on our chests. And then  and it really  Maya always says and I love this that the jeans were always illfitting because they were for kids usually from eBay. And then the strap on the chest would like push your stomach in you know to the most pouchy sausage way that it could go which feels right. And then yeah for me you know again something that I did when I was 13 was kind of casually always be blocking my stomach as though  you know just hoping that everybody would just see me as skinny and not  they would not know that I was trying to not bring attention to my stomach essentially.  Right.  I was trying to hide it all the time.  Yeah. And I think I was just so physically uncomfortable like you were saying because I had to wear a wig every day. And I had this retainer put in. We put mustache hairs and eyebrow hairs on ourselves in addition to the hair we have already.  Prewax pretweeze.  I tried not to shave my face for months in preparation for this role.   That is a whole other conversation.   Yeah.  Let us go there.  But yeah with the straps and the jeans you are just so physically uncomfortable that it makes you selfconscious. And even though you want to have bigger breasts at that age you also want to hide whatever is developing because it is not your ideal version of what you want.  How much do you feel like either of you are still carrying around the middle school version of yourself?  She is always there I think. And she is a big part of who I am. And it is I guess about learning to take care of her. What that means now you know? And I have tools now to help her out and get through that moment maybe.  Right. I think a lot of my insecurities came from that time. So anytime I am dealing with any of those insecurities or anytime I am dealing with any conflict with anyone I have to ask myself oh what does 12yearold Maya really want from this moment? What does 12yearold Maya really need? Oh it is love or it is security or knowing she is OK or knowing she is smart enough. Or it is you know  a lot of it is just being able to tell your child self you are enough...  Yeah.  ...Which I have to do constantly.  Well Maya Erskine Anna Konkle thanks so much for being here today.  Thank you for having us.  Thank you so much.  Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle the creators and stars of the Hulu comedy series PEN15 spoke with FRESH AIR producer Sam Briger last year. Season 2 of PEN15 begins next Friday. After a break film critic Justin Chang reviews the new movie from writerdirector Charlie Kaufman I am Thinking Of Ending Things. This is FRESH AIR. 