Michael I think the moment I realized that becoming a parent would be more difficult than I imagined was after my wifes second miscarriage. After one we told ourselves I mean this is probably a fluke. The second one was a little more ominous it started to feel like a pattern. And by the third we were a couple with a fertility problem. And by the fourth I was just numb. I had to wall off my hopes to protect them because it was just too painful. This is Death Sex  Money.  This is my life. My life of infertility. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot  All the frustration of going through the treatments and the waiting and the ups and downs. and need to talk about more.  The thing is we feel so called to be parents. Im Anna Sale. Back in July we put out an episode with author and podcast host Doree Shafrir about her experience with infertility and IVF. Going through the process...going into over a hundred thousand dollars in debt...and ultimately having a kid. In that episode we asked you to tell us about how you started your own families and for people who have struggled with infertility about the moment you realized having kids was going to be harder than you anticipated. We heard from a lot of you. Including this listener Declan.  I have been thinking a lot and doing a lot of research about infertility since I was diagnosed with a condition called premature ovarian insufficiency a few years ago. Its a condition that means Declan rarely ovulates so itll be nearly impossible for her to have a baby using her own eggs. And after she got that diagnosis she spent a lot of time in online support groups reading whatever she could get her hands on and trying to figure out what she wanted to do next. But in all that readingand in our episode with DoreeDeclan says she didnt find what she was looking for.  I have just been thinking so much about how the narratives around infertility all kind of seem to go two ways both of which I have a lot of questions about. So the first narrative is I did IVF and now I have a baby and you know problem solved. Everything's great. Or I found out that I had a fertility problem and it ruined my life. And now I am just a sad person. And I really would love to see more narratives about infertility that offer other ways of thinking about it. So in this episode were going to hear some different stories about what happens when you hit speedbumps on the road to having kids.  It honestly never really occurred to me that it would be this complicated. Well take a look at the many ways some of you have started your familieswith medical intervention or other still complicated methods.  The number of barriers that have been put in front of us makes me wonder if its something were supposed to do at all. And well hear from people who ultimately decided that the money the physical toll and the heartbreak isnt worth it.  If I choose not to continue pursuing pregnancy and motherhood in that way what does that mean? A listener named Lorena and her wife had their first baby last summer. Her wife gave birth to him after five rounds of unsuccessful IUI or intrauterine insemination. Now Lorena wants to carry their next child but she is also having trouble getting pregnant.  And luckily our insurance does cover the IUI procedure but our insurance does not cover IVF. And so now I am in the process of trying to conceive and I have gone through four failed IUI procedures and I am going to keep trying the IUI because our insurance covers it. But I definitely wonder about IVF and our insurance not covering that. By the time I called her Lorena had had two more unsuccessful IUI procedures.  So I had a uh sixth failed IUI. Um unfortunately. I was hoping that maybe the sixth try would also be the successful try for me but it was not. And um I am going to take a little break actually. And then probably in December hopefully um I will be able to start again. And then if that does not work then definitely IVF would be the next step.  Would that change what it would cost your family to move to IVF?  Yeah that is something I stress out about because we are really lucky with my health insurance I work for a school district and our IUIs are covered other than the cost of the sperm which is actually pretty expensive but but that is been really nice. You know I just go in and I pay my tiny little copay and I can do the procedure. But for IVF it is not covered. And I do stress about you know putting in 16 to 20000 and yeah the odds super go up and I am young and healthy and hopefully it would work but if it does not then then you know depending on how many frozen embryos you get then I could keep trying from that cycle. Otherwise I would have to go right into another IVF cycle and we do not have that kind of money. We have maybe money for one of those cycles.  Mmhm. It is interesting because that could move to the set of questions about how much money you are willing to invest as a family in the idea of you becoming pregnant as opposed to your wife trying to carry again.  Yeah. We have sort of started to have those conversations but we have not really come to a resolution. We are trying to take it one day at a time and say okay I am not out of the game yet. And we are still doing IUIs. And you know we kind of planned for me to be able to do one IVF cycle. But if that does not work we will have to talk about if we are financially able to have me try to continue or otherwise I do not know Erin would have to consider if she would be willing to carry another child.   Can you describe the feeling you had that you wanted to carry the next child?  I just really want to experience it. I I I have thought about it since I was a young child. And you know I would think you know someday when I am an adult I am going to I am going to be pregnant. I am going to be I am going to be a mother. I am already a mother and I was not pregnant. So that was something I did not actually really think about as a child. But yeah I always envisioned myself getting pregnant and I just I just think that would be so cool. I mean I loved feeling our son kicking while Erin was pregnant and I am like I want to feel how it feels like to be pregnant and feel that you know from the inside and. And yeah I also just want to share my genes and yeah I dunno.  Yeah. And um did you use the same sperm donor?  No we did not. Um and I kind of still wonder if you know I have made the right decision but at this point I have come to terms with it. But um that is where like race and cultural heritage kind of came into it. Um so I am Peruvian and my wife is Caucasian and um we wanted our children to share both of our cultural backgrounds. And so Erin was the first to get pregnant so she chose a Peruvian donor. And with myself if I had chosen the same donor then that then the next kid would have been fully Peruvian. And I am like well how is how is you know that future child going to themselves in both parents and both families of ours? So I I you know I just had a strong urge I think to to to choose a Caucasian donor that then both of our kids would be half and see themselves in both of us and both of our families.  That is interesting because it is like um you know to to have similar DNA from from from sperm and each of your children would have been one way they are connected but you but you sort of like expanded the canvas a little bit and said we want them both to to know what it is like to move through the world as uh someone who has a white biological parent and a Peruvian biological parent. So that is something they share.  Yeah. So move through the world that way. And also you know like our familieslike I do not think that our families would have cared what our kid ends up being but I want them to like see my side of the family and you know see their Peruvian side and like you know hear all the Spanish and be like okay I am part that but then also see my wife's family and be like okay. Like I am part them too. And I know a lot of people do not want to talk about what like white culture means exactly. But like that is the fact of the matter. I you know I married a white woman and like that is part of who we are as a family. Lorena and I were talking over FaceTime and as we started to wrap up the interview...someone else popped into the frame.  I think we would have to talk about it a little bit more. I do not know if Erin...  Oh there is Erin right there!   Hi. I have been listening this whole time.  Hi Erin do you have anything you would like to add?  Um about anything in particular?  I do not know. She is been she is been telling all your business from her point of view. Is there anything -  I was letting her have the stage.   Well yeah now that Erin's on I think she should ans - I mean would you be willing to carry a child again or a baby again? Did you even imagine yourself doing it?   Well if you had asked me this right after I gave birth my answer would have been a hard no.  After the first few months of breastfeeding and all that that was very very challenging. But I do not know after getting a little bit of time and space I would I guess I would consider doing it again. We love him so much our son and it would be amazing to have another one. But I hope that Lorena is able to - to carry them. Because it is a lot. And I want her to be able to experience everything that I did because it is beautiful. Michelle Hi Death Sex and Money I am Michelle I am 42 years old. I will be 43 in about a month. Um I am single and Black. And I did want to have a child and I know my biological clock is ticking and I am getting up in age. Uh in the month of May I had my first IUIthat is intrauterine insemination the turkey baster method basically. I got pregnant and yeah I was pregnant for about three weeks before I miscarried. So that was hard unexpected a little bit of a roller coaster. Um I am about five days out now from my second artificial insemination. And yeah I have a few more days to wait to take a pregnancy test and see if it worked or not. Um I am crossing my fingers that it works and this time it sticks. Um because I am really nervous about failing again. And yeah it is just been a whirlwind because I am an only child. And so after I lost both of my parents within two years I was quite depressed for a while and thought all right you need to really get it back on track. And I thought the - I am alone in the world. And uh I would love to have a close blood relative. And I always imagined that my mom would be around for help and advice but yeah I am very much doing it alone. So. Thats more than scary. Um but if I want to make it happen then I just have to do it. This is step one preparing me for what eventually could be the most spectacular thing that has ever happened to me. So please wish me luck. Michelle wrote us back later to say that soon after she sent in that voice memo she found out that she was pregnant. But after about eight weeks...she miscarried. Since turning 43 Michelle is now considered too old for fertility treatments at many clinics in the Netherlands where she lives. But she has one vial of sperm left from her donor and she says her doctor is seeking special permission to let her try one more time.  You do grieve over the death of what you thought was going to happen. Nearly two decades ago a listener named Jake in the Bay Area and his wife were struggling to get pregnant. And eventually they came to accept that it was not going to happen without help.  You had an idea in your head of your wife will get pregnant and youll go through the pregnancy and the birth and all these experiences. And you realize none of thats going to happen. Its a whole different scenario. So you have to come to let go of all those and then accept the new experiences the different experiences. They decided that IVF was too expensive and that the money would be better used for a college education. So they chose to adopt which for them would cost less.  We found a support group uh with a few other couples that were pursuing that and and then the paperwork and going through uh interviews with social workers and um so it was I think from the time we started pursuing it uh it was at least over a year before we got approved. It can be done faster if we dedicated more time. And then by the time we were approved it was two years before we had a child.  And how long how much notice did you have before -  A day.  Oh a day!  We suspected that would be a possibility because the agency said that once people have been on the list for a long time you are more likely to get a sudden placement where if they get a last minute placement often the peopleyou make these brochures they push the people who have been waiting a long time.  Hmm.  So I got a call on a Friday afternoon at work and uh we went into theand fortunately it was in San Francisco. So we went in Saturday morning and picked him up.  What was that car ride like on the way?  It was yeah I mean it was incredibly exciting. And we were also just thinking of our good fortune. I mean we assumed we would have to fly across the country and then we did not know how long we would be out of work or out of - staying at a hotel or something. Oftentimes you meet a birth mother beforehand. And so  we drove the next morning. We were heading right into the city. I mean how fortunate. We had to wait two years but we got to just drive across the bridge and go right into the hospital. He was in the NICU because his mother did not have any prenatal care. So all the nurses around were happy to have a healthy child in the NICU since they do not get many of those. So everyone was excited when we walked in and showed us right to him immediately. So it was the whole experience was great.  Hmm. How old is your son now?  He is 13.  Oh.  Going on 14 soon.  Does he ask about that time? Like when you all were deciding whether -  Yeah. We have talked about it consistently throughout his life. So he is always known and he has met his birth mother a couple of times but we do not have any contact with her. We I mean he met her twice in the first year so that is a distant memory for him.  Um do you think at the time thinking about what you know now about parenting and and money um do you think thinking about the cost of IVF and comparing that to saving for college was an apt way to think about it?  Yes but the big mental change was what is most important? And thinking about having a biological child and why. And you know why you want a biological child. And when you sort of get past the idea that it does not have to be a representation of me or us then you just think you just want a child. After the break listeners who have built families...without kids.  You know you get to this point where everything is about having a baby and it is easy for couples to get lost in that.  Most of the people we heard from while putting this episode together were parents...or people hoping to become parents. But not everyone.  Uh I am an IVF baby. Our listener Bec is a triplet but she said she and her sisters didnt find out how they were conceived until they were in their early 20s.  I do not remember how we got onto the topic but my mum said to me uh you are IVF babies. And I thought for a second and I was like what? Excuse me? And I just remember being really just kind of shocked and a bit confused and mad at the same time. Because a huge part of my identity is being a triplet but another part I think was my brain being like you are a natural baby. And that is so exciting. And you are natural triplets. Um so to have that kind of the rug pulled out from under you was really uh unexpected. Becs mom told her that she had gotten pregnant on her third try after two unsuccessful rounds of IVF. And after the initial shock Bec said that she did a lot of research about what it meant for her mom to go through that.  I went away and found out that it cost a lot of money and um it was a lot of time and a lot of exhaustion and I then had a thought oh God I am going to cry. Um I had a thought that mum going through that three times - to me that just shows - it is the ultimate act of love to me. On the next episode  Dead people do not have any secrets. In fact really sick people do not have any secrets. A conversation with a woman who found out her husband was cheating as he was dying.  Just because somebody's dead does not mean they are a saint.  This is Death Sex Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale.  After my diagnosis it just seemed to be such a common narrative this representation of people with infertility as just being really desperate and feeling a real sense of disempowerment. This is Declan the listener from the beginning of the episode whos not satisfied with a lot of the stories out there about infertility. When she first got her diagnosis she says the message she got from her doctor was yes this is a problem. But there is a solution.  I was originally told you know without really even fully understanding what this condition really meant that you know do not worry you can do IVF and you do not even have to tell your children that they are donor egg babies that were produced with IVF which was kind of a shock to me when I was still just trying to process the diagnosis.  That was all in one conversation?  Yeah it was it was kind of -  Theres this condition you can secretly get pregnant via IVF and not tell your children.  With a donor egg also. It just felt like the doctor was completely just skipping over the part where I got to actually understand what this condition was and it was just immediately to like here's the intervention that I can do for you to quote unquote fix this problem. Declans got a PhD in English. And in the period of time right after her diagnosis she found a lot of comfort diving into academic research about the body...especially disability studies.  The idea that I got from disability studies that differences or physical or mental disabilities can actually be a source of valuable diversity and they can actually be a way of questioning certain assumptions that we make about gender and sort of motherhood as this thing that says to be the most meaningful thing a woman can ever do in her life. There is a lot of models for other ways of living in 2021 but I think they are still really dominant.  It is really interesting to think about disability studies like in forming your own emotional processing of this of just giving you a framework for thinking of your body as not wrong because it is atypical.  Yes. And I think that is part of why it was important to me to not just jump to okay how can we fix this um at some time in the future but like what does it mean to live with this in the present? And also you know how can I see this as a part of my identity and accept it as a part of who I am rather than like this is just this sort of um broken part of me that I eventually am going to fix and in the meantime I am just going to be kind of broken.  So right now and the answer can change. What is your vision for for the kind of family you want to have?  That is a good question. I I mean I think the short answer is I honestly do not know. For a long time I was doing research about IVF and um embryo adoption and traditional adoption and learning all about those industries. And I just have a lot of questions about them. A lot of things that I think are problematic about the ways that for example IVF is only available to people who either can afford it or who have one of the few health insurance plans that cover it. It is a lot more expensive and um difficult for gay couples and trans couples to access these interventions. So I think that you know having gone from a place where I was really learning about the ins and outs of these different industries and noticing a lot of problems with them and then coming to the realization that I do still want to be a parent someday has just put me in this place where I guess the pragmatist of me just wants to keep my options open even though I know I have a lot of questions with - about about that about all of those.  Yeah. I mean I hear you describing a deep discomfort with a lot of the systems around what it takes to get pregnant when you do need interventions and how that has an economy around it -  Yeah. Yeah. But I also have to admit that like there is you know all of my assertive political investments and then there is also um being honest with myself about what I want and how those two things you know somehow have to be reconciled.  And when you think of um like do you have a vision of pregnancy childbirtheverything aside like when you think about what is appealing about being a parent what do what do you picture?  Yeah. I mean I just - I think it also goes back a lot to my own upbringing. You know I had a really happy childhood and I just really remember those moments of just kind of being - like sharing space together with your family and having those you know rituals of um you know making dinner together and - um you know - I do not know. It is hard to put it into words. I apologize. I am kind of struggling.  That is okay. No I I I think what - you have said it. You have said it is the simplest - it is sitting around a table you know what I mean? And like feeling that feeling. It is and it is kind of weird how big - it is such a big decision for such small moments you know?  Yes. Yeah. Thank you for hearing that in my starts and stops. Yeah. I mean it is just it is hard not to sound cheesy when you are talking about this. I feel like I am a little self-conscious. For our listener Stephanie her vision of family never included having kids.  But after Chris and I got married a lot of people got on us about having kids. When are you going to have kids? It was all the time. And uh you gotta say like it is it is very rude. Stephanie lives in Racine Wisconsin where she works as a welder. Shes 37 and her story about infertility is not about her own struggle to get pregnant. Its about helping other people get pregnant by donating her eggs. But that is kind of a misnomer because those donations earned her a lot of money.  The very first one was 3000. The next four were 3500. Um and those were all uh tax-free. They give them as a gift. Uh but then when I did it in Illinois I was getting 7000 and then my sixth donation was 7500. Over the ten years she was eligible to be a donor Stephanie donated a lot.  11 times five in Wisconsin and six in Illinois.  Wow. Did you start donating in Illinois because the rates were slightly better?  No. I started donating in Illinois because Wisconsin has a cutoff of five. Illinois has a cutoff of six. And then everywhere has a cutoff of age of 30. So my last donation was actually just before I turned 30 or just after I turned 30.  Over the years what did you use the money for?  Uh paid off credit card debt. That was a big thing 'ecause you know young people are stupid with credit cards uh paid for vacations. And uh also got a got LASIK vision for my husband.  Oh that is cool.  And so when you were 21 when you first donated eggs did you know or were you thinking about at that point whether you wanted to become a mother yourself?  Not really. Um it is funny 'ecause like I I grew up - I never thought about what my amazing wedding would be like or wanting children. Um I kind of felt like I was supposed to have children but you know it is just a societal norm that women should be having children. So I felt like that is a thing that I should be doing but as I got older I am like I do not want to go through it. I do not want to go through a pregnancy. I do not want to go through childbirth. When Chris and I we we went off on our own we got our own place. He got into motorcycles. And then I ended up getting into motorcycles. Um you know we we like to go riding often and you you cannot do that with kids. So I will babysit for my brother. You know babysit - uh my husband has a son who has a son so you know we babysit for our grandson. Um but it is like other than that I do not I do not I do not want to take care of a kid full-time. I I thoroughly enjoy my freedom.  When you think about what your connection is to the children that may have grown from from an egg that you donated. Uh do you have a word for that? What your relationship to them is?  I have never thought of a word but it is like I - I do not like using this word but. I feel more of a spiritual connection because I have never met them. Um I feel like as long as they know that they were an IVF child from donated eggs'ecause I do not know if you know all of them even know thatuh but the for the ones that might know that I think about them thinking about me and you know I think about them and I feel like we think about each other at the same time sometimes.  There are like moments where you are like huh. Like uh maybe we were just having that thought together.  Yeah.  Stephanie I am thinking about you know your your whole twenties you are you are donating eggs about once a year maybe a little bit more more frequently than once a year at a time when you are feeling a lot of social pressure about getting pregnant yourself. Um and I just imagine like that must have felt pretty intense.  Yeah I I guess I did not really I always had social pressure to do things and I have always - I have always went against the grain. Um I was a punk in high school you know I had short short spiky hair and then I shaved it and I never wore jeans. Always wore polyester plaid pants. Um yeah it was just I was totally not not the norm of a girl ever.    Uh huh.   Some friends that I went to high school with that are also Team No Kids but yeah. Um most most women want kids want children. And so yeah I I feel kind of like a loner sometimes in that department.  Did you say Team No Kids?  Yeah. Team No Kids.   Hi. This is Eva. I just wanted to talk briefly about when I was in my early 40s and I had a couple of miscarriages after much discussion about whether or not my husband and I wanted kids. And after the second miscarriage I went into my gynecologists office and at first the nurse came in and said I really want this for you! which I thought was so weird. I mean I got it. But also I didnt know what I wanted. It was just one more thing from the outside of people being like you should have a baby! Or thats how I felt. The gynecologist who I adore when we sat down and talked about next steps she said to me If you want this let me know and well hit it hard. And I just thoughtdo you want to hit it hard? Do you want to - do you want this enough? Do you want this badly enough to put your body through in vitro and more miscarriages possibly and having a child at the end? And the truth was I could not ever get past 50 of feeling like I wanted it. And that just didnt seem like enough to me. It was really hard. But I knew it was the right thing to not continue. And there werent a lot of people for me to talk to because most people who have kids wanted kids very badly. And I do not regret not having children. There is a moment here and there where I think I wonder what my child would have looked like. But that doesnt seem like enough reason to have kids. And I have lots of friends who have kids I have lots of friends who have gone through a lot of trials to have those kids and Im happy they have them and I am glad and grateful to be part of their lives. To be Aunt Eva. And I get to mother in lots of other ways. Thats a listener named Eva in New York City. Thank you to all of you who sent in your stories for this episode and for sharing all the ways youve created your families. And we hear from all of you about infertility a lot...so this is a conversation we want to continue. And right now we need your help to build an audio survival guide. For those of you going through infertilityor who have been through it before...record a voice memo and tell us is there something youve read or listened to thats helped when things have felt hard? Are there any activities youd recommend doing or things youd say to yourself that would help? Let us know. Record a voice memo keep it under a minute and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Death Sex  Money is a listener supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Anabel Bacon with help from Mardy Harding. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Sarah Dealy. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram annasalepics P-I-C-S and the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And thank you to Thistle West in Santa Rosa California who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Thistle and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate.  Yo my name is Forrest and I got a vasectomy when I was 21. We did get one last voice memo I want to share with you...from a listener who chose infertility. In his late teens Forrest had two kids and he decided that was enough. Hes 39 now and not with the kids mom anymore. And he says having had a vasectomy  ...has been an interesting trip as far as my dating life uh because especially in my age range the women be wanting babies and I retired from making babies. So that is always an interesting thing to think about uh when I am out here you know trying to find me a spouse. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.