 Los Angeles became the center of the record business after World War II and by the mid'60s housed not only successful independent labels but also labels affiliated with movie studios like Warner Brothers and Universal. So it is no surprise to learn that there was a thriving rock scene there and that it was captured on thousands of records. With the release of Where the Action Is! Los Angeles Nuggets Rhino Records has tried to document it all from the garages to the sound stages on four CDs. Rock historian Ed Ward has a review.   Well I have been watching you dance for a while little girl. And I would like to have a chance to learn your style little girl. 'ecause you have a way of moving that I hope to be able to do. I am girl so fascinated watching you moving. Oh you moving. Oh you moving. Oh yeah. Now the way  In a way it is a shame that for some time the perception of '60s rock history in America was tied to a San Franciscobased magazine Rolling Stone which brought a longstanding regional rivalry into the discussion. San Francisco was groovy and organic Los Angeles was commercial and plastic and that was that. But there is nothing plastic about the scene developing in the clubs on the severalblocklong stretch of Sunset Boulevard called the Sunset Strip where folkies like The Byrds went to experiment with electric instruments and bands like The Leaves sang doubleentendre songs about drugs just like San Francisco bands did.    You are feeling alone today  here what I say  I know that you feel alone come and see my best friend Dr. Stone. I can tell you what is in store I can take you to his door you are sad and you are alone  Dr. Stone all except for  Dr. Stone.  Los Angeles had a lot of other things going for it. For one it was a much larger city. It had suburbs and neighborhoods in which it seemed every garage had a band.    You gotta go baby I got the  you gotta . So jump jive and harmonize so jump jive and harmonize. Come on come on please come on baby baby please all right.  One of the toughest garage bands was Thee Midniters who broke another stereotype by being MexicanAmericans from East Los Angeles. Jump Jive  Harmonize recorded live in 1967 was just one of their masterpieces. Then there were also typically snotty teenage bands like The Mustangs in suburbs like Glendale.    I was watching you last night when you and that guy walked down the street. And it was plain to see right then you as not the kind of girl for me. Do not want to see your face again well I do not want to anyway.  Where all this gets interesting is that unlike San Francisco or the many other cities where music scenes were emerging at this time Los Angeles had topflight studios where a developed band could record the cream of America's studio musicians to step in for a band member who could not play a part experienced managers who could guide a band's career and people with money looking to invest it in an act which could provide them with a nice return. This was a volatile mixture. It could mean that Dean Martin's son Lucille Ball's son and a friend of theirs could become a band and get a deal with no problem. Although it is still a surprise here how could Dino Desi  Billy really were. Or that odd combinations could take to the studio as Peter Fonda and exiled South African trumpeter Hugh Masekela did. And a proven artist could get the budget to indulge in artistic vision.  JAN      Fan Tan was ostensibly by Jan  Dean although it was produced and sung by Jan Berry recorded while he was still partially paralyzed from the 1966 auto accident which almost killed him. This studio music the very thing that occasioned the catcalls of plastic from the San Franciscans was the most distinctive part of the L.A. scene the thing that made it different although livebased bands like The Doors Love The Byrds and Buffalo Springfield were also very active. Where the Action Is!  the fourdisc set which includes all these songs  has been masterfully curated by Alec Palao who also helped put together the companion box of San Francisco music Love is the Song We Sing. From legendary clubs like Bido Lito's Ciro's and the Trip to recording studios like Gold Star and Western L.A.'s music scene was every bit as important as San Francisco's and even better documented. And if some of it was plastic well what do you think they made records out of anyway? Ed Ward lives in the south of France. He reviewed Where the Action Is! Los Angeles Nuggets on Rhino Records. 