 Hey you all. From NPR It is BEEN A MINUTE. I am Sam Sanders and today we are talking Netflix namely a movie I recently saw on Netflix. It is called Like Father. It was directed by Lauren Miller Rogen. I am interviewing her in this episode. So this movie Like Father it is a checklist of things I like a lot. It stars Kristen Bell the star of Frozen and The Good Place and a bunch of other good things. It also stars Kelsey Grammer aka Frasier. They play this father and daughter duo who patch up a rough relationship with the help of another thing I like karaoke. And this movie most of it takes place on an actual cruise ship during an actual cruise. Today I am talking with Lauren Miller Rogen who wrote and directed Like Father just for Netflix. We talk about what it is like to work with two stars like Kristen and Kelsey. We also talk about exactly how one makes a movie on a cruise ship during a cruise and we get deep. Lauren tells me how this movie channels a bit of her family life namely her mother's early-onset Alzheimer's and how she is dealt with that. I think you will like this chat as much as I like the movie as much as I like Frasier as much as I like singing Let It Go in the spirit of Kristen Bell while in the shower. All right here's me with Lauren Miller Rogen film director. She came to chat with me in our studios in Culver City.   Hey. How are you?  Oh I am good. Hi.  Hey. So good to meet you.  You too .  Your movie - it is funny.  Thank you .  Yeah. Describe the film for folks who have not seen it yet in 30 seconds.  It is called Like Father. It stars Kristen Bell as Rachel Hamilton who is a bit of a workaholic. And she gets left at the altar of her wedding. And her father played by Kelsey Grammer has shown up for her wedding. They have not seen each other in 26 years. And one thing leads to the next and they end up on her honeymoon cruise.  Yeah. High jinks ensue.  High jinks hilarity a lot of emotion...  Yeah.  ...And drama ensue.  Yeah. There is so much I want to talk about the movie but I think the biggest - not the biggest but one of the biggest - feats I think you accomplished was shooting the majority of this film on a cruise ship...  Oh my God .  ...While an actual cruise was going on.  Yeah uh-huh.  Can you break that all down for me please?   So the idea was pitched to me by Anders Bard who is one of the producers of the movie. And I have never been - I had never been on a cruise ship. And so I wrote the whole movie from the Internet and also my in-laws who are big cruisers.  So these were Seth Rogen's parents.  These are Seth's parents yes. You should follow Seth's mom on Twitter. She...  Into it .  ...Says hilarious and very inappropriate things that are embarrassing but really funny .  Yeah. How many people are on a boat like that?  There are 5000 passengers...  Jesus.  ...And then about 3000 or 4000 crew. So it is close to 9000 people...  Stop.  ...Floating in a building...  For weeks .  ...In the middle of the ocean. Like it is so crazy. And we were supposed to get on the ship on a Saturday. And this is when Hurricane Irma hit last fall. So the ship could not come back that Saturday because of the storm.  Yeah.  And so - and we could not stay in Miami because the hurricane was heading there.  Yeah.  And Netflix was like you got to get everyone that we are responsible for out of there.  Wow. Wow.   And so we went to Orlando for six nights.  OK.  And I hate to be insensitive because so many people's lives were completely...  Yeah yeah.  ...Destroyed during that storm. But we actually had an amazing bonding time.  Aw.  We stayed at a Disney hotel...   Oh. Yes.  ...Because Princess Anna is in my movie...   Yes. Kristen Bell yeah.  ...And helped us get a hotel there.  That kind of sounds epic. So you are hanging out with Kristen Bell the voice of Disney...  Yeah. I mean...  ...In Orlando during a hurricane.  Yeah. And like - and they were amazing.  Does she sing all the time?  She does sing a lot. Not...  I love it.  Not songs from Frozen.  OK.  She is a big Broadway singer. So like our drive from Miami to Orlando we literally - we had like a big like Rent and...  Stop.  ...What else? - Dear Evan Hansen. It was like a big like songfest. It was great.  Oh I love it. I love it. And Kelsey sings too huh?  Kelsey sings also.  I love that.  Oh no he is a phenomenal singer. Well - and they sing in the movie.  Yeah.  And they both really wanted it to be like a real crooner song. Something - they are like you know show off our voices and blah blah. And I was like guys Kristen and Kelsey are amazing singers. Rachel and Harry work in marketing.  Yeah the characters. Yeah .   Like - so let us...  It is got to be different. You cannot belt it .  It is about being funny...  Yes.  ...Not about showing off your...  Yes.  ...Amazing talents which are incredible - but not about that.   Yeah yeah. What song would you sing at a karaoke bar on a cruise ship?  You know truth be told I am not a big karaoke-er . But when I am at karaoke my go-to is Meat Loaf Paradise By The Dashboard Light...  OK.  ...The duet.  I hear you.  Yeah 'ecause it is funny. And you can like act it out...  Yeah yeah yeah.  ...Which is much more fun to me.  My go-to is Push It by Salt-N-Pepa...  .  ...'ecause there is literally eight words. And you just talk.  Right. And do you dance? Do you like do your own...  I try to get like eight or nine other folks up there with me.  Oh.  And we all just say push it over and over. And then at that point it does not matter what you are doing...  Exactly .  ...'ecause you just got the crowd into it. It is the least amount of work required for karaoke.  That is so funny .  Yeah yeah. So you are making this movie on a cruise ship. It is also your first time directing a movie.  Uh-huh.  You asked for a lot of work with this.  I guess so.   How challenging was just the whole thing seeing it was you know not just your first time directing but also on a moving boat...  Yeah.  ...With thousands of people?  I mean it was crazy. But at the same time I was very ready and very like up for the challenge and like...  OK.  ...Ready to do it. I went to film school. I have directed a bunch of shorts...  Yeah.  ...And you know wrote the script. So it was very ingrained in my head and the vision for it - and luckily had an amazing cast and crew who knew what they were doing who were really good at their jobs and worked really hard. But you know there were those - there is a scene that takes place on the deck at night that is like a pretty emotional scene. And it was like so windy that we could not shoot. And we were only on the ship for one more night. And we were like what are we going to do?  Yeah.  Like - and so  they called the captain who is this guy Captain Johnny who is like...  Captain Johnny.  He is - I mean he is literally - he is the captain of the largest ship in the ocean. He is the nicest most fun guy ever so he came down. This is like at like 11 oclock at night. And we are like trying to get our scene. The wind is everywhere.  Yeah.  You cannot hear anything. We could not put the camera over the ledge of the ship which we wanted to.  Yeah.  And he was like oh do you want me to stop the ship? And I was like can you stop...  .  ...The ship? And he was like oh sure. We stopped the ship. And I was like OK. And so he literally stopped the largest ship on the ocean for...  That is amazing. For how long?  ...For two hours.  Stop.  But like we had to go faster after that.  .  So like from like 4 a.m. to 7 a.m. we were like booking it.  .  Yeah.  Your husband's in this movie.  He is.  You directed your husband.  I did.  Whose idea was it to have him in the movie?  It sort of happened somewhat organically. He was never going to be in the movie. And at one point we started talking about him playing Owen in the beginning.  So he was at first going to play the almost-husband.  The almost-husband.  OK.  Yeah. And then about two months before we started shooting we were in Canada. And I had written - Jeff is a guy from the Midwest who is just this you know sweet sort of a little bit square guy...  Yeah.  ...From the Midwest who had not left his hometown that often...  Yeah.  ...And you know was just this sort of sweet guy. And so we were in Canada and when I am there I guess I make some Canadian jokes with love.  .  And so I was like oh what if Jeff is Canadian? And I make Canadian jokes instead of Midwestern jokes...  Yeah.  ...Because I had written all that in there like that.  Yeah.  And so Seth's response when I said that was I am not going on the ship. And I was like no no no. And then - but then over the next few days we like kept coming up with funny jokes and like funny little tidbits that we could add to the Jeff character if he was Canadian.  Yeah.  And then it just got to the point where he was like oh man. It would be funny because he would never quite played a Canadian that could like make jokes like that before and was like OK. I am in.  I love it.  And it just became like such a funny idea.  Yeah.   All right. Time for a break. When we come back Lauren tells me about how she learned to process the anger she has over her mother getting Alzheimer's disease. BRB.   I think a lot of people reading about you and this movie would maybe think that there are some parallels between your life and Kristen Bell's character.  Oh yeah .  This is a character who works too hard to the point that her would-be husband leaves her at the altar and then she is forced to patch up family relationships that in part have been neglected because she works too hard. How much of that is you and how much of that is not you? And did you even think of yourself at all in that character?  The answer is yes and no.  OK.  I was not left at the altar. My dad fortunately is amazing and has been in my life my whole life.  Good to hear.  My mom has Alzheimer's disease. And when I was writing this movie which I started writing six years ago she was just becoming more advanced in her disease. She was diagnosed 12 years ago.  How old was she when she was diagnosed?  She was 55 when she was diagnosed.  Wow.  And so you know...  And then you were at that point how old?  I was 25 when she was diagnosed...  Wow.  ...Which you know is by far not the youngest that this has affected a family...  Yeah.  ...But was younger than I certainly thought we would be affected by it and spent a long time just feeling real dark and angry and sad and just could not see the other side. And the disease went to the next level around when I was starting to write this which really sent me even further...  Yeah.  ...Down into my darkness. However it was also around the same time we started doing Hilarity for Charity.  Which is your charity for Alzheimer's disease.  Which is our charity for Alzheimer's disease.  Yeah.  And just in general partly because of the industry I work in partly because my husband is fortunately a successful person that I have friends who are successful I live a wild life sometimes. And I go to crazy events that I had always dreamt of going to. And I travel to crazy places. And I have these like crazy like highs that I never thought I would have...  Yeah.  ...At the same time I was having these lows that I did not think I would be facing at that time in my life...  Yeah.  ...That were extremely painful. And I felt so powerless and was just real angry. And I think that what happened was I ended up creating this character who in the course of this story has these really high highs...  Yeah.  ...And these really low lows where she...  And anger.  And anger - a lot of anger - where she has to sort of face the  has been presented in front of her and get to the other side. And I did not even really realize this until we were kind of editing the movie. And I was like oh I did it. This is - this movie the tone of this movie is my life.  Yeah. When were you angriest? Was there a moment a day when you were like damn it?  No. Unfortunately no because there were many moments. My anger always really came out in the car.  Explain.  Horrific road rage.  OK.  I would yell at people. I just thought if someone ran a stop sign it meant the whole world was going to .  .  And I mean I had horrific bacne.  Back acne.  Back acne - literally the size of...  How horrific?  ...Like silver dollars...  Good God.  ...Like - because I was so stressed out.  Oh man.  I hardly slept every night.  Oh man.  But luckily I you know pushed to the other side of that. And I found a balance that I did not think was possible then.  Yeah. It must be a hard kind of anger to deal with because who are you angry at? You are not angry at your mother.  Right.  You - there is no one that did this to her.  Right. Right.  Like where do you even focus your anger?  The world - like the world and everyone in it.  Yeah.  ...And anyone who is happy and anyone who just thinks that everything is all peachy keen...  Yeah.  ...And living their life and do not care about other people. And - you know I mean? - which is so narcissistic. And now I see...  No but I get it.  ...The fault in that. But it is - that is what I mean.  I get it.  You know what I mean? It is just like everyone.  Every - none of them get it. My parents were sick at the same time. And there was one Thanksgiving where they both were in the same hospital on different floors of the same...  Oh God.  ...Hospital.  Oh my God. I am so sorry.  It was just the worst. And like you are not just mad at the situation. You are mad because no one else knows how it feels - or in your mind no one else can know.  Right.  No one else sees it.  Yeah.  No one else gets how bad it is. And you see - and like when you see people smiling or running the stop sign you just want to stop them and shake them and say do you get what I am going through? Do you see this?  Yeah. Yeah. And I just - I was very like existential. You know what I mean? What is the point of all this? If this is what happens...  Yeah.  What is the point? Why are we doing this?  Your mother I am guessing was a great good person and still happened to her.  Amazing.  What was she like before the disease?  She was a teacher for 35 years.  What did she teach?  She got her masters in the '70s in teaching which was pretty you know...  Yeah.  ...Trailblazing at the time.  Yeah. Yeah.  So the first part of her career - I want to say for 15 16 years 18 years maybe - she taught special ed.  OK.  ...Elementary special ed.  She had a big heart.  Uh-huh. And then she moved to first grade which is potentially one of the hardest grades to teach...  Yeah very hard.  ...Because you teach kids to read.  Yeah.  And more than that she was like a very active parent. So not only did she work full time but she like you know was always at our events and she was like a class mom.  Yeah.  And like she was on our PTA and my synagogue board and you know all the things that you could do to be an active parent and friend.  Did you enjoy...  She...  ...Her level of active parent-ness ?  Oh totally. I loved...  OK.  ...When she was around. Of course.  Aw. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah.  What do you miss most about her before the disease?  Everything.  Yeah.  I miss sharing my life with her. I miss you know the things that - you know I miss that she was not able to sit next to me at the premiere of this movie...  Yeah.  ...And that she does not know what is happening. And I miss that she is not getting to see the payoff of her hard work for both me and my brother and who we have become.  Yeah.  And - you know and I hate that she will miss anything that is to come. And I hate that her and my dad who had amazing plans for their retirement never got to experience that.  Yeah. It seems like you have if not gotten over the anger you might have felt about all of this you have gotten better maybe at processing that anger.  Yes.  What did you do?  Therapy.  How did you get - OK.   Therapy just gave me a perspective that I could not have before feeling like I was the saddest angriest girl in the world and now I am not. I am one of many sad and angry people. You know I am fortunate that doing Hilarity For Charity...  Yeah.  ...Showed me how I was so not alone.  Because a lot of folks are dealing with this stuff.  Oh I am so far from alone.  Yeah.  It is an epidemic in this country. It is outrageous the amount of people who are dealing with this disease who are alone who...  Yeah.  ...Do not have help who are not fortunate in their situation like we are to even be able to afford care.  Or afford a therapist to talk about it.  Or afford a therapist to talk about it.  Yeah.  But it is been an amazing thing. I have been fortunate to do that work which has given me the perspective and also like allowed me to take action over something that I could not take action over with my mom and that I have helped other people. And we have a program where we give away free at-home care to people who cannot afford it. We have given away close to 250000 hours of free...  Wow.  ...Care to people who cannot afford it. And like that is an amazing thing that makes me feel like I am doing something...  Yeah.  ...In the face of this terrible thing.  Yeah. What song would you karaoke with your mom on the cruise ship?  Well I will just say this - because my mom really always wanted to make me and my brother really happy...  Yeah.  And so I am a big Barbra Streisand fan.  Love it.  And so I think that if I was like let us do like Do not Rain On My Parade...  I was going to just say...  ...Which is one of my favorites...  ...Do not Rain On My Parade is like - oh my God.  I walked down the aisle to that song. It is like...  Wait. You walked...  It is the anthem of my life.  Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. You walked down the aisle to Barbra Streisand's...  Yes.  ...Do not Rain On My Parade.  And so I think my mom would be like let us give it a go.  I love it.   One more quick break. When we come back how Lauren left a future in fashion design to direct movies. BRB.   I want you to tell me more about where you came from - from Florida but not always from Florida?  No. I was born on Long Island.  Yeah.  And we moved to Florida when I was 8.  Yeah.  So I was in the - like the real like as I say cows football Jesus kind of town.  OK.  Honestly there was a level of being the new Jewish girl in town which - because there were not many - my mom always talked about how she got like a pamphlet from the Chamber of Commerce that was like churches - 300 Jewish churches - one.  Really.  And like that is the example I can give.  Did you all go to the one church?  We - it was a temple a synagogue.  I am sorry. Yes.  But yes.  OK. Sorry.   No it is OK. But the truth is like I do not want to paint it as a bad place. It was honestly an amazing place to grow up - because my dad always talks about - we - where we lived on Long Island - like he does not know like what - we were so close to New York. Like who knows? Would I have grown up too fast? Like and then on top of that I was a really artsy kid.  Yeah.  And this town this small town had not only like a middle school for the arts - like a magnet school...  Oh wow.  ...For the arts - but had a tremendous high school for the arts.  That is awesome.  ...Like the kind of like - you know you audition to get into - like a Fame kind of high school.  When did you know you wanted to do film?  So it is funny. So my sort of like history with all that was like when I was younger I did like as - you know as a kid like little plays at camp and whatever and like wanted to be an actor. I am going to be an actress. And then my mom was like there is no future in acting. Be a fashion designer.  Because there is a future in that.  Which is a crazy - I wish that...  I like your mom.  These are one of the things I would ask her. Like what was the logic there - but whatever. So she was like do art. And I honestly loved both. So I was like yeah I will do the art program cool. And I went to FIT in New York and studied fashion design and had an associate's degree from there - not feeling super fulfilled or satisfied with fashion feeling a lot of stress and anxiety - and just saw a flyer to be an extra in a movie.  In New York.  In New York - and went to the audition to audition to be an extra in this movie. It was a re-shoot for Samuel Jackson's Shaft.  Wow. Are you in Shaft?  My torso is in Shaft.  Yeah it is.  And so - but like literally like I was like 18 had moved to New York like six weeks ago like - and again it is not like I am in it or anything. But being on the set I was like oh this.  What about it?  I was just so - I was so fascinated by it. So I was like oh I am going to be an actor. And so then I was like I am going stay in New York and be an actor. And my parents were like no.  You and everybody else .  They were like no you are not. It is a nice idea. And my dad was like what if you went to film school? You thought being on that set was cool. You have always been a writer. You write short stories. And I literally was like well I cannot go to film school. That is for cool people. I will never get in - and then got in a lot of places could afford Florida State went there kicking and screaming because I was like...  Why?  I do not want to go to Florida State where everyone from my hometown is. And then...  Was it a good program?  An amazing program - we have some pretty amazing alumni who have done great things.  Like you?  I am one of the alumni - but no I mean in my class Barry Jenkins who did Moonlight.  Wait. Stop.  And James Laxton who was also in my class shot that movie. And Joi McMillon who edited that movie was in my class - one of my best friends.  You know them.  Yeah Wes Ball who directed Maze Runner was a class above mine. No it is an amazing program. So literally I showed up - and I am not joking - within 10 minutes I was like oh here I am. These are my people.  This is it.  This is it. This is - from literally the first day I came home and was like I am a crazy person. This is where I meant to be.  That is got to be a good feeling.  And it really was. Like I literally remember thinking like these people like they feel like me. And like we are speaking the same language. And like I feel like we want to do the same things. And like it just was amazing and just an incredible time.  Yeah. This is an interesting time to be a woman in the industry.  Yes.  I should say more than interesting - maybe tumultuous. I do not know.  I do not know what the word is - yes.  But like how you - you were working in this industry before MeToo. And now you are working in it through MeToo. Besides changing the way that we think about how women should be treated in the industry it is also been at least for me like a time to look back on the way that women have been portrayed in things like film over the years. And you say to yourself - especially in this moment of being critical about the role of women in the industry - it is like does some of this stuff hold up? When you look back on some of the movies and TV from 10 five years ago even you can say oh man I am not sure that would work now. Are there any projects that you have been involved in where you look at them now in this year of MeToo and say I would not do that again?  That is a good question. I do not think I have worked enough to be able to have that kind of regret. I do not think I have had enough out there that I have had that kind of regret. I mean I will say this. This script that we were - that I sold first that Star Dudes. I mean I started writing that in 2007 - it was either 2007 or 2008. So the language that they used included some words that are not OK to say today.  Say it and we will bleep it.  It is the F-word in relating to gay people - was a word that was in there.  And you wrote that yeah.  You know what I mean? I am like that is not - now that is not OK. It probably was not OK back then but we had a different connotation.  It was a different time.  It was a different time. And you know even my husband like he talks about some of the dialogue that is been in some of his past movies and it is like oh you cannot say that now. And like you know it is just like those things. But we just did not have an awareness then.  It was a different time yeah.  And that is why you have to learn from things. And the thing is that like - not to get to topical but I think that a lot of people made jokes in their past that they should not of made and have learned from them and have moved on and should not be penalized for them or punished from them or taken away from directing amazing franchises for making bad jokes.  I know what you are saying there. I am going to let you go soon but I want to - I like want to make you sing Do not Rain On My Parade.  No you do not.  It is such a good song.  Do not tell me not to live just sit and putter.    Life's candy and the sun's a ball of butter. Do not bring around a cloud to rain on my parade.  Thank you so much.  Thank you so much.  This was a pleasure.  This was so nice.    Do not tell me not to fly. I have simply got to.  It is a great song.  It is such a great song.    It is me and not you. Who told you you are allowed to rain on my parade?  Thank you so much to Lauren Miller Rogen. Next time I see you we are doing karaoke. Lauren's movie is called Like Father. It is on Netflix now. Go check it out. Also another note listeners - we are going to have a special Tuesday episode coming to your feed next month. It is all about National Coming Out Day - the history of that day the future of that day and a few stories of coming out from you. Listen I want to hear from you. Tell me your story about what coming out was like for you. Email me at samsandersnpr.org. We might call you and talk it out. And it might be in this podcast and maybe on the radio too. Hit me up. All right. That is a wrap. We are back in your feeds Friday with the weekly wrap-up of the news. Till next time thanks for listening. Talk soon. 