 Hey you all this is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show - NPR senior Weekend Edition editor Barrie Hardymon and NPR political editor Arnie Seipel. All right let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Barrie Arnie Happy Earth Wind  Fire week month year.  This is amazing.  This is perfect.  Is not this amazing?  This is what I - this is like - I am ready.  Let us just let it play...  Oh.  Yes.  ...For a second.  Please let us.    Do you remember...  Whoo.  I do remember.    ...The 21st night of September? Love was changing the minds of pretenders.  So we are playing this song September because it turns 40 this year. And that date mentioned in the song September 21st that happened this week.  I am also - I am older than this song.  . It is OK. No one was going to know unless you said it Barrie.  Oh my God edit it. Cut it. Oh my God that is crazy.  So...  Yeah.  ...It is always a good week to play this song. But this week is an extra good week to play this song. Before I talk more about it I want to thank my guests for being here from D.C. today - Barrie Hardymon as said senior editor at NPR's Weekend Edition and Arnie Seipel editor at NPR Politics who used to edit me back in the day.  Mmm hmm.  So this song turns 40 this year. So we need to celebrate it. And I want to talk a little bit about the backstory of this song which is literally one of the greatest songs of all time. I say it and I mean it.  Mmm hmm.  It is.  But Dan Charnas wrote a short oral history of September for NPR a few years ago. And he asked an expert about why it feels like everyone cannot get enough of this song and you want to hear it on repeat over and over again. He talked to Jeffrey Peretz who is a professor at NYU's Tisch School of the Arts. And the professor said the chord structure of the song makes it seem like it could go on forever. He says quote there is four chords in the chorus that just keep moving forward and never seem to land anywhere.    There was a ba-de-ya  say that you remember. Ba-de-ya...  It is right. The chords just keep going. And you...  Yeah.  ...Just want to keep dancing.  Right.  Another fun fact...  Sort of like how you do not want the summer to end.  Exactly.  That same thing.  Yeah. Another fun fact about this song - the most iconic lyric of the whole thing is ba-de-ya right?  Oh yes.   Ba-de-ya. Not even real words. There is a backstory to this. One of the songwriters of the song Allee Willis - she told NPR when the band leader Maurice White put that ba-de-ya in the song she was like you are going to change that to real words right? And he kept saying no. And so in the final vocal session Allee Willis told Maurice White - she said what the F does ba-de-ya mean? And he said who the F cares? Then he goes on to say - and I just - iconic. He says quote never let the lyric get in the way of the groove.  Yes.  Yes.  ...'ecause the lyric is the groove on this.  Yes.  It is the...  Yes.  ...Same thing.  Yes.  That broke my brain.  So Happy Earth Wind  Fire week month life.  Back at you.  Yes. Also listeners talking about fun stuff and fun songs and things we are going to have a very fun live show in the LA area October 2. I will be talking with the comedian Guy Branum. It is going to be fun. There will be laughs and drinks. Get your tickets at kpcc.orginperson. All right as always we are going to start by having my panelists describe their week of news in only three words. Arnie you are up first.  Hey Sam my three words are not so fast.  What are you talking about?  I am talking about Brett Kavanaugh.  Oh are not we all? Before we get into it I want you to just catch us up to what we know as we tape. This is a story that seems to turn left and then right every five minutes.  Yes. So what we know is that there is this allegation from this woman professor Christine Blasey Ford. She was - you know when she was 15 years old she says she and Brett Kavanaugh the nominee for the Supreme Court were at a party and that he sexually assaulted her. Brett Kavanaugh has not budged in categorically denying this saying I was not even at the party you know...  And that was like on Sunday right?  That was on Sunday.  Oh my God.  That was on Sunday.  Not so fast - you are right.  Not so fast.  Yeah.  And the reason I say not so fast is because until then it seemed like Brett Kavanaugh was cruising towards confirmation. Like it was just going ahead. And Republicans were really celebrating. And they were going to get this big win before the midterms. And then this comes out and it is like hang on hold up. And a lot of people are thinking back of course to Anita Hill and Clarence Thomas in 1991 where Anita Hill spent a day testifying and being grilled by an all-male Senate Judiciary Committee...  Oh yeah.  ...About her claims of sexual harassment.  Right.  Barrie.  Yeah.  So I mean like looking back on Anita Hill and looking at this today are there parallels? Are there differences? Does it seem like deja vu to you?  No. Well first of all I was a tiny child during the Anita Hill hearings.   Second of all - but I will say while there are - you know as Arnie has said while there are some parallels we are also in a world of partisanship that we could never have imagined a tribal moment that is so dug down.  And speaking to how it is partisan I cannot help but feeling as I watched this saga unfold all week that both parties are using this woman.  Oh yeah.  Both of them.  Both of them are using her for their objectives.  Yeah.  You can see plainly that Democrats would love to have this be the thing that people are thinking about as they go into the voting booth in November for the midterms.  And so would Republicans.  Yeah.  One of the points that has been sticking with me is also that you know who is the information going to benefit when this all comes out?  Yeah.  Because it is going to inform public opinion. But it seems like pretty much all the Democrats have their mind made up that they are against this guy. And there are a handful of centrist Republicans people like Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski who are usually in the middle of these debates - they say they want to see her testimony. But they are not backing an FBI investigation. They are saying basically like you offered to testify. Come testify or we are moving on.  Who do you think this is - I mean for me when I look at the calculus who is it hardest for? Is it red-state Democrats that are running in states that Trump won? Is it moderate Republicans like Collins and Murkowski? Is it just Republicans that are nervous about a potential blue wave and women who - you know and women - suburban women who they need to...  I mean I think it is Republicans broadly. I mean I think sort of...  More than red-state Democrats?  I think more than red-state Democrats 'ecause I think red-state Democrats sort of now have an out.  Oh interesting.  They now have something that they can...  Right.  ...Say.  Right.  Although it was interesting because Claire McCaskill was like I am not - I am going to oppose him now but it is because of his views on campaign finance. It was really like...  Lady come on.  There was a lot of eye rolling at that.  Right.  It was really interesting.  Right.  But with Republicans it is sort of like if he does not get on the court that is a huge blow. But if he does get on then is that going to anger female voters...  Enough to not - yeah.  ...Even more? Like we have seen women out in the streets supporting Democrats. You know we look back at Anita Hill and the backlash to that was in 1992 - that there was a record number of women elected to Congress.  Barrie...  Hi.  ...Do you have three words?  I do. Well as you know I probably have like 7000 words. But I am just going to...  And that is how I like it.   So I am going to boil it down to...  OK.  ...A good riddance.  A good riddance.  A good riddance which a lot of people - I am going to just diverge for a minute and say a lot of people do not know that the words that we use in speech are - most of them do come from Shakespeare. He was the first person who coined that phrase a good riddance in...  Let me just pause.  Yeah.  Barrie Hardymon on the show talking about Shakespeare - who would have thought?   Well I feel like the last time I did my three words they were Shakespeare too.  I know. That is what I am saying.  So I just wanted to be like look. I got - I am on a roll. It is going to be great.  It is a motif.  I am going to do Tolstoy at some point. Anyway - no I am just kidding. I am not going to do that. Do not worry. I will do Real Housewives. No. So in any case a good riddance - I - the wave of essays of explanations from men who have been pushed out of the public sphere for MeToo - the Jian Ghomeshis the John Hockenberrys even a...  Who are those guys for folks that do not know?  OK. Who does not know Jian Ghomeshi? I am just teasing.  .  It is amazing. He is way more famous than he ever was.  Oh I know.  Especially on podcasts and stuff.  As soon as you get nasty you get famous.  That is right. That is right. Jian Ghomeshi who was a former CBC host. John Hockenberry - he is a former NPR host. He was at Talk of the Nation and then went to The Takeaway at WNYC where he was fired for a series of MeToo allegations. You know before this we had Louis C.K. sort of coming out and giving his first show and I think also Aziz Ansari. But in the specific case of Hockenberry and Ghomeshi there is a have not-I-been-punished-long-enough essay - one in the New York Review of Books and one in Harper's magazine.  And like one was like 7000 words.  Oh my God.  But somewhere in those 7000 words did they weigh the trauma and the effect of their actions on women?  No. They were really - it was so - the thing that was so - and this is why I say it was a good riddance to begin with. I can envision a world where - can I? No I can. I can envision a world where a man does take responsibility for his actions and says you know I have really apologized. I have thought about people. This is what restorative justice is in - you know in places that do not - that are not like the public sphere of MeToo. I can envision that. But it really has not happened very much. It - instead of what happened to these women and how are these women doing and really like thinking about the transgression you have men saying but what about me when can I come back? There is a - I mean it is - it would be funny if it were not so serious. But you know Hockenberry saying literally in the second paragraph I have got these trophies these Peabodys in an attic you know...  Wow.  ...It is like well boo-hoo.  And I was also going to say the thing that has stuck with me this week has been essays from women who have been assaulted and have talked about their attacker coming to them and sort of baring their soul and saying I have been carrying the weight of what I did to you and saying basically the thing that has allowed me to move forward has been the attacker coming and talking about what a weight this has been on them and then them affirming my value as a human being.  Right.  And again it points to the power that the attacker has...  Yeah.  ...That just holds over a victim.  Which is why when I took it back to Christine Blasey Ford I mean this - and regardless of what the truth of the matter is although you know I do think we need to believe people's experiences men and women when they have them. But regardless of what the truth of the situation is what torture for this woman to have been doxed on Twitter to have had all of like...  Had to flee her home.  ...A whole new - yes had to flee her home - had a whole new trauma. It boggles the mind.  Yeah.  And when I think about that I get so tired. And I want to like...  Totally.  ...Send like a howler to Jian Ghomeshi's house.  I hear you.  And there is even now people...  That is a Harry Potter reference you all.  You guys I have three words.  I want to hear them.  Game of chicken.  Is that Shakespeare? I am just kidding.  God I hope so.   How would he deliver game of chicken in Shakespearean prose?  I do not know. That is a good question. I am going to think about it while you just...  Yes. Yes. So I am talking about really two things - one this game of chicken between Senate Democrats and Republicans over this Kavanaugh hearing but also another game of chicken that we probably we have not been watching enough given the other news of this week. There is an ongoing and escalating trade war raging on between the U.S. and China and it is getting pretty hot. This week Trump announced more tariffs on China - 10 percent tariff starting September 24 on 200 billion of Chinese goods. That is crazy. And then - so Trump has also threatened to tax even more imports some 267 billion of import from China if China retaliates. But here's where this game of chicken gets really interesting you guys. China is running out of things to tariff.  Oh.   Right. Right.  Yeah.  They do not import enough things from the U.S. to keep tariffing stuff to match the U.S. Because the U.S. imports so much from China we just almost have a limitless list of stuff to go through. I actually found the list on the White House website. It is a few dozen pages long. And it seems as if if Donald Trump keeps doing this he might win that game of chicken. He might just out-tariff China.  Right. We just have leverage 'ecause we buy so much more from China than they buy from us.  Right.  And I would have never thought - when Donald Trump during the campaign was talking about hitting China hard I would have never thought that it would have gotten this far. Secondly I would have never thought that the American public would have just kind of shoulder shrugged it all. And I would have never thought that we might end up in a situation where Trump actually gets a win out of this.  I think it is really interesting. This is one of the things that we - like you know we talk so much about the outsized moves that Trump has made as far as trade goes. And often I do think that in the media we talk about them in this - it is a scary way. You know we - but if this - like you say if he gets a win out of this that is going to - I think that is going to be important in the midterms. And...  And we have heard a lot of Trump supporters who have been affected by tariffs you know people like farmers and big agricultural states saying you know what? Maybe we will take a short-term hit but like we believe in the long game. We believe this is going to work out.  Yeah. Well - and it is just another instance where all of the conventional thought and conventional political and economic thought about what would happen if you did this - it is thrown out the window. I am sure a year ago economists all across the country and world said if any U.S. president institutes this many tariffs it will throw the world into economic chaos. Not yet.   All right time for a break. Coming up we are going to talk about McDonald's employees across the country going on strike this week over what they say is a pervasive culture of sexual harassment in their workplaces. We will hear from two low-wage service employees. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. Here with two great guests today - Arnie Seipel NPR politics editor and Barrie Hardymon senior editor at NPR's Weekend Edition. How you all feeling?  Good Sam.  Earth Wind  Fire day you know?  Right? Earth Wind  Fire life.  Yes.  Now it is time for a segment that we call Long Distance where we call up somebody somewhere in the world and talk with them about the news. All the focus this week has been on Brett Kavanaugh and his Supreme Court nomination. So it was very easy this week to miss another story. And that was about McDonald's. Across the country this week McDonald's employees walked out of the job to protest what they say is a pervasive culture of sexual harassment in McDonald's stores. Barrie Arnie did you guys see this?  I did.  Yeah.  I was impressed and unsurprised that that culture existed.  Yeah. My first job was McDonald's. I started working there when I was in high school. And I had not thought about that job for a long time. But then when I saw that these strikes were happening I said oh yeah. Sounds right. Sounds right.  Right 'ecause we treat people in service industries terribly.  Yeah. Yeah. And so this strike actually comes after multiple cases of harassment were filed by McDonald's employees with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. This is the federal agency that examines these kinds of complaints. And so we put a call out this week asking for listeners or anyone who was working in McDonald's working in the food service industry to see what it is like for them. So we actually caught up with Katie  who lives in the Cleveland area. She is worked for years at McDonald's. We did not use her last name. She did not want to lose that job. But she told me about multiple instances of harassment that she is experienced that her colleagues experienced from co-workers and also from customers.  There was a group of three men probably in their early 40s. They came through. And you know they were staring at me like animals and making gross comments. And then they start to ask me how old I was. And I was 17. And I told them that. And then they asked me what time I got off work. They said they would be waiting for me around in the parking lot. And I was terrified. I ended up calling my mom to come pick me up because it was I think 11 at night. And I had school the next day.  And that was just one story that she told me. She had countless incidences of young people who were underage being harassed by co-workers by customers. And it is just like ongoing. These kinds of experiences they happen at more places than just McDonald's. We called up Ashley Manalo  from Tucson Ariz. She has worked in the food industry for years. Right now she has a job at the Dutch Eatery  Refuge in Tucson. And she told me what work in the service industry looks like for her. Hey Ashley. You there?  Yes I am here.  How are you?  I am well thanks. How are you?  I am good. I am good. Glad to talk with you. You are in Tucson.  I am in Tucson yes.  So what do you do out there in Tucson?  So I am a bartender waitress. I have been doing that for about 17 years in Tucson.  OK. Have you ever experienced sexual harassment at work this workplace or other workplaces?  Yeah I mean more times than I can even count to be honest. It happens frequently. So - .  Yeah. What is the most common type of occurrence of this harassment?  It really - you know for the most part it is things like touching putting your hands on - you know around someone's waist you know maybe - or around their shoulder their - and more often than not I - if that is all it is if it is a touch I almost never say anything. But there was a particular instance I had - I did have a guy try and kiss me or you know he grabbed me and kissed me on the lips and pulled me in. And I pushed him away. And I - this is pretty early in my serving career. I was pretty then early 20s or so. And I just - oh ha ha ha you are so funny. That is gross. Do not do that. Kind of just played it off like it was not a big deal. And then I went in the back and I was just like - just like retching. It was just so gross.  Oh man. That is got to be rough. That is got to be rough. How do you feel...  I mean...  ...In the moment after a thing like that happens? Because it seemed as if you are saying that there is a ton of stuff that you just have to let slide to keep doing your job.  Yeah. Yeah there is. It just made me feel gross. Like - you know because that is not - in my real life I would never let anyone get away with that. But sometimes it is just not worth - especially when I am trying to make some money off these people.  Yeah.  You know and I am depending on them leaving me a nice tip. And then I hate to say this too but the higher that check goes you are - the more you are kind of willing to put up with because you do not want to lose out on that money.  But it is not OK. It is not OK you know? Yeah.  No but like - but it is not OK. But it is sad because I sit here and I try and justify it. You know I can hear myself justifying it to you. But it is not really justifiable. Like...  Yeah. Have you ever had a situation where you left the job because of harassment?  No I have never actually left a job because of the harassment.  Why not?  Well I mean I do not know because I - well I would never just leave a job without having something else lined up first to leave for sure.  Yeah.  I - you know I have got two kids. I just cannot be without the money.  Yeah. Yeah. So this week across the country employees of McDonald's stores went on strike over what they claim is this pervasive culture of sexual harassment at McDonald's across the country. Do you think things like that will change anything?  I do not know. To be completely honest like I am all about everyone speaking their minds and I think everyone should speak their mind. But you know a mass protest like that walking out of your business - I do not always know that that is really the way to make permanent and progressive changes.  And so what do you think needs to happen for the kind of culture that you work in this culture of kind of just repetitive pervasive harassment? What needs to change to make that stop in your mind?  Well there is an argument to be made. And a lot of people argue that if they got rid of tipping culture in general it would help get rid of sexual harassment.  Why?  Personally I - well because then maybe you know they will not feel as - they will not feel like they have to put up with sexual harassment in order to make their money.  Oh.  Personally I do not think that is the case at all. I like my tips. I like tipping culture. It is a great way for people to make money in a flexible job environment. And how do we change it? I mean I know what I do is I speak up more. And I say to people like hey we can be cool but we can be cool without you touching me that way.  Yeah.  And I do not really make a big deal about it. I just - I say that and continue on with my day. And usually that is that. Once I have said that people are like all right all right. You know what I mean?  Yeah. A thing that I hear about it a lot in some of the trainings that happen in jobs where people rely on tips - you know they will say well you should smile you should be extra nice you should do this you should do that to get that tip. Is there a certain push from the managers to kind of enable this climate...  Well...  ...Where you are kind of harassed?  Yeah. I mean I would be lying if I have not said - I mean I have been through corporate training some national chains some local chains. And almost all of them when they are talking about ways to increase tips - if you can get a shoulder touch in that can increase your tip 10 percent and blah blah blah blah blah. So yeah I mean that is definitely in training syllabuses...  Wow.  ...In restaurants across the country.  Yeah. Last question - there are going to be people hearing this conversation who go to restaurants and bars where they will interact with servers like yourself. What do you want those customers to know before they go to their next restaurant and interact with someone who is relying on them for a tip?  We are there to provide a service but we are not anybody's servant. Your waitress is somebody's mother sister brother. They just want to be treated with respect. And we will happily bring you your dishes and make your meal as wonderful as it can possibly be. And the more respect you treat us the better dining experience you are going to have.  I appreciate that. Hey well Ashley thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate it.  Thanks Sam. It was super nice to talk to you.  Thanks again to Ashley for sharing her story. And wow she goes through a lot.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You know she has such a great exuberant personality you know? And this idea of like - you know that this has to be part of her life is so - I mean the combination of being a woman in the world and then a woman in the service industry is just so toxic to - you know to certain kinds of men.  And I am so glad we are paying attention to this story 'ecause we have been talking about highly visible men men in major positions of power. But there are men in positions of everyday power. And I am sorry. I am going to go to Oprah for a second...  Oh.  ...Because...  Do it.  ...The Oprah MeToo speech at the Golden Globes - I think the power of that speech was that she was standing up in front of Hollywood while their industry was being upended in the wake of Harvey Weinstein. And she is saying it is domestic workers it is hospital workers. And so often those stories just get overlooked.  Well then it is just like the kinds of conversations that women have at various levels of employment. You have white-collar employees talking about things like advancement in the job when they discuss MeToo or equal pay. But for service workers they are still talking about just being safe.  Yeah.  Yeah.  They just do not to...  Yeah.  Baseline.  ...Get murdered. Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah. I used to be a cocktail waitress. And I - you know one thing that I look back on is that a lot of the harassment of that job which was steady and ongoing was baked in. I used to cocktail at this bar. And the outfits were made so that if you were to crouch down at the table it would be - you would be in a situation where much of you was showing that would not normally be showing on the job. It was baked in. That was the uniform they gave me. It was a miniskirt that would have been better as a turtleneck you know?  Oy.  And once again there is the tipping culture.  Right.  Which is a huge part of this.  Right.  And it was really interesting to hear the caller say that you know she likes the tipping culture. And there is a huge debate over whether or not that is a good thing or a bad thing for service workers. But what it should be about...  Is service.  ...Is how they do their job.  Yeah.  Yeah. yeah.  It is service and humanity.  Right.  And those things are sort of the same. And you should receive that humanity in return.  To our podcast listeners we have another MeToo conversation in your podcast feed right now. Our latest Tuesday episode the episode right before this one - it is all about the MeToo movement and sports. I talked with Bridie Farrell. She is a former speed skater. And she tells me all about how she came forward with her story of sexual abuse by a man who she thought was a mentor and also a skating idol.   All right we are going to lighten the mood in just a bit with my favorite game Who Said That. But first a friend of mine who goes by Tom  will take things away.  All right it is called in a minute. Is that what is - is that what it is called? It is BEEN A MINUTE. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE with Sam who? Sam Sanders. OK. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE WITH SAM SANDERS. We will be right back.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests today - Arnie Seipel editor at NPR Politics and Barrie Hardymon senior editor at NPR's Weekend Edition. Thank you both for hanging today.  You are so...  Thank you Sam.  ...Welcome.  You all it is time for my favorite game Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  The game - it is quite simple. I share a quote from the week. You all have to guess who said that or get the story it refers to or get a key word or get close or just wait until I give you enough clues to figure it out. I am not a stickler.  Thank you Sam.  Yeah.  Good because I am - I have never been good at this game.  .  So Arnie you are already in the lead.  Fun thing about this game - it does not matter if you are good or not because the winner gets absolutely nothing.  Nice.  You guys ready for the first quote?  Yes.  Yeah.  You can tell me who said it. You can tell me what I am - just get close. It is - ready? - quote even though they are identified as male characters and possess many human traits...  Yes.  ...And characteristics as most Sesame Street Muppets do they remain puppets and do not have a sexual orientation.  Ernie and Bert.   Sesame Street workshop.  Yes. Yes. So Barrie got it more technically correct. Arnie got the keywords first.  Oh my God you should see Arnie's face. I...  .  That is super sad. We both got it right. We were building on each other's correctitude .  Yeah. There was a mind melt here in D.C.  Yeah.  I am going to give you both half a point.  Thank you. Why do not we both get three quarters?  Why do not we each get a point?  We cannot we each get a point?  You each get a point. Fine you each get a point.  Come on. Come on.  Come on.  So this quote comes from Sesame Workshop. This is the company that makes Sesame Street the iconic children's puppet show. They were responding to new speculation over whether two Sesame Street characters who happened to live together Bert and Ernie - speculation over whether or not they are gay. This all came about because Mark Saltzman who wrote a bunch of episodes for the show for more than 13 years - in a recent interview he said that when he wrote for the characters he thought of Bert and Ernie as gay. That led to all of the Internet getting into fights over whether these two puppets are gay. And it was finally Sesame Workshop who makes the show - was like they are asexual.  They are puppets.  This debate keeps happening.  I know.  Remember when the Supreme Court legalized gay marriage - the cover of The New Yorker?  Yes. It was Bert and Ernie.  Oh was it Bert and Ernie?  It was Bert and Ernie with their...  Which still...  ...Head on their shoulders watching the ruling.  Oh my God I just got chills thinking of that cover again.  Can I just tell you how to me at least...  Yeah.  ...This Sesame Workshop statement feels so hypocritical?  Oh interesting.  Because they are sitting here saying well Bert and Ernie do not have a sexual orientation. Meanwhile you got Kermit and Miss Piggy making out onscreen...  Yeah.  ...Going from break-ups to make-ups every other episode.  Right.  They are clearly sexual. They are clearly getting it in.  Also Lady Elaine Fairchilde is clearly a gay icon. I mean...   I am like - I just cannot - why could - why did they - I mean I do not mean to be do not ask do not tell about it. But why do we have to address it? Like why could not they just have been...  I just do not want to see it. Is that what you are saying Barrie?  Like we did not need to have a statement at all you know?  Yeah. Yeah.  Yeah. And there is so much background here. I mean there is the person who is writing the character saying this. At the same time originally they were based off of Jim Henson and his best friend...  Right.  ...Which was a platonic relationship.  Do we know about their relationship?  Oh well that is a good point.  As far as we know it was platonic.  Yeah. Yeah. It just seems to me like could not we allow it to be roommates for one person and longtime partner for another? Like could not it be what you want it to be?  That is kind of the point of Sesame Street right?  Is not that kind of the point of stories? You get to imagine what you want.  Yes. Yes. Also Bert Ernie if you are listening I am with you whatever the case.  You be you.  That is right. This game is tied one all. Ready for the next quote?  Yes.  We are actually going to play the tape of this one...  Oh good.  ...So you can hear who said it.   Thank you. But it is an honor just to be Asian.  It is an honor just to be Asian. Who said that?  Was that Sandra Oh?   It was.  Yeah from the Emmys.  Yeah way to go Arnie.  Yeah.  So the iconic actress Sandra Oh - she said that in a skit at this week's Emmys. It was an entire skit full of songs and such mocking Hollywood's self-congratulatory attitude towards diversity. So they were making fun of the way that Hollywood pats itself on the back for doing these big grand gestures towards diversity while actually a lot of things do not change. So in spite of this skit and all this diversity talk and besides the awards having the most diverse list of nominees in history the ratings were down to just over 10 million viewers and most of the winners were still white.  Yep.  Yeah. It was like they were trying to be self-aware but they