 This is FRESH AIR. The release of Oliver Stone's new film Snowden coincides with a campaign by human rights groups for a presidential pardon of Edward Snowden. Yesterday all the members of the House intelligence committee signed a letter to President Obama asking him not to pardon the exiled former NSA contractor who stole classified documents and exposed a widespread secret surveillance program. Oliver Stone sees Snowden as a hero. Many people see him as a traitor. In Stone's biopic Snowden is portrayed by Joseph GordonLevitt. Film critic David Edelstein has this review.  Oliver Stone the director of the new film Snowden regards Edward Snowden as a heroic whistleblower. For him it is not even a close call. The Snowden he presents is the same man we saw in Laura Poitras' Oscarwinning documentary Citizenfour the patriot who could not abide his government's malpractice and upended his life by turning over tens of thousands of classified documents to Poitras and the journalist Glenn Greenwald. What they revealed was an immense multitentacled and unchecked surveillance machine. Poitras and Greenwald are actually major characters in Stone's movie played with uncanny accuracy by Melissa Leo and Zachary Quinto. The film opens with their tense first meeting with Snowden in a deluxe but spooky Hong Kong hotel. As Snowden played by Joseph GordonLevitt talks to Poitras' camera the movie flashes back to his military training which was aborted by stress fractures in his legs his CIA education his romance with a lefty yoga teacher played by Shailene Woodley and his growing dismay over the National Security Agency's unchecked powers. It is a textbook political conversion narrative not unlike Stone's Born On The Fourth Of July or Wall Street. The Stone who made Snowden is not the gonzo conspiracy theorist of the film JFK which was wildly entertaining but nuts. His work here is relatively sober like his protagonist. The Snowden we meet is a wonk a genius at coding who goes to Geneva to work on cyber defense. It is there he learns from an effusive NSA agent Gabriel Sol played by Ben Schnetzer that his government surveillance program is quite a bit broader than he thought.    What I will be providing you and the fine gentlemen of the Secret Service is a list of every threat made about the president since February 3 and a profile of every threatmaker.   And these are like existing targets?   Ninetynine percent are going to come from the bulk collection program so Upstream a PRISM.   PRISM?   You have got a little Snow White in you which makes me feel like the witch bringing you a poison apple. Here exhibit A Oakland resident Justin Pinski  posted on a message board Romania has a storied history of executing their leaders. Could not they do us a solid and take out Bush?   How is this all possible?   Key word selectors  attack take out Bush. So think of it as a Google search except instead of searching only what people make public we are also looking at everything they do not so emails chats SMS whatever.   Yeah but which people?   The whole kingdom Snow White.  Not long after that scene Snowden wants to get some leverage over a Pakistani banker with no ties to terrorism so Sol fishes around and calls up an image of the man's sister live in her bedroom stripping off her religious garb down to her underwear. When Snowden gets home he goes to bed with his girlfriend and then springs up and covers the camera on his computer. The funny thing about the movie is that it does not acknowledge there are terrorists and that the government's surveillance equipment could actually be used to protect Americans. We only see agents blackmailing foreign officials to protect the interests of American corporations and using drones to wipe out unlucky families. The movie says President Bush was bad and Obama is worse and suggests that there should not be cameras on anyone. Now you can share Stone's esteem for Snowden and still think the film would be better drama as opposed to melodrama if the advocates of broad surveillance had some stature. Snowden's CIA mentor played by Rhys Ifans is the glibbest kind of fop so sanguine about the constitutional integrity of the secret FISA Court that he comes across as simpleminded. And Stone is vague about Snowden's own politics which have been consistent. He did not come over to his lefty girlfriend's side as the film implies. He was always a libertarian. The real Snowden is often described as having the effect of a robot. But GordonLevitt is puppydoglikeable throughout. As a melodrama Snowden does work well. The soundtrack teems with humming wires and ghostly modem squeals. In one scene Stone gets expressionistic. An image of the planet crackling with electricity transforms into Snowden's eyeball. When he falls to the floor with an epileptic seizure it is as if the surveillance state has crossed the bloodbrain barrier. When I got home I put duct tape over my computer.  David Edelstein is film critic for New York Magazine. Monday on sts will be Brett and Rennie Sparks the husband and wife music duo known as The Handsome Family. They are best known for writing and performing the moody theme music for season one of True Detective.    From the dusty mesa her looming shadow grows.  We will talk about The Handsome Family's new album and the desert geography and mood disorders that have contributed to their sound. I hope you will join us.    She twines her spines up slowly towards the boiling sun. And when I touched her skin my fingers ran with blood.  FRESH AIR's executive producer is Danny Miller. Roberta Shorrock is our senior producer. Our technical director and engineer is Audrey Bentham. Our associate producer for online media is Molly SeavyNesper. Therese Madden directed today's show. I am Terry Gross. 