Domonique I started to be honest with myself I guess more than I had been before and accept that youre just a football player. Youre not this deity that they built you up to be in high school and college. This isDeath Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Domonique Foxworth used to play in the NFL. Defense for the Baltimore Ravens the Atlanta Falcons and the Denver Broncos. He was also president of the NFL players union for two years. When we spoke he was ending the summer in Baltimore the city where he grew up...before starting his second year at Harvard Business School. I was in New York but weve been in the same place before. I was at the 2004 Gator Bowl in Jacksonville Florida. And I was rooting for West Virginia. Sorry about that. Yeah. Do you remember the score? I know we had forty-something and I believe you guys were in the single digits or maybe like the teens? Thats right no. 41-7. Yeah it was a good game. No it wasnt. By the end of that game the guy sitting right behind me in the stadium puked on his feet. It was not a great day to be a football fan. But I am a fan. I get why football matters at least where I grew up. West Virginia is a poor state. We didnt have any major professional sports. So when youre standing in a stadium watching your state win and know its being beamed across the country -- its a surge of collective pride that I havent felt anywhere else. But football is hard for me to watch nowat a time when the NFL admits in court that it estimates one in three retired players will face long-term neurological problems. Or when the league fails to harshly punish a player after decking a woman in the face -- until a video on a gossip site forces its hand. And Im just a spectator. Imagine what its like for other football players men whove dedicated their entire childhoods and early adult lives to this sport. Like I knew that this wasnt right. Domonique retired from the NFL in 2012. The sport made him a millionaire. But as president of the players union he also negotiated with the team owners and saw close-up their cost benefit calculations about the safety of his and his teammates brains. I dont want to paint all the owners with a broad brush because Ive developed some relationships with some who I dont think theyre like assholes to put it that way. But I think a lot of them are honestly. It made it hard to love the game he started playing when he was six. I remember very clearly in the apartment where we were living in sitting down with my dad and he asked me what I wanted to be when I grow up. And I told him professional football player. And he proceeded to say okay you should set little goals between now and when you get there and you should do something to work towards it every day no matter how big or how small. And that night I actually did sit-ups because I was like alright Im going to get strong enough right now to get in the NFL. So its good old six-year-old logic I did sit-ups until I probably got to 300 or so and I remember probably for the first time since I was a baby not being able to control my bowels. Because I was so dehydrated. I threw up and had some other stomach issues. So I remember my dad saying well you cant do it all in one day. Is it true that your parents have never missed a football game of yours? That is absolutely true. I had one or both at every single game my entire life. So it was This was pee-wee league junior high high school college NFL all over the country. One of your parents is in the stands. Yup. I remember when I was a kid not knowing that I had good parents until after a practice in high school my parents were late picking me up from practice one time. I was like really upset. Like what the hell? Why am I still here 30 minutes after practice is over? And all these other kids are like yeah I wait here every day for an hour. Who knows when my moms gonna show up? That was the first time they were like not there for me. Exactly when I needed them. The first time I looked around at other people who were just like me and saw that they didnt have that. When you get older in high school and youre thinking about college and college ball and the NFL you start to realize like not everyone who says they want to be an NFL player when theyre a six-year-old boy gets to be an NFL player did you question it? Or did you always kind of know? I dont think I ever had like real serious doubt. But so I graduated from high school half a year early and I started at the University of Maryland full-time class and full-on practice with the football team. And I was awful. So you go from being a dominant kind of player in little Baltimore to playing with men essentially. 21 20-year-old guys who have been in a fulla real training program and played against other men and the high school that I went to had a football team two seasons before I got there. So we didnt really have a developed much of a developed program. So we got there I was getting dominated on the field dominated in the classroom because I mean you know your senior year in high school youre just kind of chilling. So then I go there and they are not chilling. So I ended up pulling it all together and getting like a reasonable GPA but that first month or so on the field and in the classroom was miserable. And that was the first time when I was thinking well I dont know if this football thing is for me. What was life like in the dorms for you? I dont know its definitely a different experience than the average freshman because youre kind of a celebrity on campus. What was it like to be a celebrity on campus with women? There were some easy opportunities or lay-ups as I called them back then. And those easy opportunities Oh man lay-ups. Yeah. I was an 18-year-old guy. I mean forgive me. Are we gonna get a chance to get into conversations about the more mature Domonique Foxworth that has a better perception of masculinity than racking up numbers and stuff like that? Thats how I thought when I was 18. Forgive me. So when those opportunities presented themselves it was a specific type of person who was looking for you. And those are not the type of people youre necessarily looking for for a long-term relationship if that makes sense. Yeah. Its an extension of fandom. Yeah. So having fun and having these great sex stories from being a college athletebut attracting the type of woman like attracting my wife we went to the same school but we didnt date then because she was not enamored with the persona that I was and so I think it hurt us academically. Where our professors were harder on us because they thought we were dummies who were just there to play football and it definitely was difficult romantically. And I think it probably had a racial component also going to a predominantly white school. Its like well these women who wouldnt necessarily be interested in you as a long term relationship type person theyre like well this big kind of Mandingo strong black man lets experiment with that and see what this is all about. Obviously Were you aware of that at the time or looking back? I think I was aware of it at the time. Or I kind of used it to justify some of the things that I would do. So I wasnt like the best boyfriend or the best everything at the time and I think I would use things like that like well theyre just after me because they want to be close to the football guy or they think Im in great shape and they think Im this stereotypical oversexed black male. And they want to give that a try. But they dont want to actually take me seriously. So whatever. I dont care if I am with her and her friend and dont think much about it. So I think I was aware of it to the extent that it gave me cover you know. So playing on a winning college team is sort of like being a rockstar...along with the other 125 guys on the team. Youre growing up together learning how to deal with the celebrity together. But none of you are making any money. A moment Im really interested in is that transitional momentyou know University of Maryland was good when you were there but there were just a very few of you who went on to the NFL after you graduated. Mm-hm. Did you talk about that with your teammates the reality that when you play for the NCAA you do not get paid and just very few of you are looking forward to a massive payday. One of my best friends in life and hes still a really good friend of mine like it breaks my heart to talk about now because our friendship is up and down occasionally but were still pretty close. Im the godfather to his daughter. But I remember we kind of stopped talking for a year or two when I went to the NFL and he didnt. And I remember very clearly when we were training together to get ready for pro day which is when NFL scouts come and watch you work out at your school. So were training for the pro day. And I think it was evident that he was a great player but he had had injuries and it was evident that he was going to have a much harder time making it professionally than I was. And I said something to him to the effect of well I love you. As long as I make it like we both make it and whatever you need. And I guess maybe that was the wrong thing to say at the time. I thought maybe it was the right thing to say. But I remember very clearly him responding to me by saying that it was some quote from the bible that said a rich man has about as much chance to make it to heaven as a camel passing through the eye of a needle. It felt like he resented me or there was some jealousy. And it definitely hurt our relationship going forward and I dont know that weve ever like been the same. Well its interesting that it was financial. You get to realize this dream it was like I realize youre gonna get this big pay day. Yeah. The guy that I was just talking about had three knee surgeries and a shoulder surgery and reconstructed his index finger. So hes going to have to have a knee replacement he was told that in his 20s. Youre going to have to have a knee replacement by the time youre 40 and no ones covering that. That health care that he needs. And no ones making up for the fact that they guided him towards something major that he wasnt interested in he needed an easier major that was more flexible with his football schedule. These were all decisions that were pushed upon a seventeen-year-old kid that would benefit the institution more than it would benefit him. So it sounds like it was in college that you were politicized a certain way about the economics of sports and how players need to advocate for themselves. Oh yeah. None of us had any control or leverage in order to protect ourselves and then theres the whole idea that were students before athletes but if I had an exam during practice then I went to practice. And if I got 100 percent on my chemistry exam no one is going to receive any benefit including me. So the motivation is there for me to do well to get an interception on Saturday. That will benefit me. It will benefit the athletic director. It will benefit the coach the university the president the alumni the students. I take issue with people pretending that the benefits that are afforded the university and all the people involved are not a result of the sacrifices of the players. Coming up Domonique Foxworth explains why it got hard to play football when he finally started feeling like a grown man. Ive been hearing from more of you about funerals that changed your life. And a lot of your memories are about that clumsiness when a loss first hits. About not knowing how to fit it in alongside the mundane tasks of everyday life. Like the question of figuring out what to wear. Marta from Chicago sent in her memories of her boyfriends funeral three years ago. He died suddenly when she was in her 20s from an enlarged heart he didnt know about. I wore this completely ridiculous dress it had these huge yellow poppy flowers all over it but it was his favorite dress that I wore so of course I wore it to his funeral. Felicia Kazer in Boston had the same question. When she lost her first pregnancy at 8 and a half months...she didnt know how to begin mourning. They decided to have a funeral for her daughter and she wrote I remember struggling to pick out an outfit to wear.  Having just given birth my body was still too big to fit into my regular clothes but wearing maternity clothes felt depressing and wrong.I chose a blue maternity dress that I was borrowing from a friend. On the next episode...finding out your father has a mysterious illness.that people dont full understand but know is deadly. I just remember waking up that next morning taking a shower and having that moment in the shower of like oh wait this is real. This horrible thing thats gonna change your life forever is actually true and is actually happening. and I remember very clearly being in the shower that next morning and being like my dads dying. And I dont know why. Or how. Whitney Joiner remembers her father and his death from AIDS in Kentucky in the early 1990s. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When Domonique Foxworth was 25 years old hed played for the Denver Broncos for three years...but was sent to Atlanta to play for the Falcons. The year before the Falcons had lost 12 games and only won four. Domonique needed to WIN to get a new contract -- and the move South made him wonder if his career was over. I was living in a hotel for a little while and then on an air mattress. In the place I rented until my furniture got there. So I was really a lot of time to think when youre on an air mattress and you dont have a TV and youre on the depth chart and you think your careers coming to an end. Its a lot of time to think. And I think that was a really pivotal time in my life and had me thinking differently about who I was. Then it turns out I ended up having a great season and signed a major really big contract in Baltimore. Baltimore -- a return to the town where he grew up. And that big contract was worth 28 million dollars over four years. Then Domonique got injured. You had a shorter career than you could have had in the NFL because you tore your ACL in practice. Mm-hm. Right. Did you know that it was going to be over? No. I didnt know it was going to be over. When did you realize? I think when I went back the day Iso I recovered from the ACL and I went back to start practicing. And things werent right. That was an issue. But also things werent right for me psychologically. I just participated as the president in the negotiations for the collective bargaining the most recent collective bargaining agreement and I sat across the table from the owners of the teams and negotiated over the ten billion dollars the NFL was supposedly making. And days later I was on the practice field. Like sweating and listening to coaches yell and all that and thatat this point in my life I felt more comfortable at the table than I did on the field. It didnt feel likeI went from the top of the totem pole to the bottom. We get paid well because the talents that we have are so rare. But youre still the labor. So in some ways it felt like you werent being treated like a grown man. Youre being yelled at by coaches after sitting at the table. Now youre back on the field Yeah thats exactly what it felt like. And thats when I said I should apply to Harvard Business School. I always had business school in the back of my mind but I realized I could kind of playthe same way I realized I could play with the best in football I could play with the best intellectually and professionally. Thats interesting because you know you hear career-ending injury and you think it would be this very fraught moment for you. But it sounds like you had stored up some resentment by that point that you were ready for something else. Yeah thats exactly right. I mean its the really big difference is guys who are able to maintain the love for the game and I dont think Ive maintained that. I dont know if Ive joked with some of my friends saying that youre either really strong mentally or really weak mentally to be able to maintain that because you either dont see whats going on around you or have their strength to put that out of your mind. When I was a high school student obviously like to do anything I could for my team and the guysthats the last time I felt like I was really on a team. When you get to the NFLI had a great rookie season and I was playing well and they went and signed another player at my position for 30 million dollars and then I was not allowed to start. My first contract was not a ridiculous amount of money it was great money but it wasnt life-changing your grandkids will have these great opportunities kind of money. And thats why I wanted to come to the NFL. When I saw him sign this deal and him get this playing time over me I was very angry and I wanted to get that opportunity. As much as I wanted to win the Super Bowl or play really well I wanted to play well because I knew that if I could play well I could get this extension I could make this money and then my kids can go to private schools. And so it became more about that. Getting to the next transaction. Than it did about being the best player and supporting your team and sacrificing for your team in the way that it was in high school. Did you decide to retire or was it forced on you? I think I decided before it was forced on me. Like I knew that I was done before they knew I was done. And then eventually they said you know youre done. And I said I know. Thank you for the opportunity Im sorryI felt its crazy too because I felt this great amount of guilt that I wasnt able to fulfill my contract. I didnt feel enough guilt to give them the money back thats ridiculous. But I remember thinking when I was a rookie and I was a third-round pick on a rookie contract like they owe me more money. I started half the season played in a bunch of playoff games made big plays and played like a starter. And theyre playing me like a third round pick. And I feel like for my last contract it was the opposite direction. And I tried toin the same way I tried to rationalize some of my decisions in college I tried to rationalize it like well the league as a whole owed me this money or something like that. But it still didnt like alleviate the guilty that I felt. But again I wasnt that guilty. Because theyre not getting the check back. And are you where you are financially right now are your grand-kids set or do you need to make some money? Absolutely. Theyre set. Oh yeah. Its great. Love it. How does that affect your decision making about life when youre in your early 30s and dont need to worry about money? Its a weird thing. Because theresI think we all kind of say this say like well if I hit the lottery Im quitting my job. And Im gonna travel and be on a beach all the time and just hang out. And I can. But I donttheres this I did some reading recently about the hedonic treadmill which is what I feel like Im on. I had like a mini mini existential crisis while in business school because in my mind Im like I want to go to business schoolI want to become a billionaire. I want to take however many millions I have now and turn them into hundreds of millions. Or billions. And thats just like howwhy you go to Harvard Business School right? But when I got there I was surprised because thats not what they teach. They kind of teach this like more look for fulfillment. So there was a period there where I was like what would really fulfill me? Do I want to stay home be like a stay-at-home dad? And I came to realize that thats not what makes me happy. So like the one thing that I gotor the couple things that I got from football that I realized that I want to continue to have in my life is 1 relevance. And 2 competition. I remember when I sitting and being honest with myself like you really liked the attention didnt you? And its not something you want to say but its like yeah I kind of did. And I liked having the platform. But I still think that somewhere inside of me theres like I dont like not being the big man on campus. And I dont want to be that anymore. You mean you came of age at a time when your name was announced people would cheer. Its kind of ridiculous whatand I think I found when I was having this existential crisis what do I really want from my next job what do I want for the rest of my life the year between football and business school I would just study all day but Id be around the house and I was not very happy. This does not make me happy to not have a goal to strive towards. Tell me about your wife? Shes awesome. Shes crazy smart because shesprivate schools her whole life both of her parents are doctors and she had a different experience than me growing up. Which was very cool to have. I want our kids to have that perspective. But she went on to Harvard Law School and I remember thinking this is really great I dont want a stay-at-home wife thats not how I grew up. I thought thats what I wanted. So then we had kids. And thats not who she is. Shes a stay-at-home mom most of the time and that works for us. I thought I wanted this kind of power relationship where its two people who are just climbing to the top of everything and I think I probably thought that because I was in the NFL. I like feared that somebody was going to come and try and take advantage of me for my money. I wanted someone who also had earning power I think that was probably like subconsciously why I thought that. But thats not actually the person that would fit into my life. If I had this kind of alpha personality person around and we would clash a lot and whos going to stay home with the kids? That questions never asked with us its like she wants to I want her to. Do you still want to make a lot more money? I dont know honestly. I think its become more clear to me that the money is less important. I think the money I dont live a crazy life. Its most of my life is pretty normal. Ive the best thing about the money is having flexibility and more than that is for me at least kind of gives you that kind of prestige and relevance that Im looking for. People knowing that you have that money. Or people knowing that you have had success in the NFL is good. And I think part of the reason why I want to make more money is because I think that I dont like that people thinkor I assume that people make assumptions about me about what im able to afford or what Im able to do is only based on me being an athlete. Whether its true or false isnt important its just I want to get to the point where I feel comfortable saying the things Ive achieved financially and the things I can afford in my family is partially because of football but even more because of what Ive done afterwards if that makes sense. So its not actually about having the money or spending the money as it is about Respect Yeah respect and achievement. The achievement that comes with being able to be a success after football. Do you enjoy watching football now? Nope. No? Do you just not watch? Nah. I have a hard time watching injuries. Its difficult for me to watch guys get knocked unconscious. The strategy and the mental part of football I still love. Its a lot more like chess and these calculated decisions than these other sports are. And I love that about football and I love that about business and I love that about chess. But the play-by-play guys dont know what theyre talking about which is shocking considering theres so many ex-athletes and maybe they just simplify it for the sake of the common fan but I cant listen to them. Most of them. because they dont know what theyre talking about and it makes it hard for me to watch like no thats wrong. And I want to see the entire field so I can like really analyze the chess match. TV copy I cantthe angles that they have what I enjoy about football I cant see. Domonique Foxworth lives with his wife and two kids in Cambridge while he goes to Harvard Business School. And if youre curious -- even though Domonique retired a year before his 28-million dollar contract was up -- he still got paid most of that money -- because the big payouts were front-loaded with bonuses. Death Sex and Money is a production of WNYC.  The team includes Emily Botein James Ramsay Jessica Miller Chris Bannon and Jim Briggs. Thanks also this week to Stephen Dubner. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Were on Facebook.Im on twitter annasale. If you like the show subscribe on iTunes or your other favorite podcasting apps. And you can email us at deathsexmoney at wnyc -dot- org. Send story ideas...or let me know if Domonique changed anything about the way you see football. He says theres one thing he really misses about playing defense beating Peyton Manning. So pre-snap you see Peyton making all these hard counts...making fake audibles He spent a full 3 and a half minutes recounting to me one single play ...and Eds there to pick it off! Interception!!! Whoo!!! Outsmarting Peyton throughout the course of the game was so so great. Im Anna Sale. And this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.