 This is FRESH AIR. I am TV critic David Bianculli. The 2011 fall TV series has gotten off to a disappointing start but that is all about to change beginning this Sunday with a new documentary series the premiere of a new drama series and the season premiere of another drama series. All three are excellent invigorating and exceptionally intelligent. The documentary is the latest PBS multipart presentation by Ken Burns a three night examination of Prohibition which also is the program's title. Burns and his filmmaking partner Lynn Novick are not just riding the Boardwalk Empire train here  their story begins a full hundred years before Prohibition began in the 1920s. In fact they spend the entire first installment explaining how alcohol became a wedge issue and how religious conservatives woman suffragists and other groups all used it to gain political power. This background is fascinating not dry  and it touches on many subjects Burns has explored before. Prohibition opens with a quote by Mark Twain spends the bulk of its time during the Jazz Age and in a segment on the antialcohol movement of the 1840s even finds a link to slavery. And in the same segment narrator Peter Coyote finds time to reveal the origin of the term teetotaller.    The same reformers who were leading the crusade to abolish slavery saw drinking at the damage it did to individuals families and communities as no less sinful no less corrupting.  They called their movement Temperance. At first advocates preached mere moderation only ardent spirits like rum and whiskey were offlimits. But soon they began demanding total abstinence from all forms of alcohol insisting on capital T Total abstinence.  Prohibition is another impressive entry in the Ken Burns canon  and yes it is another history lesson with almost creepy parallels to today's headlines. These include illegal phone taps political gamesmanship and government programs branded as socialism. The three segments of Prohibition are shown Sunday Monday and Tuesday nights on PBS  with the opening night bumping right up against Boardwalk Empire on HBO. That is unfortunate. And even more unfortunate is that night one on Sunday also bumps up against the sixthseason return of Dexter on Showtime. That series stars Michael C. Hall as a bloodspatter expert for the Miami police department who is also a serial killer who tracks and kills other serial killers. It is one of my favorite shows on TV. It is also one that seems to get fans who are not caught up angry whenever I talk about it even though I am discussing plot points that happened more than a season before  so this time I will stay out of trouble. This time I will say only that season six begins very strongly and is highly recommended. But even though I will not reveal anything about the shows I have previewed I will predict the longtime future of this show just to get it on the record. I believe Dexter ultimately will end the same way I believe AMC's Breaking Bad will end with the protagonist ultimately uncovered and confronted by a loving relative. In Breaking Bad I predict it will be Walter White's DEA brotherinlaw Hank who closes in on him. In Dexter it will be Dexter's own sister Debra who is a cop in the same Miami police department. Both of those characters have strong investigative instincts and even stronger stubborn streaks  so both shows I am guessing are on the same narrative path. One new show premiering Sunday following Dexter on Showtime has a narrative path all its own one I have never seen before in a weekly TV series and that is saying something. It is called Homeland and stars Claire Danes as Carrie Matheson a CIA agent who becomes obsessed with Sgt. Nick Brody an American POW located and rescued after years of brutal captivity in Iraq. Nick played by Damian Lewis from Band of Brothers and NBC's Life is about to return home to a hero's welcome. But Carrie acting on a scrap of vague information suspects Nick may have been turned while held prisoner and is now a double agent for alQaida. Carrie takes her suspicions to one of her bosses  played by Mandy Patinkin in a very welcome return to TV  but he is not buying it.    You are suggesting that Abu Nazir planted intelligence on his own safe house just so we could recover Sgt. Brody?   I realize it sounds like a reach.   To say the least. Why not just drop him here at checkpoint make it look like he escaped. Why would you sacrifice 13 trained fighters?   See what is happening here he is play the long game. At least and know the suspect's the same.   Except you.   Yeah. Except me. And Sgt. Brody is due home from Germany tomorrow morning which gives us just under 22 hours.   To do what?   To authorize a surveillance package to tap his phones wire his house follow him where ever he goes.    would never sign off on that you know it.   Well of course he will not. That way he will be the poster boy for the war and they will just serve them up on a platter. That is why I am coming to you.   I am not going over his head. Not on a hunch.   But if I am right if he is a terrorist we need eyes and ears on Brody from the minute he steps off that plane.   Never happen.  If Carrie is right she is the real hero of this story. If not Nick's not only the victim  he is the hero too. For the first few episodes of Homeland our loyalties are split and we do not know which character to root for only that they are both played by incredibly likable and sympathetic performers. And watching Carrie pursue Brody without being certain of his true motives puts a fascinating new twist on an otherwise familiar tale. Eventually we will discover the truth and the series and the drama will continue from there. But for right now Homeland is offering something unique to television. And when you are talking about television that is a phrase you do not hear very often. Just in time thanks to Homeland and Dexter and Prohibition the 2011 TV season is looking up  and looking good.   You can join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter at nprfreshair. And you can download podcasts of our show at freshair.npr.org. For Terry Gross I am David Bianculli.   On the next er Wagner a leading apostle in the New Apostolic Reformation. Its missions include dominion taking leadership positions in government education business and the media and evangelizing cities by conducting spiritual warfare against demons. Several apostles affiliated with the movement helped organize or spoke at Rick Perry's prayer rally. Join us. 