So this show Death Sex  Money  are you familiar with it?  Im familiar with those three concepts.  Sure. Well basically  Together? Its a surprise to me. This isDeath Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale here this week with a special unscheduled podcast episodesurprise! In some ways the podcasting world is hugeand expansive. Im hearing from folks in India South Africa the UK. But in other ways it can feel very small. Like youre part of a special club. Here at Death Sex  Money Im still figuring out where we fit in all this. But if you were to draw a venn diagram of all the various podcasting scenes Scott Aukerman and Kulap Vilaysack would be very close to the center of it all. Kulap and her husband Scott Aukerman both have comedy podcasts on Earwolf. Scott co-founded that podcasting network and he hosts Comedy Bang! Bang!  as a podcast and now a television show too. Whatever the platform its a show that mocks the interview format. Yes his humor does make me a little self-conscious. Kulaps podcast is called Who Charted. Its a show with a lot of cracking wise about the weeks top charts in pop culture. Unlike her husband Kulap will go anywhere with her listeners. Into her neuroses her inner demons her disappointments in life. And shes not always playing for a joke and shes twice been a guest on a podcast called Mental Illness Happy Hour. Kulap is working on a film about her family now called Origin Story. Her parents were refugees from Laos and its about her strained relationship with her mother the father who raised her and the man Kulap later found out is her biological father. Shes raising money for it through an Indiegogo campaign that ends this week. So  Scott and Kulap are a little different. Scotts a little buttoned up and shell take her listeners anywhere. They told me they dont listen to each others podcasts. But theirs is a relationship thats endured. Theyve been together since 1999. When you met you were 18 Kulap and you were 28 Scott?  Oh boy. Try to make it sound less creepy. I can hear the judgement in your voice. Okay we met I used to hang out at the bus station the Hollywood bus station and just be looking for girls with a dream.  I was coming from Minnesota. I mean you had just moved to the west coast right?  Thats right. I was 18. And we met at a Mr. Show taping.  I was a writer for a television program HBOs Mr. Show. And Kulaps roommate knew one of the other writers so she came to a taping. And I met her.  Thats right. Butwe did not begin our love affair until a year later.  I thought datingyeahan 18-year-old would be untoward so I waited until she was 19.  He did dump me when I was 21 but we got back together when I was 22 23. How long did the break-up last?  I think about a year year and a half?  It was just about a year. Okay.  Yeah I dumped her.  Hard. Just threw my heart on ground and stomped on it that is exactly what happened.  Come on. We split it was a mutual thing.  No it wasnt.  I said I wanted to break up and  I disagreed. Because I was so young I didnt know what I was doing. And I really I realized that I became very dependent on him. By the time we got back together I thought it was over. And in that time I learned how to be more independent. What specifically when you think about that time what was different when you got back together that hadnt been a dynamic that you had before?  I think its important when you sit at the figurative table that you bringyou talk about different things. My interests were embarrassingly mainly him. So I didnt really have much to add.  Yeah I think when I first met Kulap she seemed like a really interesting person with different interests and thats what I really liked about her. And then slowly she seemed to just kind of assimilate into my life and kind of not want to do much more than whatever I was doing. I think I read when I was younger that the best relationships are ones where the two people have really interesting separate things going on and then when they meet at the end of the day they can talk about them and be excited to see each other. I think we broke up because that wasnt happening at the time. I was working and then I would come home and find that Kulap had broken into my apartment.  Look that happened one time. Dont make it a big deal.  Just so she could hang out. And smell my clothes. So you broke up but then youScott what pulled you back towards Kulap what why did you get back together?  Well like she said she really started developing her own interests. And becamejust sort of rediscovered her interesting self in a way. Even though we have podcasts theyre both very different. And Kulap is off doing hers and I dont really know what shes up to when shes off doing it and she doesnt know what I do with mine.  We dont listen to each others podcasts. So the reason I wanted to talk to you two together is you kind of intrigue me as a couple. Because Kulap I know a lot about your background and your family history and the story that you are putting together and exploring for your documentary. And Scott youre sort of everywhere but I know very little about your inner life. And your family history.  Thats us two in a nutshell. What are Scott and Kulap like?  Thats a statement by the way. That was not a question. So just because Im being silent doesnt mean Im evading it. Does it feel like that Scott are you less comfortable making your own narrative part of your public profile?  Well I think the shows that I do especially the TV show theres really no place for it in the TV show. Im playing a character on the TV show Im playing a fictionalized version of myself with a fictionalized wife and family. I think Im much more revelatory on the podcast that I do I think you get a better sense of my personality. So its not that I really evade it. Its just in most cases the art that Im doing this silly sketch TV show its not really based on the truth of my personality. Kulap why did you say that feels like it encapsulated some dynamic about you two?  It speaks a lot to how we enter a room. Scott is very warm but he is more reserved. Where I come in sort of like a yellow lab.  Thats not an Asian reference by the way.  It couldve been a black lab.  No I think Kulaps podcast shes very revealing of herself and thats why people really respond to it.  Ive also done other podcasts that go kind of more in-depth into the past and all of those things made me realize that I wanted to tell Origin Story. So lets talk about Origin Story. You were born in Washington D.C. but your family immigrated from Laos. You grew up in Minnesota. And yours was not a happy childhood. Is that how youd describe it?  Yeah I mean there were moments of happiness and fun but my parents were immigrants. What they went through was a lot to get to America. Laosthis was post-warand been very young in new country. My mom was 20 when she had me. So there was a lot of like cultural issues between my parents and I. I grew up in two sort of environments. At night it would be traditional Lao at school it would be American. There was always conflict. And you grew up working in your moms restaurant.  I sure did I was alets seeI was washing dishes around 7 8. And then I was a waitress at 11.  And she was also taking the money down to the bank. She would be charged with carrying the days deposit bag  Clearly a deposit bag.  Blocks away to the bank.  Oh yeah.  How old were you?  I was like 5 5 or 6. Skipping. Just skipping down Minneapolis not in the greatest part of town. I think to be fair I was probably 6 or 7.  Thats really different. And then you left as soon as you could right out of high school.  Couldnt have left faster. 18 like I graduated and by June July 5 I started school. And why did you want to go so far?  I was probably responsibly running away. I have two younger sisters I love them so much theyre nine and eleven years younger than me but I was in chargeI took care of them I was like a second mother and it was a lot of pressure on top of the fact that my mom and I did not get along. And she always threatened if you dont like my rules then leave. So I did. Why did you want to make a movie about your family at this point in your life?  Ive been thinking about some way to tell a story about my family. These like extremely loveable but flawed people. And I include myself in that description. And to be clear your story is you had a difficult relationship with your mom. Youve talked about some physical abuse some emotional abuse and you found out as a teenager that the man who you thought was your father is not in fact your biological father.  Thats right. I was 14. I always I just preferred my dad I thought I looked like my dad I got along better with my dad. And they got in another horrible fight I defended him she looked at me and said Why are you defending him hes not your real dad. And thats how I found out. And is this the first time youve really dug in and tried to establish your relationship with your biological father?  It is. I was t old that he didnt want anything to do with me for fear that I would want child support from him.  When I first met Kulap and she told me this story she said that if he ever showed up at the door shed slam it in his face and not ever talk to him. And then over the years I think trying to figure out what ever happened made her realize that wow some of the stuff I was told was not true.  Yeah my mom has a very fluid relationship with the truth. And as the years have gone by shes become less and less reliable. She has a gambling addiction. And there so the weird thing the truth weird. Im looking forI just need to see for myself. Scott as you watch Kulap go through this will you be in the film?  I mean if I survive the final edit I imagine Ill be in the film. Im not a huge part of the film other than talking about our experiences together.  I mean youre a huge presence in the film because this movie is also about family. And youre my family now. Has it come up in your marriage how youve worked through what your relationship is to the family you came from Kulap?  Has it come up between Scott and I? Yeah.  Oh sure. Like in what ways? Were you at all hesitant to commit to someone for a lifetime knowing that having people in your past with whom you had a frayed sense of trust?  Yeah absolutely even though maybe outwardly it seemed like thats all I wanted inwardly not having a great example of marriage having a lot of trust issues and more than anything having intimacy issues.  I think Kulap also developed a temperament wherein shes quick to anger from her mother. And very defensive about stuff so it took a while to break that down. And when we first started going out our communication skills were way different than they are now. I think Kulap has done a lot of work on herself over the years of figuring out how she feels about stuff and how to communicate.  Yeah. And not like Im the only problem person in our relationship. But I did realizequit making that facethat through therapy and various therapies that all I can do is sort of take care of my side. I did learn better communication skills. I think Im able more to drawto get you to talk more about your feelings. That is something that I have done Scott.  No comment.  Alright. Thats interesting. What sort of role do you have in your family?  I grew up in Orange County California. I have a pretty traditional family in the sense of a traditionally United States of America family suburban existence where I have a mother and a father who will have been married for 50 years next year. They have three children. And very stable church-goingyou know I grew up in that type of environment which is really interesting because I think when Kulap comes over and visits my family I think she can stand it way more than I can. Because its not something that shes really grown up in. So I think  Yeah but its like theres drama but its like  Its all emotional drama.  Yes but his family doesnt really raise voices like my family. You guys are at a  lower volume.  Yeah theres a lot of drama in my family but it is a very supportive family and its a couple people whove decided through think and thin to stay together. You know thats a decision these people made and its not something that they take lightly. When you decided to get married Scott was your parents marriage a model for you?  I think so. 10 years ago I made a documentary film about them a short documentaryfifteen minutesabout their marriage. And about how they met. I didnt really know that much about them. And it was really enlightening for me and then part of the film I talked to them about what they viewed marriage to be. You know it may not be something that makes them happy all the time but its something that they decided to do.  But youre happy all the time now.  Constantly happy. No I mean people do say to me whats the secret of marriage I say its be married to Kulap.  Aw youre so cute. The secret to being married might be marrying Kulapbut a secret of marriage is how much you start to feel like family. And if you think it can be hard to draw boundaries with your family  its even harder with in-laws. Figuring out that line of how to support your partner has he or she negotiates an adult relationship with their family can be tricky. Ive been thinking about this a lot  because my parents are about to be new in-laws. Im getting married! And nothing makes you think about the ways your families interact more like planning a wedding. More on that to come --- for sure. On the next episode we get back to the regular cycle with Domonique Foxworth  the former NFL player who used to lead the players' union. And at a time when a lot of football fans are feeling disappointed he talks about the ways his sport let him down. This is Death Sex  Money. Im Anna Sale. Scott Aukerman is supremely deadpan as a comedian. Always seems like hes nodding to the audience that yes hes not taking this too seriously either. But he got his start in showbusiness in the most earnest and comitted artistry there is. Musical theater.  I loved musical theater because I love singing. And that said I think it was a real challenge for me as an actor to be that emotionally bare. They say that when you sing a song in a musical its because the emotions are overflowing to the point where words are no longer enough. And you have to sing them! And so that was I think a challenge for me as an actor. I mean I only did it until I was 22 or so just because I had a love for the art form. You know and I did do certain roles like Curly in Oklahoma. And you know I think I sort of tried to break through those walls as actor. Especially physically for me because Im a very tall person. Ive always sort ofbeing tall and thin growing up you know Im not the most -- I dont flail my body around very comfortably. So to be on stage and just sort of have to do choreography and really just even open up my arms theyre so long and lanky I just growing up always felt very insecure about that. So I think that was one of my main challenges in musical theater. So its something you love but just kind of physically its not your natural inclination. But youre drawn to it.  Im really lucky because the job I have now I get to sit in chair for approximately three quarters of the show. So yeah I mean just being as tall as I am any time Im standing next to someone in a picture people just go Oh wow youre really tall. It makes you feel insecure about it like youre not normal. So. I always think that actors who are short have it better. You know like Tom Cruise has it really great because he just has this wiry compact frame that looks great in a picture. Meanwhile Im toweringIm like three Tom Cruises stacked on top of each other.  You act like youre a giant. Kulap you have talked about being ready to have a family.  Yes. Are you trying to start a family now?  We are.  Are you talking about having sex? Yeah. Im with you sister. When youve talked together about what kind of parents you want to be at a time when both of your careers are expanding at a very rapid clip how do you talk about how your family will work?  Theres a word that I love absentee.  Oh jeez.  If I could describe it. No you know Im trying to cram a lot of work into my life right now to sort of get a lot of it out of the way. That said I dont think either of us will stop working. But you can either really slow down or you could not slow down at all. And I respect the people who dont slow down. Everyone grew up with parents with career usually. Kids understand their parents need to work you dont need to be there holding their hand every second of the day I think.  I think what will change is there will be a desire to want to hold that hand as much as possible.  Sure. And is that how you think about motherhood Kulap? In similar terms?  How do I think about motherhood I think about it naturally in terms of my own upbringing and wanting to do better. I think aboutI dont know I think about Christmases thats what I think about. I think about firsts and stuff.  Thats only one day a year you got to think about more than that. Im struck that you mention Christmases because that says to me that youre thinking a lot about the rituals and a sort of stability in your family. And creating tradition and what that looks like for you two.  Thats absolutely right. For me this documentary Origin Story is sort of getting a handle on the past basically. To start a new future with Scott and hopefully our child. Like I very much want to put and end chapter to what my life has been to start anew.  I think Kulap has always been very worried about how shell act with our kids. And trying to make sure that she doesnt do what her mother did with her. I think Kulaps gonna be a great mom.  I still struggle with just wishing that the past was different. Like I stilleven after all the therapy after travelling miles I stillits still very difficult for me. What kind of relationship do you have with your mother now?  Its kind of non-existent. We havent spoken much since Iah we last spoke in June.  I think your mom follows what you do.  Literally. On Twitter Facebook and Instagram.  And she listens to your podcast.  Yup. She does. So she knows how you publicly how you tell the story of your growing up.  Yeah yeah. Now this very private thing is public now they know a little bit more of where Im coming from. And I was really nervous about that. Scott do you have a relationship with Kulaps parents?  I Know them. And weve got back to their house for holidays and for graduations. I think her mom is really funny and I like her mom as a person. If she were to want help I think we would really want to be there for her. But But the kind of help she wants right now is money. She wants a lifeline.  She wants an accountfrom our account straight into Mystic Lake casino. Thats what she wants. Its hard to have a relationship with that. Kulap Vilaysack and Scott Auckerman. Scotts podcast and IFC Show are both called Comedy Bang Bang. Kulaps podcast is Who Charted and the Indiegogo campaign for the documentary about her family Origin Story runs through September 19. Death Sex and Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Emily Botein James Ramsay Jessica Miller Chris Bannon and Jim Briggs. And thank you to the first ever Death Sex  Money intern Henry Molofsky we wish you the very best. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Were on Facebook. Like our page. Im on twitter annasale. If you like the show subscribe on iTunes or your favorite podcasting app. Im Anna Sale. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.