 Hey you all. This is Sam's Aunt Betty. This week on the show Bim Adewunmi and Nichole Perkins the co-hosts of the Slate podcast Thirst Aid Kit. All right. Let us start the show.   Hey you all. From NPR I am Sam Sanders. It is BEEN A MINUTE. Happy weekend to my listeners to my guests. I am so excited to have the two hosts of the podcast Thirst Aid Kit the Slate podcast all about pop culture and thirst. Nichole Bim hi. welcome.  Hi.  Hi.  How are you all?  Doing great.  OK.  I just had the best introduction from Aunt Betty...  Right?  .  ...Who can I just say got my name right on the first go...  Yes she did.  ...Which is more than many people appear to be able to do.   Well I am glad she got it right. And I am so glad that you both are here. We are going to talk more about your podcast in a bit. But first I want to talk about the song that we are hearing right now. You know who this is - Jennifer Lopez. She is having a week. She is having a year. You remember this song?  Absolutely.  Of course.    If you really want me babe. If you had my love and I gave you all my trust...  This was 1999.  Wow.  Her first big single If You Had My Love. And I am playing it this week because I want to celebrate her career 'ecause it just will not stop. It was announced this week that J-Lo will be co-headlining the halftime show at the 2020 Super Bowl with Shakira. And this is like 20 years into her career.  Yeah. I mean I respect her hustle. I remember when she was on In Living Color as one of the fly girls.  Oh yeah.  I respect the long game that she is playing.  Oh yeah. And she is also just having such a big year. So her movie Hustlers was a No. 1 film this year. She brought back that deep-cut green Versace dress and walked on the runway I think two weeks ago. It is like a Jenaissance  or something going on this year.  .  Do we feel this?  You know I have not seen Hustlers yet but I have seen the Instagram videos of her prepping for Hustlers.  .  That woman is 50 full years old - like half a century on God's Earth.   Good for her. Good for her.  Good for her. I will be watching the halftime show. I will say if you are going to have Shakira and J-Lo at that halftime show the special guest has to be Pitbull right?   You need Pitbull there.  The trinity.  Yes.  .    If you had my love and I gave you all my trust would you comfort me comfort me? Oh tell me baby.  OK. We are going to start the show as we always do every week asking my panelists to describe their week of news in only three words. But before we get to that we have to take some time to talk about the big news story of the week if not the year. You know where I am going - the impeachment investigation. This week Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi opened a formal impeachment inquiry into President Trump over his interactions with Ukraine. This story is so complex so fast-moving so many moving parts - a lot we still do not know. But I have a few thoughts and a few questions. Nichole Bim...  Yes.  ...I have this sinking feeling that no matter what happens with this inquiry with these proceedings no one will end up happy. Democrats will not be happy. The GOP will not be happy. The American public will not be happy no matter what happens. Do you all feel this way too?  I do think - I will say that inasmuch as no one will be happy some people I think will be happier than others whatever the outcome.  I do not know. I for one am not very excited about anything. I am very - I do not want to say neutral. I think the word is numb...  That is what it is.  ...To everything that is going on.  Yeah. I do wonder as someone trying to just consume this news and stay informed - and this is a question to you all too - how do you stay on top of this stuff without going crazy? How do you survive this season when the news is just hitting you so quickly? - because we have to stay informed. This is important stuff. But I as someone who is paid to stay up on this have been overwhelmed. What is you all's  strategy for just the news right now?  Ultimately I think I read the news and I do my best to close tabs.  .  I just - you know just like move myself from an online - like every-minute-online headspace into a kind of like you know the news will find me.  There you go.  So I do not really have to kind of like you know go for a skinny dip in the news. It is fine.  .  It will find me wherever. I could be on the highest mountain and a small child would run up and - going to be like hey Bim have you heard? And I will be like you know what? Thanks sonny I do know now.  .  Like you know...  Yeah.  So it is like I do not have to chase the news. Such is the era. You know that apparent curse may you live in interesting times? We are in interesting times. The stuff is finding us. So...  It is.  ...You know you just have to kind of figure out ways to kind of just switch off hence you know fanfic...   ...Or romance novels. Like I have a good...  Oh man.  ...Amount of - just a good amount of outlets.  Yeah. Yeah. My thing is just like this is the time where you should not be following this stuff on Twitter. It is like a fire hydrant if you go on there checking out impeachment Twitter. It just - it like - it is bananas and bonkers. I cannot do it. I cannot do it. Anyway enough impeachment - we have talked about that. Listeners if you want more go check out the NPR Politics Podcast. Now we are going to get into our three words. Nichole you are up first.  OK. So I think if I have done this correctly my three words are commanding irrational surprising.  That sounds good to me. Who are you talking about?  I am talking about Greta Thunberg.  OK climate woman - climate girl. I do not...  Yes our 16-year-old Swedish climate activist.  Yes. She is had a few weeks huh?  Yeah it is been a interesting last year for her. And the last few weeks some conservatives climate change deniers people like that are very upset that she is leading this discussion about climate change and what the government and our officials and our leadership should be doing.  Yeah and so she came to fame in Europe for about a year now. She was doing these strikes where she would encourage students to walk out of school to protest the lack of action on climate change. She really blew up doing that. And then this week she actually went to the U.N. after crossing the Atlantic in a sailboat. We actually have some audio of her speech at the U.N. this week.   People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction. And all you can talk about is the money and fairytales of eternal economic growth. How dare you.  She is a powerful speaker.  Absolutely.  I will give her that.  She has a commanding presence. And when she talks it is - she is getting across the urgency of this situation. And people lash out by trying to talk about her and her disorders and things like that.  And this lashing out has been really kind of incredible. So Fox News had to apologize this week after a pundit on their airwaves called her a mentally ill Swedish child who was being exploited by her parents. She has Asperger's. Also there are these other conspiracy theories saying that she is a crisis actor. It is really a lot. Bim does that kind of response to her surprise you?  It does not surprise me. I think it is actually remarkably in keeping with how we treat women who speak up. And I think back to just the ways in which we will stand and you know proclaim very firmly that a 16-year-old is an adult when are looking for example to try them in a court of law for a serious crime. And then without a shadow of a doubt this person is an adult. They can handle it. They knew responsibility. They can understand stuff. They are not babies blah blah blah. And then when somebody stands up and says hey guys it seems like we are killing the planet on which we live it is...  Then you are like oh she is a kid.  Right. She is a kid. And not only is she a kid she is a ridiculous kid. She is - you know she is not well and blah blah blah. And it is like you have to pick a struggle. Like which one is it? Do we believe 16-year-olds or do we not?  Yeah. I am also intrigued with the way the left has really glommed onto her. In some ways it seems as if millennials or Gen Xers or boomers are offloading the hard emotional labor to this child .  You know it is hard for people - I am a Gen Xer. And I think Greta's stance is also that it should be more on the government the government should do more than the individual. And I think Gen Xers have - we have grown up in this situation where we were told if we just recycle we will be OK.  Exactly.  You know so people are stuck in their ways. But they are also willing to do what they can.  You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two very special guests this weekend the hosts of the Slate podcast Thirst Aid Kit Bim Adewunmi and Nichole Perkins. So glad you all are here.  Thank you for having us.  Thank you.  Tell our listeners what your podcast is all about.  Well our podcast is about popular culture and specifically how popular culture intersects with desire. And we are kind of trying to explore what it is that elevates certain people into the position of you know a sex object or a you know...  A thirst object.  Yeah a thirst object someone onto whom millions of us project certain ideas. It is basically an anatomy of thirst. We are trying to figure stuff out.  .  Exactly. Exactly. All right Bim do you have three words?  Yes so my three words are inequity efforts and unprepared.  OK what are you talking about?  I am talking about the Emmys. It is a bit of a recurring problem the issue of diversity and inclusion et cetera.  Yeah.  And there are a few stages on which we can really see what that looks like in terms of the industry. And the Emmys this past weekend was exactly the arena for that.  Yeah. You know it seemed like this best of times worst of times situation because after the Emmys last Sunday there were three big wins for people of color. You know so Billy Porter won lead actor for a drama. He is on the show Pose. He is the first openly gay black man to win that award. Jharrel Jerome won for outstanding lead actor in the limited series of movie for his work on When They See Us. He is the first Afro-Latino to win that award.  Right.  And then One Day At A Time this Latinx sitcom won for editing as well. And so you see that and you are like oh that is great. But overall pound for pound the nominations for people of color in acting categories was actually down.  Yes. Yes. And it is one of those things where before you start applauding anything you really have to kind of take a step back and see exactly you know what are we saying when we say it was a big night for three individual people?  Yeah.  In the grand scheme of things that is paltry. That is a massive underrepresentation. And you know I - it is impossible to think about Billy's win without putting it next to RuPaul's win.  Oh so RuPaul won again for best reality show for RuPaul's Drag Race.  Yes.  So after Ru won this award he was asked backstage by a reporter from Essence magazine why all the people behind him as he got the award were white.   Well first of all the host of our show is black gay and a drag queen so check check and check. But we are pretty diverse. Yes there are lots of different types of people here. Is it important? Absolutely. You know hey...  It really spoke to I think the problem. You know there is the image of diversity. There is the face of it in someone like RuPaul. But you peel back that top layer in the writers' rooms in the C-suites you do not see that.  Right. And you know to talk about the idea of somebody speaking out loud using a platform Michelle Williams gave a speech when she won her Emmy talking about specifically the difference in pay between you know white people white men.  That was really powerful as well. I think we have audio of that too.   The next time a woman and especially a woman of color - because she stands to make 52 cents on the dollar compared to her white male counterpart...   ...Tells you what she needs in order to do her job listen to her. Believe her.  It is one of those things - you hear it and you say well that is really powerful. Thank you for that. But sometimes it seems in Hollywood especially the end of the action is just saying the words people of color or saying the words pay equity or saying the words women.  Right.  And that is the extent of the action.  Yeah. It is not dissimilar in that way to the whole Greta Thunberg thing where everyone's kind of like she is amazing applause. Anyway...  And that is it.  Yeah.  Exactly.  And this is a similar thing where it is kind of like women of color. We have said the - you know the magic words.  .  And that is great. But also...  Yeah.  ...It is kind of - and I - this is not me dissing Michelle...  No.  ...Obviously.  Yeah.  I am glad she used her platform for this. And it was a powerful speech and it is important. But I do think that it is incredibly important that people say these things. And then the more radical the more important step is to actually implement what these people are saying in their powerful speeches because a speech does not do that much.  All right. Well listeners coming up we are going to talk a bit more about climate change. The last few weeks have been full of discussion about how to address it. After the break we talk with an author who says one of the ways to fix it is to become a vegan - at least during the day. He will explain. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR. We will be right back.   We are back. You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders here with two guests the hosts of the Slate podcast Thirst Aid Kit Bim Adewunmi and Nichole Perkins. What is the last thing you all did this week to actively address climate change?  Well I recycle so I - and I have a addiction to - what do you guys call it? - soda pop. I do not know. I am from the South so I say cold drinks.  .  So I recycle all of my bottles things like that.  OK.  I try to limit my showers now.  OK.  And I make sure to turn off all the lights. I am very conservative about lights and things like that and whether the fan needs to be going and that kind of thing.  My father would approve of that. My father hates a light left on.  Yeah. I cannot stand it.  My dad too.  Right? It is a...  Yeah.  I think it is a big dad thing of just kind of like...  Oh yeah.  ...These lights are on but for whom? The mosquitoes? And it is like all right. Calm down.  Big dad energy yeah.  Right. Huge dad energy .  Yeah. I ask you all this question because there is so much discussion this week about what is the best way to address climate change. We have seen climate strikes across the country this week. And a big point of debate is this question of individual action or larger systemic action. I spoke recently with an author Jonathan Safran Foer who addresses this debate head on. So he made a name for himself as a fiction writer. You probably know his book Extremely Loud And Incredibly Close. But he is out with a new book this month. It is not fiction. It is very personal. It is called We Are The Weather Saving The Planet Begins At Breakfast. I talked with Jonathan about one of his suggestions to address the climate crisis as individuals. This suggestion is already getting a bunch of blowback. He is urging folks to be vegan for at least a part of their day. We spoke this week. Here's our chat.   Hey Sam. How are you?  I am good. How are you?  Good.  All right. What is the thesis and nut graph that the media is assigning to your book? When this book is mentioned the one thing they say that is the big takeaway for them is this guy is telling Americans to only eat meat and dairy and animal-based foods after sundown. Explain that.  I am not that guy. This is not like an opinion that I am sharing. It is not my perspective on things. The most comprehensive analysis of the science of the relationship between food and climate change was published at the end of last year. And what its authors concluded was that while people who live in certain undernourished parts of the world can afford to eat a little more meat and a little more dairy people who live in the United States the United Kingdom and Europe need to reduce meat consumption by 90 dairy by 60 in order to prevent what they called catastrophic irreversible climate catastrophe.  And so the how for you which is what is been getting the most attention in the book is - and correct me if this is wrong - but the first two meals should be vegan. And your last meal of the day dinner you know that late meal feel free to have some animal-based food. That is...  Yes.  That is your - OK.  That is my approach...  Yes.  ...To the science. Other people have other approaches. I actually met a guy earlier today who was talking to me about how he and his son like really love breakfast. And it is like the big meal...  Yeah.  ...Of the day for them. And...  Yeah.  ...They cook eggs and bacon. And I said OK. Is like lunch a big deal? He is like no no no. I just you know - it is like peanut butter jelly whatever. It is no big - I get a turkey sandwich. I said can you imagine having something different than a turkey? He said yeah. Sure no problem. So like different things are difficult in different ways for different people. Like...  Yeah.  ...I find it relatively easy to eat fewer animal products. I find it really hard to fly less.  Really?  There is certain people who would say like no problem. I will not you know - I...  Yeah.  ...Barely fly as it is but eating is hard for me.  Yeah.  So I think we have to be respectful of each other's limits.  Are you following the vegan 2 out of 3 meals rule yourself right now?  When I am at home it is easy...  Yeah.  ...Right? But when you find yourself out in the world different situations present different situations. So I will tell you about a moving experience that happened to me recently. I gave a reading. And at the end I - you know I do like a signing after the reading. And this young couple came up to me and they put their book in front of me. And on the title page which would normally be empty was a whole lot of their handwriting. And I said what is that? And they said this is our plan. We decided tonight that we need a plan. We are getting married in a month. And if we do not say what our plan is for working against climate change we just know ourselves - we are going to do what we have always done. So their plan was to eat vegetarian unless they were served meat at a friend's house to eat vegan two days a week that they were not going to have more than two kids. And they were not going to drive more than 1000 miles a year. So you know one can look at that and say that is really ambitious. One can look at that and say God you could really do more. What I looked at it and said was holy crap I do not have a plan. Like I wrote this damn book.  So this book is a plan .  Well this book was only a plan for my eating you know?  Yeah.  But I did not have a plan for flying. I did not have a plan for driving. I did not have a plan for how I was going to participate in the kinds of you know legislative and systemic changes that we know we need. The problem is the things that we have to do less of are things we like.  Yeah. We all know Mark Bittman celebrity chef writes for The New York Times about food and all kinds of things. He made a vegan before 6 p.m. argument before.  Yeah.  And he also reviewed your book. And he basically said I tried this before. It did not move the needle. And there is a quote in his review that I kind of want you to respond to if you are OK with it. He says the needle will not move an iota through the force of another member of the intelligentsia telling people the truth in a variety of ways convincing them of the veracity and holiness of his positions and waiting for the light bulb to go on. I think it raises this question like are you the right vessel for this message?  Well there is not going to be any single messenger that is going to be right. You know this is a global problem. America says let us wait for China to act. Someone like Mark Bittman might say let us wait for the government to force us to do something different. We have been waiting and it is not happening. And we need to take on some responsibility not because individuals can solve this problem - we cannot solve this problem alone - but because when we act and when we act collectively we are going to push corporations and legislators to behave differently. So I think it was probably the case that he could not move the needle. But the needle's been moving very dramatically in the last five years. You know Beyond the - Beyond Burger that company Beyond - their IPO was the most successful IPO of any company in America in the last 15 years. This stuff is happening really quickly.  I totally see your point that like the needle is moving more than it was when Bittman wrote what he wrote. But how do you feel about that other line he said when he said another member of the intelligentsia telling people the truth in a variety of ways? How did you grapple with who you are and your place in the world as you were writing this book?  More than 2 12 times as many people who make less than 30000 a year identify as vegetarian than people who make more than 75000 a year. People of color are disproportionately vegetarian. There is a Harvard Medical School study at the end of last year that found that it is 750 a year cheaper to eat a plant-based diet than a meat-based diet. And it is of course uncontroversially better for our health. So it is amazing how often affluent white guys say hey this is an argument for affluent white people when reality just does not bear that out at all. The people who are most involved in this who are most ready to change are not affluent white people. If only affluent white people would catch up with the rest of the country.  So some of this stuff is cultural. And you talked about this a bit in the book. Like meat is wrapped up in notions of food is wrapped up in notions of family and culture and identity. Part of me misses the idea and the memory of my father filling up the deep freezer in the laundry room with steaks after a slaughter you know? Like and so me not eating steak would mean saying goodbye to some of that memory. Have you talked with people or in your research or writing or even personally thought about what we lose spiritually as we give up meat? Sorry - that was a real woo-woo. But you get what I am saying.  I totally get what you are saying. And first of all no one's asking you to get rid of steak.  I know. I know. I know. I know .  What we are talking about is eating less. No no. It is really an important distinction. We are not saying like reverse your identity or give up your culture. We are saying eat less of a certain kind of food. When you talk about a spiritual connection I think that food can be a component of it. But food is not the source of it you know? Like the values that my grandmother gave me my dad my mom the values that your dad gave you - that really deep stuff that was transmitted did not depend on a specific food. And my guess is some of the values that your dad gave you also included like taking care of things you know and like making sure that you left things as you found them or better.  And like providing for people. Like his whole thing was like...  And providing for people.  ...We are all going to eat - yeah.  You know my hope my dream would be we get rid of factory farming and we move to the kind of farming your dad did. And you can still have your steak. You just have it like once a day maybe or once every couple days.   I really do not want my listeners to think I am eating rib-eyes every other meal.  It is not that.  You are definitely giving that impression.  I know.  .  Jonathan what have I done? What have I done? Oh my goodness. Yeah.  No we are in this together.  What are you going to do about your flying? You are still flying planes a lot. Are you thinking about tackling that?  So what I have decided is that in the coming year I will not fly for any vacations. And I have done a lot of that in the past. Every year I would...  Where are you going to go?  Take trains. There is a - you know I am lucky enough to live in Brooklyn. And there are many awesome places that you can reach by train. You go to Pennsylvania go to the Adirondacks go to upstate New York go to Montreal.  Montreal's magical.  Montreal's an amazing place. I have not been there in years. I would love to take my kids there.  Yeah.  And I would love for that conversation to be part of our - the way we are as a family. Like hey guys. Like we want other people to be as lucky as we have been. You know we can keep doing whatever we want as Americans. And a lot of people are going to suffer before we suffer. You know poor people suffer before rich people when it comes to climate change. And I want my kids to be aware of that.   Thanks again to Jonathan Safran Foer author of We Are The Weather Saving The Planet Begins At Breakfast. Back here in studio with my two panelists the hosts of the podcast Thirst Aid Kit Bim Adewunmi and Nichole Perkins - could you all ever see yourselves being vegan during daylight hours?  That is really hard.  That is - you are giving up butter.  See...  Yeah. I need butter.  I - you see...  .  I love the butter.  I love butter like it is a cousin. Like I am not going to let that go.   Yeah.  I do think that the modes of food production have changed so much with you know the growth of the Earth's population that some things need to be radically reconsidered before we can even presume to fix any of this mess.  Yeah - questions that will not be answered in this episode.   All right listeners. Time for a break. When we come back my favorite game Who Said That - BRB.   You are listening to It is BEEN A MINUTE from NPR the show where we catch up on the week that was. I am Sam Sanders your host here with two panelists this week - the hosts of the podcast Thirst Aid Kit Bim Adewunmi and Nichole Perkins - should also say Bim is also a producer for a little show you may have heard of This American Life.  That is right .  That must be - I mean I just always imagine that like table reads for that show are the most eccentric amazing things ever.  I am going to let you stay in that belief. I will not confirm or deny.   All right Bim Nichole - it is now time for my favorite game Who Said That.   Who had been saying that?  Who said that?  Who said that?  Neither of you have played this game before. And I love it when we get two newbies. I am so excited for this.  .  The game is very simple. I share a quote from the week. You all have to guess who said that or at least guess the story I am talking about. The winner at the end of this gets nothing but bragging rights.   All right.  You all ready?  Sure. Yes.  OK. Here's the first quote. We was catching them unlike Nelson Agholor.   Who said that?  I do not know his name. But he is the Philly...  Yes.  ...Philly Eagles fan.  Yes.   That is enough. We will give it to you.   This story was bananas you all.  I loved it.  I loved it too.   I - my heart was warm. See. That was a perfect break from the news.  Oh my God. So there was this good Samaritan named Hakim Law . He was a Philly resident who gained attention this week because he saved a woman and a baby trapped in a burning building. He literally caught them as they jumped out of a window to escape the fire. So after he caught them and carried them to safety he was asked by a local news crew about what he did. And when talking about catching the baby and the mother in his arms as they fled the burning building he compared his acts to that of Philadelphia Eagles wide receiver Nelson Agholor who in a game just days before dropped a critical pass in a recent loss to the Detroit Lions. So he basically said I can catch babies better than Nelson Agholor can catch a football.   My man just started throwing babies out the window. We was catching them unlike Agholor and his mishaps. I would like to put that out there.  I just love how we could not let that go. He would saved lives. And he was like...  .  ...By the way allow me to register my discontent...   ...With my local sports team - amazing amazing.  Yeah. Apparently this football player Nelson Agholor after he saw that clip - he took the high road and invited Hakim Law to an Eagles game.  Aw.  That is really nice.   They should put Hakim out there on the field have him catch some footballs now.  .  It could work.  Maybe that is what will happen. And Agholor's going to be like now you do it.   Now you show me...  Yeah.  ...How this is going to be done since you got something to say .  All right Nichole. You got one point.  Oh yay.   All right. Next quote. We have tape for this one.   Your mattress will monitor your nightmares. Your fridge will beep for more cheese. Your front door will sweep wide the moment you approach like some silent butler.  Who said that? Who was that?  That is the prime minister of the country I come from Boris Johnson.  .   Oh.  Yes. You got it Bim.  .  So this is Boris Johnson prime minister of the U.K. speaking in front of the U.N. this week. Apparently the speech was about technology and automation and the dangers of automation. And like - and the speech was long. I have watched whole chunks of it. And like I will say Bim it kind of reels you in before you know it. You are captivated. And you are like what am I watching? What am I hearing? What is this? But you cannot stop.  I promise you it wears off with time.   If you have been exposed to it it kind of wears off. It is like you are emerging from a dream. Like wait. What happened?   I love it. This game is tied.  All right.  Last quote for all the marbles. Guess what I am talking about - if not the person who said it. The quote is I opened a Pandora's Box and released a Frankenstein monster.  Oh I know.  Oh that is the man who created the labradoodle.  Yes.   .  You all were being too nice. Bim said I know it. And then you waited for Nichole to say it. Bim you could have won that.  I could have. But we are a team Sam.  Oh .  .  You see when...  OK.  ...One wins the other wins also as...  Look...  ...Well in addition.  .  ...At that. Look at that.  Teamwork dream work. I love it.  .  I love it. So you all got it right. That quote comes from Wally Conron. He is the creator of the labradoodle. He is the guy that bred dogs together to make what we know now as a cute fluffy well-behaved hypoallergenic labradoodle. He told this week the Australian Broadcasting Corporation that it was his life's regret for creating the labradoodle. What in the world? They are so cute.  Well he does go on and he says that people are cross-breeding all these different breeds that have all kind of health issues and something - you know whatever. Just let the dogs do what they do.  Yeah.  So he says that people have gone too far with the cross-breeding. He says that all of that increases these labradoodles' risk of congenital diseases which breaks my heart because you see these dogs they are like some of the cutest dogs around.  But like so many of the dog breeds that - because all dogs essentially are human experiments. Let us be very clear on that - to an extent.  .  Oh.  I am a dog person. I love dogs. And I always think to myself like you know what have we done to you? We have we done to you as a species? Like you see these animals and you think this animal did not ask for any of this.  So I know that you all believe the team of the two of you won together. But officially Nichole if you wanted to claim bragging rights you did win this edition of Who Said That.  Oh well thank you very much. I will you know treasure this championship belt of my mind .   You both can share the award together.  Thank you so much.  Thanks.  Of course of course. All right now it is time to end the show as we always do. Every Friday we ask our listeners to share with us the best things that have happened to them all week. We encourage folks to brag. They do. Let us listen.   Hi Sam. My name is Rawha Tasel  in Atlanta Ga. And the best part of my week is realizing I have not turned on my TV - not once. Have a great day. Talk to you later.  Hi Sam. This is Shari Lynn  from New Paltz N.Y. And the best thing that happened to me all week was watching my son get bar 