 This is FRESH AIR. I am Terry Gross. Now that students are returning to school you can expect the volume to get louder on controversies surrounding teacher tenure salaries the core curriculum testing and teacher competence. In the new book The Teacher Wars A History Of America's Most Embattled Profession my guest Dana Goldstein writes about how teaching became the most controversial profession in America and how teachers have both become resented and idealized. In a review of the book in The New York Times Alexander Nesarian described it as meticulously fair and disarmingly balanced. Although the book is largely a history it also draws on Goldstein's reporting on recent controversies surrounding teaching. She is reported on education for several years in such places as The Atlantic and The Daily Beast. She received a Spencer Fellowship in education journalism from Columbia University. Her father was a public school teacher. Dana Goldstein welcome to FRESH AIR. So the subtitle of your book is A History Of America's Most Embattled Profession and your book starts with the observation that public school teaching has become the most controversial profession in America. What are the most controversial parts of teaching now?  Well I have been covering education as a journalist since 2007. And one of the things I noticed especially after the recession hit in 2008 and coming into President Obama's administration was we were having a big conversation about inequality. And teaching was something that was discussed again and again as a potential fix  a fix for inequality. Something that could you know help poor children achieve like middleclass children and close these socioeconomic gaps that we are so concerned about as a nation. And I think because our expectations on teachers are so high we are constantly disappointed. And this is the crux of why it is controversial and embattled profession.  So what you are saying is teachers are expected to fix societies cultural and economic problems and that is a hard job?  Yes it is. And you know we have a relatively weak social safetynet outside our schools compared to other Western countries. And you know what surprised me and was so interesting about doing research on 200 years of teaching in America was that we have always had these high expectations. This idea that teachers have a role to play in fighting poverty and inequality has been with us since the early 19th century.  Let us go back to the 1800s and talk a little bit about how the teaching profession developed into what it is today. When I went to public schools in the late 1950s and the 1960s my teachers most of them were women. I had a few men but certainly my elementary school  I think there was one man teacher  but he was not there the whole time that I was in school. And in junior high mostly women high school more of a mix. And you go back to the 1820s I think all of this explains how teaching became a kind of lowpaid profession.  Yes.  Because it was women so you could get away with that?  Yes. So a lot of people are surprised to learn that back in 1800 90 percent of American teachers were actually male. And today we know that 76 percent of teachers are female. So how did this huge flip happen? The thunder dynamic that you experienced Terry and that most of us did. And the answer is that as school reformers began to realize in the 1820s that schooling should be compulsory that parents should be forced to send their kids to school and public education should be universal they had to come up with a way to do this basically in an affordable manner because raising taxes was just about as unpopular back then as it is now. So what we see as a sort of alliance between politicians and education reformers in the early 19th century to redefine teaching as a female profession. And they do this in a couple ways. First they argue that women are more moral in a Christian sense than men. And they depict men as sort of alcoholic intemperate sort of lashwielding horrible teachers who are abusive to children. And they make this argument that women can do a better job because they are more naturally suited to spend time with kids  almost on a biological level. And then there quite explicit about the fact that hey we can pay women about 50 percent as much and this is going to be a great thing for the taxpayer.  Yeah. Well in terms of this kind of women are more moral and more equipped to teach I want to quote something that you reprint in your book this is a statement by Horace Mann who founded the movement that kind of turned into the public school movement.  Yeah. The common schools movement.  And he was one of the people who thought that women were more suited by nature and temperament to teaching. And he writes  as a teacher of schools how divinely does she come her head encircled with a halo of heavenly light her feet sweetening the earth on which she treads. And the celestial radiance of her benigninity  benignity? I do not even know what that means  making vice begin its work of repentant through the very envy of the beauty of virtue. My goodness.   Wow. That is why women should teach? Because they have halos?  Yes. And all of these early school reformers were reading these romantic novels and you can see that in this sort of overwrought paragraph written by Horace Mann.  And Horace Mann is one of like the founders of the modern education movement. This was not just like a kook right?  No. He was not a kook although he had some kooky ideas. For example he believed in phrenology which was this strange pseudoscience that you could tell a child's sort of moral and intellectual nature by the bumps on their heads. And he used this to argue for education saying like oh we can take these children that are born corrupt and we can improve them with these angelic female teachers.  So Catharine Beecher was also one of the leaders of the women should be teacher's movement in the 1820s. And she thought that teaching was the one profession in which a woman could gain influence respectability and independence without quote venturing outside the prescribed boundaries of feminine modesty. On the other hand she was hardly a feminist. She opposed women's suffrage. Can you talk about that seemingly odd mix of beliefs?  Yeah. So she is a very interesting figure. She of course is the sister of Harriet Beecher Stowe the author of Uncle Tom's Cabin. And she is the daughter of Lyman Beecher who is a famous sort of fire and brimstone minister. And you know he had some conservative religious beliefs that Catharine was brought up with but they were also a family that was also interested in abolition and other social causes. What happens to her is that she is engaged to be married to a wonderful man in her early 20s and he dies very tragically in a shipwreck and drowns. And she has to figure out what she is going to do with her life. And what she comes to believe is that teaching is this alternative to marriage for young women like herself. It is a way to be socially useful. So she is looking for something she can do which will sort of satisfy a conservative impulse to be feminine and be womanly but she would like to have an influence on the larger world. And she does not want to have to get married to someone she does not love to do that.  So she really opens schools to women. She sends women out to frontier schools. Those are women that we see in all the westerns where like the school mom comes to town to civilize the men?  Yeah that is them. So she recruits these sort of wellbred East Coast Protestant girls and she wants to send them out into the frontier to open one room school houses. And she also expects them to teach Sunday school and to minister in a Christian sense to these children and it is very much a proto sort of Teach For America. She gives the girls a couple weeks of training over the summer and then she sends them out. And they live under very difficult conditions. They usually board with the families they usually share a room with a child and they have just candlelight there is no running water. It is a very difficult life.  So women are basically underpaid they are doing this in part because it is believed to be an almost like missionary calling.  Yes.  So you write teaching was understood less as a career than as a philanthropic vocation or a romantic calling. Susan B. Anthony is one of the people who objects to that. And she thinks women are being exploited as teachers. Can you talk about the conflict between Susan B. Anthony and Catharine Beecher?  Sure. So Susan B. Anthony becomes a teacher like Catharine Beecher in her early 20s and she is quite ambitious and she really loves teaching. And what happens to her is that she sees a 19yearold man promoted above her when she is in her late 20s to be the principal of the school where she is working. And the reason why is because it would be considered unthinkable that a woman would have men report to her. She is kind of stuck. She can only be a teacher she cannot ascend. And what she realizes is like this really is an unjust education system we have built. It is built on the idea that you have these lowpaid female teachers men are the principals and this is holding back women in terms of their ability to be breadwinners and it is also holding back students. So she starts traveling all across New York state organizing women to protest these conditions this fact that women can be paid less as teachers. And one of the arguments she is making is that in order for women to demand higher pay they have to be better educated. And women teachers should be educated at colleges at universities. This is really radical in the 1840s and 1850s when she is making this argument because colleges were generally closed to women at that time. And she meets Catharine Beecher and Catharine Beecher she just does not see the problem with this. I mean she has no problem with teaching being a profession in which women are prepared sort of in a segregated fashion to do this job. She does not see what Susan B. Anthony sees which is that women will never get respect and education itself will not get respect if teachers  women teachers  are paid less and educated separately from other professionals.  Does Susan B. Anthony win any victories?  She wins a few small victories. She convinces the New York State Teachers Association which was a sort of protounion  she convinces them to pass a resolution in opposition to genderbased pay  in opposition to the fact that women teachers earn less. But this does not really have any political ramifications at that time.  And she becomes  Susan B. Anthony becomes more of an activist for women's suffrage than for education reform?  Right. She really shifts into a suffrage activist after the Civil War.  So we have been talking about how historically teaching became a women's profession and therefore a lowpaid profession. In the AfricanAmerican community after the Civil War after the end of slavery what does teaching represent for working AfricanAmericans? Is it strictly a women's profession in the way it had been in white schools? 'ecause we are talking about an era where there is still segregation so certainly in the south there is black schools and there is white schools. So what did teaching represent?  Teaching represents everything to the AfricanAmerican community after the Civil War. It is the means by which the children and grandchildren of slaves are going to be able to better themselves. And the phrase that often use is to uplift the race. Teachers will uplift the race through their work. And because there was so much discrimination against AfricanAmericans in the broader job market you see that both AfricanAmerican men and women  the most educated blacks do want to teach. And it is a missionary job for them as well but it is much more genderneutral. And it really carries with it a huge significance for what we really today would think of as closing achievement gaps.  What is the legacy today of how teaching was a very important mission for AfricanAmericans and how it was genderneutral unlike historically white schools?  One of the wonderful surprises in researching this book was so much of today's education reform conversation is actually borrowed directly from the AfricanAmerican educational theorists who were writing as early as the Civil War about the power of education. These people  folks like Booker T. Washington W.E.B. Du Bois Anna Julia Cooper Charlotte Forten  these teachers  these educators truly believed that education could close socioeconomic gaps between blacks and whites. And they were holding black students to rigorous standards. What that meant differed from person to person. For W.E.B. Du Bois it was really a college preparation curriculum that he was interested in. We know that Booker T. Washington had some different ideas. He was interested in the moral education and one that was more vocational in nature. But regardless these different black educators really felt that the role of the teacher was to uplift poor children. And that is something that has truly stuck with us today.  If you are just joining us we are talking about teaching and how it became America's most embattled profession. My guest is Dana Goldstein the author of the new book The Teacher Wars. Let us take a short break then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Dana Goldstein. We are talking about her new book The Teacher Wars A History Of America's Most Embattled Profession. Let us talk a little bit about the history of teachers' unions. When do teachers first organize into a union?  So the teachers' union movement dates back to about 1897. And it is born in Chicago. And what we see at the time is 97 percent of Chicago teachers are female. And yet we have a reform community in the city of Chicago that is led by William Rainey Harper the president of the University of Chicago that is very concerned with bringing more male educators into the profession. So first in the early 19th century we had this push to make teaching a female profession. A hundred years later reformers are saying maybe this was not such a good idea. We have all these uneducated women teaching. They are not tough enough to do the job. We have 60student classrooms. Do women really have the starch? Do they have the guts necessary to deal with these big classrooms full of immigrant kids? And so what they decide to do is lower women teacher salaries in Chicago in order to attract more men and pay men more. And the female teachers organized. They launched the Chicago Teachers Federation and they say this is just simply not fair. We are not going to stand for this.  So teachers do not get the right to collective bargain until the 1960s. So what happened to the union that it became strong enough to get that?  Well publicsector unionization happened. And laws were passed that allowed collective bargaining in the public sector. So that was the really big thing.  So there is a dispute between the American Federation of Teachers  the big teachers' union  and a community of activists and parents in a predominantly AfricanAmerican neighborhood in Brooklyn called Ocean HillBrownsville. And that conflict actually sets the stage you write for a lot of conflicts that came after. So tell us the important points of that conflict that will help us understand some of the things happening today in education.  Sure. So Ocean HillBrownsville is a very segregated part of Central Brooklyn. It is a community that is over 95 percent black and Latino. And the teachers' union at the time knew that this was a pretty bad school. We see the kids in this particular district a number of schools in the district wandering the hallways. They are not necessarily in class. Most of the teachers in the school are very inexperienced one or two years in the classroom. And the parents are saying look this is not working for our kids. We had hoped that the schools would desegregate. We had hoped that our kids would be able to attend better schools would maybe be bussed out of the district to attend better schools. And then the New York City school board really did not allow that to happen at any large scale. So what we are going to do as parents as activists is we are going to take over this school. And they had support from the Ford Foundation financial and advocacy support  to do that. And the mayor of New York at the time John Lindsay ended up embracing this quoteunquote community control movement. And the movement really had a lot to do with black power which was gaining strength in the late '60s and early '70s and the idea that African Americans were asking to be in charge of their own institutions. And this was highly problematic for the teachers' union in New York City the United Federation of Teachers led at the time of course by Al Shanker who is such a famous and infamous figure. And twothirds of the teachers at the school were white and Jewish and the principal who came in  the AfricanAmerican principal  who was selected by the community he started firing people. And this led to the largest teacher strike in American history.  What did the teachers want compared to what the community members wanted?  The teachers wanted a few things. They wanted to be in charge of the curriculum of the schools. That was one big thing. They also wanted the right at the time to eject unruly or misbehaving students from the classroom. And this had actually been an issue back in the late 19th century. When the female teachers in Chicago first organized they also asked for this right. If a kid is misbehaving I want to toss that kid from my class so I can focus with the rest of the children on the lesson. And this is very controversial. Of course when you toss a child from class they are not learning anything anymore. And by the time the late 1960s rolls around black and Hispanic parents are saying why is it always our kids that are the ones that get thrown out? Maybe these white teachers do not have an effective discipline strategy with our children and if we are in charge of the school and we select the principal and we choose the teachers we can show them how to discipline our kids. So the parents are asking for something very different. The parents also want to focus more on basics in this particular community. They want a lot of effort made to really get the kids up to speed up to grade level in reading and math. And these are things that the teachers' union is not focused on. The teachers' union has other ideas about how to improve schools. They are pushing at the city level for preK which we know historically is a great idea. So they had ideas too but they were just a little bit different.  What do you think the legacy of this dispute is?  Yeah. So the teachers' union pretty much wins this fight. The experimenting community control ends after the strike. The mayor just becomes completely exhausted by the fact that the teachers are out of work the kids are missing school. It becomes a huge national scandal. So the teachers' unions win. And what happens in subsequent years is that they gain a huge political advantage. We see teachers having some pay raises in this time. Their pensions are quite generous. They are very effective at organizing politically especially within the Democratic Party and in urban politics. And we see a resentment building around this. Even though we know that things like higher teacher pay are sometimes associated with better outcomes for children we see the public and we see parents beginning to question if teachers' unions have kids interests at heart. And this is a political movement and a political question that continues to gather steam in the coming decades.  Dana Goldstein will be back in the second half of the show. Her new book is called The Teacher Wars A History Of America's Most Embattled Profession. I am Terry Gross and this is FRESH AIR.   I am Terry Gross back with journalist Dana Goldstein author of the new book The Teacher Wars A History Of America's Most Embattled Profession. The book traces the history of public school teaching in America and also reports on some of the controversies surrounding teaching today.  One of the most controversial issues in education today is the standards and accountability movement  the increase in the number of standardized tests that students have to take how teachers are evaluated based on the results of those tests how schools are evaluated based on the results of these tests. You trace that movement back to President Reagan. What does he initiate that starts off that movement?  So President Reagan appointed a guy named Terrel Bell to be his secretary of education. And Terrel Bell appoints a commission that writes a report called A Nation At Risk. And A Nation At Risk says that American schools are failing  that the Japanese and the Russians and the Chinese are overtaking us especially in math and science. And they blame quite a bit of this on teachers  the idea that teachers are not well educated enough  that they do not have high enough SAT scores. And they call for some big changes.  What changes?  Well they ask states to institute standardized testing programs so that we can really see how the states and how the children are doing. And we see most of the states respond and start these big standardized testing pushes. And with all this data that comes in  all these kids' test scores  we see this education reform push in this panic about achievement gaps gather steam. And it is all this data that people start to use to ask the question  hey can we look at kids test scores and use that to judge teachers? And from this we see the development of what today is called valueadded measurement of teachers which is the practice developed by economists of taking kids test scores and using that to draw conclusions about the individual classroom teacher.  So if you are a teacher today in a public school what kind of standardized testing do you have to keep up with?  No Child Left Behind which was President George W. Bush's policy required annual testing in reading and math in third through eighth grades as well as in high school. So this was sort of the first time that the federal government asked states to test kids every single year. And immediately teachers felt a lot more pressure around these test scores than they ever had before. President Obama has taken that a step further. With his No Child Left Behind tweaks and his reform program Race to the Top he has asked states if they want federal funding to grade every single teacher who is working based on whether or not they improve student performance. And what most schools and states have decided to do in order to get that money is to institute more testing so that they can measure teachers work. So we see what I really believe and what I write about in the book is the moment in American mystery that is more obsessed with standardized testing than any other. And even though there was a big testing push during the 1920s I really truly believe that we have more focus on tests today than ever before.  What are some of the arguments for and against this emphasis on standardized testing to measure not only the performance of students but the performance of teachers and schools?  Well I think the biggest argument for testing is that it allows us to see achievement gaps. So for example because of No Child Left Behind we can really see for the first time like  how are our AfricanAmerican children performing compared to white kids? How are poor children performing compared to middleclass kids? What about our special ed. kids? What about our immigrant children who are still learning English? It is very important to have research and data on important questions like this so I support gathering this data from a research perspective. I think the big argument against testing is that when you incentivize adults to raise student test scores you see a number of effects on kids that do not get talked about probably as much as they should. You see the curriculum kind of narrowing. So on those things that we do not test we do not focus on them because the adults are so focused on getting the kids to score better on the test. And especially in high poverty schools you see test prep become the de facto curriculum. And you know even recently the secretary of education Arne Duncan has said this testing push is sucking the oxygen out of the room in many schools. That is the phrase he used. And it was really astounding because since 2009 the Obama administration has been pushing this testing stuff. And for Arne Duncan to now be coming in and saying let us slow down  I admit that there is unintended consequences  it is pretty astounding. And it certainly reflects what I saw around the country when I was reporting the chapters of this book that takes place in the present day.  What are some of the frustrations you see teachers having faced with these standardized tests?  They do not like what it is doing to the curriculum. So a teacher that I interviewed in Colorado for example  she teaches elementary school art. And she would like to be creating art with her kids  painting and drawing and sculpture. But instead she is actually lecturing them to prepare them for a multiplechoice test in art that they are going to take which asks questions like  what colors do you see up on the blackboard? And you know what are the qualities of a line? And she said to me you know some of those things are good things to teach kids. But when they come into class and I say you are going to be taking a multiplechoice test today or preparing for a multiplechoice test today instead of creating art  she just really worries about what is that doing to their passion for her subject  whether they like coming to school. And you see that kids are having 25 30 standardized testing days per year. This is a big chunk of the time kids are spending in school.  How does the Common Core standards figure into the testing?  So the Common Core standards are just in English and math primarily. And there is going to be new tests that are attached to these higher standards and those tests are going to be used to evaluate teachers. And what is going on now is that Arne Duncan is saying let us hold off on that a year for states that do not feel that they are ready for that because what we did is we created new higher standards and asked teachers to meet them. And we did not really give them any time to learn the new standards before we started judging them on how well they were doing. So Arne Dennis is saying let us hold off on the accountability side of this for at least a year while we give teachers the opportunity to learn this new set of standards for learning.  So you describe the new Common Core standards as being driven by governments philanthropists and the teacher's union. And you say it became the first politically viable nationwide curricular reform in American history. So just describe the basics of what the Common Core standards is.  So what we saw is that the teacher's unions the philanthropists who fund education like the Gates Foundation and a lot of education advocates all came together. And they saw that with No Child Left Behind we had asked states to create tests but we had not put any standards on what those tests were. So you saw states like Alabama and Mississippi creating pretty easy tests  easy tests to pass. So what a child knows in Mississippi if they get an 80 percent on the test is totally different from what a child knows in Massachusetts if they get 80 percent on the test. So the Common Core was an attempt to kind of standardize this nationwide. And these advocates and the unions and the philanthropists all came together. They created the set of standards in English and math. I think the standards are quite good. And then they went around the country asking state legislatures will you pass a law saying that says your schools have to use these standards? And most of the states initially did agree to that.  Another issue you raised in your book is that as a result of standardized testing and perhaps the Core Curriculum as well there is a lot more paperwork that both teachers and principals are responsible for. Can you tackle a bit about that and about the complaints that you have heard in your reporting from teachers and principals?  I am so glad you asked about this because it is such a banalsounding topic  paperwork. But actually it is a really big deal. What we see is that Race to the Top asks states to evaluate teachers every single year  every single teacher every single year.  And this is an Obama administration program?  Yes it is. And it is a big burden on principals especially because when you look at these evaluation systems that have become so popular they sometimes have 22 42 62 different standards that teachers have to meet. So when the principal's going into the classroom to observe the teacher's lesson he may have to look at 60 different activities that the teacher's supposed to be doing during that time and fill out you know a long spreadsheet on what the teacher does and then conference with the teacher after this and file all this paperwork. And they have to maybe do this three times per year for some teachers especially novice teachers. So this is a huge administrative burden And one of the words I hear again and again is impossible. Actually for principals this is impossible especially because an assistant principal or a principal may have up to 30 teachers that they supervise. It is very difficult.  If you are just joining us my guest is Dana Goldstein. She is the author of the new book The Teacher Wars A History Of America's Most Embattled Profession. Let us take a short break then we will talk some more. This is FRESH AIR.   This is FRESH AIR. And if you are just joining us my guest is Dana Goldstein. We are talking about her new book The Teacher Wars A History Of America's Most Embattled Profession. Let us talk about another very controversial aspect of teaching today which is tenure. Why is tenure so controversial today?  Well tenure is so controversial because it provides greater job security than almost any other American who is not a teacher has. And when I interviewed Randi Weingarten who is the head of the national teachers' union the American Federation of Teachers about this she said oh yeah I mean we are so privileged compared to most workers. I mean she totally just admits that. And so this is why tenure is controversial. People say I do not have this sort of protection you know if my boss wants to fire me he can just come in on Monday and just fire me. Why should teachers deserve more than that? And I do think there is some good arguments why but often the conversation gets boiled down to something very simplistic.  Why does tenure exist? What are the roots of tenure?  Tenure dates back to 1909. And at the time it was something that school reformers and teachers' unions actually agreed about. They looked over at the Prussian the German education system which was very admired in the United States at the time and they noticed that teachers there had more job security and that the sort of low pay that teachers earned was offset by the promise that you could hold onto your job for a long time and that you would get a pension at the end when you retired. So school reformers and unions wanted to bring this system to the United States especially because at the time it was not unusual for teachers to be laid off or fired for very bad reasons such as they were pregnant they were black they did not get along with the mayor. These were all very typical occurrences back then.  Can we add to that list having unpopular political 