 And we are joined now by South Carolina State Rep. Doug Brannon. He is a Republican who represents parts of conservative Spartanburg County. And before today's move by Governor Haley he was committed to introducing a bill to remove the Confederate flag in the next legislative session. Representative Brannon welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  And I gather you have personal reasons behind this. You were friends with Pastor Clemente Pinckney who was also a state senator and was shot and killed.  I was. I was. He was a wonderful incredible man.  Tell me about him and your relationship with him and how that motivated you here.  He was huge. He was - I am a short guy. I am 5-foot-7 and Senator Pinckney was 6'5 or 6'6. I mean he was a mountain of a man. But when he walked into a room the smile just lit the room up. It - you know as big as he was he always - he was so inviting. He never felt ominous. It was - he was just a welcome sight. And if you have ever imagined what God's voice sounded like Clemente's voice was that. His voice could shake the room.  Yeah. Well you have been in the South Carolina House for five years. Had you thought about doing anything about the Confederate flag before this?  I am ashamed to tell you no. I should have done it five years ago. It should not have been the death of the nine incredible people. I should have done it but I did not and I apologize for that.  Well Governor Haley wants to fast-track this debate wants it to happen this summer not next session. What are you hearing from your colleagues? Do you think there is an appetite for this?  Oh absolutely. I mean - and the momentum has changed overnight. I believe that there will be a motion to amend the sine die resolution sine die resolution being the end-of-session bill. I think we will amend that to allow the filing of another bill a new bill which would be to take the flag down. So yes I think that we are going to debate this bill and take the flag down this summer.  You need two-thirds of the members to vote to do that right? You think you have those votes?  I think we do in the House and I would like to think we do in the Senate. I mean I am relatively confident that we do in the House. I think we do in the Senate but I do not know the Senate as well OK?  Is this a vote that you think might cost you your job knowing what you know about your constituents?  I do not know. Here's what I am going to do. I am going to do my job until I lose my job. And if I lose it over this I will lose with a smile.  Yeah. Have you been hearing from folks back home who say look this flag is not a racist symbol to me. It represents my family's heritage my personal history.  Yeah certainly. I have heard some of those comments. Of the thousands of comments that I have gotten 99 percent of them have been supportive and wonderful. I have heard the heritage not hate arguments. I have been told to start packing that I am going to get beat in the next election. I have been called ignorant. And I am fine with all of those things. I believe that I am doing the right thing.  I am curious Mr. Brannon. Before this shooting when you walked by that Confederate flag on the grounds of the state capital what did it mean to you?  I got asked that question yesterday. And I have to tell you that I walk past it on a somewhat regular basis but I do not look at it. It - that may sound ridiculous but I do not look at it. So it did not mean anything to me.  And when you see it now?  When I see it now I see it on a license plate on the front of a car driving to a church where nine people died.  You cannot shake that connection?  No no.  You know I was struck by something that Governor Haley said today when she said 150 years after the end of the Civil War the time has come to take down this flag. A lot of people would say the time came well before that. What do you think?  Well here's what I think. And please - I respect Governor Haley. I am so thankful for her announcement and for her request but that flag did not get placed on the capital grounds until 1962. And it got placed on the capital dome in response to desegregation.  Yeah.  So yeah it is 150 years after the end of the war but that is not what we are talking about here. We are talking about a flag that got placed on the capital dome by a bunch of white guys who were mad about desegregation.  Mr. Brannon we are going to have to stop right there. I appreciate your thoughts. Doug Brannon a Republican state rep. in the South Carolina House. Thanks for talking with us.  Thank you. 