 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. Mitt Romney is getting some attention for appearing to shift his position on health care. He did it as a guest on yesterday's Meet The Press. Romney said he might not want to repeal all of the Affordable Care Act.   But by the end of the day the Romney campaign had walked back the candidate's own remarks not once but twice. With us to try and sort out what is going on here is NPR health policy correspondent Julie Rovner. Hello Julie.  Hey Audie.  So let us start with the current health care law. What does it do to make sure that people with pre-existing health conditions can get health insurance?  Well this is considered one of the biggest achievements of the law. And it has not even taken effect yet. Right now millions of people cannot buy health insurance at any price because they have had cancer or they have diabetes or high blood pressure or even something more minor. Starting about 15 months from now in 2014 insurance companies will no longer be able to deny those people coverage. And equally important will no longer be able to charge them higher rates because of their preexisting condition. Now the tradeoff for the insurance industry in doing this was to make sure there were enough healthy people in the pool that they would not go broke paying for those sicker people. That is how the law ended up with that oh so controversial individual mandate - the requirement for most people to have health insurance or pay a fine. It is the tradeoff for everyone being able to get affordable coverage. And I might add it is the same tradeoff they made in Massachusetts in 2006 that Mitt Romney signed into law as governor.  Now apparently that is not his position now is it? I mean despite what he said yesterday.  That is right. You know the Republican Party has made tearing this law out by the roots as they say a real article of faith. And by yesterday afternoon the campaign had walked back the governor's comments that he would not necessarily repeal the entire law. In a statement to the conservative website The National Review Online they said quote There had been no change in Romney's position which would be to repeal the entire law. And that quote In a competitive environment the marketplace will make available plans that include coverage for what there is demand for. Then last night the campaign went back even a little further to Romney's position as announced last June which is that he would ensure that if people who have preexisting conditions remain continuously covered insurance companies will not be allowed to discriminate against them.  So what is the difference that stance on preexisting conditions versus what the Affordable Care Act would do?  Well a whole lot. First of all there is already a popular law from 1996 that was passed with bipartisan support that says if you maintain continuous coverage you cannot be denied continuing coverage because of a preexisting condition. The acronym for the 1996 law is  probably heard of it. And it says if you stay in the group health insurance market you cannot be charged more for that preexisting condition either. The problem comes when there is a break in coverage or when someone who is had group coverage like from an employer goes out to buy their own - if they start a business or they take a job that does not offer health insurance. Without the changes made by the Affordable Care Act if there is a gap in coverage of more than 63 days right now you can be turned down. And even if the coverage is continuous individual coverage can be and is prohibitively expensive. Now the problem with what Governor Romney is proposing is that it does not appear to answer either of those shortcomings of the 1996 law the one that is currently in effect. He says he only would protect people with continuous coverage. So people who cannot get insurance now would not be helped. And so far he has not said anything about preventing insurers from charging people more if they have preexisting conditions.  Well how do we know that he would not make those insurers charge those people less?  Because basically the only way you can do that without putting those insurers at a serious economic disadvantage is to make sure everybody is covered. That is why the federal law has that individual mandate and that is why the Massachusetts law that Governor Romney signed has it too. You cannot really have it both ways. If you do not have the mandate it is going to be very hard to help people with preexisting conditions as popular as that is. In health care the popular stuff only comes with the not-so-popular stuff.  Julie thank you for explaining it.  Thank you Audie.  NPR health policy correspondent Julie Rovner. 