 The man presiding over the Manafort trial has been a vocal presence in the courtroom. Judge T.S. Ellis III does not hesitate to scold an attorney cut short a line of questioning or offer a witty aside. To tell us more about who this judge is Kevin Mikolashek joins us here in the studio. He is a former U.S. attorney who is prosecuted many cases in Judge Ellis' courtroom. Hi there.  Hi Ari. How are you?  Good thanks. So Judge Ellis is 78 years old. He is been on the bench more than 30 years appointed by President Reagan. What else can you tell us about this man?  Well I have appeared before him many times. It probably feels like more times than I actually appeared before him. But over the course of 11 years I defended the government in civil cases and also investigated contract fraud cases before Judge Ellis. So he is a hard judge to say the least.  What does that mean in terms of what happens in the courtroom?  Well what you are seeing now in the Manafort case and what we have seen in practicing before him is that he manages his case more than the other judges do. He will interject and even ask questions when other judges may not do that.  The LA Times described him as the star of the Manafort trial the indisputable center of attention. Was that also your experience trying more low-profile cases in his courtroom?  Well he certainly was the center of attention in part because he is the one wearing the black robe.  Right.  But also he is very intense about managing his courtroom both in hearings and in trials. So he is not shy about vocalizing his opinions about the actions of counsel and the positions counsel are taking. And sometimes that is quite painful if you are the counsel to be the butt of his commentary.  Can you give me an example?  One example - I recall a civilian bar member an attorney in a private case who kept putting his hands in his pockets and Judge Ellis was adamant about telling him do not do that. It is not a good look for you.  What? That has nothing to do with the law.  But it has everything to do with decorum.  Wow.  But do not get me wrong. There is a soft side to him a humorous side that is not biting like we are seeing in the Manafort case and like I have experienced many times. I remember on one occasion I appeared before a hearing with several parties and Judge Ellis was scanning the courtroom for the attorney representing the government. I had happened to grow a beard by then and he recognized me and said Mr. Mikolashek please step forward. And I said yes your honor. He goes does your wife approve of your newly grown facial hair?   Wow.  And I said well yes your honor but if the court disfavors it I will be happy to shave it. And he said oh Mr. Mikolashek the court's reign does not extend that far.  .  So it is not all serious as we have seen in the Manafort case. I have been before him on many occasions where it has been serious and where the biting wit is more on the biting side and less on the humorous side. And it is torturous to be the subject of that especially when you are in a courtroom full of people and decisions regarding the case you are prosecuting or litigating have to be made.  He has really been cracking the whip in the Manafort trial sometimes snapping at the prosecution for what he sees as digressions trying to make it move really quickly. How typical is that?  Ari it is very typical for him to snap at government attorneys but I will also say it is equally typical for him to snap at members of the civilian bar. He is an equal opportunity pain inflictor if you will. And it does feel painful while you are there. But I will tell you as well that in the end he will put you through your paces but he gets the right result. That is been my experience with him.  He does not seem like an ideologically driven judge.  He is driven by fairness and applying the law and ensuring that counsel who appear before him are diligent and again move with alacrity.  What was your first thought when you heard he was going to be handling the Manafort trial?  Justice will be done.  Really?  Fairness will be done but that it is going to be a hard road for the prosecutors appearing before him.  That is former U.S. attorney Kevin Mikolashek founder of The Mikolashek Group. Thanks for coming into the studio today.  Thank you Ari. 