 President Trump says efforts to forge a peace deal in Afghanistan are dead.   We had a meeting scheduled. It was my idea and it was my idea to terminate it. I did not even - I did not discuss it with anybody else. When I heard very simply that they killed one of our soldiers and 12 other innocent people I said there is no way I am meeting on that basis. There is no way I am meeting.  That is the president earlier today. On Saturday he tweeted that he had secretly invited Taliban and Afghan leaders to Camp David. They were just hours from that meeting and then he called it off because of that attack in Kabul. The episode raises many questions like what happens to the roughly 14000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan now? And where does this leave President Trump who campaigned on ending America's longest war? We are joined now by NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Hey Mara.  Hi there Ailsa.  So this whole episode has been confusing. I mean no one even knew about this planned meeting at Camp David before Trump announced it by canceling it right?  Right. It was very controversial inside of the administration. We have learned there - the vice president and like the idea. John Bolton the national security adviser did not like the idea. But Trump does have a predilection for the big showy meeting. He likes to have the televised spectacle meeting with Kim Jong Un. He is talked about meeting with the Iranians with no preconditions. And he also bristles at the notion that anyone is advising him or contributing to the decision. You heard him say it was his idea alone. He said he took his own advice.  But here we are. Trump not only canceled the summit he is also pulled the plug on negotiations. He called them dead. So where does this leave his Afghanistan policy?  Well that is a good question. He says he pulled the plug because of that terror attack that killed a U.S. soldier but the Taliban has been attacking Afghans during the entire peace negotiations with - which the president has authorized. And he is never complained before. But the idea of a peace deal with the Taliban was controversial inside the administration and also the Afghan government did not like it. They felt they were being sidelined. And it is possible that now Trump is in a better position because if he wants to he could still pull out of Afghanistan without a peace deal while leaving a residual force there. But it comes at a cost because he announced that he was willing to meet without preconditions with the Taliban the terrorist group that harbored the 911 attackers on the anniversary week of 911. And he took a lot of criticism for that.  Right. I mean does not Trump want to get out of Afghanistan no matter what no matter if a deal is reached or not?  Well that is a good question. He is certainly still could pull out troops leaving a residual force there without making a deal with the Taliban. That might be a better place for him to land. He could pull out without the criticism of making a deal with the Taliban that could go wrong. Today he said we are hitting the Taliban harder than we ever have. But he also really struggled today when he was asked to define what victory would look like in Afghanistan. And here's what he said.   We beat them militarily but as soon as we leave it seems to form again. We would beat them very easily militarily if we wanted to by doing certain things. I am not talking nuclear. We could have that over with very very rapidly. But you would lose millions and millions of lives and I do not want to do that.  But what does he want to do? And that is the big question. This is not the first time a U.S. president has struggled to define what a victory looks like in a war against insurgents after promising a simple solution during a campaign.  True. But what does this collapse of these talks with the Taliban - what do they say about Trump's overall track record as a dealmaker you think?  Well he has not had a very good track record. He has not made a lot of deals. He seems to like the spectacle of having the meeting more than actually bringing home the deal whether it is with North Korea. He is talked about talking to Iran or now Afghanistan. So there really have not been a lot of deals. The one that he has concluded the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement was a small tweak of f a rebranding. And he has not gotten that ratified by Congress yet.  That is right. All right. That is NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 