 Bernie Sanders became a leading hero of the left in 2016. Back then he was running for president on a platform far more sweeping than other Democrats like Hillary Clinton. In the 2020 campaign he is got company - perhaps none closer than Elizabeth Warren. Tonight voters get to see both of these progressive candidates in direct contrast side by side at the second Democratic presidential debate in Detroit. NPR political correspondent Asma Khalid is here. Hey there Asma.  Hey.  And we also have NPR lead political editor Domenico Montanaro. Hey there Domenico. Can you hear me?  Hey there Audie.  So I just mentioned Warren and Sanders. Who else is onstage tonight Domenico?  You have got South Bend Ind. Mayor Pete Buttigieg former Congressman Beto O'Rourke from Texas Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota former Governor John Hickenlooper of Colorado Governor Steve Bullock of Montana Congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio former Congressman John Delaney of Maryland and finally spiritualist and author Marianne Williamson - so a crowded pack of candidates certainly. And a couple notes about the field is the first time in the lineup for Bullock who believes Democrats need to appeal to conservative and rural voters. And you will notice that - by random draw that we have got - even though the most diverse field in history for Democrats there will be no candidates of color onstage tonight. And how they talk about race is going to be really interesting considering President Trump continues to put race at the center of the national conversation.  Right. And it actually came up in the first debate for these Democrats right? Asma you have been out on the campaign trail. How have the candidates been handling racial issues?  I would say they were talking about race and racial justice rather explicitly when it comes to specific public policy proposals they are putting forth you know whether that is more money for historically black colleges or more money for minority entrepreneurs. But it is also in their rhetoric. And part of this is you know no doubt because of the conversation that President Trump has created. But I will say we are hearing this you know when they are speaking to audiences like the NAACP or the Urban League but you also get the sense when you look at surveys that this is something increasingly more that white voters in the Democratic Party also want to hear about.  Asma I also want to ask you specifically about Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren. As we mentioned this is the first time we are going to see them kind of side by side in this format. What might voters learn about the differences between them?  Well their positions on a whole host of issues are rather similar whether we are talking about Medicare for All or affordable college. I would say that stylistically will be the big thing that we will see the difference of. Bernie Sanders has a tendency to speak in somewhat lofty theoretical goals and Elizabeth Warren does tend to offer a little bit more specifics. You know when she will talk about affordable housing she will talk about the fact that she wants say 3.2 million more housing units. I think that is the big difference we will see - is style and what voters prefer because when we talk about policies there is a lot of similarities.  And the question really is with both of them - is just how far they would go. You know the ideological split here is that Sanders is fine taking on the moniker of being a democratic socialist. Warren will say she is a capitalist. She wants big structural change for the economy. But overall this is going to highlight how the progressives are tugging at the center of the party and moving it left.  Is there going to be some pushback on that front? You have got former Vice President Joe Biden not on this stage tonight. So what might this look like?  Yeah. I mean you could see some of those moderates like Klobuchar or Hickenlooper or Bullock take their shots at what they see as too liberal for a direction of the party. And Klobuchar after the last debate in fact said that she would pulled her punches because it was the first debate. And I bet that will not happen again tonight.  Asma finally I just want to ask you about how much of a shadow you think Joe Biden will cast over this first round of the debate.  Well I am really interested to see that because though he will not be on the stage I think everyone is very clear about the momentum that he has and the popularity he has in the Democratic Party. And we have both Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren for different reasons whether it is Medicare for All or financial issues who have been extremely critical of Joe Biden. And so I do think that he - while he will not be onstage he will loom large onstage tonight.  And by the way no hand raising tonight. So some of those more liberal policies that we saw earlier - some of the Democrats want to get away from having to commit to those.  That is NPR's Asma Khalid and Domenico Montanaro in Detroit for tonight's first round of the Democratic presidential debate. Thanks you two.  You are welcome.  You are so welcome. 