 Most Americans agree Congress should do something to try to end gun violence. There is wide support for a range of ideas including keeping tabs on or limiting who can get a gun and making it easier for police and family members to temporarily take guns away from people who may hurt themselves or others - what is known as red flag laws. There is more division on other proposals. We all - we know all of this because of a new NPRPBS NewsHourMarist poll. NPR senior political editor and correspondent Domenico Montanaro has dug into the numbers. He joins us now. Hey Domenico.  Hey Ailsa.  OK. So I want to start where there is some agreement. Let us just start positive for now. What does this poll tell us?  Well look. There is a lot of agreement. I mean we should start right off and say Democrats Republicans and even gun owners all say that they want Congress to pass legislation to address four things OK? They want to see an increase in funding for screenings and treatment of mental health.  OK.  They are in favor of background checks. They want licensing for all gun purchases and they are in favor of a national red flag law.  All right. So I know this poll also surveyed a lot of gun owners. What did we learn about how gun owners might be willing to work with - what they will be able to work with when it comes to gun control legislation?  Well here's what we found. Nine in 10 gun owners support increasing funding for mental health screenings and treatment. Three-quarters of them are in favor of background checks and a majority support red flag laws and gun licensing. Now they do not like everything. They are split on whether Congress should ban high-capacity magazines. A majority are against a ban on assault-style weapons and they are very much against a mandatory gun buyback program for assault weapons that are currently in people's hands.  OK. Can we talk a little more about these potential bans on assault-style weapons and high-capacity magazines? - 'ecause we hear politicians say they are going to push for these. What do these poll results show about how much support there is?  Well on both of those items there is majority support for them overall but there are pretty sharp political divides. For example take the assault-style weapons ban. Overall 57 of those we talked to think that Congress should pass legislation to do that but that is only because Democrats and Independents are together in favor of that. Only about a third of Republicans on the other hand think that is a good idea. On high-capacity magazines we see a similar divide - Democrats and Independents together Republicans going the other way. What the data is telling us though is that some Republicans - or Republicans generally are in favor of restrictions but those restrictions are largely about people not guns. Remember you hear the president and the NRA say repeatedly it is a person who pulls the trigger not the gun that does. And the things that Republicans in particular are telling us is that they want Congress to screen for the types of people who could use a gun.  OK. So it is clear that this poll is showing there is broad support out there for at least some changes. So how much guidance should Congress take from a poll like this to do something?  Well you know whether Congress will do anything actually is very much up in the air. And there is a real sense of urgency for Congress to act especially among Democrats and some Republicans after this summer because we saw so many mass shootings...  Right.  ...I mean - Dayton El Paso Odessa Texas. But here's the thing. This all comes down to President Trump. Congressional Republicans are not going to take a risk passing anything that could be seen by groups like the NRA as anti-gun unless President Trump comes out and gives them political cover which he has not yet. And Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is not exactly going to bring anything to the floor unless he knows that President Trump is definitely going to sign this. And it is kind of risky of a move for Republicans if they do not come out for these things because you know the NRA was outspent for the first time in 2018 by groups that want to see these restrictions in place.  That is NPR's Domenico Montanaro. Thanks Domenico.  You are so welcome. 