 Those comments of Sonja Eddings Brown about women by the way bring to mind a salient fact that turns up in poll after poll. The Romney-Ryan ticket would win this race in a walk but for one provision of the Constitution the 19th Amendment. In 1920 it gave women the vote. Among male voters the Republicans win. Among female voters they lose. I sat down with the Republican Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire to ask her about women and the GOP. Senator Kelly Ayotte welcome to the program.  Great to be with you. Thanks.  I want to ask you about a recent and very typical poll number that we have seen. The most recent CBS News poll shows Governor Romney leading President Obama by nine points among men and President Obama leading Governor Romney by 10 points among women. Why? Why the gap with women? Why does Mitt Romney trail with women?  Well I think actually women - one of the things that is helpful about this convention and that is why I think Ann Romney's speech resonated is women do want to know about the whole person and something about the person that will lead the country. And I think this convention is an opportunity to see not only - we know that Governor Romney's record - very capable as a private sector business individual as a governor at the Olympics - but to see some about who is the person? And nobody can do it better than Ann. And I was - it really resonate...  But Senator I have a feeling if I said you would think differently once you heard my wife talk about me. That seems - it does not seem to be a very respectful remark about how women make up their minds politically.  No. I do not think it is not respectful at all. I mean first of all I think women are interested in the same issues as men meaning that the economy jobs they are worried about the future of the country the debt. I mean I am a mother. That is what got me into this thinking about what is the future for our children. So I do not diminish that at all when I think about it. But also the character of you know what is it that we know about this person and how will they conduct and implement their policies. So when I say women it is not diminishing that we are not focusing on the policy issues but we are also focusing on the type of leadership qualities that are marked by your personal characteristics. And you know I think that is important to hear from the people that know him personally about these issues.  In your state in New Hampshire the most recent WMUR Granite State University of New Hampshire poll showed that women favored Barack Obama by 16 points. But college-educated women favored him by 26 points. What do you make of that? How do you turn that around?  I do think this will turn around. That as we look as we go forward there is a pretty large category of voters - my state it is 40 percent independent - and they are really getting to know the candidates. And you think about President Obama. He is been in office. They have been able to see him very visibly looking and assess his record. And this - as we get closer to the election you are going to see this gap close because where the strength is of Governor Romney is on the core issues of this election - jobs. With over 42 straight months of over 8 percent unemployment people are worried.  When the debate turns away from jobs and moves on to say abortion or the remarks of Missouri Congressman Todd Akin. Does that hurt you with women?  Well let me put it this way I think our party's been clear on this. I asked him to step aside.  Congressman Akin who is running for senator in Missouri.  I did absolutely. Governor Romney asked him to step aside. Congressman Ryan did. The leader of the Senatorial Committee John Cornyn said we are not going to fund him. I mean he does not represent our viewpoint. You know I believe that this is not an issue that Governor Romney showed leadership on it. He had disavowed the comments that I do not agree with and I know that many in my party - most do not.  But the party platform is actually on this issue to the right of Governor Romney. It countenances no exception even for pregnancies caused by rape or incest even though the candidate does.  And I share Governor Romney's viewpoint. I am pro-life but I support exceptions in the case of rape incest and the life of the mother.  Women are economically not as well off as men as a whole. I mean they earn less money in the work place so mothers...  And they have been disproportionately hit really if you look at the unemployment numbers.  Why does not that explain the gender gap? Why would not you think what is most different about women in the economy is they are worse off and like other lower income groups they tend to vote Democratic these days.  I do not think that explains it because you just talked to me about it earlier about college graduates. I think that you know women are very diverse in terms of their socio-economic backgrounds but they want what we all want. We want a quality of life for ourselves and opportunities and I think very much for children and for our families. So I do not think that there is one way you can categorize women as being just because they may be overall as a group lower on the socio-economic because we are a very diverse group.  Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you for having me. Appreciate it.  That is my co-host Robert Siegel reporting this week from the Republican National Convention in Tampa. 