 Attorney General Jeff Sessions says he did not have conversations about the U.S. election with any Russian officials but he refused to tell a senate committee whether he has talked about the Russia investigation with President Trump. We are going to get some reaction to his testimony now.  The House intelligence committee has been conducting its own investigation of Russian meddling in the U.S. election. Representative Chris Stewart is a Republican from Utah and a committee member. He joins us now from his office on Capitol Hill. Thanks for coming on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Good to be with you.  Now congressman of the Comey hearing you once called it overhyped saying it provided little new information. With Attorney General Sessions refusing to answer many of the senators' questions today do you think we learned anything of value?  Well I think we learned a little bit. But again whether it is Mr. Sessions or Mr. Comey we really are at the point in the process where we have had them before the committees in both closed and in open sessions. We have had a chance to ask them questions again and again and again. And I do not think it surprises most of us that we are not learning much new at this point. Now you are right. Mr. Sessions did you know kind of defer some of the questions. And I think that is probably appropriate in the sense that some of those were confidential and he felt probably appropriate to keep those conversations confidential. But again...  Even though he did not formally cite executive privilege.  Yeah. Yeah. Well I think that is right. I mean I think there is a fine legal distinction there. And I do not think he wanted to cite legal privilege. But I do think there is also confidentiality that would have applied in this case.  Meanwhile the questions raised by James Comey essentially were around the idea that - about whether Attorney General Sessions is managing the relationship between the White House and his agency properly. How did you feel he answered those questions?  Well again in an appropriate manner and I think fairly impassioned defense as well. I was you know taken a little bit by the way he responded to some of his colleagues in the sense that you know some of the innuendo some of the whisperings. And you know we have seen so much of that. We see leaks. We see again innuendo and assumptions that later turn out not to be true or not even related to the truth. And I think he felt that it was necessary for him to come out and defend himself and to do so in an impassioned way. And I was glad to see that. I was glad to see a little bit of an emotion in that sense.  So essentially this idea of secret innuendo for you holds true. You are not looking at James Comey's open testimony.  Yeah. And you know that is why many of us on - whether it is in the House or the Senate intel committees we both I think feel the same way. And that is much of this is best done behind closed doors. It is not best done in front of cameras. It does not lend itself to grandstanding. Both committees pride themselves on being bipartisan. I know we have in the past. We would like to report to the American people. We would like to tell them exactly what happened. I think we are better able to do that when we do not put it in a partisan or in a - such a public fashion. Let us go find out. Let us go ask these questions then come back and tell people what it is that we have learned.  You can understand why people might disagree with you given that there are so many investigations. People want to know what is going on and that - think that transparency might be best.  Well absolutely. And I am not arguing against transparency. I am just arguing against partisanship. And I am arguing against it in some cases. Look there is no question there is been grandstanding in some cases. There is no question about that. And I just think it is better - we better serve the American people - this is a very very important subject. I was in Russia last August. I came home and I said in a number of interviews they are going to mess with our elections. There is no question that they were going to. This is an important issue. So I am not arguing against transparency. I am just arguing again that - the best way to get that information and to do it in a way where it is credible where it is not partisan and do it as quickly as we can so the American people can learn that information as quickly as we can.  Speaking of which your committee has reportedly summoned President Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen as part of its probe into Russian election meddling. What do you most want to ask him?  Well you know I hate to say. And I would not want to foreshadow what our questions would be for any one of the witnesses. And you know he is one of many that we will be hoping to talk to. But I think it is probably best if I - if we have those opportunities to question them and maybe come back and report on that after the fact.  And finally reports about the White House about President Trump potentially wanting to fire Bob Mueller as the Justice Department special counsel. Would that be a wise move for this president?  No. I think it would be a terrible mistake. But honestly I do not find much credibility in that. I do not see any real - other than this one individual. I mean I think that it would cause all sorts of political concerns for him. But my take on that right now is that it is not actually being considered.  Representative Chris Stewart is a Republican from Utah. He is also a member of the House intelligence committee. Thank you for speaking with us.  Oh it is good to be with you. Thank you.  