 Some police officials are condemning statements made by President Trump on Friday to an audience of law enforcement officers in New York.   Please do not be too nice. Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you are protecting their head you know the way you put their hand over - like do not hit their head and they have just killed somebody do not hit their head. I said you can take the hand away OK?  In tweets and statements police chiefs across the country are saying essentially that is not OK. Chuck Wexler is executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum. That is a group that educates law enforcement agencies across the country. Wexler says he is unhappy with the president's remarks so we called him to ask why.  Well I think it was important to speak out. Look. The policing has been challenged the last few years. God knows a series of incidents have put the police on the front page of many papers. And there is been a lot of introspection about what we have to do to change in terms of training policy. So when the president of the United States for whatever reasons makes the statements he did about basically roughing up suspects many of us had a visceral reaction especially - unfortunately when some of the police in the background applauded. And so I thought - talking to my colleagues we all said you know this is not who we are. This is not what we stand for. And we have to speak up. And I think that is what you are seeing across the country.  I think that applause actually gave a lot of people pause. And I wonder when you have an incident like this does it do damage to the reputation of departments right? Because some of the departments that have come out and said you know what the president said is not appropriate it is not our policy they have had problems in the past you know high-profile problems in the past. Does this give people who are critical of the police more ammunition?  Well you know it may but I think the fact that you are seeing so many of us speaking out. You know you see the New York police commissioner - even in Suffolk County where he spoke the department within two hours denounced what he said. You look at Suffolk County I mean they have had issues with immigration and federal oversight. They had - one of their chiefs was arrested. So look. Police are very respectful especially of the president of the United States. So this is not easy speaking out against your president. But this kind of statement was for many of us viewed as a green light to use unnecessary force and we just do not need that now. We are making progress. We are moving forward. And it was important to speak out.  On the other hand this is a very pro-law enforcement precedent. Donald Trump says - has often said he supports the law enforcement community. What kind of position does that put you in? I would imagine in some sense there is respect for some of the statements he is made in the past about supporting officers.  Supporting the police does not mean giving the police a green light to rough up suspects. And that is where you have to draw the line. We live in a country where the rule of law is very important. Even suspects need to be treated fairly and impartially. That is what makes America so unique and different from a banana republic. We respect the rights of everyone but for the president of the United States to give a green light that you can rough them up because they have done something bad that is not what America is all about. That is not what American police are all about. And that is why we feel so strongly and to step up even with the president that is supportive of the police and say listen you have gone too far here.  That was Chuck Wexler executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum. We did reach out to the White House for a comment or clarification on the president's remarks but we have not gotten a response back as of yet. 