 Saturday a gunman in El Paso Texas killed 22 people at a Walmart. Early yesterday morning a shooter killed nine people in Dayton Ohio.  And today President Trump addressed the nation.   We are outraged and sickened by this monstrous evil the cruelty the hatred the malice the bloodshed and the terror.  Police are investigating whether the alleged shooter in El Paso was inspired by white nationalism and a hatred of Latino immigrants.   In one voice our nation must condemn racism bigotry and white supremacy. These sinister ideologies must be defeated. Hate has no place in America.  That kind of language is out of character for this president. And here to talk about it is White House correspondent Franco Ordoez. Hey Franco. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Hi.  First what else did President Trump have to say this morning? And what kinds of steps did he suggest to possibly prevent future mass shootings? ORDO Well he gave several clearly scripted remarks. And as we know there can be a big difference between Trump when he is scripted and when he is on Twitter or at a rally. This morning Trump said the United States needs to focus on mental illness. He is also talking about so-called red flag laws that are designed to prevent the mentally ill from purchasing guns.   Mental illness and hatred pulls the trigger not the gun. ORDO He also did not talk about any bans on assault weapons which is what many Democrats are calling for.  And he had suggested more aggressive steps on Twitter that he did not mention in the comments this morning. ORDO Yeah and that comes even though he tweeted a few hours before the speech that he wanted strong background checks for gun-buyers. He did not mention any specifics on how those checks would work. He also talked about tighter controls on the Internet social media and on violent video games.  As you have often seen in the past Franco when he gives these kinds of speeches from a teleprompter after a national tragedy soon after he will get on Twitter or go to a rally and revert to insulting people who he feel has wronged him. So how much value is there really in a speech like the one he gave this morning? ORDO Yes he is got a long track record of making formal statements on a teleprompter - when he was talking about Charlottesville...   In Charlottesville Va... ORDO ...That are very unifying they are also conciliatory...   We must rediscover the bonds of love and loyalty that bring us together as Americans. ORDO ...But then going back on them a few days later.   I think there is blame on both sides. And I have no doubt about it. And you do not have any doubt about it either.  For the last few weeks one of the top stories out of this White House has been President Trump's racist comments towards people of color. And Democratic presidential candidates have argued that this president is part of the problem. Let us listen to what just a few of them have said since these shootings over the weekend.   There is a measure of responsibility that you just cannot get away from when you have case after case...  We also have to acknowledge that we have a president of the United States who uses the microphone in a way that is about sowing hate and division in our country.  The president has embraced white nationalists. He has encouraged white nationalists.  That was Pete Buttigieg Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren. Others have made similar remarks. Franco is there a risk that the president's comments will make a situation like this worse? ORDO It is true that President Trump has used incendiary language especially about immigrants and people of color. It goes back to the first days of his campaign when he rode down the golden escalator of Trump Tower. He used very angry language when describing particularly Mexicans.   They are bringing drugs. They are bringing crime. They are rapists. And some I assume are good people. ORDO And he is really never toned down that language ever since. We have seen it again and again. We see it when he talks about the caravan of migrants coming to the United States.   At this very moment large well-organized caravans of migrants are marching toward our southern border. Some people call it an invasion. It is like an invasion. ORDO We saw it when he did not stop the chants about send her back when talking about a minority Congresswoman.    Send her back. Send her back. Send her back. Send her back. ORDO Earlier this year he was at a rally in the Florida Panhandle...   But how do you stop these people? You cannot. There is no... ORDO ...When someone yelled out that shooting migrants was a way to stop them.   That is only in the Panhandle you can get away with that statement. ORDO Even in formal Oval Office settings he is focused on that same message that immigrants are murderers.   Over the last several years I have met with dozens of families whose loved ones were stolen by illegal immigration. I have held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers - so sad so terrible. ORDO And in the past when racism and white nationalism have come up Trump has downplayed the threat. This past March when he was asked directly do you see today white nationalism as a rising threat his answer was I do not really.   I do not really. I think it is a small group of people that have very very serious problems.  Franco you have given us such a long list of examples. What does the White House say when you present them with all of these quotes from the last couple of years? ORDO One thing that Trump and others in the White House say - it is the shooters who are responsible for their actions not Trump's words. This week acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney said critics are trying to score political points off the tragedy.   I get the fact that some people do not approve of the verbiage the president uses. I get that all right? People are going to hear what they want to hear. My guess is this guy's in that parking lot in El Paso Texas in that Walmart doing this even if Hillary Clinton is president. ORDO Look the White House and the Trump administration are in a bind in some ways. When Trump does not respond to attack he is accused of looking the other way or being sympathetic with the assailants. But even when he criticizes extremism as he did this morning he is accused of not going far enough.  People have criticized the president's tone on these issues since before he started running for president. At some point is it just naive to imagine that he is going to be a different person than the person he has shown himself to be? ORDO Pushing the envelope has worked for President Trump. It was not long after he launched his campaign that he was at the top of the Republican polls. His supporters always talk about how he tells it like it is. And truth be told Trump likes to keep both supporters and opponents riled up. And if you think about the recent tweets about the four minority Congresswomen or the tweets about Congressman Elijah Cummings and the quote rodent-infested city of Baltimore we see it again and again.  That is NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez speaking with us from the White House. Thanks a lot Franco. ORDO Thank you. 