 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. Washington's stalemate ended today at least for now. President Obama has signed the debt bill into law. In a statement at the White House Mr. Obama said the next step is finding a larger plan to cut the deficit.  And since you cannot close the deficit with just spending cuts we will need a balanced approach where everything's on the table.  Looking forward one group of politicians will have to address the debt issue - the GOP presidential hopefuls. Many of them have been talking about it but the spotlight has been on Washington. Now NPR's Don Gonyea tells us where the candidates stand on the debt deal.  Let' House members Michele Bachmann and Ron Paul. Both were emphatic noes. Speaking on Fox News Radio Bachmann likened the level of U.S. debt to the fiscal calamity that has gripped some European countries.  This is like saying we embrace being Greece.  Program host Laura Ingram herself a staunch conservative pressed Bachmann arguing that this was the best deal possible in a divided government and while far from perfect it should be embraced.  How is it that you cannot say that this is actually ultimately a good thing - not everything but it is a good thing and a good step forward. That I do not understand. I just still do not get it.  Well Laura the reason why I can say that is because ultimately what may seem a short-term solution in my mind is going to guarantee a long-term financial ruin for the country.  As for Ron Paul you can find this on his campaign website.  Will they choose compromise or conviction?  Ron Paul. Cut spending balance the budget no deals.  But supporting the deal is former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich. On Fox News last night he said he is not going to going to second-guess current Speaker John Boehner adding that the Tea Party and all conservatives should claim victory.  We just had an extraordinary moment where a very left-wing president blinked.  Romney's short statement said that he appreciates quote the extraordinarily difficult situation President Obama's lack of leadership has placed Republican members of Congress in. Romney adds I personally cannot support this deal. Dante Scala is a professor at the University of New Hampshire.  There is a tension between Romney the executive and Romney the candidate. Romney the executive surely would have cut a deal just as he did as governor of Massachusetts. However Romney the candidate you know has to sound different has to be more hard-line.  In Iowa Republican strategist John Stineman says the debt ceiling may now take on symbolic importance in GOP caucuses and primaries.  The debt ceiling is about what are we spending money on how much money are we spending where is that money coming from at what level are we going to say uncle on how much money comes out of the taxpayers' wallet? And so you cannot get away from this issue of how it ties into everything else.  Don Gonyea NPR News Washington. 