 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. President Obama turned his attention away from immigration and Supreme Court decisions today to highlight the federal Highway Trust Fund. That is the source of financing for road and bridge repair nationwide. The president is calling for new ways to replenish the fund and he did that while standing near a bridge the one in Washington that is named first Francis Scott Key. NPR's Mara Liasson joins us now from the White House with more on the president's plans. Hi Mara.  Hi Robert.  It is a historic bridge to be sure and the man from who it is named wrote the words to the national anthem 200 years ago this summer. But what exactly was the president doing with the Key Bridge as the backdrop?  Well he was expounding on a very familiar theme of his which is the need for the United States to spend more on infrastructure. The president has done a lot of events calling attention to our crumbling roads and bridges and pointing out that we spend less per capita than any other developed country on infrastructure. But particularly as you mentioned he wanted to call attention to a looming deadline. In August the Highway Trust Fund runs out and Congress has not yet acted to replenish it. It is funded through the gas tax which has not been increased in a very long time and it is failing to keep the trust fund solvent. The president said if it runs out we are going to lose 700000 jobs road and bridge repairs like the ones that are occurring on Kay Bridge right now will stop. He wants to fund the trust fund by closing tax loopholes for corporations and the wealthy. Congress does not agree and there is the very familiar stalemate.  I gather he expressed some real frustration with Congress in the speech today.  He really did and he has been repeatedly railing at the Congress for doing nothing - particularly the House Republicans whether it is infrastructure immigration. The president has been channeling his inner Harry Truman lately and here's a little taste of it.   But so far House Republicans have refused to act on this idea. I have not heard a good reason why they have not acted it is not like they have been busy with other stuff.  Well on other stuff President Obama has said that he will take executive action where Congress is not acting. What is he planning to do? What can he do in the case of the Highway Trust Fund?  Well that is the thing there is really not that much that he can do. You know executive action even though it is extremely controversial right now and a source of great tension between the president and Congress it is a very limited tool. He can for instance make federal contractors pay a higher minimum wage but he cannot extend that to the country. Executive action is not permanent he cannot appropriate money he cannot change the law. So this one - the Highway Trust Fund is truly up to Congress. And the irony is that while Speaker Boehner is suing the president because of what Republicans say is the imperial presidency overreaching - overuse of executive action the president is really frustrated that he can do very little with executive action. Today he said he was very defiant today. He said so sue me as long as they are doing nothing I am not going to apologize for trying to do something.  Mara is not this historically what members of Congress love - repairing bridges and highways and making life better the infrastructure better back in their districts?  It used to be before the Tea Party and before appropriators or appropriation became a dirty word in Washington yes. It was what members of Congress were sent to Congress to do to bring back money to their home districts. But particularly in the Republican Party that has become really kryptonite lately.  OK thanks Mara.  Thank you Robert.  NPR's Mara Liasson speaking to us from the White House. 