 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Guy Raz. The president is riding a wave of momentum from his speech to Congress this week taking his health care message on the road today to Minnesota.   Minnesota we are closer to reform than we have ever been before. But this is the hard part. This is when the special interests and the insurance companies and the folks who think you know this is a good way to bring Obama down.  Pres.  This is when they are going to fight with everything they have got. This is when they will spread all kinds of wild rumors designed to scare and intimidate people. That is why I need your help.   In a moment we will check in with opponents of Mr. Obama's health care agenda who held protests today in front of the Capitol. First though to NPR's Don Gonyea who is in Minneapolis. Don welcome.  Hi. Glad to be here.  A friendly crowd there lots of cheering. The president at one point repeating a campaign slogan. Let us listen in for a moment. Pres.  I want to know Minnesota are you fired up? Ready to go?   Don it looked a little like rock concert there.  It does and it is interesting. It is like the president is here and he is pitching his new album or his new CD and that CD is all about health care reform.   But as you get to the end of the event this one lasting about an hour or so you want to send people home with something they know. So it is like you have to play Born To Run right at the end  Fired up. Ready to go.  Fired up. Ready to go. Don it seemed like the president repeated a lot of the same points he made in his speech to Congress on Wednesday night. Is that what we can expect to see in the coming weeks and months? You know the president sort of hammering the same arguments over and over?  That is exactly what we are going to see. He will tweak it. He will change it you know from day to day from week to week depending on where things are in Congress at any given moment or depending on what he is hearing from the opposition that he feels he needs to counter. He was pretty quiet on this issue in August and that was when we saw you know all the talk of death panels and a government takeover of health care really starting to gain some currency not just with his hardcore opponents but with people who are just undecided about all of this. So what we are going to see in the fall summer is over vacation is over. We are going to see him working it really hard in many different ways.  Don the president has to be aware of the opposition rallies some of them organized by conservative interest groups taking place here in Washington today for example. Are White House officials worried about these protestors?  I do not know if worried is the right word. But they take them seriously and they know that they did not get where they are you know in the White House by not taking opponents seriously. So they are watching them very closely. In some places they feel like you know the more extreme opponents they have might actually be a big help to them because it allows the president to look more reasonable more calm more serious on this. But they are constantly gauging how the public responds to these other messages and calibrating their own response as a result.  That is NPR's White House correspondent Don Gonyea traveling with the president. Don thanks.  It is a pleasure. 