 Many Latinas mark their 15th birthdays with parties called quinceaneras. In Austin Texas it is popular to include a photo shoot on the steps of the state Capitol. Today that rite of passage took on a political bent. NPR's Vanessa Romo reports.  There are at least three elements that make a quinceanera a quinceanera - a big poufy dress check - some declaration that a young girl is now a woman check - and a highly choreographed dance...   ...Check. But what happened on the steps of the Texas Capitol earlier today was something more than a celebratory rite of passage for 15 teens in bedazzled and sherbet-colored princess dresses. And it is become a social media campaign and an active hashtag - 15contraSB4 - that is been shared all over Twitter.  It is an event that is gotten a lot of traction from Latinos as I said across the country but also here in Texas.  That is because this quinceanera was also a protest against a new state law that allows law enforcement to check the immigration status of residents and penalizes those who do not. It was organized by Cristina Tzintzun.  Texas has become ground zero for the fight for the rights of immigrants and Latinos.  Tzintzun is the founder of Jolt Texas a nonprofit group working to get young Latinos to vote and run for office. And this demonstration in Austin she says was part of a larger national movement.  This last election we saw Mexicans and Latinos demonized and really scapegoated. And so we want legislators to know and Trump to know that we will not sit idly by while legislation of hate is passed that our communities are going to organize and mobilize.  So why the quinceanera theme - because Tzintzun says it is when...  A girl takes on the full duties of becoming a woman. And one of those duties is protecting your family.  In a traditional quince the birthday girl performs a dance usually a waltz. But these 15 ladies went a different route.  K'  I got one job two job three when I need them.  They choreographed a mash-up dance to Lin-Manuel Miranda's Immigrants  and Somos Mas Americanos by Los Tigros del Norte one of Mexico's most famous bands. The two songs tell the stories of immigration and the search for jobs.  K'  Immigrants we get the job done.  Sixteen-year-old Viridiana Sanchez explains why.  Basically because a lot of the things that the song is saying are true. Like we are America. Like we keep this economy moving.  Maggie Juarez is 17 about to start her senior year in high school. She says...  Using these quinceaneras is showing that as an adult and as a Latina we are responsible in voicing those who cannot speak for themselves in the moment.  For Juarez turning 15 was a really big deal. Turning 18 and being able to vote - that'ill be monumental. Vanessa Romo NPR News.  