 Facebook has removed ads from the Trump campaign that used symbolism associated with Nazi concentration camps. The social network says the posts violate its policies against hate. The Trump campaign is criticizing Facebook's move and stands by the ads. This of course comes amid mounting tensions between the president and big tech. For more we are joined now by NPR's Bobby Allyn in San Francisco. Hey Bobby.  Hey there.  Hey. So what exactly are these ads at the center of all this?  Yeah so these ads blame quote dangerous mobs of far-left groups that supposedly are running through the streets and causing mayhem in the aftermath of the death of George Floyd. And the ad here ties the mass demonstrations we have been seeing to the loose group of antifascist activists known as Antifa. Trump has been connecting the demonstrations to this group for some time even though there is no evidence at all that you know they played a significant role in the protests. And so this ad says protesters are you know rioting and destroying America's cities. And this was written above a giant upside-down red triangle. And it is that image that really has caused this intense backlash.  An upside-down red triangle. OK what have historians and other experts have said about this symbol?  Yeah so I have talked to some historians about this and they say that it was used in Nazi concentration camps to identify prisoners that these upside-down triangles were actually sewn into prison uniforms used to identify you know on what grounds people were being held. I talked to the Anti-Defamation League's CEO Jonathan Greenblatt and he applauded Facebook for taking down the ads. He said you know using Nazi-era imagery in a political ad is offensive and hateful. And he asked the Trump campaign to apologize.  And how has the Trump Administration responded so far?  They are knuckling down and they are defending the ad. They first likened it the triangle - the upside-down triangle - to a texting emoji.  An emoji?  They then you know pointed to various - yeah an emoji. You know you send your friends a little emoji. They then pointed to various online products that use this image next to the word Antifa as proof that Antifa does embrace the image. But experts I talked to said you know actually in the U.S. this symbol is not associated with the Antifa movement. But for the Trump campaign Ailsa it is important that you know to focus on how they are using this moment to talk about their war with big tech. It is a big theme of the campaign. For weeks now the Trump administration has been attempting to punish and limit the legal protection for social media companies like Facebook and Twitter for occasionally moderating things that Trump tweets and posts on Facebook.  All right that is NPR's Bobby Allyn. Thank you Bobby.  Thanks Ailsa. 