 Here something we are reminded of this week - Donald Trump is not only a presidential candidate. He is also a former reality TV star. He hosted The Apprentice for 14 seasons. And as NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says that experience seems to be filtering its way into the Republican National Convention right Eric?  That is right Audie. In fact here's exhibit A. Why wait for the final night to take the stage like past candidates?    We are the champions.  Trump made a dramatic entrance to a Queen song on the very first night to introduce his wife Melania.  And of course we know that speech took on a life of its own.   From a young age my parents impressed on me the values that you work hard for what you want in life that your word is your bond.  And before that a bunch of reality TV stars took the convention stage including Scott Baio.   Let us make America great again but let us make America America again.  And do not forget the unplanned dramatic moments like Never Trump delegates shouting from the convention floor on national television.   And Audie there is more.  All right. All right. All right. I want to take some time to actually talk to you about all of this because a lot of people are drawing this parallel between the convention and reality television. Is that hyperbole?  You know I do not think it is. What is interesting here is that Donald Trump has always been known as a reality TV star. And then when he started a campaign he was seen as the reality TV candidate. And now he is presented a convention that is a lot like reality TV. We do not have the established stars from the GOP. They have mostly stayed away. Instead we have got these B- and C-list stars from actual reality TV like Scott Baio and Antonio Sabato Jr. and the guy from Duck Dynasty. And we have this convention which is supposed to be the slick infomercial for the candidate. And instead it is been upended by these unexpected controversies whether it is the controversy over Melania Trump's speech or Ted Cruz on Wednesday deciding not to endorse Donald Trump in a showcase speech. This is the kind of stuff that happens on reality TV where you expect it to go one way but unexpectedly it takes a dramatic turn in a different way. And this is something that we have seen unfold on our TV screens now as part of this convention.  All right but how much control do we really think that Donald Trump has - that his campaign has - over what is going on here?  Well I think that is the ultimate question here. I mean when you are watching these shows as a TV viewer you have a sense that you want to see some kind of narrative that is being presented to you. But it seems during this convention that it is constantly being upended. These moments that they did not quite plan for kind of erupt and then you have to sort of deal with them. There is a sense that these guys do not necessarily put together a plan that is working as smoothly as it could have.  What about the ratings? Are people actually tuning in this year more than they have to pass conventions?  Well Nielsen sent over some ratings figures. And for example if you look at Tuesday's ratings about 19.8 million people watched the coverage over the top the three broadcast networks - ABC CBS NBC - and also the top cable news channels. And that is down from 2012 when we had more like 21 million people watching. But the thing that is quirky about the numbers is that the numbers this year do not include PBS. And the convention was delayed because of a hurricane that came near Florida and forced them to move the convention and cancel the first day on Monday. So it is hard to compare the two years and the convention coverage because it is so different for so many different reasons.  Before I let you go Eric I want your review. Is this actually good television?  Well you know it is interesting. I think it is train wreck television in a way and I am not sure that is the kind of television they wanted to present. But I also think it is compelling to people who have been following this story because in a way it is the story of how Donald Trump's campaign has unfolded. And when you look at the coverage of it the cable news channels and the networks have these bevies of pundits that are ready to dissect every moment the minute that it happens. And you are told how to feel about something almost from the minute that you see it and I think it also alters the coverage. So it is compelling as a train wreck not necessarily compelling as well-crafted television.  That is NPR TV critic Eric Deggans. And Eric thanks so much.  Thanks for having me. 