 Bill thanks for coming in.  Thanks for having me.  And let us start with this claim made by Rick Perry last night as he was slamming President Obama's new stimulus proposal.  He had 800 billion worth of stimulus in the first round of stimulus. It created zero jobs.  It created zero jobs. Now Bill you have looked at this claim from other Republicans before and you found it sorely flawed I guess we could say. Pants on fire...  Now it is a legitimate question to ask has this been a wise expenditure of public money. But in terms of has it created jobs it has.  One caveat though jobs that may have been created or saved in other words not new jobs necessarily but jobs that did not go away.  Absolutely. In some cases in fact the way the studies have defined it a job saved would be perhaps a government job that was going to be eliminated otherwise and was not because of the stimulus money.  Let us stick on the topic of jobs and listen to another claim made last night this one by former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman.  I know that everything is bigger in Texas and Rick likes to talk that way. I know all the smart people reside in Massachusetts. But let me just tell you Utah the great state of Utah was number one in job creation at 5.9 percent during my years as governor.  Now Bill we are going to set aside for now the claim that all the smart people live in Massachusetts. Maybe we can truth-squad that another day. But what about what that claim from Jon Huntsman that Utah led the country in job creation when he was governor?  We rated that Half True. This is a question of what data set do you use. If you use the data that the Huntsman campaign does they do indeed come out number one. But if you use a different data set that is actually the one preferred by the Bureau of Labor Statistics Utah ranks fourth. So we give Huntsman a Half True for that one.  Ranks fourth according to those data. And I think behind Texas in fact.  Exactly. Yes an important distinction.  Let us move on to a statement made by Michele Bachmann. It has to do with health care.  We know that President Obama stole over 500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to ObamaCare.  Bill Adair?  The law passed through Congress. It was a very open process. There was plenty of debate about this along the way. So Mostly False for that one.  So in other words savings from the Medicare program that will be used to fund expanding the program for Medicaid recipients?  Exactly. And those savings come largely from reductions in the growth of Medicare in the future.  Bill Adair let us end by listening to Mitt Romney who was going after Rick Perry for as he put it claiming that Social Security is unconstitutional.  In writing his book Governor Perry pointed out that in his view that Social Security is unconstitutional that this is not something the federal government ought to be involved in that instead it should be given back to the states.  And he is referring there to Rick Perry's book Fed Up which came out last year. Is he right? Did Rick Perry say that Social Security is unconstitutional?  He came close. We rated that mostly true. When you look at the book he never explicitly came out and said Social Security is unconstitutional. But he definitely made clear that was his point. He raised questions about whether the program was forced onto the people in ways that - where he questioned the constitutionality. So on balance we gave that one a mostly true.  Okay. Bill Adair thanks so much for coming in.  Thanks for having me.  Bill Adair with PolitiFact.com. 