 The special counsel investigation into Russian interference in last year's election is heating up. This week we learned that the FBI conducted an early morning raid at the home of former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort. Here's what the president had to say about it yesterday.   It is pretty tough stuff.  Mr. President...  You wake him up. Perhaps his family was there. I think that is pretty tough stuff.  NPR justice correspondent Carrie Johnson is here to bring us up to speed on the investigation. Hey Carrie.  Hi Ari.  Is it pretty tough stuff?  Well I interviewed lots of lawyers and experts this week. They said using a search warrant in a white-collar corruption case is unusual more typical in drug trafficking or terror investigations. In fact Whitewater independent counsel Ken Starr who received so much criticism about overreach during the Bill Clinton years never used search warrants. I checked with two members of his team. They told me they did not do it. Neither did Patrick Fitzgerald. He investigated the leak of a CIA operative's identity in the George W. Bush era. So this is out of character.  If it is so unusual do we know why the special counsel used one in this case?  We do not know for certain. Robert Mueller does not talk about ongoing investigations. But the best clue may be the affidavit an FBI agent filed in court to support this search. The agent had to convince a judge there was probable cause some crime had been committed. That search warrant is not public at least not yet. But sources close to the case are saying investigators wanted bank and tax records from Paul Manafort the one-time chairman of the Trump campaign. And a Manafort spokesman says he is responding to government inquiries from the FBI and Congress. Legal experts are telling me Mueller would not have used a search warrant if there were no concerns about cooperation or destruction of evidence. In other words there was some signal that evidence might have been gotten rid of.  So Paul Manafort is clearly one focus of the investigation but he may not be the only focus. What is the endgame here?  Well in big complicated investigations like this one the FBI and prosecutors want to find documents emails contemporaneous records of whatever they are investigating. But they also need insiders to explain those documents - the conversations the motivations. Think of it like climbing a ladder veteran Washington defense lawyer Bill Jeffress told me. Start with the office assistants and the clerks. Move up to the vice presidents and see how far things go. Now some of this pressure may be designed to get Paul Manafort to consider turning into a government witness cooperating with the special counsel and see what he has to say about other people under investigation. Right now there is no public sign that is happened yet.  Based on the people you have talked to would that be a pretty common tactic for a special counsel to take?  Absolutely. You know this 16-lawyer team that Bob Mueller has put together to investigate...  That is a large number.  Yeah a large number but the experience is unbelievable. These are people who have prosecuted terrorists mobsters and very very high-level corporate executives. They are not afraid to use tough tactics. Now consider a guy named Andrew Weissmann. He once led the Enron task force which prosecuted executives at that defunct energy company. At one point they wanted the cooperation of the chief financial officer Andrew Fastow. They threatened to indict Fastow's wife if he did not cooperate with them. Fastow did not blink. And so both the husband and the wife were prosecuted and did prison time.  So that is the team that these folks are up against.  Not just Enron. Think about another more recent addition to this team Greg Andres a longtime prosecutor from Brooklyn took down the Bonanno crime family boss. He put together a trial team and presented witnesses for weeks on end. He secured the cooperation of the crime family boss's brother-in-law who went on to testify against the crime family boss in court. And Greg Andres so got under the skin of these mobsters that one of them testified they wanted to take out a hit on him.  Wow. So this sounds like an all-star legal team. Do we know where they are going next?  Well we do not know for sure. They are going to be sifting through lots of documents talking with witnesses. And then Ari we know there are now two grand juries looking at elements of this investigation - one in suburban Virginia another in D.C. According to grand jury rules prosecutors and FBI agents are not supposed to be talking about what is going on in those grand juries but the witnesses sure can. So some of the information we are likely to see in the coming weeks may come from that.  That is NPR justice correspondent Carrie Johnson. Thanks Carrie.  My pleasure. 