 You would be hard pressed to find a more reliably Republican religious group than Mormons let alone a more reliably Republican state than Utah. The last time Utah voted for a Democrat for president was in 1964. But as we have heard over and over this is a year when conventional wisdom about politics is getting tossed on its head. NPR's Kirk Siegler reports from Northern Utah.   The historic Tabernacle in downtown Logan Utah is a staple of everyday life for Mormons in Cache County like Jonathan Choate.  I have performed up there many times. I am a singer so we always do a Messiah performance.  Conservative Republican politics is also a staple for many of this area's Mormon families which is why heads turned when Choate and a colleague abruptly resigned from the Cache County GOP's Executive Committee because the party refused to publicly condemn Donald Trump.  He is a charismatic leader who I think is clinically narcissistic. And his - what his core is - whatever he wants it to be at a given moment whatever's going to get him the power and attention.  Choate is a friendly 40-year-old man with a booming voice. His bushy red beard extends down to his chest. He runs an IT business and leans libertarian. He says as a Latter Day Saint his decision to leave the GOP altogether can be blamed on what he calls Trump's divisive rhetoric on race and religion.  The LDS Church has a recent memory of being divided out based on religion and being driven from the United States. The time the LDS Church came to Utah it was not the United States. They literally had to flee the country.  Choate's opinions on Trump are shared by enough Utah Mormons that two recent polls have shown Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton remarkably in a dead heat here. There is also growing support for the libertarian candidate Gary Johnson and for sure there are still a lot of undecideds like Gina Worthen. She is Jonathan Choate's former colleague the vice chair of the Cache County Republicans and a proud stay-at-home mom.  You know and I agree with what they said about Trump. I - he is at the bottom of my favorite people list .  But Worthen refused to resign or leave the party. There are just too many good candidates down ticket she says and she is trying to convince fellow Republicans that they can still turn out but just leave the presidential box blank. She might.  I think that people in Utah. Really do look at character. I think it is a Mormon culture. We do not like lying. We do not like cheating. We want people of good character.  This rift is a complicated one. So many Mormon Republicans will tell you they want to be loyal to their party and its tradition. But for the first time in generations their politics and their faith are colliding.  OK.  Walking into Janalee Tobias's house two hours away in a Salt Lake City suburb the first thing you see is a wrought iron sculpture of two revolvers and the words we do not dial 911. She admires Trump's recent pro-gun statements and she does not like what she is seeing up in Cache County.  By them resigning and their - saying they are going to vote for third party and they resign from the Republican Party they are traitors.  Tobias calls herself an outlier a Trump Mormon for time and all eternity as she recently posted to Facebook. It is a Mormon expression referencing marriage in the temple.  And I started getting this really like - it is in my message box and even people - how can you be a Trump Mormon? And I am like why? If you listen to his speeches you will be inspired that he wants to make America great again.  Tobias thinks Mormons will come around on Trump after the convention next week. He is a family man she says who does not drink. Kirk Siegler NPR News Salt Lake City. 