 Religious liberty is a rallying cry for many evangelical voters. The issue popped up repeatedly during the Republican presidential primary season and presumptive nominee Donald Trump is picking up the theme.   Religious freedom - the right of people of faith to freely practice their faith - so important.  That was Trump speaking to evangelicals in Washington earlier this month. But in the current political climate some conservative Christians are struggling with how religious freedom applies to Muslims. NPR's Sarah McCammon reports.  Donald Trump spoke to hundreds of evangelicals in New York last week. He promised if he is elected quote people are going to say Merry Christmas again.  The things he said are the things we need - religious freedom.  Billye Brim runs a prayer retreat in the Ozark Mountains of Missouri. She was at the closed-door meeting.  We do not want Christianity to be muffled silenced.  For decades evangelicals have rallied around issues like prayer in public schools and more recently whether conservative Christian vendors should be required by law to provide services for same-sex weddings. But with the threat of terrorism inspired by radical Islamic groups and Trump's rhetoric about Muslims some conservative Christians are asking questions like this.   I would like to know how in the world someone within the Southern Baptist Convention can support the defending of rights for Muslims to construct mosques in the United States when these people threaten our very way of existence as Christians and Americans.  Pastor John Wofford raised that question at a national meeting of Southern Baptists earlier this month in St. Louis. It had been just days since a gunman who would pledged loyalty to ISIS killed 50 people including himself at a gay nightclub in Orlando. Southern Baptist leader Russell Moore responded that letting the government restrict Muslims could lead to discrimination against Christians.   Sometimes we have really hard decisions to make. This is not one of those things.  Moore leads the Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission which recently signed on to a legal brief supporting the right of a group of Muslims in New Jersey to build a mosque. Moore's answer was met with enthusiastic applause but he is also faced criticism from some including Wofford pastor of Armorel Baptist Church in northeast Arkansas.   Inaccessible hid from our eyes...  In an interview there Wofford said he believes the Constitution protects all religions including Islam but he does not want Southern Baptist leaders to advocate for the rights of other faiths when he sees Christianity as the only true path.  So what I am actually doing if I support and defend the rights of people to construct places of false worship I am helping them go to hell.  For others the question is more complicated. After Trump's meeting with evangelical leaders in New York last week several praised his pledge on religious liberty. Asked how that applies to Muslims Conservative columnist Ken Blackwell had this response.  I was more interested in hearing Donald Trump say that he was willing and ready to defend religious liberty not just for Christians but including for Christians in the public square.  Blackwell said Trump's call for a temporary Muslim ban will be part of an ongoing conversation with evangelicals. Many see Trump as more favorable to concerns about their own religious liberty than his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. So they are unlikely as Blackwell put it to throw Trump overboard over religious freedom for Muslims. Sarah McCammon NPR News. 