 This week the Obama administration announced an effort to promote the new health insurance marketplaces to Latinos. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius will make the rounds on Spanish-language media. Under the Affordable Care Act people can start signing up to get insurance through the marketplaces on October 1. Some 10 million Latinos could gain coverage. Advocacy groups are trying to help Latinos sign up as we hear from Jenny Gold in Maryland.  It is a crowded morning at the legal clinic at CASA de Maryland a nonprofit in suburban Washington serving the local Latino community. Elva Jaldin makes the rounds with her clipboard and health pamphlets. She is one of the center's 20  health promoters who help explain things like vaccinations and diabetes to anyone coming in.    Today she is telling women about breast cancer risk. Soon she will also be telling people like Andrea Velandia how to sign up for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act. Velandia is at CASA de Maryland with her toddler and newborn for help finishing her citizenship papers. Right now like many Latinos she is young and uninsured.  I just think it is very expensive to go to a doctor to get a regular checkup whatever you are doing a test or anything. It is just a lot of money. And you only have an option to go to the emergency room which is even more expensive I guess.  So far she is been able to make do.  We are very healthy. Like we do not have like many issues.  And that makes her just the sort of person Obamacare needs most. The more young and healthy people who buy insurance in the new marketplaces the less insurers have to pay in claims and the lower premiums will be. And so the state gave CASA de Maryland a grant to hire a dozen new employees called navigators to work fulltime on enrollment in their centers. Here's health director George Escobar.  Plus we will have navigators basically mobile navigators that will be working in the community that will be enrolling - educating and enrolling people in businesses at supermarkets at community events weekends evenings.  It may not be easy.  undocumented immigrants. Jennifer Ng'andu works on health policy at the National Council of La Raza. JENNIFER NG' So the takeaway often from that public message was there is not really anything in the Affordable Care Act for the Latino community. Many people forgot to talk about the fact that there are a broad set of Latinos in fact most who are here lawfully present and who will gain the benefits of the Affordable Care Act.  She says the current debate over immigration reform is adding more fear and confusion especially in families where some people are citizens and others are not. NG' Even if everyone in that household is legal they still have different eligibility from each other. And so teasing all of that out can be difficult.  In California Spanish-language media are proving to be a key part of the push. The California Endowment a foundation based in LA is sponsoring a series of ads on Spanish networks Univision Telemundo and ImpreMedia. One of them features celebrity psychologist Doctora Isabel.   Dr. Isabel's ad is a good example of how you have to tailor the message for the audience.  Daniel Zingale runs the endowment's outreach campaign. He says it is not enough just to translate an English ad into Spanish. You also have to address the cultural differences. He points to an ad in English featuring Dr. Oz.   In the Dr. Oz ad he speaks in language that is very familiar to those in mainstream English language press but in the Spanish language ad with Dr. Isabel she describes Obamacare as a blessing and we learned early on that that was language that was appropriate to that audience.  That message will also reach the millions of undocumented Latino immigrants. But the law bars them from purchasing insurance on the exchanges. CASA de Maryland's George Escobar says their job is not only to enroll people who do qualify it is also to help those who do not find other options for care. For NPR News I am Jenny Gold.  Jenny Gold is with our partner Kaiser Health News a nonprofit news service. 