 Last night former President Bill Clinton delivered a speech remarkable both for its eloquence and for the sheer quantity of facts it contained. The folks at FactCheck. A fact-checker's nightmare - lots of effort required to run down his many statistics and factual claims producing little for us to write about. We are going to put a few of those claims of fact to the test now with Robert Farley who is the deputy managing editor of FactCheck.org. Welcome to the program.  Well thanks for having me.  A nightmare you say but I gather most of President Clinton's facts do check out?  We found out most of them did. It was - he threw out an awful lot of numbers on oil imports and jobs auto and manufacturing jobs. And so a lot of those we had not heard before. But when we checked them out a lot of them were accurate.  We heard a lot from President Clinton about health care that the health care law has slowed the rate of growth for health care costs that President Obama saved 716 billion from Medicare without cutting benefits then used that money to close the drug doughnut hole that he added eight years to the Medicare Trust Fund so that it is solvent until 2024. And finally this claim about Mitt Romney's plans for Medicare.  So if he is elected and if he does what he promised to do Medicare will now go broke in 2016.   Think about that. That means after all we will not have to wait until our voucher program kicks in in 2023...   ...to see the end of Medicare as we know it.  Rob Farley of FactCheck.org in that health care portion of President Clinton's speech any fiction in there?  Well the Medicare program would not necessarily go broke. What we are talking about here is that the trust fund that makes up the difference between what we pay in for Medicare every year and what actually it costs about 87 percent of the cost is made up from those taxes that you pay for your payroll taxes. So it would not go broke necessarily. But the government would have to chip in money starting in 2016 if the cost of the program is not reduced over time.  But the 716 billion that would be cut from Medicare without cutting benefits is that an accurate statement of what President Obama has done?  It is an accurate statement. We are talking here about a reduction in the future cost of payments to hospitals. And so there is no reduction in benefits. In fact some seniors would see some increased benefits such as annual wellness visits that would be without a co-pay.  Let us move on now to what Bill Clinton said about President Obama's recovery act and this claim that Clinton made last night.  The recovery act saved or created millions of jobs and cut taxes. Let me say this again cut taxes for 95 percent of the American people.   And in the last 29 months our economy has produced about four and a half million private sector jobs.  OK four and a half million private sector jobs produced tax cuts for 95 percent of the American people. True?  Well we are going to quibble a bit with the 95 percent of tax cuts to the American people. He is talking here about working folks. He is not talking about pensioners or the unemployed. It would be about 76 percent of all families and single individuals. But about 95 percent of working people got a tax cut through the Making Work Pay Tax Cut from the stimulus. It was about 400 for individuals about 800 for couples.  And private sector jobs that were created four and a half million?  That is accurate. Now he is talking about private sector jobs only. And he is talking about a period of time from February 2010 when the numbers began to improve. If you were to back up to say the beginning of Obama's term there is been a net loss of jobs overall.  One more point President Clinton claimed that since 1961 Republican presidents have created 24 million jobs while Democratic presidents - with slightly less time in the White House - have created 42 million jobs almost twice as many. True?  That was a new statistic for us we had not heard before. And it is true. Bloomberg had done a report on this back in May. And they went through the Bureau of Labor Statistics data and matched it up against all the presidents and found that there were more jobs created under Democratic presidents. Now does that mean Democrats are better at creating jobs than Republicans? There' timing whether the Congress is the same party as the president. An awful lot of factors like that. So it is hard to say who gets all the credit for that.  So Robert Farley deputy managing editor of FactCheck.org thanks for talking with us.  Oh thank you. 