 Online with just a couple of clicks you can access a world of official opposition research on candidates running for office around the country right now. And says Nathan Gonzales in his analysis for CQ Roll Call this is not an accident and it is not new. Nathan Gonzales joins me. Hey there.  Hello hello hello.  All right. So we know that opposition research in American politics is not new but it is maybe something we think of as getting done behind closed doors maybe 'ecause it feels a little shady maybe 'ecause you do not want your opponent to know what you know. Why then do both major political parties publish their opposition research online where everybody can read it?  Well the main reason is because due to campaign finance law the candidates in the official party campaign committees cannot communicate with outside groups. And so it is difficult for a party to be on the same page when going after an opponent if they cannot coordinate. And so releasing opposition research in - on websites is a way to communicate a message that you want to put out in front of the voters without illegally coordinating with these outside groups. The byproduct of publishing it and informing your allies is that the other party gets to see it as well.  I suppose also it means nobody wastes money digging up the same dirt twice. You already know what is been dug up and you can move on to the next pile.  Correct. There is some - there is cost savings involved so you do not duplicate resources. And if you are the one who is running and you find your own opposition research from the other party that should not be a surprise to you either because hopefully you have done the research into your own background and you realize what your vulnerabilities are and what attacks are likely to be headed your way.  So just give me an example. I understand the Republicans' research on Democrats is not yet posted. While we wait on that what kinds of information can we find right now on the Democrat site?  Sure. If you go to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee - if you go to their website dccc.orgraces this is where for the past four election cycles they have put opposition research onto the Republican candidates that they are facing. So you will find for example former Congressman David Valadao who is running in California's 21st District. He lost in 2018. He is trying to regain that seat. You will find a 942-page opposition research book on Congressman Valadao. And how it works is it is not just about the book. It is laid out in a way that an outside group that again cannot coordinate will look at it. They can see what have been identified as the key findings. They can see what votes or what parts - what evidence is within the book to back up those claims. And - but it can have everything from votes that a candidate has passed to business background to their personal background.  Fascinating. All right. So much to keep us busy between now and the election as we all go look see what kind of dirt everybody's dug up on everybody else. That is Nathan Gonzales elections analyst for CQ Roll Call and publisher of Inside Elections. Thanks very much.  Thank you. 