 This week's U.N. climate report concludes that a certain amount of damage to the planet is now irreversible that even the most dramatic cuts to carbon emissions can only maybe prevent the worst predicted effects of climate change. And to some that might feel like a landmark finding. Not to John Kerry.  To some degree it was a report that just underscored a level of frustration and even anger that grows that we have to keep having reports just repeating the same thing only it gets worse and worse.  Kerry is President Biden's special envoy on climate meaning it falls to him to help chart what U.S. policy will be. As secretary of state he once signed the Paris Climate Agreement. This fall he heads to a major U.N. climate conference in Scotland. Kerry spoke to us about what it will take for the world's governments to move more aggressively starting with the most populous country and the one responsible for nearly a third of the world's emissions - China.  Well we are engaged in continuing discussion with China. And it is very important that China step up and take additional steps between 2020 and 2030. Now China is currently doing more than many people know or think. China is in fact the largest producer of solar panels and of alternative renewable energy in the world. China has in fact deployed more of that renewable energy than any other country in the world. But because they are so big China has to obviously do more faster. And the Chinese are currently in deliberations to try to determine what that will be and can be.  But can I stop because that - we are looking at a moment where as I said they do not actually have any policy in this direction.  They have not yet decided to do enough in our judgment to be able to meet what we need to do between 2020 and 2030. But it is not fair to say China does not have policy. China is in fact implementing some policy and they are currently in deliberation on more. Now it is not my job to explain China's policy except to say that we are - I am going back to China in about three weeks. My hope is that by that point in time China will have made some of the decisions that they are in the throes of deliberating now so that we can move forward faster together. If we cannot obviously that injures everybody else's efforts. I do not think it makes any sense for people to throw up their hands and say well if China is not going to do it we are not going to do it because obviously we have all got to do our part to avoid the worst consequences.  In the past the U.S. has made pledges to help poorer countries for instance pay for efforts to transition to clean energy. Is there any move to improve that? Have we lived up to that? And what is the plan if we have not?  There is a tremendous effort going on to assist less-developed nations. We have made a commitment globally that was made in Paris to commit 100 billion a year for you know the next 10 years in order to assist those countries to make that transition. Tragically that amount of money has not yet been fully identified though the effort to identify it between now and Glasgow is in full swing. In addition to that though there is trillions of dollars that are going to be needed for this transition. And we the United States have worked very closely with the six largest banks in our nation. They have stepped up and they have announced that they are going to set aside a specific amount of money to invest in accelerating this transition augmenting it over the course of the next 10 years. That amount of money from the six banks is 4.16 trillion. And that is a floor not a ceiling.  So are policymakers moving at the same rate as markets?  This is one of those incredible moments where frankly the market is way ahead of political systems in many but not all. The private sector is fully prepared to invest in these sectors providing governments are making it feasible by getting the bureaucracy out of the way guaranteeing you can make a decision on the land acquisition needed for some of this deployment and making sure that the revenue stream that supports that financial transaction is there and reliable.  Are governments doing that? Is our government doing that?  We are engaged in this. We are leading this effort to try to make sure that this works. And the answer is yes. Other governments are fully prepared to be engaged in similar transactions. The EU is a terrific partner in this. The U.K. Canada Japan have all made decisions that are moving in the right direction.  Is there any particular arrow in the quiver meaning a tariff a policy a tax any kind of way that the U.S. might consider wielding some of its economic influence to bring about some of the changes President Biden is calling for?  Well there are two things that are on the table being examined. Now the president has not adopted either yet but those two policies that are being examined are one a border adjustment mechanism for carbon.  So you are referring to a tax.  Well it is a tariff. It is a fee that would be charged to a nation's particular products that continue to be made cheaply because countries are not investing and doing what they need to do to meet the climate challenge. And it is a possibility depending on what nations sign up for decide to do. The second one that is being considered in various parts of the world is a price on carbon itself. And there are many models though it is not acceptable to certain elements of certain parties and certain countries but it is certainly one of those steps that gets the most bang for the buck.  You have been at this for many years thinking about these issues. What if anything about this week felt like a turning point for you? Maybe it is not but I feel like I should ask.  Well no it did not. And it does not feel like a turning point at this point. It feels like one more in a series of warnings which have been made over 30 years plus. I do not think it took this IPCC report for a whole bunch of people who have been working on this issue for a long time to feel motivated. So the time has come. It has to happen now. That is what Glasgow is all about. That is what this next meeting of the world coming together is about. Not one country but the world has to make a global effort here. Everybody has a role here and no one carries a greater burden in that role than the 20 largest economies of the world which emit almost 80 of all the emissions that are creating this damage.  That is former Secretary of State John Kerry. He is now the U.S. special envoy for climate. Thank you so much for your time.  Pleasure to be with you. Thank you. 