 When House Speaker John Boehner stepped out to address reporters about his surprise resignation today he looked pretty upbeat. As Boehner spoke about his decision on Capitol Hill conservative activists were gathering across town for the annual Values Voter Summit. And those conservatives who have battled with Boehner for the last four and a half years well they were pretty happy too. NPR's Don Gonyea spent the day at the summit and he is with us now. Hi Don.  Hi there.  OK the people you spent today with have been waiting a long time to see John Boehner gone. Describe the scene when the news broke.  Well it is early in the morning right? Nobody has heard the news. They are in this ballroom. It is mostly full. They are ready to hear a slate of presidential candidates today. And they have no idea what is happening in the outside world until one of those candidates - Sen. Marco Rubio - took the stage.   Just a few minutes ago Speaker Boehner announced that he will be resigning.   You can hear it there. And that applause went on for a lot longer than we are playing it right now right? Rubio went on to pay his respects to Boehner but then he did say the time has come to turn the page. As for the cheers those very spontaneous cheers - recall these are the activists who see Christianity and religious freedom as being under fire in this country. They are pushing hard for Congress to defund Planned Parenthood even it means a government shutdown. Boehner is a Republican but they say he has not been on their side. He has not been a fighter for their causes.  In addition to Marco Rubio there were a lot of high-profile Republicans at this gathering today. Was the reaction to Rubio pretty consistent with what you heard from the other big hitters?  Mostly mostly. Donald Trump spoke. He referenced it saying it is a matter of electing officials who just are not up to the job. So there is his dig at Boehner. But Sen. Rick Santorum running for president again - he served with Boehner and the Congress. He called Boehner a strong and principled conservative said he enjoyed working with him. Sen. Ted Cruz praised the crowd saying it is because of you guys that we are going to get a new speaker of the House. He said that Boehner was wrong - the wrong leader for conservatives even describing backroom deals he said that Boehner may have been working on with Democrats. Listen to him from a scrum with reporters.   The early reports are discouraging. If it is correct that the speaker before he resigns has cut a deal with Nancy Pelosi to fund the Obama administration for the rest of its tenure to fund Obamacare to fund executive amnesty to fund Planned Parenthood to fund implementation of this Iran deal...  So you get a sense of it. Here's what they really get - energy. Energy - they feel good about this today regardless of who the next speaker is.  That is NPR's Don Gonyea on today's Values Voter Summit on the day Speaker John Boehner announced his resignation. 