 This year Latinos will make up the nation's largest non-white voting bloc. Historically they have supported Democrats by large margins. But this year Latino leaders fear that an enthusiasm gap could keep many Latinos from voting. NPR's Adrian Florido reports.  Gabriel Carlos Leon is a 24-year-old Democrat from Arizona. He is going to vote for Joe Biden in November but...  I do not feel good about it. I feel gross. I feel icky.  Leon wanted a more progressive candidate. He also has lots of undocumented friends so immigration reform is important to him. But he worries that a Biden administration just like the Obama administration will not deliver that reform.  Right now the Latino community is in a position where - like we are held captive because the only people who are going to make the kind of political reforms especially in the age of Trump is going to be the Democratic Party. And I do not see anyone in the Democratic Party right now prioritizing it.  Thus his reluctant support for Biden - that disenchantment with this election especially among many young Latinos is something Maria Teresa Kumar has hurt a lot of this year. She is president of Voto Latino which is trying to register half a million voters. It worried her when she started seeing young Latinos on social media saying there was no real difference between Joe Biden and Donald Trump. That is one reason Voto Latino issued its first-ever endorsement this year for Biden.  What we did not want to happen was what happened in the 2016 election where once Bernie Sanders was no longer on the ticket a lot of their supporters who happened to be a lot of young Latinos sat it out.  Her worry that many Latinos will not vote this year has been expressed by a lot of Latino leaders in recent days and speaks to what they say is a deeper problem - that Democrats are not targeting Latinos hard enough. Sonja Diaz directs the UCLA Latino Policy  Politics Initiative.  I do not know that it makes sense for any voter to be enthusiastic about a product that is not clear and is not marketed to them. One of the things about the Latino vote is it seems like it is expected.  She says it is like how politicians have treated Latinos during the coronavirus pandemic. Millions of them including citizen children born to undocumented parents have been excluded from relief programs. And yet...  We are just expected to show up to work and keep America fed safe and housed and die or become infected and infect our families.  Diaz says speaking directly to Latinos about their top concerns - the economy health care education - would build crucial support among the huge population of young Latinos just now aging into the electorate. The Biden campaign has said it is ramping up Latino outreach so has the Trump campaign targeting conservative Latinos in states like Florida where Trump and Biden are polling about even among Latino voters. Stephen Nuno-Perez of the polling firm Latino Decisions says despite a real enthusiasm gap among younger Latinos Biden is enjoying overwhelming Latino support overall.  There is a well-settled you know up-and-coming middle class largely Mexican American who really just want to get past Donald Trump right? They really just want to come back to some sense of normalcy.  The firm's polling also showed Biden's choice of Sen. Kamala Harris a mixed race daughter of immigrants gave him a boost among Latinos.  I think the question is does that support hold? So far we just do not see that it is not.  Erika Andrade lives in Connecticut. She is 50 an immigrant from Ecuador teaches English to adult Spanish speakers. In 2016 she voted for Donald Trump.  As much as I am a Democrat I have some liberal tendencies and very conservative tendencies - the Latina and I was raised Catholic.  But she soon came to believe Trump was threatening the democracy her family came to the U.S. for. This year she is an enthusiastic Biden supporter.  Biden impressed me because he seems to be the one unifying force. And I just hope that Latinos come out and vote.  She said some of her English students have recently become U.S. citizens and so she is asking them to please register and vote. Adrian Florido NPR News. 