 Six states are voting today in the presidential primary. They are Montana New Mexico the Dakotas New Jersey and the biggest of all California. Some of NPR's finest are with us to talk about the Democrats still campaigning. Political editor Domenico Montanaro is here in the studio with me. NPR's Tamara Keith is out at NPR West in California. She is covering the Clinton campaign. And NPR's Sam Sanders is on the line as he follows Bernie Sanders who is shaking hands in the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles. Hello all three of you.  Hello.  Hi.  Hey there.  Domenico let us start with you. Polls have closed in New Jersey. What do we know at this point?  Well we know at least on the Republican side that Donald Trump has been declared the winner in New Jersey...  Not a surprise.  ...Which is not a surprise. And that is about it at this point. I mean we are seeing votes start to trickle in and we know that there is a lot at stake though tonight obviously.  Why is a lot at stake given that last night the Associate Press called the Democratic race for Hillary Clinton?  Well I think still watching the vote in California is very important for how this race ends because even though Hillary Clinton is going to be the Democratic nominee - she is the presumptive Democratic nominee now that we can say that - there is - she needs to be able to close out the case and say that she won in California put a bookend on it. She does not want to go out with a loss and give the wind at the back of Bernie Sanders or his supporters to be able to go into the convention and feel like they need to you know get - extract as much as they possibly can.  Let us turn to Tamara Keith who is out there in California covering the Clinton campaign. And Tam Hillary Clinton is really marking this milestone of the Associated Press having declared her the presumptive nominee. Tell me about how she is doing that.  Well and by the end of tonight she also expects to have the majority of pledged delegates the majority of popular vote. They really believe that she will be the nominee - the presumptive nominee. The - it will not be a debate by the end of the night. And she is going to mark this moment in history place herself in this - in the historical context of other women in history. And there is a video that the campaign has distributed that they will be playing right before she comes on stage to lay the groundwork for that. It starts with her speech in China and ends - the clip that we are about play ends with Ann Richards the former governor of Texas. Here's the clip.   Human rights are women's rights and women's rights are human rights once and for all.   That match has been lit and my fire burns right but I cannot do this alone. When we are together...   Step back.  This is what democracy looks like.  And women need to be represented.  Ginger Rogers did everything that Fred Astaire did. She just did it backwards and in high heels.  Some famous quotes in there.  Absolutely emphasizing the historic nature of as you say the first female presumptive nominee of a major party for president.  Yes and she is going to talk about that. She is also going to make some contrasts with Donald Trump because this is the beginning of the general election. And she is going to make a nod to Bernie Sanders and his supporters. And you know this speech is part of what will inevitably be a long process of trying to win them over.  Speaking of Bernie Sanders and his supporters Sam we are hearing on your cell phone line some applause and other noise in the background. You are in Silver Lake kind of hipster central Los Angeles.  Absolutely.  What is the scene there?  Total hipster central. The candidate right now is walking by a farmers market on Sunset Boulevard.  Of course.  He is been greeted for the last several blocks by literally thousands of supporters who have lined the block. He made a stop earlier today on Hollywood Boulevard. He is been treated like a rock star the whole day.  So for a guy who is being treated like a rock star any sign that he sees this as his last laugh?  No. He had a press conference yesterday and said that he would keep campaigning post-California. He was going to go to Vermont to go home on Wednesday but then come to D.C. on Thursday to campaign because that primary there is next Thursday. So they have given no signs that they are going to quite.  What do you hear from the supporters who he is shaking hands and signing autographs for? Are they prepared to rally around whoever the Democratic nominee is or is there a lot of Bernie or bust sentiment?  Not yet. Lots of folks have not accepted that count of delegates. They want every state to be able to vote. They want to challenge at the convention and they just do not trust the party right now.  Even if she decisively wins California you think that is going to be the case even if this talk about superdelegates versus pledged and unpledged delegates is put to rest?  I mean that could change over time. But I talked to folks last night in San Francisco at his rally who said the numbers are not relevant to them at all. They do not trust the numbers and they do not trust the system.  Tamara Keith what do you think Hillary Clinton is likely to say to try to win over those people?  What she has been saying and is likely to continue saying is that they have more in common than they do not that there is more agreement than disagreement. And then there is the old Trump card. She  you know...  So to speak .  ...Is going to say - so to speak - pun intended - that Donald Trump is so much of a threat she would say to the United States that Bernie Sanders' supporters really should ultimately side with her. Now many Sanders supporters would say that is a lesser of two evils situation and they just will not stand for it. They would vote for Jill Stein. They would vote for someone else. And so Hillary Clinton does have a challenge on her hands to get the most die-hard Sanders supporters to believe that they should vote for her.  Jill Stein being a Green Party candidate of course.  Yes.  Domenico Montanaro this was the night exactly eight years ago that Hillary Clinton delivered a speech calling for party unity and effectively conceding to Barack Obama although it took her a few more days to actually end the campaign. Looks like we are not going to see that from Bernie Sanders tonight.  Right. We should say that this is the eight-year anniversary of the 18 million cracks in the glass ceiling concession speech that Hillary Clinton delivered calling for unity with Bernie Sanders. I am sorry  - calling for unity with Barack Obama.  .  Excuse me. She is hoping that that same thing can happen with Bernie Sanders. But we should note that four days earlier when Barack Obama was declared the presumptive nominee on June 3 2008 same basically as tonight she did not concede. She did not drop out. She delivered a very gracious speech saying - praising Obama's campaign and his candidacy praising the people that he brought into the race but was not quite yet ready to give up. Now she has very different incentives.  Right.  Four days later she wound up dropping out conceding to President - to now-President Obama trying to unify but she wanted to run again OK? Bernie Sanders - no one expects that he will run again so what does Bernie want is going to be a big big question mark here.  Just briefly apart from the presidential race there are some down-ballot races happening around the country that are kind of interesting. What are you going to be looking at tonight?  Well I mean there is already a big story developing in North Carolina where it looks like Republican Renee Ellmers is going to lose. She is going to be the first Republican incumbent it looks like to lose. And it is really fascinating to watch that dynamic because she is somebody who came in with the Tea Party wave but then kind of went establishment and kind of got eaten by the Tea Party as she came back and tried to hold onto this seat. We are going to watch that and watch some races in California. There is the potential for the Senate seat there to develop who is going to - what the fight will wind up being.  Lots more news to come tonight and many local public radio stations will be carrying special live coverage as the night unfolds and we get these results from California New Jersey six states in all. We have been speaking with NPR's Domenico Montanaro Tamara Keith Sam Sanders. Thanks to all of you.  You are welcome.  Thank you.  Thank you. 