 It is not officially autumn yet but you could say it is the first day of the fall campaign season. That is because Congress finished up its work yesterday and is now off until November. Lawmakers are free to campaign seven days a week. One group of voters is once again at the center of attention and that is women. Here's NPR's Tamara Keith.  At the Democratic Party's annual Women Leadership Forum event Hillary Clinton delivered a message that could have come straight from the script being used by Democratic candidates all over the country.   For too many women for too many families they do not just face ceilings on their dreams. It feels to them as though the floor has collapsed beneath their feet. That is not how it is supposed to be in America.  She said a national movement is building around issues facing families things like wages and paid family leave.   This movement will not wait and neither can we. And that is why we are here today. We are also here because the midterms really matter.  The midterm elections are less than 50 days away. And if there was a theme in the remarks of the Women's Leadership Forum it might be hey ladies we are your party. For nearly 35 years that is been the case. Women are more likely than men to vote Democratic. But Republicans desperately want to change this dynamic. And so this year Republican congressional candidates went on the air early with ads like this one.   Disturbing reports of sexual assaults in the military. A Marine Mike Coffman took action.  Coffman is a Republican congressman from Colorado considered by some to be the most vulnerable incumbent in the House.   And Coffman bucked his own party to help pass the Violence Against Women Act.  And it is not a coincidence this was the ad his campaign picked to open the season. A lot of Republican candidates went up early with ads painting themselves as strong on so-called women's issues. Andrea Bozek is with the National Republican Congressional committee.  We encouraged members to have their first ad be a positive ad geared towards women voters to pre-inoculate themselves from these sorts of attacks that we know are coming their way.  Like a vaccine. In recent past elections Republican candidates have struggled with how to talk about things like birth control and rape. For almost two years now Bozek says establishment Republicans have been holding strategy sessions.  The fact that we are up early we are not waiting for there to be a problem is strikingly different from 2012.  One of the more creative ads in this vein comes from Republican Stewart Mills who is running for the House from Minnesota. His wife Heather narrates.  H.  In the Walk a Mile in Her Shoes event my husband puts on pink heels to raise money for victims of domestic violence.  Jon Downs with FP1 Strategies produced the ad.  We are anticipating that they are going to run this false war on women campaign and our goal is for people to see that and know something about who Stewart is the real Stewart Mills and to dismiss those outside attacks.  But in at least one case the strategy got ahead of the Congressman's voting record.   Our Congressman Steve is advocating for things like Violence Against Women Act.  Except that last year Florida Representative Steve Southerland joined the majority of House Republicans in voting against the version of the act that became law opening himself to charges of dishonesty.   His ad is troubling.  Democratic strategist Stephanie Cutter.  It is not about what ads that you run it is about what policies that you stand for.  And as evidence of how important the women's vote is we can expect this fight to keep getting re-litigated for the next two months and the next two years. Tamara Keith NPR News. 