 Now for a story of politics and family bonding.  And Dad texted me said he was going to the convention. And I asked if he had a guest pass.  I thought it might be a nice - kind of a father-son get-together.  Jim Bolin is a retired schoolteacher from South Dakota and a delegate to the Republican National Convention. His son Chris is a self-described liberal. He is a software engineer from Cambridge Mass. This week both Bolins were together in Cleveland at the RNC. And at our request they kept this audio diary. J.  I firmly believe as my son gets older a number of the presuppositions he has about a number of issues - he will adjust those over time. I am convinced of that. C.  So ironically we might both be here quietly evangelizing to the other  thinking we are making progress.   Let us make America great again. Let us elect Donald Trump the next president of the United States of America.  J.  So what'd you think of the whole thing you think? C.  I think I did not quite expect to feel this awkward. It was really - and we were coming here on the bus and there was a lot of - a woman made this statement about how Christians were obligated to vote for Trump that God had given them this man. So I do not know. I feel very strange about this. And I do not know how to react because I do not know if I can out myself as the lone liberal here.   Tonight as a former federal prosecutor I welcome the opportunity to hold Hillary Rodham Clinton accountable for her performance and her character.   Lock her up lock her up lock her up. C.  That was I think the most horrifying time for me. It was very scary to be in that room with people chanting you know guilty or lock her up. It feels like Christie worked up a mob in some ways. I do not know. And he is laughing but... J.  It is part of the psychology of the convention. A week from now you are going to hear all these terrible nasty things about Donald Trump. The people that are here are very partisan. This is the base of the base of the Republican Party for the most part. C.  You do not think that is going too far? J.  I - no not at the convention like this. I mean this is not a court room. This is a political convention. There has to be a little bit of levity to it. People dance on the floor there is music. And it is kind of... C.  You think there is levity when people are yelling guilty and lock her up? J.  Democrats in '08 were talking about how they wanted to impeach George Bush put George Bush in prison all of these kind of things. And that is to be expected in the rough-and-tumble world of politics.   I humbly and gratefully accept your nomination...  J.  I liked a lot of what Donald Trump said tonight. It still comes down - in a country with a 19 trillion dollar debt how are you going to pay for all this stuff? I have not perhaps moved to being a Trump enthusiast but I am more pro-Trump than I was when I started. C.  That is literally the exact opposite of what I thought would happen. I mean yeah my mission here was to somehow show you that this man is - the list is so long - is a narcissist is foul. And you have gone the other way. Honestly like I think a lot of this is just - it is the game of politics. It is the team sport. And I think I realize that my dad is red team. Go red team. I do not know. I am just kind of blown away. J.  We still respect each other but... C.  I do not think I have any less respect now than I did before. I have a lot more understanding though. J.  I have two sons one who agrees with me on very many things and one who I say has gone to the dark side. I will use that expression. C.  But we have managed to do all right. We can joke about it. We are still smiling right now. J.  It is been a good week.   Trump Trump Trump...  That is Jim Bolin South Dakota delegate and his son Chris with their audio diary from the Republican National Convention. We would like to thank Kavitha Pele  for her help with this story. 