 Backers of a Colorado ballot proposal for universal health care want the attention of Bernie Sanders. It is a high-profile issue in the state and supporters want Sanders to use his influence to help get it passed in November. Sanders' campaign says he has not planned a trip to Colorado yet but that he is keeping an eye on what is going on there. Colorado Public Radio's John Daley has more.  The ColoradoCare initiative would rock the health care world if voters approve it in November. It would create a new public health system to cover most of the state's residents. This is where proponent T.R. Reid hopes Bernie Sanders will come in.  He goes home to Burlington Vt. He does not have 8000 people cheering for him every day. He needs something to do so he comes to Colorado and campaigns for single-payer and we win.  Reid is one of the architects of ColoradoCare. He says Sanders could create another chapter in his political legacy. The Vermont senator made the case for one of his key health care positions universal coverage in Colorado before the state's Democratic caucus. It got thousands of his supporters cheering at an event in February.   To my critics let me say this as clearly as I possibly can. I believe that health care is a right not a privilege.   Despite an unsuccessful try at a similar plan in Vermont Sanders still thinks a state-by-state approach can work. In a cable TV appearance with Rachel Maddow he explained that Canada started its single-payer system one province at a time.   So you are asking me do I think if a major state whether it is Colorado or California or whatever goes forward and it works well other states say hey you know I have got a brother over there in Colorado who is getting health care great health care and it is less expensive than the current system - yeah I think that is one possibility absolutely.  ColoradoCare comes with an estimated 38 billion a year price tag. A tax on workers and businesses would pay for it eliminating the need for insurance premiums and deductibles. Backers say it will save the state and individuals a lot of money. Andrew Kleiman is a 35-year-old Sanders supporter from Grand Junction. He says if Sanders actively backed the proposal in Colorado it would help motivate millennials like him to vote.  The momentum of Bernie's campaign carried over into something like this would be a perfect fit and pretty necessary I think.  A coalition of opponents including conservatives insurance and business groups have come out against the initiative which is expected to draw big money from both sides.  I do not think the economics of it work out.  That is Nina Anderson who owns a small staffing firm in Grand Junction. She says the proposal would be too expensive. Colorado has been on the cutting edge of some big policy changes like legalizing recreational pot. Anderson says she is not ready for the state to take the lead or Sanders to jump in on a huge government-run health care system.  That is the scary part I think about being in Colorado and being on the forefront of anything that is attempting to move to socialized care is that you do get everybody with the outside interests coming in and playing in your sandbox.  She says Sanders' involvement would bring people like her out to vote against the measure. One recent poll shows the initiative trailing but ahead among millennials who tend not to vote in large numbers. Advocates hope that Sanders can spur turnout among that key group. For NPR News I am John Daley.  That story is part of a reporting partnership of NPR Colorado Public Radio and Kaiser Health News. 