 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand. Mohammed Jawad has spent almost all of his teenage years at Guantanamo. Now he is a few weeks from leaving the prison camp. In a Washington courtroom today a judge said Jawad's seven-year imprisonment is illegal. NPR's Ari Shapiro was at the hearing and he has this report.  Judge Ellen Huvelle called the case of Mohammed Jawad a horribly long and tortured history. He was picked up in Afghanistan in 2002. No one knows how old he was maybe as young as 12. His lawyers say he has grown five inches during his time behind bars. He was accused of throwing a grenade and wounding Americans. But the case ran into trouble early on. A judge said Jawad's confessions were obtained through torture and threw them out. Jawad's military prosecutor Lieutenant Colonel Darrel Vandeveld became so disillusioned with the prosecution that he resigned and became a defense witness.  There is no credible evidence or legal basis to justify Mr. Jawad's detention.  Holding Mr. Jawad for over six years with no resolution of his case and with no terminus in sight is something beyond a travesty. This morning Judge Ellen Huvelle agreed. She has clearly run out of patience with the government. When Justice Department attorney Ian Gershengorn rose to speak  Have you decided to be reasonable?  Yes your honor.  It is taken a while. In a long speech Huvelle excoriated the government for the way it has handled this and other Guantanamo cases.  One arm of the government appears not to know what the other arm is doing. That is not acceptable.  There is a consistent pattern by the government that predates this administration but continues saying we need more time. We need more time. Six years after detainees first arrived to Guantanamo the courts were told to process these cases quickly.  If the government would move quickly we could. But instead there are delays at every turn. Today she granted the government's request for one final three-week delay. The first week is to work out a deal with Afghanistan's government to send Jawad home. Two more weeks are because Congress requires two weeks' notice before any detainee is transferred out of Guantanamo. Jawad's lawyer  Mohammed Jawad's status at this point is congressional prisoner. He is basically a prisoner of Congress. Frakt said he believes the two-week notification rule is unconstitutional but he will not challenge it because he does not want to slow things down more. Standing on the steps of the courthouse after the hearing Frakt called Judge Huvelle's order to release his client a staggering victory.  This is the first detainee who was charged actually charged in the military commissions who was on the verge of trial and is now to be released.  The government lawyers did not speak to reporters.  The Justice Department has agreed not to hold Jawad in military custody. But they might still charge him as a civilian. That would mean bringing him to the U.S. and putting him on trial. At today's hearing Judge Huvelle urged the government not to go that route. She said there are issues about a speedy trial and Jawad's mental competency.  Enough has been imposed on this young man to date. A civilian trial would have to take place in the United States. Congress requires 45 days notice before any detainee is brought to the U.S. And Jawad must be freed from Guantanamo in 21 days. So if the government does charge him it is not exactly clear where he would go in the meantime. His lawyers said they hope not to cross that bridge. They are meeting with justice officials tomorrow and will try to make the case that prosecution is not warranted. Ari Shapiro NPR News Washington. 