  columnists David Brooks of the New York Times and E.J. Dionne of the Washington Post. Good to see both of you. Mr. E.J.  Good to be with you. Mr.  Good to be here.  And as we heard the president has promised a broader package of ideas sometime next week aimed at reviving the economy. David might we be seeing Obamanomics 2.0? Mr.  Well the ideas that are being talked about include payroll tax holiday some business tax cuts some infrastructure spending some training spending. All of it I think would have been really good a year or two ago especially the payroll tax holiday. But I am not sure it is really that effective now. I have sort of lost a lot of confidence in the idea that we can have a big short-term impact on the economy. I think all the focus should now be on long-term fundamentals getting it so we can have a really sustained recovery years out. The idea that we can juice up the economy next month or next quarter seems to me illusory.  E.J. are you any more hopeful about a package of new economic measures next week? Mr.  Well not only am I more hopeful but I think it is absolutely critical that it happens. If unemployment were at 6 or 7 percent then David might be right - we can focus on the long term. But we cannot focus on the long term. Just on today's numbers my favorite comment so far today was Andrew Ross Sorkin the financial columnist for the New York Times who said this is great news on a relative basis. Probably emphasis on a relative basis but we are not in a double-dip recession. A couple months ago we were worried that is where we might be headed. And there was private-sector job growth. But given the political problems the Democrats are in - that we will get to -I think the president needs to sort of shake the campaign up. I think he should go out there and say let us have a big fight about these tax cuts. Let us insist on cutting them for people under 250000. Heck let us raise it - everybody under a million bucks. And then take the balance and put that money into an infrastructure bank and start growing for the long term. This is my version of wedge politics against David because he likes the infrastructure bank too. I think a choice between they are for the millionaires we are for faster growth could be an interesting - both politically and as economic policy.  David? Mr.  Well economically let' It is not going to have any effect this year no matter what gets passed. So now we are strictly talking politics. And I think the Republicans would love to have a tax cut fight of any sort.  All right let us talk politics. When the economy is bad it is almost always the decisive campaign issue. It is pretty bad. And the forecast that we are hearing for November - are it is going to be a decisively good year for the Republicans. How good do you think it is going to be David? Mr.  Well right now it will be extremely good historically good. If you average the smart election watchers around here I think you would probably get an average the Republicans will pick up around 50 House seats eight or nine Senate seats. Give them control of the House almost control of the Senate. There was a Gallup poll on something called the generic ballot which is do you want a Republican or a Democrat? The Republicans were up by 10 points which is the highest in the history of polling. And if you throw in likely voters not just the regular voters they sample you get up to 14 points. So historically great election for the Republicans. And it is mostly the economy but it is also a rejection of the Democrats - and I think a rejection of what people see as big government liberalism.  Well traditionally Labor Day which we are almost at is the beginning of the campaign season. Does that mean E.J. that now we might see the numbers start to move - or this is it this is what November's going to look like. Mr.  Well first of all I am a skeptic on those Gallup numbers simply because Gallup is bumped around a lot. They had the Democrats up six points in mid-July. I cannot believe there is been a 16-point swing in six weeks since and so we will wait on that. But the Republicans are ahead. Pollster.com has them up by three. So the Democrats have a problem. But if it is within the range of three or something like that then it is at least conceivable that Democrats can claw back enough to maintain control of the House. That is I think the whole game. I think except on a very bad day I do not think the Democrats are going to lose the Senate. But given where it is the Democrats do have to shake this race up. The president has to be out there in a much more forceful way defining the argument in a way I do not think he has so far.  David do the Republicans have to define the argument? Mr.  No. They just have to be no.  Just say no. Mr.  The Republicans are not exactly Mr. Popularity these days. What is striking is that people have a very low opinion of the Republicans and yet seem at the moment determined to vote for them. So being no right now seems to be working.   This week witnessed Israeli-Palestinian talks at the White House. Bill Clinton famously dove into Middle East peacemaking when he was president - and he failed. George Bush did not even try. Does the Obama initiative hold out any promise of success? David what do you think? Mr.  I am a pessimist. I go to the Middle East once a year or so and there' the Mitchell Report the Quartet. There is always some fancy negotiation. But until I see change at the bottom level at the bottom up I really do not believe there is going to progress. And I see no change at the Israeli level at the Palestinian level. And if something does happen believe me the Iranian nuclear program within a year will mess it all up anyway.  But what you heard from Netanyahu or Abbas here in Washington... Mr.  I have been at dinners with the Israeli and Palestinian leaders where they are in love with each other. That does not mean things are different on the ground.  E.J. what do you think? Mr.  One of my favorite lines about politics is Eugene Debs -yes he was a socialist -  Blessed are they who expect nothing for they shall not be disappointed. And I think that is why you are actually hearing some optimistic talk. There were very low expectations here. And I think there are some odd factors that may play positively to move this along. Scott Wilson in the Washington Post suggested that the Iran threat may help these talks on the theory of the enemy of my enemy. Sunni Muslims are very worried about Iran - almost as worried as Israel is. And that could create some pressure to get somewhere. So to ever be completely optimistic or even very optimistic in Mideast talks is foolish but I think there is a real potential here.  I think that is a quadruple negative. I was not keeping score entirely but I take that point. Mr.  That is probably right. That is about right for the subject.  E.J. Dionne and David Brooks thanks for talking politics with us once again. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Thank you. 