 Outside the security perimeter WAMU's Elly Yu spoke with people protesting the president's Salute to America. She joins us now. And Elly to begin where are you around the National Mall? What have you been seeing?  So I am on the other side of the reflecting pool near the World War II Memorial. It is on the opposite side of where the president is expected to speak tonight. And over here there is a group of protesters gathered with the anti-war group Code Pink. Earlier they had the Baby Trump balloon inflated. It is a 20-foot Baby Trump balloon. And you might have seen it flying in London. But they have had to deflate it because of the weather. It is - the National Weather Service has been reporting scattered thunderstorms all day but protesters are hoping to get it back up again for the president's speech.  Who are some of the people that you have met today?  So I spoke with a lot of folks who say they are opposed to the president turning this into a politicized event. I also spoke with a man named Jeff Strathern . He had a display of a Baby Trump balloon in a cage. And he said he is out here because he is opposed to what is going on at the border and the migrant children in the detention centers. Here's what he had to say.  I think the treatment by this administration of the families that are legally seeking asylum is immoral.  Others I spoke with say they are opposed to the whole display of the military here. And they say this is more of a salute to Trump than a salute to America.  I can hear the thunder out there. I know that it is quite the scene outside the barricades. Can you talk about the other activities that are planned beyond the president's salute?  Yeah. Beyond the barricades I met a group of local D.C. residents who bought a bunch of little Baby Trump balloons on their own online and are just inflating it to people as they pass by. There is also a flag burning protest near the White House - of folks who say they are opposed the president's policies. And on a lighter note there is also reports of a senior singalong happening. A group of senior residents want to have an alternative event to the president's speech. So they are calling it Make Americans Friends Again. And they are going to sing songs.  Elly to step back for a moment can you talk about how city officials - Washington D.C. officials have been talking about this event? Because it seems like it is sort of thrown people for a loop.  So officials here in the city say they are doing everything they can to keep this event safe that they are - you know however it costs they are going to do whatever it takes to keep residents safe. But they are worried about what this will cost. There has been no cost estimate. And D.C.'s mayor Muriel Bowser says they will submit a - seek a reimbursement from the federal government after this is all over.  Although I understand that has not gone so well - for instance with the inauguration.  Right. D.C. is still about owed about 7 million from the inauguration. So they are hoping that the federal government will pay up.  Do you get the sense from the protesters today that these folks are local or are they from other parts of the country or region in terms of protesters?  They are from all over the region. But a lot of the folks I have talked to have been coming from the D.C. area. I did speak with one person who came - who flew all the way in from Hawaii for the protests with the Code Pink - the Baby Trump balloon folks - so a mix of folks.  And we should say Code Pink is seen at many events around the district - right? - when it comes to protesting this administration.  That is right. That is right.  That is WAMU's Elly Yu. We will check in with her throughout the evening. Elly same to you - I hope you brought an umbrella.  Thanks Audie. 