 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  Yesterday we reported on President Obama's call for billions of dollars in infrastructure investment. Tomorrow the president will announce a new package of business tax credits.  not so good.  And analysts like Charlie Cook and Stu Rothenberg are expanding the number of House seats they think the Republicans could pick up. They only need 39 to take control. So it is not a good outlook. And for Democrats who woke up this morning read the paper they probably wanted to go back to bed and pull the covers over their heads.  What could conceivably the White House and Democrats do to try to turn the tide around?  So tomorrow in addition to the president making his economic proposals you are going to see the vice president on television on the morning shows and on late night comedy shows. Then Tim Kaine the man who has his finger in the dike here he is the chairman of the Democratic Party he is going to be speaking at noon in Philadelphia. And his task is to see if a good ground game a good get-out-the-vote operation like the Democrats have had in the last two cycles can blunt this huge pro- Republican wave that is coming at Democrats. You know can good mechanics help just enough Democrats to survive so they can keep the House and Senate.  And is the plan still to deploy Michelle Obama as well?  Yes she will be out there. She is very popular. She is wanted in a lot of places and she will be campaigning for Democrats. She will not be delivering a harsh partisan message.  Now in terms of money Mara the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has said they will be cutting loose some Democrats in terms of contributing cash to the campaigns the ones that they think just do not have a chance of winning. The party is going to have to make some tough calculations to figure out whom they can invest in.  Now interestingly enough today Chris van Hollen sent out a fundraising letter for Mary Jo Kilroy saying that The New York Times has erroneously said I am going to cut her off but in fact I am not at all. So this is a problem. It can become a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you are a Democratic candidate trailing in the polls who will give you money if you think Chris van Hollen has cut you off.  Right. NPR's Mara Liasson thanks very much.  Thank you. 