 If you live in central or southern Illinois maybe youve already gotten The Call. If not it is probably coming. We are talking about a personal phone call from your congressman Republican Tim Johnson. Through nearly 40 years in politics  Call a hundred or more constituents a day. Sometimes he makes calls while he is walking running through an airport maybe running on the treadmill. We caught congressman Johnson today while he was walking through his district in Urbana Illinois. And congressman thanks for joining us.  Hi David. How are you?  Well Im ready for you to tell me that we are taking some time away from when you would be normally calling people in the district. Is that... Rep.  Well you are.  Rep.  But thats all right. I have to intermesh my services in a variety of ways. So this would be - actually a classic time when I would be talking to people in the middle of the day. But we do it in the morning. We do it in the afternoon and we do it in evening. So there is no particular pattern and I -obviously - have to adjust my life accordingly.   You sound like an ad - like for the Postal Service. I mean...   Congressman what is the value in doing this? Rep.  It allows me to communicate on an everyday basis with the people I represent.  And I understand you make sure that the person answering knows you are not a telemarketer as I understand it. Whats your intro? Rep.   This is congressman Tim Johnson. I was calling to see if there was anything I could do to be of service to you or any issues you would like to discuss. And by the way Im not a telemarketer and Im not a robo-call.  How long do these chats last congressman? I mean is there really a time for you know an honest exchange? Rep.  I allow them to - the constituents to set the agenda. Sometimes they are as short as 15 seconds where people say thank you for calling I dont have anything in particular to talk about.  Rep.  Sometimes they have been hours...  Hours? Rep.  ...where people want to talk about a variety of issues or even one issue.  You will stay on with them for hours? Rep.  Im willing to spend whatever amount of time they want up to a point. But if people want to talk I let them talk. And I have invited the conservation and I think my obligation is to listen to them.  Whats the craziest thing someone said to you in these conversations?  Rep.  A gentleman that I was talking to in a portion of the district I think a little uncertain about what my services could provide wondered if I could help him with the issue of cutting his toenails. He said he had too thick a -toenails and he needed somebody to get through the process.  Wow. Rep.  So I tried to indicate to him what podiatrists were and how we could be of service in making sure that those services were afforded him. And he seemed pretty happy with my response. But that was a pretty unique one.  Well keep walking keep talking. Ill let you get back to your calls. Thanks very much for joining us congressman. Rep.  You are welcome. Thanks for taking time to talk to me.  Thats Republican congressman Tim Johnson of Illinois. Whether it is related to his phone call craze or not he has never lost an election. 