 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Im Robert Siegel. In this summers debate over a health care bill the fate of a public option a government-run competitor to private insurance plans has become the most contentious issue. President Obama described it yesterday as a means perhaps one of several of achieving the desired end of controlling health care costs. Former Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean has been one of the loudest voices on the presidents left calling a public option a must. And Governor Dean joins us now from Vermont Public Radio. Welcome to the program.  How are you?  Fine. Governor Dean the president spent yesterday trying to assure some of his more liberal supporters that his administration has not jettisoned a public option in pursuit of bipartisanship . Are you assured that the White House considers it as important as you do? Gov.  Well first of all I dont think this is a leftright issue. I think this is a common sense issue. The fact is that only Medicare has controlled cost better than the private sector. Now Medicare doesnt do a terribly great job of controlling cost but they do a much better job than private health insurance does. And the reason that you need a public option for real health care reform is not because the left is you know right and the right is wrong. Its because average Americans believe that if they have a choice of a competitive system thats different than the system they have now they can make it work for them. And I think that makes sense.  Did you hear in President Obamas public remarks yesterday that same sentiment or a much more tentative approach to a public option? Gov.  You know I try to avoid parsing out the statements of public officials. Thats what you all do. Because its very clear what President Obama said during the campaign - his plan was very moderate. His plan was a compromise between what we have now and a single payer. But the great possibility of this plan that the president has put forward is it gives the American people the choice. If they want reform for themselves they can have it. If they dont they can stick with what theyve got. That is a most reasonable solution.  But if it is indeed as you say it a common sense point - here let me put this weeks Washington PostABC News poll response to you. Support there for a public option has fallen from 62 percent in June to 52 percent now. The number who oppose a public option according to The PostABC News poll is now 46 percent - thats 13 points since June. If the public actually favors the idea of having the choice of a public insurance plan why are those numbers then going in the opposite direction? Gov.  Well it most likely has something to do with the way the questions were asked. Now Im not familiar with that poll. But there was another poll yesterday that showed support for a public option was over 80 percent. And we do know from polling - because Ive seen some polling about messaging -is that when you talk about health care reform a lot of people disapprove of it. When you explain the presidents health care reform views and his bill then people support it overwhelmingly.  The Princeton economist Uwe Reinhardt whose field is health care economics writes in a New York Times blog that you can have reform without a public option. And Ill quote what he says Germany the Netherlands and Switzerland all do offer their citizens permanent portable and stable financial security and health care without the inclusion of a government-run health plan in the mix. That achievement however requires fairly heavy regulation of the insurance industry. Is heavy regulation really harder to legislate than a government-run insurance plan? Gov.  Absolutely yes. Uwe I think Uwe is fantastic. Hes absolutely one of the best health care economists in the country. And hes right. It is possible to do universal health care without having a government-run program. And Switzerland and the Netherlands both do it. Germany is a little bit of a hybrid but they regulate their insurance industry like they regulate utilities in my state. They tell people how much profit they can make how much salary they can make what they can and cant do what investments they can make. I dont object to that. Im not - thats why I said in the beginning this is not really the left or the right. Im not - I dont take the position of the public option because Im a liberal or Im in the left or - I take it because its the only thing I think that is going to work.  The Democratic Party if they pass a health care reform that has only Democratic votes save for a couple of other - a couple of Republican outliers will then spend a couple of years having passed this bill and seeing it signed into law before anything changes before . Gov.  Well thats a mistake. That I think is a mistake. And Im trying to avoid criticizing Congress over issues other than the public option because its the one I think matters the most for reform. But from a political point of view I would put some of this in place right away. If you allowed adults to sign up for Medicare and pay premiums as they should based on income which is what the presidents proposing you wouldnt have to wait to set up the public option because it wouldnt be separate. You already have the bureaucracy in place to do it the claims and so forth and so on. But I think if youre going to pass this bill you better have something to show the American people for it because the Republicans will continue to go out and make all these outlandish statements of the kind theyve been making over the past several months.  So it would be advantageous to the Democratic Party to have some tangible benefit... Gov.  Thats right.  ...from their health care bill before they go to the polls next rather than just have a bill that everybody argues about what its going to do in 2013 youre saying. Gov.  Thats right. And the easiest way to do that is to have a public option which is basically Medicare that you could sign up for if youre under 65.  Howard Dean former governor of Vermont former Democratic National chairman. Thank you very much for talking with us. Gov.  Thanks for having me on Robert. 