 And now for a story that kind of sounds like the plot of a TV show. The Democratic Party today confirmed that its computer network here in Washington had been hacked sometime last summer and the suspected culprits had ties to the Russian intelligence services. Their target was Democrats' opposition files on Donald Trump. NPR's Brian Naylor has the details.  There were actually two separate hacks on the DNC's network one last summer called COZY BEAR. It eavesdropped on the party's emails and communications. Then this past spring a second hack occurred. Dmitri Alperovitch is co-founder of CrowdStrike the cybersecurity firm the Democrats brought in to clean up their servers.  And the second actor who we call we actually believe is the GRU - the military intelligence agency of the Russian government - infiltrated that network this April. And they went straight for the research department of the DNC and exfiltrated opposition materials on Mr. Trump.  Now Alperovitch says neither of the two BEARs - COZY or FANCY - knew the other was lurking about because they were the work of separate spy groups - FANCY BEAR from military intelligence and COZY BEAR probably from the FSB Alperovitch says Russia's security intelligence agency. Both of the BEARs he says were competing for the attention of Russian leader Vladimir Putin.  And this is actually not atypical of Russian intelligence agencies. They have a very adversarial relationship. They do not share information with each other. They do not cooperate. In fact there is one-upsmanship that they are often involved in to show off to Putin who is better and to get more budget and more power.  DNC chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz said democratic officials moved as quickly as possible to kick out the intruders and secure the network. There is no indication there was any financial motive for the breach. Alperovitch says it is possible the hackers got into the system by spearfishing sending a fake email and hoping the recipient will click on a link and let them in the door. He says the Russians are very good at this sort of thing.  These are very very sophisticated actors. Their tradecraft is absolutely superb. They are some of the best that we ever encounter in terms of cyber threats. So I think any organization would be highly vulnerable to this threat.  And in fact Alperovitch says Russian intelligence has targeted the White House the State Department and the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the past. And political campaigns have been victims too. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper warned a few weeks ago that the presidential campaigns would be likely targets. Frank Cilluffo directs the George Washington University's Center for Cyber and Homeland Security.  It would be naive to suggest that other candidates and their campaigns are not being targeted by foreign intelligence services as well. If you recall Mitt Romney's campaign was allegedly hacked as were others. So I think this is becoming a bit of a new norm.  Nor says Cilluffo is it surprising that Trump would be of special interest to Russians and other foreign powers.  With Donald Trump in particular since he is a relatively newcomer to the political scene it is not surprising that they are trying to glean additional insight into his positions and policies not only with respect to Russia but beyond and also to dig up political dirt - which in Russian is compromat - very consistent with Russian politics.  The Russian government has denied any involvement in the DNC hack but cyber experts warn that this is unlikely to be the last attack on a political website and that they will probably continue up until the November election. Brian Naylor NPR News Washington. 