 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish.  Let us slow it down and take it step by step. Republicans held a closed door meeting yesterday. They emerged saying they do not want everything all rolled into one bill. That appeared to dim prospects for a comprehensive bill that passed the Senate last month. Despite that Democrat Chuck Schumer and Republican John McCain two key Senators who helped craft that Senate measure expressed optimism this morning after a meeting with the president. Here's Senator McCain.  I could have drawn you a scenario where the Republican conference  We are not taking up the legislation - we are not having anything to do with it. That is not what they said. They said we recognize the problem. We are ready to work with the Senate in coming up with a solution. And yes it will be difficult.  Joining me to talk more about this is Florida Republican Representative Mario Diaz Balart. And Congressman Diaz Balart are you as optimistic as Senator McCain that something might pass the House?  I am. I am actually optimistic that we are going to get a bill. You know this is a very complicated process. And the issue itself is very complicated and very controversial. But ultimately I think the important thing is that we get a bill that is a good bill that we get a bill that fixes the broken immigration system does it away that is enforceable and enforced. And I ultimately think we are going to get there.  And I believe you have been working with a bipartisan House group trying to draft its own kind of comprehensive immigration bill. Did you win anybody over to your point of view of doing something in one big package?  You know I - to me the issue of doing it in one big package or doing it in smaller bits and then eventually you know getting it all together - whether it is passing it all together or not - is really a tactical decision. What I am concerned about is fixing what is evidently a broken immigration system. Getting there is going to be a slow process because I think what the House is going to insist is to make sure that we get it right. Why? Because we have been promised for example border security in the past and it was never delivered. In the past we were promised that it was never delivered. I think getting it right is the key. And when we get it right I think we will pass a good immigration bill.  When you went back to your district in Miami I mean what are you hearing from constituents? And is not it really going to be a lot different from what your colleagues are hearing who are from districts that are far less diverse?  Yes and no. Look this is not Hispanic issue. This is not a minority issue. This is an issue of national security and this is an economic issue. It affects the entire country. We have millions of people who are here undocumented. Getting there and the details of getting there I think there are a number of different ideas. I think we will get there. But again I think this issue that well this is a you know an issue of a certain community is just not quite accurate. I think the American people demand that we fix this broken immigration system.  There are several Republican bills in the House these kinds of step-by-step pieces on the immigration issue. None of them establish a way for these folks you are talking about - the 11 million undocumented - to earn citizenship. Is that a sign that you have got to take this off the table or that it is off the table for the House Republicans?  It is interesting because I am you know citizenship is an issue that is up to interpretation. I am not quite sure what...  Or say earning a Green Card in X-amount of years or something like that.  Right what is true is that in the bills that so far have passed the Judiciary Committee there is no bill that deals with in any way the folks who are here.  Right so that is what I am asking. I mean is this discouraging to you as you are trying to work on something on a comprehensive bipartisan package that you do not see anything from your party that would work for the people who were here already?  No and I will tell you why. Because this is a long process and obviously I have been working with a group - a bipartisan group - to deal with that issue and other parts of the issue as well. I am assuming that there are going to be other proposals that deal with the people that are here.  Have you heard any yet?  I have heard of different conversations. I have - I know members that are - other members that are looking at coming up with proposals. Here is where I am optimistic. For the first time since I have been to Congress with - well the second time 'ecause clearly President George W. Bush tried to get this done. Other than that when Republicans were in control and when the Democrats were in control there has not been an effort to solve this issue. There is been a lot of...  Well there has not been a successful effort.  No there is been no effort except for President W. Bush's efforts. The reason I am encouraged is because for the first time there are efforts. The Senate clearly has shown that they want to get it done. And there are efforts in the House - some that I agree with some that I disagree with - to try to deal with this issue. That is very encouraging.  Florida Republican Mario Diaz-Balart thank you so much for speaking with us.  Take care. 