 Politicians have long tried to sway policy with targeted TV ads. You may have seen one for President Obama's jobs plan.   The next election is 14 months away. And the people who sent us here they do not have the luxury of waiting 14 months. Some of them are living week to week...  The audience for this kind of ad is shrinking but TV is still a core piece of campaign strategy heading into the election year. NPR's Ina Jaffe reports.  That ad for President Obama's jobs program was not from the Obama re-election campaign. It was from the Democratic National Committee. Brad Woodhouse the DNC's communications director says it is just been running in selected markets.  We are obviously in markets in Ohio where Speaker John Boehner hails from. We are in markets in Virginia where the House majority leader Eric Cantor is from. And then we are in key states so it is a mix.  The DNC has not had the airwaves to itself.   America's economy is hanging by a thread. Under the weight...  Crossroads GPS an independent conservative organization ran this spot over the summer.   It is time to take away President Obama's blank check.  So advocacy organizations are getting on the air early in this campaign season. But are those ads reaching the people who count? Republican pollster Neil Newhouse of Public Opinion Strategies and Democratic pollster Thomas Eldon of SEA Polling surveyed likely voters about their TV viewing habits. Neil Newhouse.  The number one finding in the survey which really shocked me is that 31 percent of voters we talked to said they had not watched live TV in the past week.  Live in this case does not mean a live event like a baseball game. It means watching a TV program when a channel or network airs it. So if about a third of TV viewers only watched recorded programming in the previous week there is no reason to assume they sat through the commercials. That is what the fast-forward button is for.  You do a little deeper dive into the data and there is not a gender difference. There is not you know a partisan difference - Republicans versus Democrats - not really like educational difference. Where there is a real difference is a generation difference. The generation gap is stark and wide.  Younger people says Newhouse are much less likely to watch TV in real time or even to watch television on a television. They may find computers or smartphones are more convenient. Matt Rosenberg is vice president of SAY Media an Internet marketing company which is one of the groups that commissioned the poll.  People live very complex lives with media coming to them from many sources and the big takeaway here is that advertisers need to communicate in any way they can to the audience that matters to them.  Case in point Twitter announced last week that it will begin to carry political ads. But two-thirds of people even in this latest poll still watch TV in real time - sometimes anyway. Kenneth Goldstein is head of the Campaign Media Analysis Group known as CMAG and he says a commercial does not even have to air widely for it to have a big impact.  It is one of the chief things that reporters love to cover which is the television ad war. So you get an added buzz after that. The swift boat ad is a terrific example of that.  That was the infamous ad campaign that aired in 2004 during the race between then-President Bush and Senator John Kerry a decorated war veteran.   John Kerry has not been honest about what happened in Vietnam.  He is lying about his record.  John Kerry lied to get his bronze star.  The swift boat ad was aired in a handful of really really small markets where it generated the buzz where people were exposed to it was the massive coverage that the media gave to it.  The media also gave massive coverage to the extensive use of the Internet by the Obama campaign in 2008. But that had a different purpose than advertising says Goldstein.  Basically they used the Internet as an organizational tool and as a way to raise lots of money. And you know what they did with that money? They spent it on television.  So do not expect any letup in the number of political ads bombarding your TV screen in the coming year. Just expect your computer and smartphone screens to be bombarded too. Ina Jaffe NPR News. 