 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  NPR's Tovia Smith reports.  With a state legislature that is overwhelmingly Democratic considering whether to allow the Democratic governor to temporarily fill an empty U.S. Senate seat it should have been easy. But the debate over the interim appointment has been among the most contentious and controversial in memory.  This just smacks in the face of everything that we have been doing for the last year and a half. The people are outraged.  So Democrats took away the power and set up the special election. Now with a Democratic governor back in charge Democrats have changed their minds. Again Republican Senator Brown.  It makes absolutely no sense. I just think it is bad government. The people are outraged. They want their government back.  But when Republicans holler about playing politics some Democrats like Senator Steven Tolman shrugs.  La-di-da. I mean come on. Let us be realistic. It is politics. Politics is not a dirty word. Politics is what it is. You know what? I am making a decision that I think is right and that is what I am doing and let the voters judge me on that.  Other Democrats justify their change of heart saying it would be wrong to let Senator Kennedy's passing jeopardize the health care legislation he called the cause of his life. Democratic efforts in Washington to pass health care overhaul may well hinge on the one extra vote from Massachusetts because it would bring the Democrats to the magic number of 60 a filibuster-proof majority. Democratic State Senator Marc Pacheco.  It is like a big wrestling match. We do not want to have a state in the middle of that wrestling match with one hand tied behind our back.  Everyone from the White House to Senator Kennedy's widow have made calls pushing lawmakers to change the law and Democratic Governor Deval Patrick says he would be ready to name an interim senator right away. He has not named names but speculation is swirling around former Governor Michael Dukakis who is particularly well-versed on the issue of health care and who won the support today of the Boston Globe editorial page. But Dukakis also drew some scorn from Republicans like Minority Leader Richard Tisei.  Good grief a record of serving the state effectively? Whoever wrote this was not living in Massachusetts in 1990 when the state was pretty much going right down the tubes. That is the last thing - I mean this is like a - talk about being stuck in a time warp.  Tovia Smith NPR News Boston.  