 Tomorrow 440000 unemployed workers in the U.S. will lose some or all of their federal pandemic benefits. Those benefits include the extra 300 a week on top of regular unemployment money along with benefits that covered freelancers and part-time and gig workers. Twenty-six states - all but one Republican-led - are cutting short federal pandemic aid this summer. Nebraska is one of the eight states where those changes take effect tomorrow. Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts is here now to talk more about that. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much Audie. I appreciate you having me on.  Just so people have some context here the unemployment rate in your state has been dropping for more than a year. It is tied for lowest in the nation at 2.8. So what is the rush to end these benefits now? Why not just let them expire?  Well we are essentially letting them expire by ending our emergency here in Nebraska. So well we have worked hard for the last year...  Well you are cutting it off sooner than when they would set to expire. So they are set to expire in September. You are doing it now which means 15000 Nebraskans will lose benefits tomorrow.  Yeah sure. As you pointed out we have the lowest unemployment rate in the country and we have really for the last year and a half. And if you look at our state generally we are returning to normalcy. We are hosting the U.S. swim trials right now. We have got the College World Series that is actually coming up here later this month. Garth Brooks is going to be here with 90000 fans. We actually also have analyzed our numbers here and we can see that there is two jobs available for every one person on unemployment right now and that 51 of the folks on unemployment are actually making more money now with that 300 a week than they were pre-pandemic. So we are - our state is ready to transition back into normalcy. And so this is just part of our transition back to normalcy.  Economists have also pointed to the lack of child care in keeping some parents from getting back to work. Again with benefits set to expire in September why not let it keep going till the school year starts back up again and people would have that support?  Well one of the other things we know - that some of the assistance out there is things like child care tax credits. I have had anecdotal stories of middle-class families that think they are going to get a benefit of 10- or 20000 through those tax credits. We also have seen that ...  So I am sorry. Just so I am clear you are saying anecdotes that say that people perceive something that is going to happen that is not going to happen?  Well no. No perceive that they are - because of the child tax credits that are out there they are going to receive a benefit from that. So there is other - my point is there is other forms of assistance out there that are going to be quite significant. And another data point that we have is that we have a rental assistance program here - again part of the federal relief package - that is worth about 158 million. However we only have about 4 million of that which represents about 2.5 that is been awarded so far. So again another indicator here that we are ready to return back to normalcy.  You are describing an economy you say that is ready to open. You are describing also benefits it sounds like you are arguing that are essentially too high. Is that what I am hearing?  Well certainly I believe that if you - that employers should pay what the market is demanding. But I also do not believe that the government should be in competition with those employers for the workforce. So we all have to be...  But at 9 an hour in Nebraska is it the case that you guys are not meeting the market - right? - that potentially wages are too low and therefore people are not going back?  Well I think if you talk to most employers here there is probably very very few people who are paying 9 an hour unless it is to probably a high school student. And even then I would be surprised if they were paying 9 an hour again because the market is just paying more than that.  What do you think they are paying at this point?  Well most employers I talked to even for some of these starting jobs are paying 10 an hour to start with. And that is for again kind of your high school kids are coming into it. So...  Right. But both would be lower than the 15 people perceive as a quote-unquote living wage.  Well again living wage is different across the country. So you cannot really apply that here in Nebraska. And is - one of the things that we offer folks who are on unemployment is our job coaches. And we not only do that for our folks on unemployment but for example our families on SNAP. And we have great success in helping people get that next best job. And so that is what we really want to encourage - is people getting back to work getting that next best job because that is the best long-term strategy for people and you know their families as well as the health for our economy.  And with just a minute left 46 of Nebraskans are fully vaccinated. Is that enough to get people back to work?  Absolutely. If you look at where we are here in our states we have got 33 people in the hospital right now with coronavirus. That is less than 1 of our overall hospital capacity. That is the lowest that we have tracked since we started keeping track of these numbers. You can look at our other statistics with regard to cases per a hundred thousand. I think the national average is around four. We are at 1 12 I think. As far as hospitalizations per a hundred thousand the national average is like 6 12. We are at 2 14. So Nebraska really is well ahead of the curve as far as getting through this pandemic. And like I said we are ready to return to normalcy.  That is Governor Pete Ricketts of Nebraska a Republican. Thank you so much for your time.  Great. Thank you very much for having me on. 