 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. After a year and a half of planning officials in Tampa say they are ready for next week's Republican National Convention. The Tampa Bay Forum known mostly as a hockey arena has been transformed into a multimedia political venue. The city has spent some 50 million from a federal grant on security. Much of downtown is cordoned off patrolled by some 3500 police officers. Perhaps the biggest wildcard at this point is the weather but state local and party officials all say they are optimistic Tropical Storm Isaac will not ruin the convention. From Tampa NPR's Greg Allen reports.  Isaac is still in the Caribbean south of the Dominican Republic. Meteorologist say as it turns northwest the tropical storm will head into the Gulf of Mexico where it is likely to become a hurricane and its track keeps it close to the west coast of Florida and Tampa. Florida's Governor Rick Scott says current projections show Isaac passing hundreds of miles to the west of Tampa and unlikely to greatly affect the convention.  The delegates are coming down. They are going to have a great experience. They are going to see maybe a little bit of rain and a little bit of wind in Florida but they are going to see how nice people are in Florida. We are going to have a great convention.  Scott says he spoke to Mitt Romney yesterday and updated him on the storm and the preparations. Emergency management officials here in Tampa say they have trained for exactly this scenario a hurricane hitting the city during a convention. And if Isaac shifts its path east and heads toward Tampa as a hurricane they say they will not hesitate to order an evacuation. But today that seemed unlikely a relief to delegates and Republican officials like Matt Pinnell the head of Oklahoma's GOP delegation.  All of us delegates are hurricane and tropical storm experts now. My hotel room TV has not left The Weather Channel. You know if something hits we are going to have rain we may have some winds. We are well prepared for that.  Carolyn McLardy another Republican delegate from Mutual Oklahoma says she is been hearing from friends and relatives back home.  Yes I am a little nervous. We do not usually get torrential rains in Oklahoma. We are really hoping that this hurricane will just track north and go take care of the drought that we have been having - Texas Oklahoma Kansas Nebraska right on up there.  With worries lessening about the weather Republicans can now turn their attention to the convention itself and the challenge of how best to showcase Mitt Romney and give him a boost in his drive to the presidency. RNC planners have been concerned about the possibility that delegates loyal to Texas Congressman Ron Paul might disrupt the nominating process. The planners added a video tribute to Ron Paul and moved the roll call up to Monday night although they say that was the plan all along. Ann Romney is still on the schedule to speak Monday but that could change. Romney campaign strategist Russ Schriefer says it all depends on whether the TV networks carry through on plans not to offer primetime convention coverage that night.  We are hoping still optimistic that the networks are going to change their mind and cover Monday night. We understand only covering three nights but what we find puzzling is why everyone has to cover the same three nights.  Tampa officials say as many as 70000 visitors may be in town over the next week a number that includes delegates support personnel media and protestors.   Earlier this month Tampa police demonstrated some of the equipment and tactics they plan to employ if necessary to stop protestors from disrupting the convention. Protestors are planning a march and rally on Monday the convention's opening day. There are reports now that the FBI is warning of possible action by anarchist extremists to disrupt things by shutting down Tampa bridges during the convention. Tampa Mayor Bob Buckhorn although a Democrat has been a big booster for the RNC proud of his city and confident that it is ready of the convention. And he expects a big payoff between the federal money money raised from corporate donors and delegate spending the RNC's expected to pump 170 million in direct spending into Tampa's economy. Greg Allen NPR News Tampa. 