 It takes a therapist also a long slog. These are just a couple of the ways that Democratic members of the House have described efforts to come to a deal on how to move ahead on President Biden's signature legislative package. Progressives were insisting that a 3.5 trillion budget framework pass in tandem with a 1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill that the Senate passed earlier this month. Moderate Democrats though wanted the infrastructure bill passed now not held up. Well today news of a breakthrough - after days of sometimes messy difficult negotiations the two sides have reached a compromise. The House has approved the budget framework and leaders included a commitment to vote on the infrastructure bill on September 27. Well Texas Representative Vicente Gonzales is part of the group of moderate House members who have been tangling with their leaders - with top Democratic leaders in recent days. And he joins us now. Hey there. Welcome.  Thank you. Thank you for having me.  So are you happy with where this has landed for now? What do you feel like you got?  I am. I think this was a win for the American people and it was a win-win within our caucus. And I think it shows that the Democratic ideas and tent if you will is a large one. And we represent a wide spread of different views within our country. But today was a success for the Democratic Party and for everyone involved in this negotiation. And what we got was a commitment that we were not going to hold the bipartisan infrastructure bill hostage to reconciliation. And I think...  Yeah. And you nailed down if I may - you nailed down this date September 27. Why was that so important?  Well we needed to get it done before October 1 because the funding would end. But also we needed - we just needed a date certain that the speaker and the leadership would be committed to put it on the floor. This is a bill that was a bipartisan bill that passed with almost 70 votes in the Senate with 20 - 19 Republicans. Seventy-five percent of Americans agree that this is a good bill. You know it is 1.1 trillion of infrastructure funding. It is going to help repair bridges and roads and airports and ports of entry. And in Texas for example I have over 19000 miles of damaged roads and we have over 1800 bridges that are damaged. This is the largest infrastructure bill this generation has ever had. And I think when we travel around the country and then travel around the world we see that we are falling behind in infrastructure. And I think this is going to be transformative.  I want to ask about where you land on some of the major new policy items in the proposal - things like expanding Medicare coverage things like adding new climate change programs. And I am asking in part because as we mentioned you represent Texas.  That is right.  Senator Joe Manchin also a moderate Democrat - he is expressed concerns with regulations impacting fossil fuels. That would be a big deal to some of your constituents.  I agree. We - well on expanding Medicare I am completely in agreement. When we talk about energy we need to be very careful that it does not impact jobs in Texas and that we assure that we have a strong energy sector in this country.  Looking ahead you have this date September 27. That does not make anything easy in the weeks before then. Some moderates your fellow moderates are expressing a lot of concern about the size of this 3.5 trillion budget resolution. Would you vote for a package with that size of a price tag?  So I am more concerned about what is in it than the price tag. If there - if it is good social investments good solid infrastructure investments if it is investments that are going to create jobs that are going to give vision and dental care to our seniors that are going to make child care affordable more after school care for our parents if it makes community college affordable - I went to community college before I was able to go to a university and to law school. We need to assure that the pathways are available. And so I support a lot of those ideas. But ultimately we need to remember that we do not know the details of what is in that 3.5 trillion package. And I think we are all eager to find out.  A lot of details to iron out and a lot of work still to come both among within your caucus and then with Republican colleagues as well. That is Texas Congressman Vicente Gonzalez talking to us there about House Democrats' efforts to pass infrastructure legislation in the House. Thank you so much Congressman.  Thank you. Thank you very much. 