 In Ferguson Missouri this week police have been more than well-armed. They were equipped with military-style weapons. This show of force to control crowds has drawn angry criticism from protesters. But the use of military equipment by police is not unique to Ferguson. It reflects a broader trend nationwide. Many call it the militarization of law enforcement and a lot of that equipment comes from the Pentagon. Hundreds of millions of dollars worth every year is sent to police and sheriff's departments all in the name of fighting drugs and terrorism. NPR national security correspondent David Welna joins me now to talk more about this. And David why is the Pentagon providing state and local police departments with the equipment that was originally purchased for fighting wars?  Well Melissa this is actually something that is been going on since the end of the Reagan administration. That was when Congress first authorized the Defense Department to transfer surplus equipment to law enforcement agencies. And it was all done as part of the so-called war on drugs. And then Congress expanded the scope of the program in 1996 to include counter-terrorism. And it is gone from initially transferring about a million dollars worth of equipment annually to last year giving law enforcement agencies 450 million worth of materials.  And we have seen the images from Ferguson David - armored tactical vehicles out in the streets. What other kinds of things are police and sheriff's departments getting through this program?  Well it is a wide range of things. They have everything from file cabinets and photocopiers to handcuffs riot shields and bayonets to weapons of war such as M-16 and M-14 assault rifles. They are also transferring a lot of military vehicles ranging from Humvees to armored tactical vehicles including some 600 mine-resistant ambush protected or MRAP vehicles. These were used by U.S. forces in Iraq and Afghanistan and they were meant to protect them from IEDs. We are talking about vehicles worth about half a million dollars when new. And in fact more than a third of everything that gets transferred according to the Pentagon has never even been used.  And as you say David 450 million worth of equipment in the last year alone. How many police departments are getting it?  Well it is very widespread. The Defense Logistics Agency which administers the program says that in the last 17 years it is transferred more than 5 billion worth of equipment to more than 8000 agencies though outside estimates including one from ACLU say it is more than 17000 agencies actually getting this material. This is all considered surplus. All that those who receive that have to do is just pay for the shipping and maintenance. Interestingly the logo of the Law Enforcement Support Office which takes requests for these transfers is from warfighters to crimefighters.  David I have been reading about some local law enforcement agencies who have said look we do not want this stuff. We do not want to militarize our police force.  Yes. In fact just in the last month a plan for the sheriff's department in Bergen County New Jersey to receive two MRAPs got scotched after county executives complained the people there were losing their way if they were talking about putting combat vehicles on the streets. The sheriff defended getting the vehicles saying the county police had already gotten two of them so his force should get them as well. And in Utah which is one of the major recipients of military surplus the police chief in Salt Lake City has spoken out against militarizing his force.  And David you mentioned that the original purpose of this program goes back to the Reagan administration and the war on drugs. Has the program got grown well beyond that original intent?  It definitely appears to go beyond just drug enforcement though a lot of it is used for that as well. One of the stipulations for getting this equipment transferred is that it would be used within a year of receipt. It is a kind of use it or lose it policy. And that gives law enforcement agencies a real incentive to put these military weapons and vehicles to use in things such as crowd control as we saw in Ferguson. There are a lot of questions from civil liberties advocates about accountability for the use of this military surplus equipment. There is very limited information about what exactly it is all being used for and why.  That is NPR national security correspondent David Welna. David thanks so much.  You are welcome. 