 Yesterday Democratic senators fell back on an age-old Senate tradition to pressure Republicans to agree to a vote on an issue Republicans do not want to talk about. Led by Connecticut's Chris Murphy Democrats talked nonstop on the Senate floor for 15 hours.   I cannot tell you how hard it is to look into the eyes of the families of those little boys and girls who were killed in Sandy Hook and tell them that almost four years later we have done nothing nothing at all.  It looked a lot like a filibuster and that is what most people called it. But NPR senior editor and correspondent Ron Elving is with us now with another thought. Hi there Ron.  Hello Kelly.  So is this a filibuster or is not it?  It fits the popular idea of a filibuster. That is a guy on the Senate floor talking until he collapses hoarse. You know you have seen this. It comes from the movies. And there is another popular idea of a bunch of Southern senators holding the floor for months reading from the phone book and so on and that comes from the Senate fight over the civil rights bill back in 1964. But what we saw last night looked like the popular notion of a filibuster for a little while a matter of hours. But it was really more of a demonstration of extraordinary interest and impulse on the part of these senators with the intention of having an impact in this case on gun laws.  I mean the usual filibuster is not something that you would see on TV right?  That is right. Nowadays the real filibuster does not look at all like it did in 1964. It takes the form of a threat. And it is largely invisible. But one senator or group of senators tell the leaders they are going to insist on extended debate on any given bill or a nomination. And this actually happens all the time literally dozens of times in a session of Congress. And you need 60 votes to break it. And that means bipartisan cooperation in order to break it and that is why it is so effective.  Is this tactic going to work with guns?  It does not need to work with guns because you do not have the votes in the first place to even get a simple majority in the Senate on guns because of the uniform opposition or near uniform opposition of the Republican majority. So this is not a filibuster in the usual sense. It is a demonstration of extreme interest. And it will probably lead the Republican leaders to allow a vote. But they do not need a supermajority to defeat this effort.  That is NPR's Ron Elving. Thanks.  Thank you Kelly. 