 President Trump's attorney Jay Sekulow was on all five Sunday morning news shows yesterday to address questions about the Trump campaign's ties to Russia. Sekulow is a well-known Washington lawyer and a major figure in the conservative Christian movement. As NPR's Jim Zarroli reports his new role as the president's lawyer has revived long-standing questions about two charities he is involved with.  When he is not arguing before the Supreme Court or defending the president on TV Jay Sekulow has another job.   Live from Washington D.C. Jay Sekulow Live!  Sekulow is heard on his daily radio show.   I want to talk about obviously the situation on health care and the imminent repeal.  The program also contains regular appeals for money.   It is a challenging time for our nation. Our values our freedoms are under assault. That is why it is critical to stand with the American Center for Law and Justice.  And the money flows in much of it in small donations. An analysis of tax filings by The Washington Post says Sekulow's two intertwined charities took in 230 million between 2011 and 2015. The money is raised by CASE. That is Christian Advocates Serving Evangelism. And it also goes to a second organization called the American Center for Law and Justice or ACLJ. Charity watchdogs have long had concerns about these groups.  They are a textbook case of having severely flawed governancy  and transparency.  Daniel Borochoff of CharityWatch says both groups are controlled by Sekulow and his relatives several of whom work there. Over the years about 35 million has gone to the Sekulows or businesses they run. About three and a half million has gone to a broadcast production company owned by Sekulow's sister-in-law. Sekulow himself has an unpaid position as chief counsel of the ACLJ but 94 percent of ACLJ's outside legal work goes to a law firm run by Sekulow.  What needs to be asked of CASE and ACLJ is are there no other law firms or lawyers in the United States that could work for this charity? Surely there is somebody else that would be qualified.  Borochoff says that points to a larger problem the lack of independent oversight of the groups. CASE's board is made up of Sekulow's relatives.  It is very rare to see a group that has this many related party transactions where you have got a board that is all family members.  The ACLJ has two independent directors on its three-member board including televangelist Pat Robertson. But Borochoff says the group is not really independent either since its funding is essentially controlled by CASE. Another watchdog Charity Navigator has similar concerns about oversight. Katie Rusnock says the organization looked at the ACLJ's Washington chapter and ranked it near the bottom.  Our current reading for them is a one star which - our ratings are out of four stars. It is definitely on the lower side of our rating system.  Rusnock's group also has problems with the amount of money going to ACLJ's programs which is declining compared to spending. The ACLJ did not respond to a request for comment but a spokesman recently told The Guardian its compensation practices have been deemed reasonable by outside experts. He also noted that the charities are audited by outside firms. But outside auditors do not typically concern themselves with practices such as hiring of relatives. Meanwhile Sekulow's job as President Trump's attorney is likely to give him even more prominence and potentially means more donations for the charities his family controls. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 