 Here's a way the candidates would like to be able to raise money - donations via text message. It is something nonprofits already do. The American Red Cross for example raised 32 million from texts after the earthquake in Haiti. But for political campaigns it is not a reality not yet. In June the FEC ruled that campaigns can collect donations from text messages but wireless carriers still are not onboard. Today we wrap up a series of conversations on the campaign toolbox with Erik Nilsson. He is the V.P. of C.M.D.I. a Republican fundraising technology company and he helped explain how text donations would work.  For the donor it is really easy. The donor basically texts a code word to a specific telephone number and the phone company then puts the donation on that cell phone subscriber's bill. So when they get their bill they make their payment that money is then passed from the donor to the cell company then on to the aggregators who are the ones who are really selling this to the campaigns and they are the ones who applied with the FEC to get it through the system.  They are essentially the middle men. They are the people who would kind of take in the donations and then front that cash to the campaign make sure everybody who is supposed to get paid is going to get paid. Right?  Absolutely. They are the ones who are doing it and that is exactly their job. The neat about that is they are getting the campaigns the money within 10 days of the text donation going through but they are also the ones carrying the big risk because what we have seen historically is it takes three to five months for the money to go from the actual donor paying their cell phone bill and then from the cell company all the way through to the aggregator. So they are going to be fronting that money for quite a long time.  At the same time you have both the Obama and Romney campaigns who wrote letters in support of this and yet it is not exactly launching so what are the other concerns that these cell phone carriers seem to have about this?  Well they have got a lot of concerns because it is not been clear in the FEC ruling who is responsible for determining whether or not somebody is eligible to make a donation. To make a donation to a presidential campaign you cannot be a foreign national. You have to be of a certain age. You have to - you cannot go over a certain giving limit so you cannot go over 2500 in a campaign year. Right now there is nobody policing that so the carriers are concerned that if they get somebody who makes a donation who is not qualified to make a donation who is going to catch that? And will the carrier get in trouble if they do process donations for under-aged foreign nationals who are making donations over their company's cell phone? So they want to make sure they are protected should anything go awry.  So what is the real potential for this technology? Essentially is the idea that it is going to open up the door to small donors even more? I mean we talked so much about small donors when it came to the last election and President Obama's success there.  That is the philosophy. And let us make sure we are clear on how we are defining small donors. In the political world we look at anybody who gives less than 200 as a small donor. And what we are talking about here with the - what the FEC has agreed to for text to donate is that only 10 can be made in a text donation but you can do up to five of those donations per month with a total cap of 200 per subscriber.  OK. So that is still a good amount of money right?  It is still a good amount. It is still a good amount but if you look at the - you know if we look at Obama's numbers at a high level so far for the 2012 elections less than half a percent has come in from 10 or less gifts so it is not moving the needle yet.  So explain why campaigns are eager to get in on this technology. How in the numbers does it compare to fundraising by other means such as direct mail?  Direct mail you get about 40 per gift and your cost of processing that gift is between two and five percent. For online donations online donations are running about 80 on average and those costs are four to five percent. With a text donation how it is described it will be about 10 on average and the cost of donating will be about 40 percent. So it is not a very cost - and that is projected right now - but that is not a very cost-effective way to fundraise so...  Wow. So if I give 10 you are saying four of those dollars goes to the middle men?  Correct. And then if you think big picture the campaign is only getting your cell phone number so they are not even sure that it is Audie Cornish that gave that gift. So that is a challenge for the campaign and it is a challenge for the aggregator to make sure that that small gift comes in and they are able to - they like to move you up the food chain have you give additional gifts later on.  Aha. So even though campaigns might be excited you are saying this essentially cuts them off from some very important data...  Absolutely.  ...because it is anonymous.  It is anonymous and really campaigns want to build relationships with their supporters. It is all about building a grassroots effort building your supporters building your base. And with kind of an anonymous donation when all the campaign is getting is the cellular number they are a little bit removed. They would have to do some data mining to find out who you really are.  Erik Nilsson thanks so much for talking with us.  My pleasure. Thanks for having me.  Erik Nilsson works in fundraising technology for Republicans and he is excited about the fundraising potential of text donations but given the concerns he described he says you are not likely to be able text money to your chosen candidate until after 2012. 