 The confrontation over the debt ceiling and the federal deficit has been dominating the political talk of Washington this week. And I assume it will dominate our talk now with our political regulars E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and the Brookings Institution and David Brooks of The New York Times. Hi.  Hi.  Nice to be with you.  Start with E.J. and I would like to hear from you as well David. Do you see any prospect here of a budget deal big or small? And failing that is the failure to raise the debt ceiling actually conceivable?  Now I think that you know Cantor the majority leader and his allies have to get something out of this but I do not see what they can get out of it. I think a lot of Republicans now want to get out of this useless fight.  David what do you make of this?  Obama has gone straight to the center. He is done some serious cutting asked for a little in return and Republicans have not seized it. And I think they will regret it.  They are saying all or nothing. We get everything we want or we .  Well they have adopted a posture that has to be 100 percent spending cuts and zero percent tax increases whereas the public is pretty clear. And Obama was right about this in the press conference today. The public is pretty happy with 85 percent spending cuts and 15 percent tax increases and that should be a great deal for Republicans. Again I am not sure why they do not take that deal.  And the public actually has been very sympathetic to 5050 proposals with a lot more revenue. And I think the real problem the Republicans created for themselves is they really sent a signal that the only thing they care about are tax cuts preserving tax cuts for very high income people and corporations. And this is not going to play well in the long run for them.  David to what extent is this impasse do you think about let us say tactical politics of who does how well in the 2012 election and who does how well in the polls and to what extent is it actually about fundamental ideas about government and what the parties stand for?  But fundamentally it is about an unaffordable welfare state where we have aging populations medical technologies driving - in Greece in Western Europe in Japan - driving all of these countries toward bankruptcy. How do we deal with that?  And they E.J. the Republicans want the Democrats to put something on the table that addresses that problem as they see it.  And yes you do definitely need to contain health care costs which by the way was the president's healthcare proposal was about. But I agree...  And it does not seem to have been received that way.  No. And the Republicans ran against it in the last election. It is fundamental. It is about the role of government and whether we are gonna have a tax system that is a little bit more progressive.  David is anyone in this drama distinguishing himself or herself either for better or worse some star or some obvious demon here in this?  No stars. You know the president I think has made at least in theory some concessions but he has not produced a plan. And frankly the center of gravity has moved away from the White House toward Congress. Essentially I think the American people are rightly taking a look at this and saying they cannot govern these people cannot govern. And that applies to Obama it applies to Congress and so if they do not do it there will be a strong - even stronger anti-incumbent movement.   Can you conceive of a vote approving something here a debt ceiling increase which in the House is mix of Democrats and Republicans with freshman Republicans voting no?  It is possible. Though I think the most likely thing is they will get what they call the Mitch McConnell deal which commits nobody to anything. It is sort of a B-minus solution that kicks the can down the road.  E.J.  And then I think you are going to have Mitch McConnell winning an award for an old-fashion canny politician who will try to gain some political advantage without solving the big problem.  So if not in these stars maybe some strong supporting role performances E.J.  Yeah exactly right.   Okay. E.J. Dionne of the Washington Post and David Brooks of The New York Times thanks to both of you.  Thank you.  Good to be here. 