 The head of the Senate Judiciary Committee Chuck Grassley has announced that the committee will hold a public hearing on Monday with Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh and Christine Blasey Ford the woman who has accused Kavanaugh of sexually assaulting her at a party when they were in high school in the 1980s. NPR's Scott Detrow is here to tell us an update about what is going on. Hey there Scott.  Hey Audie.  So Republican leaders started the day opposing the idea of delaying Kavanaugh's committee vote and holding new hearings right? That was something that was sort of out there as an option.  Right.  Now we actually have this public hearing so it is not a delay totally right? We are going to hear out these parties. What more have you learned?  Well yeah. I think you can characterize it as a delay because Republicans - Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and other Republican leaders were dead set on getting Brett Kavanaugh on the Supreme Court for the start of the fall...  Meaning that vote would have happened out of committee this week.  That is right. So there was going to be a vote Thursday. Now there is a hearing Monday. It is not clear when the vote would be assuming everything goes well for Kavanaugh. But already pushing that back by a week makes that tight timeline hard to reach. You know McConnell had wanted to move forward but he has just that two-vote margin that 51-49 vote margin. And there was a lot of pressure from Republicans saying they were not comfortable moving forward on that fast pace without learning more. The most high-profile proponent on the Republican side of a public hearing was Susan Collins from Maine. And she was pretty pleased once this hearing was announced.   I believe that it is very important that both Professor Ford and Judge Kavanaugh testify under oath about these allegations.  Scott is this a nomination that is now in doubt?  Hard to say right now. Collins said she does not think you can conclude that yet. She wants to see what is said at that hearing very insistent on it being under oath. That is important to Collins. But again it is that slim margin 51-49. After this accusation has come out it is hard to see any Democrat voting yes. So just a couple Republicans feeling uncomfortable with this vote feeling like they believe Ford and not Kavanaugh puts his nomination in doubt. Jeff Flake of Arizona is someone else who was pushing for a pause on this fast schedule. He said this evening that if you believe the charges you have to vote no. At this point he said all we can do is hold that hearing next week. And as I said what is clear though that there is probably no way that Kavanaugh will be on the bench to start the term at this point.  What are Democrats saying about this?  You know this seems to be a step in the right direction from their point of view. But they are really not satisfied here. Democrats had called for a full FBI investigation. They had wanted that before this hearing. That is one reason why earlier this evening the Judiciary Committee staff had been on the phone with Brett Kavanaugh. Chairman Chuck Grassley had hoped to learn more information through phone calls with staff. Democrats said no phone calls will not do. We want the FBI to look at this. And Connecticut senator Richard Blumenthal who is on that committee says having a hearing before the FBI weighs in just does not make sense.   There is no way I would put a crime survivor on the stand in front of a jury let alone the American people without a full investigation so that I know what the facts are before I start asking questions.  But that full FBI investigation does not appear to be coming. The Department of Justice said in a statement today that they view their job as complete. They did a background check of Kavanaugh and they have appended this letter that came in to their report to the White House. And it seems to be that they feel their job is done at this point.  And in the meantime we should remind people that Brett Kavanaugh has denied these allegations right? And what else have we heard from the White House and some of his defenders?  That is right. Kavanaugh says this did not happen. Earlier today President Trump said Kavanaugh still has his full support. But it is hard to not underscore how much of a severe turn this is. Kavanaugh looked to be almost a done deal after those confirmation hearings. Now there is going to be a very ugly public hearing - he said she said. And it is - it looks like it could be a replay of that infamous toxic 1991 Clarence Thomas confirmation hearing.  That is NPR's Scott Detrow. Thank you for your reporting.  Thank you. 