 Finally today we want to look ahead to the 2018 midterms because they are already here and because Russian hackers have already attempted to hack three 2018 candidates. Just this week Microsoft's vice president for customer security said Russian hackers targeted the staffers of three 2018 candidates with the kind of phishing tactics used in 2016. So how are the states safeguarding their election systems? We are going to hear now from the top election official in West Virginia - Secretary of State Mac Warner. He is a Republican. He told me earlier today that it is not a question of if there will be attempts to interfere in the midterms but when those attacks are likely to take place.  Well all we have to do is look back to the playbook that the Russians used in 2016. That is a continuing concern and that is mainly spoofing and spearphishing efforts to break inside of personal emails campaigns candidates committees. I am sure they are going to be at it again this year as they did in 2016.  Since 2016 West Virginia has been a leader in trying to safeguard election security with new technologies. Secretary Warner told me about an election cybersecurity training he attended last summer at Harvard's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.  They invited me up and I brought my team up and we actually participated in a series of tabletop exercises that set the groundwork for giving campaigns and candidates a playbook to counter against this. And it prepared me for things will happen. You have to react and you have to use all the resources at your fingertips both down the line with the county officials and up the line with the federal officials to get the proper reaction. So it caused us to do the communication to open up those lines of communication. And we have done that here in the state of West Virginia. And on Monday we are going to have here in West Virginia perhaps the first full-fledged tabletop exercise to train our county clerks from across the state in this cyber-atmosphere of what is coming at them.  Could you give me a sense of what some of the things are that you have learned from the exercises that you have been participating in?  What I learned at Belfer was it is not if - it is when. We are being constantly probed and I am talking thousands if not hundreds of thousands of attempts a day from across the globe. The Russians are the most notorious but Chinese Iranian - all kinds of players are looking at probing our election system. So all you have to do is just have that one moment where they penetrate and now they are inside your systems. If one county clerk clicks on a phishing email and clicks the link that allows an intruder into our system now using that county computer system they can then perhaps get into the statewide voter registration system. And perhaps this is what we saw in a state or two's system back in the 2016 election. So we have to train down to the lowest level.  Do you feel there is a sense of urgency on the part of national political leaders about this?  Absolutely. I really think there is been somewhat of a false narrative out there that the national people are not working fast enough or do not care or the states. What I have seen - and I have been at four National Associations of Secretary of State where all of us come together and DHS and DAC and everybody's come together - we have been on this from day one. As soon as we found out about it in the 2016 election we have been working this hard and we have been working together.  But if there is that sense of urgency Mr. Secretary of State how do you understand the House Republicans voting down a government spending bill that would have included additional funding for election security? I mean does that suggest that they are taking this as seriously as you are?  There are a number of political reasons why people either vote for something or do not vote for something. I can tell you from my perspective it is being taken very seriously. They are getting us what they can when they can. And I hope that there'ill be another round of contributions from the federal government. When it is properly - you know the funding sources are identified and the needs and the parameters are set - I am telling you right now I would not say that we are using all that we have got. But what they have given us we are pushing hard to get it spent to get the counties to identify what their needs are. There is time for the federal government to react in the future to get us what we need.  That was West Virginia Secretary of State Mac Warner. Mr. Warner thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you for having me on. 