 Democrats kick off their national convention tonight. The event was supposed to draw tens of thousands of people to Milwaukee. The coronavirus pandemic scrambled those plans so we have sent NPR political correspondents Scott Detrow and Asma Khalid not to Wisconsin but to Delaware where Joe Biden will accept the Democratic nomination later this week. They join me now. Hey Scott. Hey Asma.  Hey there.  Hey. Good afternoon.  So we are going to a preview of what is now an all-virtual event. There will be some live elements some prerecorded elements. Asma what is this going to look like? What is it going to sound like?  I mean I think that that is the question everybody has - right? - it is going to be two hours of a made-for-TV event. And it is really going to in some ways be that right? You are going to have Eva Longoria this actress who is going to give the introduction. You will have musical acts. But the speakers - the political speakers - largely many of them are going to be recorded. And so I do think it will have a really unusual sense compared to the usual pomp and circumstance you expect at a convention. You know when you talk about what the agenda is the Democrats are really focused on addressing the crises facing the nation especially the pandemic. And you will have a couple of key governors - Andrew Cuomo of New York and Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan - who have been dealing with the pandemic who are slated to speak tonight. And the big focus for Democrats is to contrast what a Biden administration's leadership would feel like what it would be compared to what we have seen from the Trump administration.  All right. Well let us look ahead to some of these speakers who will be taking the stage as it were tonight. And Scott let me bring you in the keynote tonight is Michelle Obama the former first lady. What is her task tonight?  You know Michelle Obama is one of the most popular people in the country let alone the Democratic Party. But she really has not fully engaged in the presidential campaign yet. Barack Obama campaigned with and endorsed Joe Biden delivered a political eulogy the other week at John Lewis's funeral. But this will really be the first that we are hearing from Michelle Obama directly when it comes to the campaign. Of course she is been out there. She is got a great new podcast among other things. But she has not really been doing campaigning. And of course Michelle Obama is a very powerful speaker. In 2016 she delivered what was maybe the most memorable speech of the campaign calling out Donald Trump's rhetoric and message with that memorable line when they go low we go high.  Which we quote all the time in our house . Another speaker to ask you about - because you covered him so much during the primaries Scott - and that is Bernie Sanders. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders who was hoping this would be his night. Do we know what he is going to say?  A Sanders source told me it will be a pretty simple message - the case not only for defeating Trump but also electing Joe Biden. Sanders knows a lot of his hardcore supporters are ambivalent or maybe suspicious about Biden even as they are very motivated to see President Trump lose. But this is such a different situation than 2016. Sanders has campaigned hard for Biden. They also worked together on that task force that really set much of the platform that delegates are approving this week. So expect to hear Sanders talk about that and how those task forces moved Biden to the left on climate change on health care on several other key issues. But of course the Democrats are trying to have a broad appeal tonight. They are trying to appeal to Republicans who are kind of dissatisfied with President Trump maybe. So we are also going to hear from somebody who is probably not too excited about you know a broad public option that moves towards universal health care. And that is former Ohio Gov. John Kasich. But Sanders has pointed out Kasich and Sanders agree on maybe just one thing and that is the need to defeat Donald Trump.  Speaking of Donald Trump he has a track record of counterprogramming big events. I am remembering well many times but earlier this year during the primaries he would often travel to states and hold rallies that were just gearing up for a Democratic primary before Democrats voted. Are we expecting anything along these lines this week Asma as the Democrats try to proceed with their convention?  Yeah Mary Louise you can expect to see similar counterprogramming all this week. And part of this is that Donald Trump is a reality TV star. So when we talk about the Democrats putting on a made-for-TV event this is where he feels most comfortable. So he is going to be traveling a lot. He is planning to host events in Minnesota Wisconsin Arizona Pennsylvania and possibly Iowa. And you know he had thoughts today on the Democrats' production their convention. He was joking about this at the Minneapolis airport.   Do you want to go to a snooze? You know when you hear... When you hear a speech is taped it is like there is nothing very exciting about it right?  You know Mary Louise I think what is interesting about this moment is that Biden is clearly leading in the polls. We have seen him with double-digit leads. And you have the president who is on sort of the - his back foot really trying to build momentum and counterprogram because he needs to ahead of his own convention coming up next week.  That is our NPR political correspondents Asma Khalid and Scott Detrow. Thanks to you both.  You are welcome.  Thank you. 