 Here are some numbers to put a fine point on frustration with Washington. Nearly nine out of 10 Americans 86 percent say they are frustrated or angry with the federal government. That is according to the latest poll by the Pew Research Center. The poll also found that President Obama's job approval rating has dropped to 43 percent with 49 percent disapproving. Andrew Kohut is president of the Pew Research Center. Andy welcome back.  Happy to be with you.  Let us talk first about this disaffection that you are measuring Andy. You are asking people whether they are angry frustrated or basically content with the federal government. And you are seeing a really startling rise among those who say they are angry - it is doubled since March.  Yeah it is not surprising that people are discontented given the economy and all of the problems we have had here in Washington. But the numbers are extraordinary - 79 percent saying they are dissatisfied with the way things are going 86 percent say either angry or frustrated. And the number of people who say they trust the government to get it right is at one of the record low levels of the past 40 years. And we even find Americans not only more displeased with government but fewer rate business corporations and labor unions positively than they did at the beginning of the year.  So that is the climate heading into the 2012 election. Let us talk about the president's job approval rating that you found in this poll.  Well for the first time we have more people saying they disapprove 49 percent than saying they approve 43 percent. And that is a significant decline for Obama. Not as low as some of the other polls have him but certainly on our course not a good measure. And we have continued to see the percentage of people saying they strongly disapprove of President Obama 38 percent outweighing the percentage who say they strongly approve which is a measure again of the intensity gap - how his critics are so much more fired up than the people who back Obama. And that has real political implications for turnout and other things in 2012.  Yeah. Andy how do those numbers for the president stack up with what people were telling you about how they view Congress congressional leaders?  Well the Republicans have really taken a hit. Only 22 percent of the people that we polled say they approve of the Republican congressional leaders. Somewhat more 29 percent approve of the Democrats. And more generally the Republican Party comes away from the debt ceiling debate with not as good an image as it has had.  It is interesting if you look at that Republican decline too because there is especially sharp drop-off among Republicans who agree with the Tea Party. They are very disenchanted with their own party.  That is exactly right. At the outset of the Tea Party movement there was a plurality saying they have a favorable view of the Tea Party. Today our poll finds by a 43 to 36 percent margin an unfavorable view of the Tea Party. The Tea Party is not as well regarded as it was when it got going and even at the beginning of the year.  You asked some questions Andy about the Republican presidential field. And let us talk a bit about that your findings about the candidates and how they stack up against President Obama.  Well  Would you vote for President Obama or would you vote for a Republican candidate not named it is pretty even. We get 43 percent naming Obama and 40 percent saying they would go for a Republican candidate. Now back in May President Obama had an 11 percentage point advantage over the Republicans. So he is not doing so well reflecting the decline in his approval ratings. But you know we should take into account in looking at President Obama some things. Even at a 43 percent approval rating - which is not good it is one of his lowest ratings in our survey - that is from a public 93 percent of which say the economy is not in good shape. It is from a public that distrusts government and he is doing relatively well compared to the GOP leaders. So Obama's numbers are worrisome for - should be worrisome for the Democrats and for the White House. But they could be worse given the environment which I am describing with respect to how Americans see the country.  Okay Andy. Thanks very much.  You are welcome.  That is Andrew Kohut president of the Pew Research Center. 