 Democrats in Congress are still working on a way to strengthen federal voting rights laws. Just this week they passed along another voting bill in the House. But on one key issue - whether voters need to show ID at the polls - some Democrats are changing their tune. As NPR's Miles Parks reports it may be due to broad public support.  Roughly a third of states now require photo ID to vote according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. And for more than a decade that has outraged Democrats. While the vast majority of voters have government-issued IDs millions of eligible voters do not. And importantly those voters are more likely to be poor have disabilities or be people of color. Here's then-Vice President Joe Biden in 2014.   It is an attempt to repress minority voting masquerading as an attempt to end corruption.  Also the widespread fraud the voter ID laws are aimed at stopping has never been shown to exist in the first place. But this summer the landscape seems to be shifting from fighting mandatory voter ID to a more nuanced argument. Here's Representative James Clyburn the third-ranking Democrat in the House on NPR a few weeks ago.  We do not oppose voter ID. Every one of us who registered to vote get a voter registration card and you present their card every time you go to vote. That is voter ID. It is something that is different when you say that a photo on a student card is not good but on a home license is good. And that is what we oppose.  And that distinction on what kind of ID is acceptable is where the partisan divide seems to be now. Some Democrats including West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin a moderate who will be key for any voting legislation to move forward say they support voter ID requirements as long as things like student IDs and utility bills are accepted. But Republicans generally want a smaller range of government-issued IDs. Rodney Davis is the ranking Republican on the House Administration Committee.  I am just not convinced the Democrats are serious about even debating any of the voter ID issues that many Republicans would support.  One challenge for Democrats is that voter ID laws have long been popular with Americans. A recent Monmouth University poll for instance found 80 approval for photo ID laws nationally. Charles Stewart runs MIt is election data and science lab.  Regardless of how you poll voters like a requirement for photo ID. I mean it is kind of a no-brainer for a large swath of the American public including most Democrats.  Advocates argue that most people do not understand just how burdensome it can be to collect all the paperwork and make the trips necessary to get an ID. But Stewart has done polling on the issue for years and he thinks voters do get it. As someone who does not think there should be more barriers to voting Stewart opposes the laws but he is also come to the conclusion that he is in the minority. Further Stewart says there is very little evidence that the laws affect turnout.  Most of America put their kids in school. We have got to vaccinate them. We have got to show a birth certificate. And so you know I think the rank-and-file Americans have the experience of - you know there are times when I have to prove myself and there are times when I have to do truly hard things. And if somebody cannot do those things then that is just too bad.  Even if they do not like it Democrats may be accepting that as a political reality as well. Miles Parks NPR News Washington.  