 This month Republicans and Democrats will nominate candidates with the lowest favorability ratings on record. Some voters are looking for alternatives. On the right there is the Libertarian Party on the left the Green Party. The Green Party has not gained a lot of traction nationally but it is a different story in a corner of upstate New York. North Country Public Radio's Brian Mann has the story.  I visited Matt Funiciello bakery on the outskirts of Glens Falls N.Y. a mill town on the Hudson River about an hour's drive north of Albany.  These are our hearth ovens. Both are from France but this one's actually I like to say the BMW. It has a German burner unit in it that is fairly easy to fix and repair.  Funiciello bakes artisan bread that he sells to shops and restaurants. The last few years he is also emerged as catalyst for a surge in Green Party activism here running for Congress in 2014 and again this year.  So they are looking for an alternative. Would it be me you know the communist guy who bakes bread? But a lot of them realize I am not a communist guy who bakes bread that I am actually probably more capitalist than anybody else in this race.  Two years ago Funiciello won about 11 percent of the vote - not bad in this Republican-leaning corner of rural New York. He also drew strong endorsements from some of the region's big newspapers. They backed him over the Republican and the Democrat. And Funiciello won backing from national heavy hitters on the left like activist Ralph Nader who ran for president as a Green in 2000. Nader came to Glens Falls campaigning and raising money for Funiciello.  Matt's the only one really who is from - of by and from the district and has a business here.  What is different this year is that Funiciello's not alone on the ballot. There is now a local Green candidate running for State Senate. And Robin Barkenhagen is running for the state assembly as a Green in a race where there is no Democrat. Barkenhagen is the only candidate on the left.  It is been a struggle. It is been you know obviously uphill for many years. But Matt made a big breakthrough and brought a lot of us around to decide we could organize and get things done this year.   And the amount of public money that is put into private corporations...  Funiciello the baker running for Congress is convinced that this is a year when more voters will go Green. He thinks Bernie Sanders' strength in the Democratic primary showed people want cabinets who are more progressive and who will not take money from big companies.   Corporations are not human beings. The workers who are in this plant the workers who live here in Fort Edward - they are human beings.   Funiciello led a rally outside a General Electric factory in Fort Edwards N.Y. an hour's drive from this bakery. GE is closing this plant laying off workers. Funiciello was joined by Jill Stein who is expected to be the Green Party's candidate for president. She thinks Greens can capitalize on voter anger over income inequality and international trade deals.  We have been told third parties are you know small and they do not count and they are just spoilers. Well that is what they said to the abolitionists.  The rise of the Green Party here does give Democrats fits. You hear the word spoiler a lot. The Democratic candidate for this House seat is a retired Army officer named Mike Derrick.  So I will try to tell people that a vote for Matt you know is a wasted vote because Matt Funiciello will never get elected to Congress.  It is still a long shot for any of the Green candidates here to actually win their races. In the House race Republican Elise Stefanik is heavily favored to hold her seat. But in this part of upstate New York it does appear that Greens have sunk real roots establishing themselves as a serious part of the political debate. For now they say that in itself is progress. For NPR News I am Brian Mann. 