 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Prosecutors have rested their case in the trial of Major Nidal Hasan. He is the Army psychiatrist accused of murdering 13 people and wounding more than 30 in the 2009 shooting attack at Fort Hood in Texas. And while the case took nearly three years to get to trial once the proceeding started they have moved along very quickly. NPR's Wade Goodwyn spent the day in the courtroom at Fort Hood. He joins us now. And Wade the idea was that the prosecution's case might take weeks maybe months. But here were are its 11 days into the trial and now prosecutors have rested. So why do not you walk us through what they laid out in their case?  Well I am not sure how much credit the prosecutors get even though it is their case we are talking about. This is mostly Major Hasan's doing. He decided that he wanted to represent himself. And though legal experts always advise against that you have that right. And you might remember that when it became clear that Hasan was going to represent himself there was some anxiety about the fact that he was going to be given the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses that he is alleged to have shot. But there is been none of that. No belligerent cross-examinations in fact almost no cross-examination by Hasan at all. Time after time he said no questions your honor. And that is meant that 89 witnesses have testified in just 11 days. And that is got to be some sort of record for a major murder trial like this.  And why is it Wade that Nidal Hasan has not been for the most part cross-examining those witnesses? What is the strategy there if there is one?  I think it is because he does not want to. He is already conceded in the court that the evidence demonstrates he was the shooter. And in letters Hasan sent to the local Killeen newspaper that were published on Sunday this weekend Hasan wrote that he switched sides. He is with al-Qaida and the Taliban. And so having attacked the enemy you know men and women who were once his colleagues his fellow soldiers he seems content. He is demonstrated nothing but respect for the judge and the witnesses. There have been no attempts at political or religious diatribes like we witnessed with FLDS leader Warren Jeffs when he was on trial for having sex with minors. Major Hasan's main agenda now seems to be to move this trial along.  Well what do we expect when Nidal Hasan starts his defense tomorrow?  Well that is the big question. Comments made by the judge this morning hinted at the possibility that Hasan might take the stand. Now that would be a very strange spectacle because when you are representing yourself you are not allowed to just take the stand and offer some impassioned speech in your own defense. You have to actually ask yourself questions and then answer them so that the prosecution has the opportunity to object to your question. This morning the judge explained that detail to the major which makes me wonder if that is where we are in for tomorrow. Or he could simply rest without offering any defense at all and that would be in keeping with his legal strategy so far. In his mind he is taken the fast lane to martyrdom.  So not planning to call any witnesses as far as you know?  We are not quite sure. Maybe one witness at most. But maybe just himself is the one witness. We cannot really tell. But we will know tomorrow.  OK. NPR's Wade Goodwyn covering the trial of Nidal Hasan in Killeen Texas. Wade thanks so much.  It is my pleasure. 