 For much of this year Republicans have talked about finding new ways to get Americans out of poverty. But so far they have offered few specifics. Today Paul Ryan the House Budget Committee chairman unveiled his plan. He says it will help fix safety net programs that he calls fragmented and ineffective. NPR's Pam Fessler has the details.  Here are the highlights of Ryan's plan. He would allow states to experiment with federal aid by merging things like food stamps child care and welfare into something called an Opportunity Grant. He would expand tax credits for working adults. He would make it easier for those with criminal records to get jobs and for others to go to college. And he would track the results to make sure that these programs actually work. He says many existing one do not.   Too many families are working harder and harder yet they are falling further and further behind.  Ryan told an audience at a Washington think tank that the answer is a healthy economy.   And a big part of that is having a safety net that is strong - both for those who cannot help themselves and for those who need just a helping hand to get up and going in life. That is our goal. See the problem is that is not what we are getting.  He says the federal government spends hundreds of billions of dollars a year fighting poverty but that the nation's poverty rates the high - 15 percent. His conclusion like that of many Republicans is that the system is broken - that more flexibility should be given to states and those on the frontlines who work directly with the poor which makes many Democrats and anti-poverty advocates nervous.  We have to ask how real is Congressman Ryan's proposal?  Debbie Weinstein is executive director of the Coalition of Human Needs a group of more than a hundred anti-poverty organizations. They have been fighting huge cuts in government spending much of it proposed by Ryan's Budget Committee. The Wisconsin Republican insists that his plan will not reduce overall aid. But Weinstein is skeptical. She says there is already not enough money for things that poor people need like education and child care.  So if he puts all the money together and he says let us spend more money on child care. Then it is going to come from somewhere and it is going to come from taking food out of people's mouths.  Still there are parts of Ryan's plan that could get bipartisan support like expanding the earned income tax credit for childless adults. That is something that Democrats have also proposed. Although Ryan says he would pay four by cutting spending on social programs that Democrats like. There are also questions about his Opportunity Grant plan. It would basically be a pilot program allowing states to customize aid to individual's needs. That person would also have to work or train for a job. Stewart Baker of the conservative Heritage Foundation applauds the idea. But he thinks states might need some financial incentives like those included in a 1996 welfare reform law.  To get people out of welfare and into independent work. I do not see that in this and I think that is an element that has to be looked at more carefully.  And Ryan admits that there are still lots of unknowns about what will and will not help the poor which is why he says his plan is a discussion draft - that he is really just trying to start a conversation. Pam Fessler NPR News Washington. 