 Former Vice President Joe Biden is on the defensive with his fellow Democrats. At a fundraiser this week Biden talked about working with people he disagreed with and he mentioned two segregationist senators as examples. Now some of Biden's fellow presidential candidates and others in the party are criticizing him for racial insensitivity. Jamal Simmons is a Democratic strategist and host of Hill.TV. He is not affiliated with any of the campaigns. Welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thanks for having me Ari.  So at this New York fundraiser on Tuesday night Biden talked about working with two now-deceased segregationist senators. One of them was James Eastland of Mississippi. And Biden said he never called me boy he always called me son. Biden sees working with these men as a good thing. He says he does not have a racist bone in his body. What do you think?  I do not think Joe Biden is racist in any sense that we normally think of. I think that he comes from an era though that - where I guess race just was not a disqualifying factor perhaps for some relationships.  Well two of Biden's rivals for the nomination have been vocal about this. Kamala Harris and Cory Booker are both senators. They are both African-American. Here's what they had to say starting with Senator Harris.   To coddle the reputations of segregationists - of people who if they had their way I would literally not be standing here as a member of the United States Senate is I think - it is just - it is misinformed and it is wrong.  Should Joe Biden...   I know that somebody running for president of the United States somebody running to be the leader of our party should know that using the word boy in the way he did can cause hurt and pain. And we need a presidential nominee and the leader of our party to be sensitive to that.  Jamal Simmons whether or not Biden is racist do you think he owes someone an apology as Cory Booker says he does.  I will tell you this. Cory Booker certainly does not owe Joe Biden an apology. That is probably - Biden asking for that was maybe even as offensive as the earlier statement.  So just a play-by-play here - Booker said Biden ought to apologize Biden said no it is Booker who ought to apologize. That is where this coming from.   Yeah. The Biden campaign can decide whether or not it should apologize. It certainly should commit to not using those examples going forward. There is a bigger issue for Vice President Biden. He gets a lot of credit from African-Americans. He gets a lot of credit from Democrats up and down the line for his personal story his commitment to Barack Obama. The question is does Vice President Biden have the agility to make his way through the modern Democratic Party's crosscurrents? And it just means that on issues of race on issues of LGBTQ rights on issues of gender equity - and he has not yet shown he is really able to surf those crosscurrents.  We have seen some senior Democrats in the party - African-Americans - defending Biden. I mean like James Clyburn the House majority whip of South Carolina he is coming to Biden's defense. Explain why that might be.  Well listen. Like I said a lot of people really like Vice President Biden admire Vice President Biden. I am one of them. Traditional Democrats will be for whoever the Democratic nominee is. Those atypical Democrats who do not always vote they show up when they are inspired. So I just think Vice President Biden is going to have to speak to that part of the party while he is also making his case to the establishment.  Biden is 76 years old and there is a long history of people kind of making excuses for generational differences especially when it comes to race. How much of this is simply a generational divide?  Oh I think a lot of it is generational. I think of you know sometimes when you are out and about and you maybe go visit a friend. I am African-American. I have been at events with white friends where they had family members who you know just would randomly start talking about Denzel Washington or Michael Jordan as people they admired.  And you wonder - you know it is apropos of nothing. You wonder why is that?  Right. Or they are using outdated language or any number of things. Right.  Sure. And they are trying to find a way to relate but it is kind of ham-handed. And you know because they mean well you kind of give them permission and keep moving. I think that that is probably true of somebody who comes from Vice President Biden's generation. The question is is that the best Democratic nominee that the Democratic Party can field against Donald Trump?  That is Democratic strategist Jamal Simmons. Thanks for joining us.  Thank you for having me. It is good to talk to you. 