 NPR's Mara Liasson is here in the studio to discuss more about how unusual this turmoil in the Republican Party is. Hi Mara.  Hi Ari.  So on a scale of routine to bizarre what are we seeing right now?  Well it is more turmoil courtesy of Donald Trump. And of course we say this every time but this one feels different. Five weeks from Indiana the primary when he vanquished the GOP establishment and became the nominee he is still acting like a sore winner.  .  And this much-promised pivot to being presidential just has not materialized. In fact he seems to be going in the opposite direction pursuing these personal feuds with all sorts of enemies but first and foremost Judge Curiel who as you just heard is the American judge trying the Trump University case.  Talk about the reaction we are seeing from Republican leaders that we just heard Nina Totenberg describe. Are you surprised by what we are seeing from them?  No. It is very candid and very anguished. You heard Mitch McConnell say get back on message talk about the economy and Obamacare. Stop talking about minorities and your enemies and do it now. And almost as if his message was received at Trump headquarters Trump - the campaign released a statement just now that says it is unfortunate that my comments have been misconstrued as a categorical attack against people of Mexican heritage. I am friends with them and employ thousands of people of Mexican and Hispanic descent. Then he goes on to say the American justice system relies on fair impartial judges. I do not feel that one's heritage makes them incapable of being impartial which is exactly the opposite of what he is been saying. But he says but based on the rulings that I have received in this case I do not feel judge Curiel is being fair. So sounds like he is trying to walk it back. But in the meantime you had this avalanche of Republican criticism - unprecedented spectacle of people criticizing their own party's nominee. So far one Republican - Senate incumbent up for reelection Mark Kirk of Illinois - has un-endorsed Trump. He is the only one.  You say it is unprecedented for the leaders of the party to criticize their nominee this blatantly so why is this happening?  Well you know this is not about policy. This is not about banning Muslims deporting 11 million people or building a wall. Those policies have support particularly inside the Republican Party. This is about what Paul Ryan called the textbook definition of racism saying at least until he seems to be walking it back that a Mexican judge could not be fair and that a Muslim judge probably cannot be fair to him either. You know it is interesting because previously Trump has said that lots of legal immigrants support his policies on immigration. Now he seems to be saying - or at least until he maybe walked it back - that because of the things he himself has said about Mexicans and Muslims he assumes that any Mexican or Muslim judge would be against him. He is almost conceding the point his opponents make that he has engendered racial divisions.  Mara Donald Trump created plenty of controversy during the primary which did not seem to hurt him much in the polls. Now that we are nearing a general election do you expect that to change?  Well we do not know yet. We will not know until next week when we will get a whole bunch of new polls. We do know that Donald Trump has not tweeted for the last 16 hours which is the second time he is gone silent. The first time was right after Hillary Clinton's lacerating speech against him on Thursday. We know that so far he has not paid a price. Republicans I have talked to today say they are not seeing any slippage in his polling at least in Senate battleground states. But what we do know is that he is had a very hard time adjusting to being a general election candidate when you are in a much much brighter spotlight. He seems to have totally abandoned his crisp clear message make American great again. He did not have to respond to the questions about his donations to veterans groups the way he did. These were all self-inflicted wounds. He also seems to have made very little effort to ramp up his campaign for the general election. He is still a one-man band. We have from our own Sarah McCammon reporting about the conference call where Trump himself essentially undercut his own campaign staff who were trying to keep a lid on the Judge Curiel controversy. We also know that he turns 70 next week. People usually do not change when things that have been working for them for their whole lives - he does not seem any reason to change. Maybe the statement that he released today means that he will.  NPR's Mara Liasson thanks as always.  Thank you. 