 While President Trump insists that his communications with world leaders are quote always appropriate House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has a different view. I sat down with her this morning for an interview where she described the whistleblower controversy this way.   Just another example of the lack of integrity decency and patriotism on the part of this administration.  We will hear more of that interview in other parts of the program. Right now we are going to discuss this debate and other issues from the week in politics with our Friday guests. Jonathan Capehart of The Washington Post is here in the studio. Hi Jonathan.  Hey Ari.  And Ramesh Ponnuru of the National Review and Bloomberg View joins us on the line. Hi Ramesh.  Hi.  This story is complicated and there is a lot that we do not know. But the president's personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani provided some insight when he tweeted - a president telling a president-elect of a well-known corrupt country - he better investigate corruption that affects the U.S. - is doing his job. So reading between the lines here the implication seems to be that Trump may have asked the president-elect of Ukraine to investigate the Biden family. Jonathan do you think that that is as Giuliani argues the president doing his job?  In the grand scheme of things yes. I mean we have heard presidents for as long as I can remember talking to their counterparts asking them to deal with corruption to deal with things that the United States views as problematic. The problem with President Trump in this case is that he is asking a foreign leader to investigate a political rival. And that is why you hear in this conversation the allegation that the president is trying to get a foreign country to interfere with the 2020 election. What we do not know and why this accusation could be potentially explosive is whether the president of the United States said if you do this investigation of my political rival I will give you the aid that you have been looking for.  A quid pro quo tit for tat.  Right.  Well Ramesh does this seem extraordinary to you if it is in fact what happened here?  I think extraordinary is a fair term to describe it. It is the sort of thing that past presidents would have had some guardrails up to avoid you know even the appearance of impropriety. But this is a president that does not recognize that kind of constraint does not tend to separate his personal interests and his political interests and the national interests. And that is I think how you get into this situation to begin with. And now we are just trying to figure out the precise contours of it.  Well that leads us to the role of Congress conducting oversight. And the White House is stonewalling at every turn. In my interview today with Speaker Pelosi she suggested passing legislation that would apply to future presidents. But she did not budge on the question of impeachment. And so Jonathan short of impeachment do you see other steps that Congress can and should take to assert its powers right now?  Well right now the House Judiciary Committee is in the middle of doing hearings to determine whether they are going to seek - file articles of impeachment. By doing these hearings and doing them in open forum even as wild as they were with Corey Lewandowski they are - what the speaker is trying to do is build the leverage that she needs to build up the public sentiment behind the idea of impeachment.  That is what she says she is doing but do you think she is really just stalling for time or do you think that is actually what she is doing?  No that is actually what she is doing because I interviewed her last week. And this is you know the way Speaker Pelosi has always operated no matter what the issue is. And when she talked to me about this it was not in regard to impeachment. It was in regard to gun legislation. Public sentiment is there - 90 of the American people for instance want background checks. And she knows that she is got the leverage on - at least she is trying to squeeze Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on that issue. But in this case asking - saying that Congress should pass laws goes all the way back to the famed OLC memo.  Office of Legal Counsel at the Justice Department.  Right. That says that a sitting president cannot be indicted.  And that is something she would like to change right.  Right. And if you could change that then the president of the United States could be - would be liable in prosecution.  And one way to change that is through legislation which is a long process that might not produce an actual law. So Ramesh If there is not some form of accountability do you think the Trump administration's defiance of Congress will permanently change the standard for what is acceptable behavior from the executive branch?  Well it depends. It depends on the political reaction you know. So who wins the next presidential election? If President Trump loses the election is the way that he conducted himself vis-a-vis Congress seen later as a lesson in what not to do or seen as maybe something that only he could do? So I think that there is a question. But I do think that this whole Ukraine story is going to raise the temperature of the internal democratic debate about impeachment. At a certain point I think it becomes hard for the Democrats to make the case next year that they should get - we should get rid of Trump because he is corrupt and he is not fit to lead when they are not taking the step that the Constitution says you take in such cases.  This is the argument that the best form of accountability is at the ballot box. In our last couple of minutes I want to turn you to Iran and the secretary of state's visit to Saudi Arabia this week to talk about an attack on an oil facility which the U.S. and the Saudis blame on Iran. Iran denies that. Secretary Mike Pompeo called the attack an act of war. Today the president said going into Iran quote would be a very easy decision the easiest thing. How serious do each of you think the risk of war is? Ramesh.  Well I think that it would be a risky situation under any circumstances. But when you have an administration as mercurial as this one with so little unity among the top players and an indecisive president I think it raises the stakes even more. It means that we could sort of bumble our way into a war. And then you have this oddity that the secretary of state is saying it is an act of war when it is clearly not an act of war against us. It is an act of war against Saudi Arabia.  Jonathan.  Yes I agree with Ramesh on that. And we have heard the president say many times that things are easy. It is sort of a rhetorical crutch of his. There is nothing easy about going into yet another conflict in the Middle East. And as we know the American people have very little appetite for the United States getting involved in yet another war. But one more point. I want to go back to the whole situation with the whistleblower. We cannot forget the role of Republicans on Capitol Hill. Since this is the Ukraine and a foreign policy issue usually foreign policy issues start in the Senate. And Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Republican from Kentucky where is he and where are their voices on something of national security interest?  We are going to have to leave it at that. Jonathan Capehart of The Washington Post and Ramesh Ponnuru of the National Review and Bloomberg View. Have a great weekend. Thanks to both of you.  Thanks.  Thank you. 