 You know its presidential campaign season when you start hearing a lot of this in our political stories.  Hi. Is Danny there please? Hi. This is Melissa and I am a volunteer calling on behalf of the Republican Party of Iowa.  Phone banking. The mass mobilization of mostly volunteers to make thousands of calls is generally pretty unglamorous.  Hey. Is this Beverly? Hi. It is Michelle Obama. How are you doing?  Although there are some celebrity appearances.  That is good. That is good. Are you going to vote for my husband now?  This week we are talking about the political toolbox tricks of the trade that campaigns cannot live without and where they came from. As for phone banking let us start in the 1950s.  Several telephones were placed in the campaign headquarters and you would call people who you knew. Or the precinct captain would call people that they know. It was a hit and miss method.  That is Wally Clinton. In 1968 he moved to Washington to get involved in the presidential campaign of Robert Kennedy. He ended up working for a consultant who was transforming that hit and miss method into a massive phone banking machine.   the magnitude in which we did it the fact that it was managed and controlled. And we got reports back so we knew exactly where we were how many phone calls we would made who they are going to. We had control over the message and it was done on a mass scale. So it was predictable.  Give us a sense of size. What do you mean by mass?  Well if it was a congressional district we would have 25 phones in a room. Each person would be sitting at a card table. They had a list of names to call which we provided. They had a message which we provided. And the result of each telephone call was recorded. And then we took that data back and analyzed it for subsequent contacts. So we would complete 60 70000 telephone calls in two or three weeks.  Wally Clinton says that people were floored by the magnitude of calls they were able to make. But these days that is nothing. When volunteers dialed by hand he says they could make 17 to 18 calls an hour. Now with computers doing automatic dialing it is 80 to 90 an hour. Still he says the fundamentals of phone banking have not changed. First of all engage voters in a dialogue. Second  to vote to give money to volunteer. And third there is the follow-up.  The follow-up is probably more important than the actual phone call. One telephone call will not persuade a voter to vote for us. It is the repetition of contacts.  But here's the thing. That leads to something that you know a lot of voters hate which is the nuisance of calls.  Absolutely. Well that is one of the negatives. And that is why it is so important to try to touch that responsive cord. Get as much information about that voter as we can so that we are talking about something of interest to those voters.  Wally for you I do not know if you are at a very competitive congressional district or something like that.  All the time.   But in your every day life now when you get calls from a campaign do you find yourself critiquing it?   Yes. Yes I do. Some are good and some are bad.  Do you ever tell them like hey if you really want to - this to work...  Well one of my pet peeves are dialers in the wait time. When I say hello and then the person who is calling me comes on the line I will tell them that there is too much wait time here. And some of them will not know what I am talking about but...  So they get on a beat too late after that blow.  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  So modern technology does not make everything better. Wally Clinton who still works in political telemarketing as chairman and CEO of the American Directions Group also concedes that phone banking is getting harder. Lots of young people do not have home phones. And with cell phones you are required by law to hand dial. Remember that takes a lot longer than automatic dialing. Still even in the era of email and texting and Facebook campaigns are counting on the enduring value of the human voice connecting over a telephone. 