 And it is with the president's comments that we begin our conversation with our Friday political commentators E.J. Dionne of the Washington Post and David Brooks of the New York Times. Good to see you both again.  Good to see you. E.J.  Good to be with you.  You know after the Trayvon Martin verdict there was a lot of discussion about what the president should or should not say. Should he stay out of the conversation or insert himself more forcefully? And of course today he did just that at some length and in really a quite extraordinary way. I mean we did hear the president talk about knowing the fear that he saw from people in the past. He knows what it is like he said to go into an elevator and see a woman clutch her purse nervously and hold her breath. David your thoughts on the president's comments today.  They were strikingly personal. I thought they were Obama at his best the Obama we saw in 2008 and 2007 someone who is sympathetic to all sides and he was sympathetic to the police. He is sympathetic to - he gave the context especially for African-American experience and how many African-Americans responding to this case. He gave the legal context. And so it was a broad  you could say of the whole situation. Arriving at I thought a pretty moderate and responsible and mature position which was the legal system did its work. It has to be respected. This really is not a federal case in most cases. And so he arrived at I think a pretty responsible position at the end of the day at the same time giving voice to a whole range of conflicting feelings conflicting thoughts conflicting ideas and I think giving all Americans a sense of what other people are feeling why they are reacting the way they are. I thought it was a deeply unifying statement.  And E.J. the president also did as Scott Horsley mentioned seem to be tamping down expectations that the Justice Department might bring civil rights charges against George Zimmerman which is something that many people have been calling for.  Yeah. He did seem to be pointing that way and yet he did I think propose a number of constructive steps. I think he was basically saying we may not be able to do that but there are things we can do. I thought it was really important for him to speak to white America in the way he did when he said Trayvon Martin could have been me 35 years ago when he said it is important to recognize that the African-American community is looking at this issue through a set of experiences and a history that does not go away. I think that was really important. And he sort of made three useful suggestions. One is can local communities look at better training for police to prevent racial profiling. He was really tough on the Stand Your Ground laws and I thought asked the right question which is what would have happened if Trayvon Martin could have been armed and had shot George Zimmerman? How would people have felt about that? And I think these laws really do need to be repealed. And then he also spoke how do we bolster and reinforce our African-American boys? As a country we really are not doing very much to help young African-American men who are stuck in some very difficult situations. And instead of sort of talking about them at moments like this and forgetting about them we need to be as a nation to be looking out for them as our brothers.  You raise an interesting notion which is that he is addressing white America in these remarks. It is a tricky thing to try to address two potentially very different audiences who want to hear very different things from the president at this moment David.  Yeah. I do think a lot of white Americans look to the reaction from some African-Americans and understood where that reaction came from but it was nice to hear it explicitly stated and stated in a personal and eloquent way. And so I do think he as I said it was unifying because he gave people a sense of where each other was coming from. And I have to say the point on the stand your ground law was actually clarifying for me. I had some sympathy for the laws because as you know as Americans we should be independent we should be able to defend ourselves be strong. But the argument he made about you know do we really want all sorts of people do we really want what happened here people walking with guns feeling free to shoot off without legal protections without the normal legal process? Now that is a compelling argument which he put very well. And so I think if people hear that there will be - you know I think in my heart I certainly felt a little more desire yeah maybe something does have to be done about these laws.  I want to move on to another topic and that was the deal we saw in the Senate this week to avert the so-called nuclear option over filibusters. White House nominees are now being confirmed and the Democrats' threat to change the rules of the Senate has been shelved. We have also seen a compromise reached in the Senate on student loans. E.J. do you think there are balmy winds of compromise wafting through the Congress that we should all be excited about?  Everything is now absolutely wonderful in Washington D.C. But no but they are better. I mean what you had here is the Democrats in the Senate stood up for once and said no we are willing to change the rules if you guys the Republicans are going to continue to filibuster nominees. There is been an escalation of this. This happened only two times each to Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan. Obama is already up to 16 times when this happened. And it was particularly troublesome that they were - Republicans were using the confirmation of Richard Cordray they were going to block that so that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau would not sort of have a chance to operate. And to his great credit Lindsey Graham a Republican of South Carolina said Cordray was being filibustered because we do not like the law. That is not a reason to deny someone their appointment. We were wrong. You do not hear the words we were wrong in this city very much.  David Brooks?  Yeah E.J. used this as a victory for Democratic confrontationalism. I really think it is the opposite. I think what happened was John McCain and Lindsey Graham and some other Republicans said you know this is getting a little out of hand let us walk back a little let us preserve the structure of the institution let us do a deal with Chuck Schumer. And it was McCain and Schumer who really did a deal. And so I think some of the more establishment Republicans or maverick Republicans are walking back from some of the extreme confrontationalism of their colleagues.  I give full credit to McCain and Lindsey Graham and others but I do not think this would have happened if you had not had people like Senator Merkley Senator Udall Senator Harkin for some years saying wait a minute we have got to do something. They have been saying this is wrong and finally their work culminated. And to their credit as I say some of the Republicans said yeah you' I want to save a little bit of time here to talk about another big story this week and that is the city of Detroit filing for bankruptcy the largest U.S. city by far to do so facing debts estimated between 18 and 20 billion. David Brooks what is the bigger message here?  Well the foundational principle is if you have a city be a city. That means have economic diversity. And Detroit lost that. And second if you are going to be a city be responsible. They made promises to their pensioners to their city workers they simply could not keep. And it is the combination of those two things that really led to what we saw today.  And E.J.?  Yes there are pension problems yes there are governance problems but really this is free trade free markets and the creative destruction that market defenders celebrate. It can actually be destructive. Even free trade advocates say there are quote losers from free trade. Detroit is among them and now it is trying to pick itself up.  And we should mention that there was a ruling from a county circuit court judge today ordering that the bankruptcy filing be withdrawn. She says bankruptcy would be cheating good people who work. And we are going to have more on that coming up in the program. Meantime thanks to you both. Have a great weekend.  You too.  Thank you.  E.J. Dionne of the Washington Post and Brookings Institution David Brooks of The New York Times. 