 Wisconsin is a prime battleground state in this year's presidential election. Republicans hope the pick of native son Paul Ryan as the vice presidential nominee will bolster their chances to turn the state red in November. Wisconsin has not voted for a Republican for president since 1984. Barack Obama won the state in a blowout last time by 14 points. And a run of Wisconsin polls this week shows him widening his lead over Mitt Romney. Our co-host Melissa Block is in Wisconsin talking to voters about their choices and their mood.   Forgive me the metaphor but if politics is really a big circus...  Absolutely it is just going from one big top to another.  Then we not stop at the Circus World Museum in Baraboo Wisconsin home to the Ringling Brothers? I am talking with Stephen Freese the executive director. Freese tells me he is a Romney supporter thinks his business background will help jumpstart the stalled economy. He says the summer drought has really hurt here. With gas prices up at Circus World attendance is down and those who do come are cautious.  We see them spending much more time buying the necessities then the extras. So the gift shop is not as busy as the restaurant because they just are not able to purchase everything they used to do on a credit card. They know they ultimately have to pay for it and they are concerned about the stability of their job.  Baraboo is in Sauk County in south-central Wisconsin which voted for Barack Obama by a 22-point margin but then flipped voted for Republican Scott Walker for governor and this year voted against his recall.   In downtown Baraboo the Wednesday morning farmer's market is in full swing small stands filled with squash and sunflowers potatoes and pickles.  Morning.  Morning how are you?  Can I ask for some cucumbers?  Sure.  All righty. A little windy and chilly out there this morning.  Maury Gurgel farms near Reedsburg Wisconsin.  Thank you very much.  Thanks.  Enjoy them. Have a good day today.  All right.   health insurance. He says the cost to cover him and his wife is punishing.  I am a little older and we are spending every bit of our savings to buy health insurance. It is taken a toll on our business too. I cannot afford to hire people if I have to spend 1000 a month on health care premiums. We are going to be going without it pretty soon probably.  You are going to be dropping your health insurance?  Probably have to. We cannot keep you know like I said we have had to spend all of our retirement savings just to keep it going.  Gurgel says what he would really like to see is a single-payer system like Canada's. Over and over in Baraboo I hear people talk about health care how good insurance is out of their reach. I find Mary Keeser shopping at the farmer's market. She is an Obama supporter and a nurse.  Let us have the same health care that the senators and legislature has. You know if they want to make it equal let us do that. I mean we will have excellent health care. But people that have insurance do not understand people that do not have insurance. You know and I see that on a daily basis. So...  What do you think about how President Obama has done over the last four years?  He walked into a mess. He cannot solve that in four years. And I think given you know a few more years things will straighten out a bit. But I think it is going to take maybe a generation to straighten out the mess the Republicans got us in.  Oh 9.80 total.  Heidi Accola runs a one-acre organic farm with her husband. She is a solid Democrat an Obama backer. He is a staunch Republican and she says he will vote for Romney.  We try not to talk politics 'ecause it gets so heated.   We have very opposing political views and we really just try not to go there.  And we hear this a lot here everywhere we go that emotions are still extremely raw after the bitter fight over the public unions here in Wisconsin and the unsuccessful vote to recall Republican Governor Scott Walker. A few tables down I find Deb Kozlowski-Brylla setting up beautiful strawberries. She is sick of politics and she says that bruising recall battle did not help.  This will probably be the first year I will not vote...  Really?  ...in my lifetime as far as I can remember.  Why is that?  Because I am really disappointed in the parties both parties all parties. I think political parties are ruining the United States. We are no longer stand for what you believe in. We stand for a party and I do not believe that. So I am not going to vote for anybody.  Another sign of that sharp divide over the recall election  Recall Santa I Did not Get What I Wanted. It belongs to Bob Greenwood who is in the Viking Village Market having coffee with his buddies.  I think the President Obama is doing a terrible job on the economy. And Romney I think is not my first choice but I am going to vote for him. I would rather have seen Mike Huckabee to be honest with you. But Romney will be my vote.  His friend Harold Heiser a Vietnam veteran chimes in with what is on his mind.  I think we should quit giving weapons to other countries 'ecause they turn around and fight against us. I mean they are burning our flag. When is it going to stop? There as not enough love in this world.  What about your choices in November? Are you thinking much about the presidential election?  Mitt Romney has got a lot of good things.  What about President Obama? What do you think?  He said change. I have not seen any change. The only change is more unemployment and more debt.   We end our day in Baraboo Wisconsin outside Blaine's Farm and Fleet a megastore selling farm equipment hunting gear - a lot of everything. Rick Sherman is heading to his bright yellow pickup. He is a Republican 98 percent behind Mitt Romney he says. And he finds some truth in Romney's message about too much entitlement. As a paramedic he says he sees people taking advantage of the system.  Nothing is as frustrating as going in and a lady's got three or four or five kids and she is pregnant with another one. You want to say do you realize how you get pregnant? And she is like well you know I get BadgerCare and Medicare for all my kids and the more I have I get more money for it. I said really? And then you go to the old people's house and grandma and grandpa are going okay which med do I take? Which one do I skimp on because I do not have money for it?  And then paving contractor Chris Butler waves us over to talk. He says he sees a down mood and wonders whether politics is to blame?  Walking around the store in there nobody's smiling nobody seems to be happy. Maybe that is why everybody's so in the mulligrubs. They are frowning. I do not know. Maybe everybody's got politics on the mind.  Mulligrubs?  Yeah the mulligrubs. That is something my uncle always said do not be in the mulligrubs. I really do not know what the mulligrubs are but I do not think it is good.  In my conversations in Baraboo Wisconsin I did not find any of those elusive undecided voters and I did not talk with anybody brimming with passion about their candidate either. I found many people deeply pained by the divide between political extremes hoping for more dialogue and wishing they felt better about this election.  That is our co-host Melissa Block reporting this week from Wisconsin. And in case you are wondering about a word you just heard mulligrubs well Melissa was too. I was too. The Dictionary of American Regional English describes it as a condition of despondency or ill temper a vague or imaginary un-wellness. 