 President Trump has stepped up his assault on both mail-in voting and the U.S. Postal Service. He is criticizing Democrats for their call to provide billions of dollars to fund both. And this morning he bluntly stated that the money he opposes providing for elections in the Postal Service will prevent Democrats from expanding mail-in voting. Here's the president on Fox Business.   If they do not get those two items that means you cannot have universal mail-in voting because they are not equipped to have it.  This comes after the president's repeated claims without evidence that mail-in voting invites widespread fraud. We are joined now by NPR's Pam Fessler who covers voting. Hi  Hey Ari.  Seems like a remarkable admission by the president. Are his remarks today a clear confirmation that he is trying to block expanded mail-in voting by denying funding to the Postal Service?  Well it certainly sounds that way. But like a lot of things that the president says it is also confusing because he tends to conflate issues and he uses terms that are not actually accurate. So for example he says that a lack of Postal Service funding in this pandemic relief package that is being negotiated in Congress is going to prevent the Democrats from implementing universal mail-in voting. But no one's really trying to do that. Almost every state's still planning to have in-person voting in November even as they expand mail-in and absentee voting. And in fact the president even says he supports absentee voting which is basically the same thing as mail-in voting and he and many of his supporters use it. So any funding shortfall could affect their ability to vote as well which makes his position even more confusing.  Yeah so how are people reacting today to these remarks by the president?  Well the Democrats are blasting the president for blocking these additional postal funds when he admits it is going to make it harder for some people to vote. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called it an effort to undermine the health of our democracy. Joe Biden's presidential campaign said Trump's remarks show that quote he wants to deprive Americans of their fundamental right to vote safely during the most catastrophic public health crisis in over 100 years. And I should add that there are a number of Republicans that are not really happy about the president's repeated attacks on mail-in voting because it seems to be discouraging Republican voters from requesting absentee ballots and that is not going to help the party in November. As for the Postal Service it stands by its comments made last week by the postmaster general that the Postal Service is still ready to deliver all election mail securely and on time in November.  Well in recent primaries how has it been working? Have mail-in ballots been delayed or lost or has everything gone smoothly?  Well as you have probably seen a lot of places it has not gone smoothly at all. We have reports of some ballots taking weeks to get delivered. Some never reach the voters or the election office. Or sometimes they arrive too late to be counted. Thousands of ballots have already been rejected because they came too late. Now it is not really clear how much of this is the Postal Service's fault and how much is just election officials being overwhelmed by this demand for absentee ballots 'ecause we are talking about an unprecedented amount this year you know tens of millions of ballots. Election officials are trying to fix things by November but President Trump has latched onto some of these problems especially things like - it is taking a very long time in some places like New York City to count mail-in ballots and he is using that to argue that we are going to have what he calls the greatest election disaster in history.  But is he effectively enabling that disaster by denying or blocking the money that election officials say would help fix these problems?  Well it could be. I mean that is the irony. Election officials of both parties say they need more money to expand mail-in voting efficiently and to make in-person voting safe during this pandemic. They have been trying to work with the Postal Service also to make sure that things are going more smoothly - will go more smoothly in November. Although I just learned that a bipartisan group of secretaries of state asked this week to meet with the postmaster general who is a Trump campaign donor to talk about some of these issues and they have not gotten a response yet which is highly unusual given that we are only a few weeks away from states starting to send out absentee ballots. And the Postal Service has not responded to my question about why that meeting has not been scheduled yet.  NPR's Pam Fessler. Thank you for the update.  Thanks.  