 Hillary Clinton has a problem with young voters. She does not excite them as a candidate in the same way that Barack Obama did when he ran. In fact some young voters this year say they will stay home or even vote for a third party candidate. And that is a problem for Clinton because she is counting on the Obama coalition of voters to win the White House. To help us understand what is going on with young voters NPR's Asma Khalid joins us in the studio. She covers the intersection of demographics and politics. Hiya.  Hi Robert.  Asma we are about millennials - voters between the ages of 18 to 35. First of all it is a huge group.  That is right Robert. They are now the largest generation in the country. So they have a lot of potential for political clout. In fact millennials now rival baby boomers as a political force. They are both roughly 31 percent of the electorate.  And are they any more likely to vote than young voters of elections past who have a reputation as being great slackers on Election Day?   Well Robert you are a baby boomer right?  Absolutely yes.  All right. And so what we did is we asked is an institute at Tufts University to do a sort of apples-to-apples comparison looking at the first time a majority of 18 to 24-year-olds in each generation was eligible to vote. And for boomers that election was 1972. Back then boomers voted at a much lower rate than they participate in now. So in other words it looks like all voters when they are young seem to vote at much lower rates than they do as they get older. And we should mention they also compiled this data for Gen-Xers. And we saw a similar trend. One thing unique about the 2008 and 2012 elections was that some estimates show about half of all 18 to 29-year-olds voted. And that was actually higher than the turnout rate we saw in the '90s when Gen-Xers were young.  So it seems that Obama's election and re-election that is the anomaly. That is the outlier. Why are not these same voters now as excited about Hillary Clinton?  So a lot of young voters tell me that they do not find Hillary Clinton trustworthy or authentic. They seem to care a lot about the personality even over the party. They are not as connected to the political parties as institutions. In fact millennials are less likely to identify with a religious organization or unions. So this is not just limited to political institutions. This is also a generation that has more liberal views on race gender and the environment. But even though they identify ideologically as liberal that does not mean they align with the Democratic Party. About half of millennials identify as independents. That is higher than the general population. They do often see themselves as progressives. But I have often heard that they find Clinton is too moderate or too cozy with Wall Street. I spoke with John Della Volpe at Harvard's Institute of Politics about this. He is done some polling that shows less than half of young people support capitalism.  They do not believe the way in which capitalism is practiced today is fair and provides the opportunities for all Americans that it should.  Asma you have spent a lot of time talking to voters in battleground states. What are you hearing from young voters who do not support Clinton about their reasoning?  So Robert the other week I was in Florida. And I met a young guy Mohamad Shair. He is a 24-year-old law student. And he was a Bernie Sanders supporter who says he is no fan of Hillary Clinton.  Because none of her policies reflect our values and what we want. None. Well like on health care she is not in the same place on health care. Criminal justice - she is not in the same place on criminal justice.  He is going to vote for a Green Party candidate Jill Stein. I also met Melissa Gomez on the campus of the University of Central Florida. She was an Obama voter and a Sanders supporter.  I am actually leaning more towards Gary Johnson which is kind of - I know a waste of a vote in a sense because I feel like any vote that is not for Hillary is going to be a vote for Trump. And that is kind of upsetting to me. So it is like I am still on the fence about what I am going to do. But I do not honestly agree with anybody's actual platform. So it is a problem.  So Robert these are voters who are engaged with the issues. They are not apathetic. They want to vote. But they just do not see either major party offering them anything they can get excited about.  NPR's Asma Khalid. Asma thanks.  You are welcome. 