 And for more analysis on Syria and some of the week's domestic politics we turn to our weekly commentators E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and Brookings Institution. Hey there E.J. E.J.  Good to be with you.  And David Brooks of the New York Times. Hi David.  How are you?  So a little bit more about Secretary of State John Kerry. I mean this week started with I guess I will call it an utterance from him that rapidly evolved into an alternative political option for Syria. And you know we had one former U.S. ambassador say to us this week that Kerry had turned this from a diplomatic fiasco to potential triumph. I want to get your take. I will start with you E.J. Where do you see this? We do not mean legacy but just this week what happened?  Well I think it could end up just as that ambassador said. I mean we have to see how this plays out. Either he backed into a negotiating maze that has no exit in which case everybody will say this was a terrible gaffe or he will look like one shrewd secretary of state. The administration is arguing that this idea of negotiating all of Assad's chemical weapons away from him originated in conversations between President Obama and President Putin. And I think there is a shot. I mean the most optimistic person version here is this leads to further negotiations about pushing Assad out of power eventually. But I got to say one thing about John Kerry's legacy I hope all political leaders are always haunted by those words that he spoke as a young man. How do you ask a man to be the last man to die for a mistake? That is a standard that I think Kerry holds himself to.  David?  Yeah on Wednesday I was a little hopeful that everyone was going to seize on this diplomatic thing just to get this all behind us both in Syria Russia and here. Today it is looking like no exit to me. We are looking at what looks to me like a diplomatic process that is falling apart. In the first place Assad is beginning to make demands that we reward him for using chemical weapons. We are clearly not going to do that so he is going to be angry. We are arguing with the Russians over who should be at this table. They want the Iranians at the table in the diplomatic solution. That is clearly going to be unacceptable to us. The Syrian opposition does not want to be there at all. And so it is beginning to look like something that will be jaw jaw forever. And our problem is we really do not have much military threat anymore. That is pretty much off the table because I think Congress is not going to be approving anything. So we are trying to have some leverage for negotiation where we have no threat of force behind it and where the other parties just want to stall. I fear that is where we are going.  Well let me jump in here because I want to know if also you saw any more of a clear vision of what President Obama's foreign policy is for this region either from this week's speech or from his comments today. Let me just play those now.  It is absolutely important for the international community to respond in not only deterring repeated use of chemical weapons but hopefully getting those chemical weapons outside of Syria.  David?  Yeah. I thought it was a very good speech very logical very forceful. I thought it was a pretty compelling speech. To me the big worry is not so much within Syria but this turns contagious and we are seeing an upsurge in violence in Iraq. We can see some in Turkey. It turns into one big giant SunniShia war. And so to me our main regional strategy should be controlling that and I think the administration has some plans and some thoughts about that not fully laid out.  And E.J. - go ahead David.  I am sorry go ahead. Just one final point. I think one of the things I am looking for John Kerry to do is anger Barack Obama. This has been a very centralized foreign policy process. Kerry now has the opportunity to establish a little independence.  Yeah and I think he is already shown a little independence. Indeed he may have gotten out ahead of President Obama at the beginning of this crisis but I think again when you look at what is the process that has begun yes there are some signs including Vladimir Putin's New York Times op-ed piece which was a real in-your-face piece I though against President Obama.  Yeah a little competition for you there David here in the op-ed pages.  Yes I agreed with...  His fees are higher.  I agreed with Nick Kristof's piece not Vladimir Putin. And so yeah there is some rockiness here but you have begun a process that at least has a shot of getting us down the road to where Obama has wanted this all along which is a negotiated settlement in Syria. So how - you know if Kerry can pull something like that out of a hat or push these negotiations in that direction then he will take a very complicated situation and turn it into something.  Now with all of this news this week there was - all of this foreign policy news there was a bit of domestic news that kind of flew under the radar. In Colorado two states senators Democrats and big supporters of some new gun control legislation were ousted in a recall vote. And we talked so much at the start of the year about the gun control effort around the country. And I will start with you David. Is this a sign that that campaign is not just losing steam fizzling out?  I think so certainly in battleground states. These were Democrats one of them in a Democratic district one in a swing district. Their side of the argument about why they should be recalled vastly outspent the other side and still they got trounced pretty bad. And so I think it is a signal that first of all gun control especially in battleground districts especially out West remains extremely unpopular. I think also a sign Mayor Bloomberg has just made a mistake. If you are the New York mayor you know I am from New York I love New York but people do not want the New York mayor interfering in their districts...  And you are referring to sort of how much money he poured into backing gun control supporters in that state...  And just attaching gun control so much to himself yes.  And E.J. for you I mean what are the takeaway lessons here maybe even for the other administration policy goals?  Well I think that clearly people like me who support saner gun laws this is a defeat. But it is also worth noting that the gun lobby picked these two as the most promising districts in the state number one. Number two the state supreme court did not allow mail-in ballots which - and in Colorado in normal elections 70 percent of the people cast their ballots by mail. This hurt the incumbents. Having said that the pro-gun people still have - there is an intensity gap on their side. And I think people who want to change laws who want background checks and smaller magazines really have to organize an enthusiastic base ready to get out and vote on these things. The other...  But E.J. it feels like we have been hearing that same statement right for many many months about this enthusiasm gap.  Right and I think that what you saw for the first time after Newtown was the beginning of what has to be a long-term effort. The NRA's been at this for 30 years. I think that you are seeing a new organization going in. It is going to have to go for a while. The other point I wanted to make is there is a lot of discontent in the country. You had it expressed it on the right in Colorado. In New York and Mayor Bloomberg was also the recipient of this Bill de Blasio a defiant progressive talking about inequality seems - is very close to avoiding a runoff in a Democratic primary. Now yes it is a Democratic primary but I think it shows that the equality issue inequality issue is very much alive.  And David last word to you just because this went to New York.   Is there a lesson here on this referendum on Bloomberg as you hinted at?  Well people want to change and I do agree that as the Republican Party moves right I do think there is a sign of liberal populism that is moving the Democratic Party left. And who knows Mayor Bloomberg may get the last laugh in all this if the center hollows out and he seizes that spot.  Well David Brooks and E.J. Dionne thank you both for speaking with us.  Good to be with you.  Thank you. 