 Trump's meeting with Enrique Pena Nieto is the latest example of just how rapidly things change in the campaign. This time yesterday everyone was focused on what Trump is doing this very hour. He is delivering what is being billed as a major speech on his immigration policy. Trump's appearance in Phoenix Ariz. comes after two weeks of contradiction and confusion about how a President Trump would deal with the estimated 11 million immigrants already living in this country illegally. NPR political reporter Scott Detrow is in Phoenix. Scott why is this speech that Trump is giving this evening so critical for him?  That is because he is made it a critical for himself by what he is said and what he has not said over the last few weeks. Trump has created a lot of uncertainty on where he stands on immigration and you know that is been the key issue of his campaign all along. He is been really consistent all along on a lot of things like wanting to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. But over the last few weeks Trump has said a lot of contradictory and sometimes vague things about what to do about the millions of people who are here illegally already but who have not broken any other laws. Throughout the primary he had said he would push to deport them all right away as logistically challenging as that would be. But over the last few weeks Trump at times has said he would be open to softening his stance. That is his words. At one point he floated the idea of allowing people to stay if they pay their back taxes. And Trump has been promising to clear everything up in a big speech and that speech is happening tonight.  Now Trump alluded to building a wall in his comments in Mexico today but when he was asked about whether the question of Mexico paying for the wall came up he said that was not discussed. Do we still think he stands by that demand that Mexico will pay for the wall?  Well that is something Trump has said day in day out throughout the campaign. It is usually the biggest applause line of his appearances. He asks the crowd who is going to pay for the wall? And they chant Mexico. Actually after Trump left Mexico City today President Pena Nieto tweeted that he had told Trump that Mexico would not pay for the wall. The Trump campaign put out a statement afterwards saying that this was not a negotiation that a negotiation at this time would not be appropriate and that it makes sense in a meeting like that two sides would have two different views - so very anxious to hear what Donald Trump says about the disparity when he speaks tonight.  Well any hints from the Trump campaign about what he might say tonight?  We have had a couple statements from Trump campaign. They are focusing on securing the border repeating that promise to build a wall. They have also talked about enforcing the existing law and talking about removing people in the country who are here illegally who have committed crimes. Those are all things Trump has tried to shift the conversation to over the last few weeks when he is been pressed on what he would do about the 11 million people estimated to be here illegally. And Robert you may have noticed that particular issue was not addressed in these statements that have come out today.  That is NPR's Scott Detrow in Phoenix where Donald Trump is speaking about immigration this evening. Scott thanks.  Anytime. 