 To Georgia now where Herschel Walker a former star football player and an ally of former President Donald Trump has launched his campaign for the U.S. Senate. In a video today Walker introduces himself stressing his humble roots.   I am a kid from a small town in Georgia who is lived the American dream. And I am ready to fight to keep that dream alive for you too.  Walker's Republican candidacy is not without controversy. Georgia Public Broadcasting's Stephen Fowler is here to talk about this. Welcome back.  Hey Audie.  He gave us a snippet of his background there but what more can you tell us?  Well Herschel Walker is the 1982 Heisman Trophy winner a University of Georgia football star NFL running back and longtime friend of Donald Trump. Trump has been the one pushing for Walker to get into the race. This is another example of how the former president has fixated on Georgia after narrowly losing the state's 16 electoral votes. So with that legendary football status and the boost from Trump Walker brings big-name recognition to his campaign right off the bat. But there are a few challenges that name and ID alone do not cover. For starters he is lived in Texas for decades and just changed voter registration in Georgia last week. Now his wife is also under investigation for possible illegal voting in Georgia while she was living in Texas too. That is a little ironic because he is repeated President Trump's lies about widespread voter fraud in last year's election.  There are national Republicans who have been wary of Walker's candidacy. Can you describe what they say? Why?  Well apart from the fact that he just moved back from Texas Walker has had a bit of a rocky past. He is been open about his past struggles with mental health and dissociative identity disorder including alleged violent outbursts against his ex-wife. And an Associated Press report also looked into his business dealings and found some of his successes to be overstated. As a first-time candidate there are a lot of unknowns. He has no policy positions yet no campaign events and no real record to judge how Herschel Walker the famous football player would serve as a United States senator.  This is a state that is so scrutinized. Can you talk about why it is a big race this time?  Absolutely. Well in a 5050 U.S. Senate Republicans see this as a key pickup opportunity to regain control of the chamber. Herschel Walker in the Trump lane faces pretty good prospects in the primary. But in a general election his close ties to Trump and untested campaign operation might put him at a disadvantage. He faces three others in the primary next spring so far including Georgia's agriculture commissioner Gary Black who is been the top vote-getter out of either party in every election that he is been in.  And all of these folks are vying to take on Senator Raphael Warnock - right? - Democrat.  Right. As you might recall Warnock was just elected in a special election runoff in January that helped give Democrats control of the Senate. Warnock became Georgia's first Black senator. Herschel Walker is also Black I should note. And that would be a historic and expensive Senate race if the two of those were the nominees. Now Warnock has not been a cautious centrist in office so far. He is been a big booster of President Biden's agenda like the infrastructure plan and has called for eliminating the filibuster and for federal voting rights protections. So from Warnock's massive fundraising capabilities to Herschel Walker's celebrity to the wild card that is Donald Trump weighing in this is definitely going to be one of the marquee Senate races to watch next November.  Georgia Public Broadcasting's Stephen Fowler thank you.  Thank you.  