 It seems the leaders of the Republican Party are scrambling to get their presidential nominee back on track. Donald Trump has spent the past several days dealing with some controversy and that is been followed by reports of a campaign in disarray and a party in panic. Though publicly Trump and his campaign insist everything is fine.   So I just want to tell you the campaign is doing really well. It is never been so well-united.  NPR political editor Domenico Montanaro's with us now. Hi there Domenico. Hi there Domenico.  Hey there Kelly.  OK so how bad are things right now for Donald Trump and the Republican Party?  Well let us just step back and think about what is happened over just the last hundred hours  or so.  OK.  You had Donald Trump criticizing a family whose son had died as a soldier in Iraq after they had criticized him at the Democratic National Convention and then on several television programs. He said he was not quite ready to endorse Paul Ryan who is speaker of the House and John McCain after they had endorsed him and sort of stuck by him even though they had criticized his comments about that family. You had this letter that Donald Trump said the NFL wrote to him about the fall debates and the timing of those debates being - conflicting with the NFL season. And you even had Donald Trump making fun of fire marshals and a baby - so pretty safe to say that Donald Trump has gotten off on the wrong foot after the convention and it is been evidence by a slip in the polls.  As I said there are reports flying around also about all sorts of chaos behind the scenes you know? Inside the campaign there is talk of an intervention talk of Republican leaders looking into options for replacing Trump on the ticket. How real is any of that?  Well there is definitely been a lot of hand-wringing within the Republican National Committee. This seems to go on once every couple of weeks. You have had Reince Priebus play something of a translator with Trump. Priebus is the chairman of the Republican National Convention - meets with Trump on a regular basis talks with him on a regular basis trying to kind of contain him and coach him on how to respond to political attacks. This is certainly not what the campaign or the Republican National Committee would have wanted.  Trump's tension with House Speaker Paul Ryan reached a new level this week. Also Trump said yesterday he is not ready to endorse Ryan in his primary next week in Wisconsin. Then Trump's running mate Indiana Governor Mike Pence had a different take when he talked to Fox News today. Let us hear that.   I talked to Donald Trump this morning about my support for Paul Ryan and our longtime friendship. He strongly encouraged me to endorse Paul Ryan in next Tuesday's primary and I am pleased to do it.  So Domenico I mean what do you make of Trump and Pence giving these different messages on this issue here?  Well it is certainly like they are running two very different campaigns at least...  Yeah.  ...Two very different kinds of messages. You have seen Mike Pence do this before. He played a little bit of cleanup after the Khan family first criticized Trump. And Trump was criticized for his response to the Khans. Pence just said you know this family gets to say what they want but then tried to move on to how Trump wants to fight against ISIS. You know really Pence was a short-term unity pick. He was not really someone Trump was close to. And we should note that two of people who were on Donald Trump's shortlist to be vice president were Chris Christie and Newt Gingrich and both have also criticized Trump's response to a lot of these things. Gingrich in The Washington Post today described the race as between two people who are unacceptable. He said that Trump is helping Hillary Clinton win by proving he is more unacceptable than she is.  Talking about Hillary Clinton I mean she had some bad news this week also. I seems like maybe a lot of that was overshadowed by Trump. But talk us through some of that.  Oh certainly. I mean you know Hillary Clinton on Sunday had said that the FBI director James Comey had said that she had been truthful when it comes to her private email server. That was not true. There was small GDP growth - growth domestic product. And then there was this controversy with this exchange of money that the United States made with Iran with the release of hostages. You know this is something that the Trump campaign has been talking about all week trying to change the narrative but it is all been overshadowed.  That is NPR political editor Domenico Montanaro. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 