 Along a quiet street in Burlingame California there is a small hole-in-the-wall museum dedicated to the pursuit of Pez. Now you might think that the company that makes Pez candy would like this strange homage to Pez memorabilia but it is more complicated than that. In fact the company has sued the museum in federal court. David Gorn reports.  This place is as cramped as the inside of a Pez dispenser.  Adults are 3 kids four to 12 are 1.  The tour covers two rooms each the size of a walk-in closet crammed chock-full of these colorful plastic heads - 800 of them. Joyce Lee drove about an hour to get here because this is Pez heaven. Ms.  Really cool with all these collection of Pez. Who does not like Pez right?  Well it turns out that just because everyone likes Pez does not mean you cannot have a fight over it. According to the store's owner Gary Doss Pez Candy Inc wants to shut him down. Mr.  We are here promoting their product. We are embracing their product as a fun collectible and we have been doing it for over 14 years.  Doss says this is not the first time he and Pez have crossed dispensers. When he first opened the place Pez made him change the name from the Pez Museum to the mouthful it is now the Burlingame Museum of Pez Memorabilia. Doss calls it harassment. Mr.  It is as if we are making something here and putting their name on it. That is not what we are doing.  But Pez Candy Inc says that is exactly what the museum is doing. If it was just selling all things Pez that would be fine they say. But they add you cannot sell things that are not official merchandise like Pez T-shirts the museum printed up. And you cannot use that seven foot tall Pez dispenser the museum made that stands just inside the front door. Alan Barry is the lawyer for Pez Candy Inc in Connecticut. He says it is not really a giant Pez dispenser because Pez does not make a giant dispenser. Mr.  Its only Pez if we say it is Pez the same way that you will not see a Mickey Mouse in the United States made by anybody but Disney. It is only Mickey Mouse if Disney says it is Mickey Mouse. Otherwise it is an infringement. You have to control what is core to your brand.  Barry and Pez CEO Joe Vittoria say Pez is a sweet company that it has been supportive of the store and museum in Burlingame. But it is not supportive of trademark infringement. And the thing to understand is Pez which started out as a candy company in Austria in the '50s is now a worldwide moneymaker. Pez collectors can pay thousands of dollars for a single tiny plastic dispenser. There are Pez conventions Pez clubs. Pez has become iconic.   It even became the storyline for a Seinfeld episode the one where Elaine makes a scene by giggling uncontrollably just looking at a Pez dispenser.  Ms.   It was Jerry. Jerry put a Pez dispenser on my leg.  Ms.   You put a Pez dispenser on her leg during my recital? Mr.   I did not know she would laugh.  So Pez is not just a toy it is a phenomenon. And maybe the final proof of its lofty status in American culture is that it is ending up in court. For NPR News I am David Gorn. 