 As you probably know Republicans and Democrats will both hold their national conventions over the next two weeks. Last week I was in Cleveland ahead of the GOP convention which starts tomorrow. This coming week I head to Philadelphia for an early look at the Democratic convention. The backdrop for both conventions - a country trying to come to terms with its racial history and a present punctuated by civil unrest and acts of violence. Some see a parallel in modern history - 1968 an election year full of turmoil that ended in what historians call this country's most contentious convention. NPR's Eyder Peralta brings us the story of one man who says he lost his faith in party politics that summer at the Democratic National Convention.  Digging through archival footage of that convention I find this one scene. It shows a scuffle on the floor of the International Amphitheatre in Chicago.   Check with our state chairman. He is an elected delegate. What are you trying to  stuff? He is an elected delegate...  And in the middle of it all is this guy. Men are grabbing him by the neck and he is essentially being crushed by a crowd. Here's how John Chancellor an NBC newsman described it at the time.   They are asking for silence. There is a priest in here dozens of reporters and the man who got involved in it all is very calmly smoking a cigarette.  That man is Alex Rosenberg. He is now 97 years old and lives in New York City.  The video does not show you how bewildered I am. I did not know what the hell's going on.  He says he later learned that the security people wanted to throw him on the ground. So the late Reverend Richard Neuhaus had grabbed him from behind to keep him from falling.  So when you see me in this casual position with the cigarette it is because my arms are pinned and I cannot move because he is got me by the belt buckle.  What is clear from the video is that the 1968 Democratic convention was explosive. Protest outside turned violent and the Democrats were fractured. The establishment backed Vice President Hubert Humphrey and Rosenberg and the young insurgents backed Senator Eugene McCarthy the anti-war candidate.  But we - if we had the votes to elect McCarthy we never would have gotten out there - out of that place alive. They would have assassinated us.  Alex Rosenberg really believed that. He says that McCarthy supporters were seen as traitors and police attacked them threw tear gas at the lobbies of their hotels interrogated them. That summer changed Alex Rosenberg. And while that year was more tumultuous he sees echoes in today especially in the campaigns of Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders.  And I do believe as people have said that he and Bernie Sanders while representing very different segments of the public their strength is coming from the same element - element that government has failed.  Rosenberg has always been an idealist. Even though he did not believe in armed conflict he still volunteered for World War II. In the '60s he was against the Vietnam and pro-civil rights but his candidate lost to a cautious establishment. 1968 was the last time Alex Rosenberg engaged in party politics. Instead he turned to art. He became a big art publisher. He worked with the likes of Miro Chagall and Dali. And he never looked back.  Politics are boring to me today. I mean this whole thing - I would have liked to see Bernie Sanders win but I have been through this over and over. What I have seen is a limit to how far the progressives can go. I am an optimist. Hopefully it will change one of these days.  Even he says if he does not get to see it. Eyder Peralta NPR News New York City. 