 We are going to start the program today with a couple of stories that reflect on challenges facing democracy both here and elsewhere. We will start in Russia where voters will go to the polls on Sunday to elect members of the lower house of parliament the Duma. The last parliamentary election triggered protests in which tens of thousands of Russians spoke out against allegations of widespread vote-rigging and fraud. Analysts are predicting that this vote will be less contentious but that is not necessarily because voters are more satisfied. NPR's Corey Flintoff reports.  On the surface this election has a lot of the familiar ballyhoo of political campaigns anywhere - billboards with the candidates' earnest faces and encouraging slogans.   .  TV and radio channels carry campaign ads like this one for a candidate from Russia's still active Communist Party.   .  Officially 14 political parties are competing for 450 seats in the national parliament but few people doubt that the ruling United Russia Party will take the overwhelming majority of those.   .  That is an ad for United Russia which features President Vladimir Putin promising to listen to the people and the slogan we can do it United Russia. Political analyst Alexander Kynev says the reason the ruling party is in such a commanding position is that it has already eliminated most of its opposition.   The main peculiarity of this election is that many candidates have simply been deprived of the right to run.  As an example Kynev points out that the election laws ban people from running if they have been convicted of serious crimes. Some key opposition leaders have been convicted on what their supporters say are trumped up charges so they are not allowed to run. Even when opposition candidates can run Kynev says the ruling party has changed election rules to make it easier to manipulate the vote. In the past he says election observers could show up at any polling place unannounced. Now the law says the observers have to notify the election authorities at least three days before the vote.   The authorities will know in advance where the observers will be and where they will not be. That makes it easy to choose where they can allow falsifications without any weaknesses.  With little real competition some opposition leaders say these elections will be downright boring.  All Russian elections are boring in a sense that power does not change hands so you know the winner.  That is Boris Makarenko head of the Center for Political Technologies in Moscow. He says the elections still have an important function as a public ritual that legitimizes the government and gives voters the sense that their voices are being heard. Makarenko says the Kremlin will get what it wants on September 18.  It will get this results smoothly and neatly without scandals without massive protest rallies with much less manipulation at the polling stations so the ritual will be observed and the result will be favorable for the regime.  Makarenko says the interesting part will come when the new parliament is in place and it will be seen whether the new crop of government-chosen politicians is able to have any influence on the Kremlin. Corey Flintoff NPR News Moscow. 