 Bernie Sanders endorsed Hillary Clinton for president today at a high school gym in Portsmouth N.H. and so began the process of uniting the Democratic Party ahead of the general election. NPR's Tamara Keith was in that gym and she filed this report.  Before the candidates took the stage the event had the feel of a wedding where the families are unsure. There were supporters in the gear of their candidates and clashing chants of Hillary and Bernie.    Hillary Hillary Hillary...   Bernie Bernie Bernie...  But this was a unity rally and Bernie Sanders got to his point.   Secretary Clinton has won the Democratic nominating process.   That was about the time a group of Sanders supporters stood up and walked out in protest but Sanders powered through.   I have come here to make it as clear as possible as to why I am endorsing Hillary Clinton.  Sanders went through a series of policy positions where he and Clinton agree and praised the Democratic Party platform hammered out last weekend as by far the most progressive platform in the history of the party.   Our job now is to see that platform implemented by a Democratically controlled Senate...   A Democratically controlled House...   And a Hillary Clinton presidency.  Clinton thanked Sanders and his supporters and lingered on areas of agreement.   We have to reform our broken criminal justice system take back our democracy from the wealthy special interests and make our economy work for everyone not just those at the top.   And Clinton kept coming back to her campaign slogan - stronger together. It had new meaning with Sanders standing beside her onstage.   And I will tell you these are not just my fights. These are Bernie's fights. These are America's fights and I feel with all my being these are fights we have to wage and win together.  By the end of Clinton's speech the early family drama and awkwardness had melted away. Charlie Zoeller walked out wearing a Bernie shirt with a Hillary sticker stuck on his chest.  Now mentally I was prepared for him to make the endorsement but I wanted to hear his speech. And I was very happy to hear how enthusiastic he is and how much he brought - his campaign brought to the Democratic platform. That was an important piece of my switching.  The Clinton and Sanders campaigns negotiated for more than a month on the terms of the endorsement. The platform was key but some Sanders supporters are not ready to make the jump. Susan Wilkinson plans to protest outside of the Democratic convention.  I was devastated when he used the words that he endorsed her devastated.  Wilkinson is holding out hope Sanders will hop on the Green Party ticket or run as an independent. Clinton supporter Joe Pekarofski is rooting for unity.  I was a huge Hillary supporter in 2008 and I was so disappointed. But I got behind Barrack in about five minutes so I think it is going to be like that I hope.  And much like Clinton did in 2008 Sanders says he plans to campaign in every corner of the country for Clinton and Democratic candidates for Congress. Tamara Keith NPR News Portsmouth N.H. 