 A new poll from NPR PBS NewsHour and Marist finds that overall independent voters are not impressed with the direction that either party wants to take this country. And that is important ahead of the 2020 election. NPR's lead political editor Domenico Montanaro is here in the studio for more on this poll. Hi Domenico.  Hey there Ari.  What does this poll tell us about the president and his chances at reelection given that we are still more than a year out from that election?  I mean they are not great. You know his approval is at 44. It is the highest actually in Marist's polling over the last 2 12 years since he became president but it is kind of mediocre. A lot...  It is remarkable he is never broken 50 in these polls.  Never. He is been pretty standard you know in the mid to high 30s to the low to mid 40s. And a lot of the improvement is because of the economy. We have a majority of people approving of his handling of it two-thirds of people saying that it is working well for them personally. And yet there is this disconnect between his mediocre approval rating. And you have got 54 of people saying they definitely will not vote for him in 2020.  Such an unusual gap between satisfaction with the economy and dissatisfaction with the man in the White House. Is that necessarily good news for Democrats?  In theory it is. Except in reality realize 54 of people did not vote for Donald Trump for election in 2016 as it is. You know only 46 of people voted for him then. And people are not quite sure what to make of the Democratic primary at this point and the policies they are putting forward. They are split they say on Democrats and the direction that they would take the country - whether it is the right direction or the wrong direction. And by the way independents think Democrats would take it in the wrong direction. So far a plurality are saying that.  With so many Democrats in the running right now there are a lot of different policy proposals out there. And I know this poll asked about a bunch of them. What were some of the things that were widely popular and a couple of things that were not?  Yeah we asked about almost two dozen things - 20 things. And let us just start with what they like. Medicare as - Medicare for All as an option to private health insurance is supported by 70 of independent voters right?  That would be without eliminating privately run health insurance.  Correct. But when you do that as an option to - when you do it to replace private health insurance that plummets to 39 support with independents and 41 overall. Government regulation of prescription drug prices - there two-thirds of independents like that. Providing a pathway to citizenship for millions of immigrants in the United States illegally 67 of independents are on board there. As far as what they do not like though - making health insurance available to those in the country illegally decriminalizing those border crossings reparations for slavery and a universal basic income of 1000 a month per person to combat automation. All those are very unpopular and all those are things that have gotten lots of attention on the Democratic campaign trail.  Well according to this poll which party seems to be more in line with what independents want - Democrats or Republicans?  Well it is not at all clear because there are lots of things that Democrats really - that independents like about Democrats and lots of things they do not like about what Democrats are forward but also things they do not like that Republicans would want to do. Take for example wanting to repeal Obamacare. Independents not in support of that. They think that is a bad idea to repeal it. And 55 of independents want a ban on assault-style weapons. That is a position unpopular with most Republicans. A majority of independents also support a 15 federal minimum wage something just a quarter of Republicans say they can get behind.  Sounds like the country is still very divided. Briefly any areas of agreement?  When you look at whether there should be background checks almost 90 of people are in favor of background checks - for stricter background checks for gun purchases.  NPR's Domenico Montanaro thank you very much.  You are so welcome.  