 All right. It is time to talk week in politics. And we are joined this week by Margaret Hoover of PBS's Firing Line and E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and the Brookings Institution. Welcome you two.  Great to be with you.  Hi. Margaret you with us?  Thank you for having me.  Hi. Good to have you with us. All right. We are going to loop back to Scott's report on the economy in a second. But we are going to start the week back where it began with President Trump's European tour landing in London winding his way through Dublin and then onto the beaches of Normandy yesterday to commemorate the 75th anniversary of D-Day.   We are gathered here on freedom's altar. On these shores on these bluffs on this day 75 years ago 10000 men shed their blood...  Even before he left the president made a series of statements that like so much of what he has said and done during his presidency seemed to upend norms set by his predecessors.   I think Boris would do a very good job. I think he would be excellent. She is nasty. I was not referring to she is nasty. I said she was nasty about me. Nancy Pelosi's a disaster OK? She is a disaster. Well I think he is been a not-very-good mayor from what I understand. He is done a poor job.  A sampling there of the president's remarks from the lead-up to and then during his trip this week. Margaret I am going to give you first crack here. And start with that last comment. That was the president talking about London Mayor Sadiq Khan. That was - what he said as he was leaving the White House. Then as he was flying into the U.K. he tweeted that Sadiq Khan was quote a stone cold loser. Just another on-brand day for the president you think or do you see a problem here?  Look. You know we talk about the context in which our political norms and our diplomatic norms are eroding. And oftentimes you can look at you know hyper-polarization in the United States and how our norms really are changing and that Trump may actually be a symptom of those changes rather than the cause of them. And then you look at moments where the president of the United States lands and a country and tweets a direct insult at the mayor of the capital of that country. And you think nope this is actually directly related to the actions of the president of the United States. That is typical Trump. And what was I think consistent with the president on this trip is that he had moments that were actually exceptional. And he had moments that typified his brazenness and his crudeness diplomatically to the people of the United Kingdom.  I mean just to tease that out E.J. one of the other pieces of tape we heard there was the president expressing support for Boris Johnson who would like to become the next prime minister of the U.K. - in other words weighing into another country's democratic process. Should the president express views on things like this?  I do not think he should. I think in a way what is heartbreaking here is this was an enormous event. We are celebrating the anniversary of one of the most extraordinary landings military operations a selfless set of actions by our soldiers on behalf of an idea. This was a fight for democracy back then. And to have the president come along and first of all tape - you had some of the other things he said there - you know tape in front of the graves some insults to people like Nancy Pelosi back home. There is just something so disturbing about that. His speech was fine. I do not think it was up to Ronald Reagan's speech of all those years ago but that was a very high standard.  The actual speech at Normandy at the commemorations.  The actual speech he gave was appropriate to the event. And I think one of the things we are discovering is that Trump was elected in part I think because he did break norms. And Americans who voted for him said good. Things are a mess. We do not want a typical politician anymore. I think what is becoming clear and the polls suggest this is lots of Americans are saying wait we actually may need norms after all. This is not working so well.  Margaret stay with D-Day for a second which as I know you noted was marking the 75th anniversary of a moment when the world came together to defeat fascism. I mean as you watched the world leaders gathered there this time around did it to cross your mind to think I wonder how that would play out today?  Look. This was Donald Trump's - one of the best moments of his presidency. He did carry the moment. He did give the appropriate amount of respect and dignity to not just the people of the United States the more than 9000 lives who died on the beaches of Normandy but to the Poles and to the Norwegians and to the Aussies as he said and the gallant French commandos. And what was really noteworthy I think about the president's speech - which does differ from other American speeches - is his focus on individual nationalities in that speech which is actually consistently Trumpian in the focus on nationalism. There was a uniting of nations that came together to fight an ideology of fascism. And I think in this moment it is worthy of us reflecting. There are times of course where American presidents are more popular and less popular. Certainly President Obama was a very popular president in Europe. President Bush was a less popular president for many reasons. But - that we are united in these common values. And Trump's emphasis on nationalism brings a particularly Trumpian stamp to that moment.  Well let me turn you both in the couple of minutes we have left to the economy. And we were just hearing the president will fly back in to news of a weak jobs report. He has also set Monday as the deadline to impose tariffs on Mexico. Margaret what dangers do you see it as potentially posing to the president politically if the economic news is less than stellar?  Dire frankly. I mean there is really no way of minimizing how this president who has you know in a low 40 approval rating because his base is behind him and the economy is booming. What could happen when America's largest trading partner which is Mexico is slapped with 25 tariffs? This would absolutely cripple president - could - has the potential to cripple President Trump's political strength and his presidency. So this is a - it is not an overstatement. This is a very big deal. And the question is you know is he crafty like a fox crazy like a fox? Or is he being impulsive and his own worst enemy? They are at the table negotiating having talks that had not happened previously.  Right. E.J. is the president crafty like a fox? Or should he be worried as he eyes 2020 if voters are suddenly worried about the economy?  I think Margaret's right. I think he should be very very worried. And you know a jobs report - it can be an outlier as Scott Horsley talked about. But he also said rightly this may not be. We were producing an average of 223000 jobs in 2018. We are down to 146000. We seem to be in some trouble here and that will be big trouble for Trump.  All right. That is E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and the Brookings Institution and Margaret Hoover of PBS's Firing Line. Happy Friday. Thanks to you both.  Good to be with you.  Thanks so much. 