 In Los Angeles today some dramatic news in the Michael Jackson investigation. The Associated Press reports that Jackson's death has been ruled a homicide by the Los Angeles County Coroner's office. Also today a search warrant affidavit indicates that Jackson had a lethal dosage of a powerful anesthetic in his body at the time of his death. NPR's Karen Grigsby Bates is monitoring today's developments and she joins us now from NPR West in California. And Karen what do we know about this drug that authorities believe caused Jackson's death?  Robert this drug propofol is something that is used a lot in hospitals and in medical environments and it is supposed to only be used there. It is a drug that requires meticulous supervision because it can result in the suppression of breath. And what I have been told from the doctors that I talked to is that you always have to have oxygen standing by and someone who is very good at CPR because it is not uncommon for patients to stop breathing at some point in the operation because their breathing has been depressed.  Now this drug was mentioned in a search warrant affidavit that was released today. Tell us more about that and what the search involved.  This was a affidavit that accompanied a search warrant. The affidavit was unsealed as I understand it earlier today in Houston. Doctors went to the offices and the homes of Dr. Conrad Murray to take a look to see what he might have there. I believe the suspicion was that propofol could be found in either of those environments and they wanted to see what else might turn up.  Now Dr. Murray was retained as Michael Jackson's personal physician. It is been reported that Michael Jackson was getting propofol the anesthetic not for purposes of surgery but to help him sleep.  Right.  The fact that he apparently had a lethal dosage of it in his bloodstream what does all that mean for Dr. Murray?  Obviously that is not a good thing. Allegedly this unsealed document says that Murray had talked to investigators had admitted to giving Jackson propofol to help him sleep over his own objection sometimes to say we can try something else we can do something else. According to this document Jackson was insistent. And they did it via intravenous application. Now apparently if this document is correct Murray had been doing this for about six weeks. I think what he would said to investigators that he was trying to titrate the dosage downward. He was trying to do less and less and less of it in the hope that his famous patient would be weaned off of it altogether eventually.  And he was present at the time of Michael Jackson's death?  Apparently. That over the course of the evening 30 in the morning on June 25th the day that Jackson died Dr. Murray gave him a combination of drugs over time and apparently they did not work. They did not work. And so he went with this final administration of propofol and that is what did him in. Jackson stopped breathing Murray left to get help and when he came back the rest as we know it is history.  Thank you Karen.  Thanks Robert.  That is NPR's Karen Grigsby Bates in California. Again  an Associated Press report that Jackson's death - Michael Jackson's death - has been ruled a homicide by the Los Angeles County coroner. 