 Two more Republican lawmakers have come out against the Senate's health bill effectively crippling the legislation before it ever hit the floor for a vote. The defeat of the GOP Senate bill is a major blow to all Republicans involved. Senator Debbie Stabenow is a Democrat from Michigan. We called her up to get her reaction to what is going on. Welcome to the program Senator.  Well hi Audie. How are you ?  So it sounds like this is a moment from crowing. I do not want to read too much into that laugh. But how are you feeling about what is happened to this legislation?  Well this is great news. Although we know that you know we have to be cautious about it because we have had so many stops and starts. Originally the House of course pulled their vote and then came back and voted and passed something. And we have had starts and stops in the Senate. But this feels different to me. I mean I really think that you know this is a moment for everybody who is been so engaged - all the activists all the families advocacy groups everybody in health care.  So you think the constituents who have come out played a role in this scenario.  There is no question really no question about it. And you know I have been involved in this for months now. I started calling our hospital CEOs in Michigan and doctors and nurses and advocates back in December when I knew they were going to try to do this in January with 51 votes. And what is fascinating by this is they literally originally said they were going to do this by January 27. And here we are in July. And they have not been able to do it because it is not a political game. It is personal for people.  Right. You have already criticized this legislation as a political exercise by...  Yes yes.  ...The Republican Party. But there are still markets - insurance markets around this country that are struggling that may be down to just one provider on the federal exchanges or on their state exchanges. So what now? Are you satisfied with the status quo?  Not at all not at all. And first of all in order to fix that which needs to be fixed you do not have to cut Medicaid by 800 billion and give it to a big tax cut for the you know wealthiest people in the country. That has nothing to do with fixing the market. So if we want to do that first of all they have to stop undermining the current system where they have pulled away the reinsurance system the cost-sharing payments that have caused things to be destabilized. They are not reaching out to young people and healthier people. So they have done things to make it worse. But those things can be fixed. And we know a number of things. I mean certainly I support having a public option for people to be able to have alternatives to buy in to Medicare to be able to have alternatives insurance for a public option.  But it is hard to see a Republican Congress swinging from repeal to public option. So is there a role for Democrats going forward?  Yes absolutely. What we can do and what we have talked to Republican colleagues about is to reinstate something called a reinsurance system that will help make sure pre-existing conditions are covered without skyrocketing costs. We have proposals that for those areas like you talked about in Iowa for instance where there are no private insurers in the plans - well you know who does have plans - the U.S. Senate and House members and their staff. We are required to be a part of the Affordable Care Act.  Right yes.  So we can allow people to buy into those. Why should not they have the same opportunities as their members of Congress?  Senator Debbie Stabenow Democrat from Michigan we will have to leave it there. I am sure we will talk about this more in the coming days. Thanks so much.  You are welcome. 