 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. For all the partisan debate over tax cuts extending them ending them changing the code it is been a while since Congress has actually passed a tax-related measure. But today the Senate narrowly approved a proposal from President Obama. It would extend the Bush era tax cuts on household income up to a quarter million dollars. At the same time a Republican plan to keep tax cuts in place for even the highest income levels was rejected. NPR's David Welna has the story.  For days Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell had resisted Democrats' demands to hold simple up or down majority rules votes on the rival tax extension plans but today McConnell unexpectedly relented.  We owe it to the American people to let them know whether we actually think it is a good idea to double down on the failed economic policies of the past few years or whether we support a new approach.  But it was actually McConnell and his fellow Republicans who sought to double down on a tax policy that is been in place throughout the Obama Administration an extension of all the Bush era tax cuts. Were that not to happen Nebraska Republican Mike Johanns predicted dire consequences.  A massive tax increase will drive our economy to its knees.  Just one Democrat Arkansas' Mark Pryor voted for the Republicans' plan as Delaware's Chris Coons noted that actually let Obama era tax breaks benefiting millions of low income families expire.  To reject a great tradition of a circle of protection of a prayerful reflection on those who are the neediest in our society and instead say we will extend  the tax rate breaks for the wealthiest Americans I think defies America's values.  Utah Republican Orrin Hatch readily acknowledged the GOP plan lets tax breaks for the poor lapse.  But when is it going to end? When is the upper 49 percent all going to have to continue to just carry everything in this country?  The Democrats' plan meanwhile failed to address a big estate tax break that is also set to expire. Republican leader McConnell said that meant they were for a sharp tax hike on inheritances.  All but guaranteeing that tens of thousands of small and mid-size family businesses across the country will be broken up and handed over to the government.  Democrats called such charges groundless. One of their allies Connecticut Independent Joe Lieberman said neither Democrats nor Republicans offered what is truly needed.  Sure the people who are making the most should pay more in revenue but I think we are at a point where we cannot simply say to what we generally describe as the middle class they do not have to give anything else.  With Vice President Joe Biden on hand in case of a tie the Democrats' plan passed 51 to 48. Florida's Bill Nelson voted for it despite warning it was going nowhere in the Republican-controlled House.  This is not going to solve the problem. It is going to be more political posturing all the way up to the November election and then in a lame duck session we are going to get down to work.  Which would prove yet again that Congress rarely gets anything done until it absolutely has to. David Welna NPR News the capital. 