 Our eyes were caught by a dramatic photograph from Ferguson in the Washington Post today. It was taken on a street in the daytime in the midst of a protest. We see an African-American man standing face-to-face with a black teenager named Joshua Wilson. The boy's jaw is set. He looks determined both defiant and sad. Well we have tracked down the man in the photograph he is Reverend Willis Johnson of Wellspring Church in Ferguson. Reverend Johnson told us police were ordering protesters to move aside as police advanced and he was trying to keep the boy out of harms way.  I just embraced him because he was so angry and you could feel it in his body. You could feel it in his speech. And I have a newly turned teenager and I have been Joshua before and something just said grab him hold him. Maybe initially to keep him back. But ultimately to become what really is symbolic of the situation that is at hand. People who are hurting need to be affirmed in their hurt. People who are angry to be affirmed in their anger. Let me say it like this - I needed that as much as he needed that. We kept each other from harms way and from doing something that we did not - need not to do.  You were trying to get him - you said he was shaking with anger you could feel it and him. You were trying to get him to move back to not go forward and to protect himself basically.  Well one of the things I shared with him is that I understand and I know you want to - I know you want - you got to channel this in another way. Not to discourage protest not to discourage his expression that was never the case. If anything it was to affirm him and to affirm both of us because in that moment we were being disaffirmed. We were being told and suggested that what we were doing was wrong. And it was not wrong. People are feeling I believe empowered by the fact that there are others who feel passionate like them. And it is hard for people who are not there in it to maybe understand or understand why someone would channel or choose that mean or mode to express themselves. I do not understand it fully but what I do understand is what it means to be that angry. So I would rather you if you are going to fuss and cuss and be mad - I want you to do it with me do it in my ear you know. And at the same time I just began to pray with him and say give him the strength give us the strength to be courageous enough not to do what they expect us to do.  Had you ever met him before Joshua Wilson this 18-year-old?  I had not met him personally. But I have met Joshua's. I was 18 once and a young black male. I have a young man that I am trying to grow and hopefully...  I am sorry.  People may not understand but many of us look into the eyes of young people - does not matter about color does not matter about the things people assume - this is not a race issue in-and-of-itself. This is a human issue. Human condition and if you are honest and you are true you cannot help but look at other people and look at situations and say but by the grace of God go you and me. That is what I saw. So yeah I had not met him. I have met too many young men in the last four days five days of every age and no matter how old we are we all remember and know that that is us in some shape form or fashion. Because when I get pulled over even with my credentialed and degreed - terminal degreed self I revert back to that 18-year-old and the things of my father told me about what to do when the police stop you.  Reverend Johnson I am so sorry.  Oh you are okay.  Take your time.  I am the weeping prophet.   And that is why there is so many of us that yes marching is part of it. And is that my first strategy? Personally no. I was not out there marching on Monday was not out there marching on Tuesday. I was doing the things that I thought were necessary and I continue to do that. But I also know that it requires by every means necessary to do what is going to bring about the sense of awareness the attention that will allow people to not only express and attempt to explain but to expedite and encourage us to some point of not only reconciliation but resolution and resurrection. Because we have to live when everybody else goes and leaves from that place.  It is really clear in listening to you talk that - that what is going on this week in Ferguson is tapping into something that is very raw and very deep certainly for you and your own experience.  Yeah. Well I am not alone. It is that way for all of us because that is the human nature that we live. That is us. If it is not touching you if it is not personal that is where there is a problem. And I think if we are honest with ourselves I am fortunate enough I hope that I have the outlets or the means to process and to exercise through what it is that I feel I have an outlet you know my thing - usually someone who was asking me how I was doing. They know I usually run and try to work out on a daily basis and I joked and said well my routes been kind of been messed up. Yeah you know. But yeah I mean I have outlets. I have not been out there at one oclock the morning. I have been like a lot of people I watch it on the news and I wake up in the morning and see things. And it is an intergenerational thing to know that my father fears for me at 39 the same way he feared for me at 18 today. He texts me every morning and says I am praying for you do what you got to do - but you know be careful. You know he should not have to say that. And I should not have to say that and feel that way for my son or my daughter or anyone's son or daughter. So we want the cycle to stop.  That is Reverend Willis Johnson of Wellspring Church in Ferguson Missouri. Reverend Johnson thank you so much.  No thank you. 