 This is the busiest week yet in the 2016 presidential race. The top 10 Republican candidates will appear in the first official debate of this campaign season on Thursday night. And tonight 14 of the 17 candidates took part in a forum in New Hampshire. The candidates appeared on stage one by one. So they did not engage with each other much but they did focus on an opponent - the Clintons. Here's South Carolina senator Lindsey Graham.   As did the Clintons I have been dealing with this crowd for 20 years. I am fluent in Clinton-speak. You want me to translate Jack ? When he says - Bill says - I did not have sex with that woman he did. When she says I will tell you about building the pipeline when I get to be president means she will not. And when she tells us trust me you have got all the emails that you need we have not even scratched the surface. So I understand this crowd and I can beat them. And if we cannot beat them it does not matter.  NPR national political correspondent is at the forum in Manchester and he joins us now. Don that is some pretty spicy rhetoric there from Lindsey Graham. Were the Clintons a focus for all of the candidates at this forum?  Leave it to Senator Graham to bring something new to this forum. It was one of the few kind of really original moments in this event that is still going on actually. What we are seeing though as you said 14 people a two-hour event and then two rounds so they each get to get up on stage twice. And it feels like - boy lightning round does not describe it. It is like we are getting mini mini mini versions of their stump speeches. I should add though three of them are actually not here and on the stage. They are voting in the Senate tonight on Planned Parenthood and Senators Rubio Cruz and Paul are there. But they are still here via satellite still following the same rules.  OK. And also not there because he decided not to go is Donald Trump. Let us talk about some of the other themes that came back again and again in this forum bashing Obamacare many many times over. Let us listen to retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson on that subject.   There is no question that it needs to be replaced before you repeal it because you do not want to pull the safety net out from underneath people. Obamacare comes along with the government saying we do not care what you the people think we are shoving this down your throat. And if you do not like it too bad. That is completely antithetical to the principles of the founding of this country.  Don did you hear anything new on the topic of Obamacare which has been well-trod in this campaign?  I did not. And some of the candidates were given an opportunity to say well is there anything in Obamacare that you like or that you would not repeal? And consistently they said we need to repeal it we need to replace it. So that is been the standard line there for a long time.  Let us also hear a little bit from former Florida governor Jeb Bush. He was talking about a strategy to battle the so-called Islamic State.   I think we need special forces. The idea of boots on the ground - I am not sure that is necessary but I mean this is absurd. If this is a serious effort then we need to treat it seriously.  Don foreign policy - a key part of this forum or no?  That - yes absolutely that the Obama administration has not been good to our neighbors has not been decisive. And Jeb Bush there said that America has kind of lost a step. It has not been as vigilant as it was after 911. Again it is an area that they will go after President Obama right through election day.  OK. And again gearing up for the debate on Thursday night Don Gonyea braving the candidates forum in Manchester N.H. for us tonight. Don thanks so much.  All right. Take care. Bye bye. 