 President Donald Trump has no plans to give up all the spotlight to Democrats as they begin their national convention tonight. Past presidents generally let their challengers have their moment but Trump is kicking off a four-state trip to blunt any extra momentum the Democrats may get from the convention. Today he used the occasion to attack the presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden.   I do not say Biden because I do not think he knows what hell is happening. I think if you mention you know you should not have done that to Minnesota he will say where is Minnesota? I do not know anything. I do not know what Minnesota is. Where is that please?  Here to talk about the president's remarks is NPR's White House correspondent Franco Ordoez. Hey Franco. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Hey Leila.  So where is he going on this multistate trip and what is the significance of this? ORDO Well today he started off in Minnesota talking about law and order. And that is - and Minnesota is obviously where the death of George Floyd set off a wave of protests against racial injustice. He is also traveling to Wisconsin - which is technically the headquarters for the Democratic National Convention though the convention is happening virtually - where he talked about jobs. And as you just noted Trump is taking aim at Biden as well as Harris and he is doing so repeatedly.   Joe Biden is the puppet of left-wing extremists trying to erase our borders eliminate our police indoctrinate our children vilify our heroes take away our energy - you know all about that - take away our energy if you can believe it - no fossil fuel - destroy our second amendment attack the right to life and replace American freedom with left-wing fascism. ORDO You know and that is just a taste of what we have been hearing. Later this week he is going to Yuma Ariz. to talk about immigration and the border. And he also plans a trip on Thursday to Scranton Penn. which is Biden's hometown.  Now how significant is this to basically campaign during the other party's convention? ORDO It is very significant. As you noted past presidents typically let their challengers as they say kind of have their own convention. I will note that former President Obama also traveled a couple days in 2012 to Iowa Colorado and Virginia during the national - Republican National Convention at the time. And he had to - himself had to defend breaking with tradition. But President Trump is really taking the counterprogramming to a different level.  But Franco how so? You note that Obama traveled to three states. ORDO I mean I think the big difference is that Obama did not talk much about his challenger Mitt Romney or the Republicans while Trump is making it very clear he is using this trip to target Joe Biden and he is doing so very aggressively. Here's more of what he said today.   In Joe Biden's America the protections of American citizenship will be stripped away and your community will be left at the mercy of the mob. I mean I am saying these things but I mean them. ORDO Trump's - and Trump's main speech in Scranton Biden's hometown is also the same day that the former vice president formally accepts his party's nomination.  Now there is no question that he is really getting personal. Do you think that is a sign he is concerned? Recent polls have largely not been in his favor. ORDO You know it is hard to say. What we have learned in the last almost four years of the administration is that Trump does have a tendency to lash out when things are not going his way. Recent polls show Biden leading Trump in many key states as well as nationally and a lot of that has to do with how Americans feel about how President Trump's handling the pandemic. It is really hurt him. He was banking on running on a good economy but the coronavirus wiped that away those plans. People are out of work and there are a lot of concerns when things will get back to normal. But things could certainly change. Polls could narrow if the pandemic ended or the economy rebounded and momentum could shift back toward Trump.  White House correspondent Franco Ordoez thank you. ORDO Thank you. 