 Developments in the case were followed closely today in France where Dominique Strauss-Kahn had been expected to run for president. He is likely to return to France soon but Eleanor Beardsley reports that his troubles are far from over.     Martine Aubry is former head of the Socialist Party and a presidential candidate.   We are all so relieved. We have been waiting for him to get out of this nightmare. France still needs Dominique but we need to give him the time to recover and take up his life again.   French television played footage of Strauss-Kahn talking briefly to a hoard of reporters outside his New York apartment. He thanked those who supported him through his nightmare. Strauss-Kahn said he would return home by next week and was impatient to get back to France. But when he gets here he will have more than a welcoming committee to greet him.  Good afternoon. My name is Douglas Wigdor.  Douglas Wigdor one of New York housekeeper Nafissatou Diallo's lawyers held a press conference in Paris today with his French partner. Both lawyers condemned the charges against Strauss-Kahn being dropped in the face of what they called substantial and compelling evidence. Wigdor said today's decision would have a chilling effect on cases of sexual violence.  There is no doubt in my mind that future victims will think twice unfortunately about coming forward when they are true victims because of something that might be in their past.  Wigdor said he and his partners are aggressively building a civil case against Strauss-Kahn.  We are still speaking to many women protecting many of these women's identity and so I am not at liberty to tell you how many. All I can tell you is it is many.    And Strauss-Kahn still faces criminal prosecution in France. A young writer Tristane Banon says he tried to rape her in 2002. Banon's mother Anne Mansouret spoke on French radio.    I am confident that this kind of crime cannot go unpunished. Whatever his power and support networks I am not afraid of him.  At an outdoor cafe near the Arc de Triomphe Didier Legendre sits reading a newspaper. Although nobody is talking about Strauss-Kahn running for president anymore Legendre says France still needs him.  I think people want to listen to him about crisis - about the debts about the situation of France. Really people wait for his opinion.  Inside cafe owner Renee Dupree is wiping down the zinc counter. She says she is not about to forgive Strauss-Kahn.    For NPR News I am Eleanor Beardsley in Paris. 