 We are going to start the program with the trial of President Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort on charges of bank and tax fraud. Yesterday proceedings took an unexpected turn.  I will tell you as a former federal prosecutor once you get two-thirds of the way through your case and months of preparation your heart sinks when you have these kind of conferences at the bench.  That is Seth Waxman an attorney now in private practice. He was referring to the lengthy delays caused by hours of consultations with the judge and attorneys for both sides. I asked Waxman what might explain the hiccup in the proceedings.  This is a bit of speculation but it seemed to me based on the instructions the judge gave to the jury is that maybe one of the jurors had talked to someone in a hallway or received information from someone outside - in other words not followed the judge's instructions by refusing to discuss the case and keeping an open mind. So that will happen on occasion in cases. So the judge did what he was supposed to do - instructed the jurors to not discuss the case with anyone and to keep an open mind that the presumption of innocence continues and until the government proves the case beyond a reasonable doubt that presumption of innocence stays.  Throughout this trial we have seen Judge T.S. Ellis pretty much berate prosecutors repeatedly. Do you think that his remarks could sway the jury against the prosecution by doing that?  Yeah. I mean it is unfortunate that Judge Ellis is injecting himself into the trial in this way. And for the most part jurors will ultimately not be swayed by such events. They do look to the judge as the person kind of in control of the courtroom and they do follow his lead very often. But it is in my experience that only at the point in time where a judge makes comments that give the impression that the prosecutors are playing unfair or doing things under the table - and if it ever got to that point then that is when you really start to lose a jury as a government prosecutor. So it does not in my opinion seem to have reached that level. The government did ask the judge to explain to the jurors that he got something wrong and to his credit he did give that instruction. And in fact when that happens a jury can start to empathize a bit with the prosecutors and give them the benefit of the doubt. So if they play it well the prosecutors - while they have taken a lot on their chin it could ultimately work to their favor in some ways.  So what should we look for when the defense presents its case next week?  Well of course the biggest question that arises is always is whether the defendant is going to take the stand and testify on his own behalf. I think that is fairly unlikely in this case. There is just such a hard-written record with documents that would be very difficult for the defendant to explain away. So I do not see that happening. And so I think the case may have a couple of their investigators who may have talked to a witness or two. You know this may not be a very long defense case at all.  Before we let you go I wanted to ask about another case in the Mueller investigation. An associate of Roger Stone President Trump's longtime confidant failed to show up for a grand jury appearance yesterday. And the judge found this Stone associate Andrew Miller in contempt. What do you think is behind this?  Well there is either one of two things happening. And they are either the government's hit pay dirt with Mr. Miller - and when a witness refuses to go on the grand jury that makes prosecutors think he has a whole lot of important stuff if he is willing to take on a contempt charge. So in normal circumstances if I were the prosecutor I would be pretty excited that I might be on to something. But in this particular case Mr. Miller is also backed kind of by conservative think tanks and that is who is funding his legal defense. So Mr. Miller may be just a pawn in a bigger play here by this conservative think tank to try to challenge the Mueller prosecution or investigation as a whole and that is why they have said that Mr. Miller wanted to plead contempt - so it could be appealed to the D.C. Circuit which is the appellate court and then in fact if they were to lose there go to the Supreme Court.  Is there any merit to this?  Well they can file that legal challenge no question and they have the right to appeal it. So in my opinion this is a very very large uphill battle for Mr. Miller's attorneys on this particular theory. And also the Supreme Court does not take a lot of cases. If Mr. Trump were to refuse a grand jury subpoena from Mr. Mueller's office I think that would end up in the Supreme Court no doubt. Whether the Supreme Court would take something like this on or just allow the D.C. Circuit ruling to stand is something we do not know. But this may not be a case that actually reaches the Supreme Court.  That was former federal prosecutor Seth Waxman a partner at Dickinson Wright. Mr. Waxman thank you for joining us.  Thank you for having me. 