 Only two Republicans Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska broke ranks with their party in today's vote. This vote does not repeal or replace the Affordable Care Act but it sets the Senate on a course of discussing and perhaps amending a bill that would do just that. We are going to turn now to a senator who voted against today's motion to proceed Senator Angus King of Maine an independent who caucuses with the Democrats. And thanks for joining us once again.  Absolutely. Glad to be with you. And I got to say at the outset I love John McCain. His statement today was just brilliant. I wish he would voted the other way but I think he served notice on his colleagues that he was simply voting for the procedural step to open debate and was not necessarily expressing support for some further version of one of these bills.  Do you love his proposal to go to the Senate health committee return to regular order and have hearings on a health care bill that presumably committee Republicans and Democrats would both take part in?  Absolutely. That is exactly what we ought to do Robert. I mean that is the way this place is supposed to work. And by the way it is the way John McCain's committee work. I am on the Armed Services Committee. We had long meetings we had hearings - hearing after hearing after hearing. We had amendments we had votes we had no party-line votes within the committee. It can work that way. He is absolutely right. That is the way it ought to happen.  But would not any bill that emerged from that process in the Senate then have to go eventually to the House of Representatives where the Republican majority is more conservative than it is in the Senate? And would not it be a bill that ultimately you could say from the outset you are going to vote against?  Well it depends on what happens. It depends on what the House decides. If they want to get something - and presumably if there was a Senate bill that came out of a bipartisan process in the committee there would be something there that the Republicans could support. If they decide they want the whole terrible consequence of kicking millions of people off of health insurance then we are not going to be able to agree. But we certainly can get somewhere working in a regular way where people have a chance to get their voices heard.  Can you imagine a bipartisan process by which you and Democrats give up something that you really want - say the individual mandate - because that is the only way to get another bill? Or is that a bright line right there that you cannot cross?  Well I do not want to negotiate on the radio.  Of course.  But I do think that there are - I mean I myself since I got here in 2013 have been talking with a number of people about things we can improve and change in the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act is not perfect by any means. The problem is the response has been we do not want to fix it. We just want to repeal it get rid of it throw it out. We want to cut Medicaid. And if their bottom line is severe cuts to Medicaid and a major tax cut for the wealthiest Americans then we are not going to get anywhere. But if they can stop talking about repealing and start talking about fixing and really dealing with the real problems of people in our society - that is what bothers me about this. This is about real people. This is about disabled people elderly people in my state of Maine. And that is why Susan Collins and I had to vote no today.  Senator King just briefly. If in fact the leadership the Republican leadership does not go along with Senator McCain and sticks with this reconciliation process do you think they have 50 votes to pass a big health care bill?  I do not think so. I think they are going to end up a month from now exactly where they are now and that is trying to find 50 votes for various options. I think we have seen three or four now none of which could get 50 votes. They may go to the House with - they may get 50 votes on some stripped-down bill that does practically nothing and just gets them into the conference with the House. But then whatever comes back out has to go through the Senate. I think it is very hard to get those 50 votes.  Senator Angus King of Maine. Thanks for talking with us.  Thank you.  