 Now to an escalating battle between the Obama administration and California's providers of medical marijuana. Last week the government filed a legal action threatening to seize the state's largest dispensary if it does not shut down voluntarily. As NPR's Richard Gonzales has that story.  At first glance the Harborside Health Center in Oakland certainly suggests health. The main room is clean quiet spacious and bathed in natural light.  On a busy day we can see up to 900 or a thousand people. That is a really busy day for us.  Matt Smith is one of Harborside's 125 employees. He shows off a long glass display case filled with many varieties of marijuana.  On this side is our sativas and on this side is indicas. Sativa is more like an active upbeat kind of a feeling more of a mental high. Indica stuff is going to be more of a body feel. This is what a lot of people use for pain nerve pain helping you sleep kind of stuff.  Every small bowl of marijuana has a name. Purple Train Wreck Dream Queen Blackberry Cush. They are color-coded for price and percentage of the active ingredient THC. Harborside earned 22 million last year. It paid more than a million dollars in local taxes to the city of Oakland and another 2 million in California state taxes. STEVE D' We have over 100000 patients who depend on us for a level of care that is really not available in the rest of the state.  That is Steve D'Angelo Harborside's executive director. He says he operates legally under California's Medical Marijuana Law which says an ill patient or provider can possess or cultivate marijuana. He is also attracted a measure of fame by being featured recently in a reality TV series on the Discovery Channel called Weed Wars.  D' I have dedicated my entire adult life to the cannabis plant. And today my family and I run the largest cannabis dispensary on the entire planet.  And D'Angelo says Harborside is the gold standard of legitimate medical cannabis distribution but U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag does not buy that claim of legitimacy. She filed a lawsuit to shutter Harborside's operations in Oakland and in San Jose. Haag declined to comment for this report but in an interview earlier this year with member station KQED she sent a warning.  Marijuana's illegal under federal law and there are many things I could do as a result of that. I could bring a criminal action. I can bring a forfeiture action or both.  Late last year Haag and three other U.S. attorneys in California announced a crackdown on medical marijuana dispensaries. And at the time Haag suggested she would focus on shops within 1000 feet of any school. But Harborside is not close to a school. In a written statement Haag said she targeted Harborside for its size and scale.  A marijuana industry is not off limits. And if we have significant grow operations if we have for-profit operations certainly if those operations are having other impacts negative impacts on their communities that it is not something that we are able to ignore.  The crackdown on Harborside follows federal raids in April on the home and dispensary of high profile medical marijuana entrepreneur Richard Lee in Oakland. The feds have also shut down dispensaries in Berkeley Sacramento and the affluent Marin County north of San Francisco. At the heart of this conflict is an ambiguous state law that appears to allow medical cannabis dispensaries and the federal law that bans marijuana entirely. And for now the feds have the upper hand. Richard Gonzales NPR News San Francisco. 