 For centuries people had little idea what went on in their leaders' private conversations. But with the rise of recording equipment we have gotten a few more insights. Richard Nixon's Watergate tapes for example revealed a side of him that had not been widely seen - he likes to swear.    and say I want the  and I want a  now. Get it done.  These days the use of profanity may be more than just a slip of the tongue. Here's Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz responding to a question from an interviewer who insinuated her company was not moving fast enough on new technology.  I do not want to hear any crap about something magical that the fine people of Yahoo are supposed to do in this short time so  off.   And last month President Obama used some strong language about the people cleaning up the BP oil spill.  We talk to these folks because they potentially have the best answers - so I know whose  to kick.  Robert Sutton welcome to the program.  Great to be here Lynn.  And I should mention that you are also the author of a book. Unfortunately we cannot mention the title of that book on the air.  It is the no-jerk rule but it really is not jerk. It is a letter that starts with an A and rhymes with castle.   Let me ask you how you know when a leader is intentionally deciding to swear or use profanity and when it is a slip.  Well I think that the main sign we can tell is when it is backstage versus front stage especially when some of the backstage kind of leaks out. There was one point when President Bush sort of whispered to Cheney that there was a reporter in the audience who is a jerk.   .  Oh yeah.  But  I think you had of Carol Bartz and also President Obama I think they were using it quite strategically. And I even suspect in the case of Obama was in a script or something they had discussed because swear words taboo words pack an emotional wallop that the ordinary words the replacements simply cannot.  Well what might a person be trying to accomplish by using a word like that that packs a wallop?  And then the last thing is authenticity. That is who Carol is and it comes across very straightforward. And in fact she is got a very tough turnaround job at Yahoo. And to me that shows that she is a tough boss and she means it.  And let us talk about the fact that Carol Bartz is a woman and would a woman particularly decide to use that kind of language as a way to prove herself to the guys?  In the case of somebody like Carol Bartz I hate to bring up the notion of personality but I believe Carol has always been that way. She is - let us just say that if Michelle Obama started talking like that I think we would all just be horrified and shocked. But Carol Bartz it is sort of like a comedienne talking that way.  I guess the quote that kind of sums it up  When I want it to stick I give it to them loud and dirty.   And I think that is very consistent with the notion that words are just tools in a toolbox. And sometimes when you really need that wallop you want to get out the word. But then there is other times when you do not want to give it to them loud and dirty because you embarrass them. You get them all cranked up and you have kind of got a mess on your hand. So this stuff is very related to the context and what you are trying to accomplish. And that can be for good or it can be for evil.  Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you. 