 FBI director James Comey was on Capitol Hill today and he was talking about encryption. Comey wants Silicon Valley companies to allow law enforcement the ability to monitor communications with a court order. But companies have resisted and they are building more and more encrypted devices that can only be opened by the user. That is called strong encryption and the FBI director says that is a problem.   We cannot break strong encryption. I think people watch TV and think the Bureau can do lots of things. We cannot break strong encryption.  NPR's Dina Temple-Raston joins me now with the latest in this debate. Hi Dina.  Hi there.  Did James Comey make an effective case for law enforcement access to encrypted data?  I think he made a start. He provided senators on the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees with very specific examples - actual cases in which he said the FBI tried to obtain electronic information after getting a warrant but they could not get it because it was encrypted or scrambled. He said it came up in a recent case in Boston. A follower of the self-proclaimed Islamic State or ISIL was contemplating an attack but the FBI could not see exactly what he was planning because they lost him in an encrypted site. That is something the Bureau calls going dark. And here's what he said happened.   In Boston you had a guy who was in touch in an encrypted way with these ISIL recruiters and we believe was bent on doing something on July 4. He woke up one morning June 2 and decided he was going to go kill somebody. He confronted our people with a knife and unfortunately they had to use their weapons. But that is an example of sort of the unpredictability of this.  And he had examples that were not just about terrorism.  Yes. He said the encryption technology actually affects everything from child pornography to kidnapping. He talked about a case of a long-haul trucker who had kidnapped his girlfriend last December. The trucker took her from state to state and sexually assaulted her and she eventually escaped and pressed charges. And the trucker claimed it was consensual sex. As it turned out he had videotaped his assaults on his smartphone. The FBI got a warrant and they used that video against him in court.  And how would that case have been different if the phone had this new encryption on it?  Well Comey said if there had been one key encryption or end-to-end encryption on that phone the truck driver would have refused to give them a password to open it. End-to-end encryption means that law enforcement has to go directly to a target instead of to say a company for a password or a key. If they had end-to-end encryption in place for that trucker case they might not have had access to that incriminating video.  And what about technical concerns? Does having passwords or encryption keys for law enforcement actually weaken the system overall?  Well some elite security technologists released a paper last night that made pretty much that argument. They provided a technical analysis of the government's proposals for special access and they think what the government wants could put the whole system at risk because as they see it if law enforcement could get that access then maybe hackers could get that access too. The group - this particular group has some sway because it ended up derailing a plan in the 1990s to allow the government to unscramble communications. What is unclear this time is whether they have - they can have that kind of effect. Director Comey has said he is open to any ideas that technology companies might have to solve this encryption problem and the solution he suggested might be something that has not even been discovered yet.  Dina just one question. I mean if I am not a terrorist or not a pornographer what is my protection here that the FBI or other agencies of government will not go poking into my personal data?  Well theoretically the way this is supposed to work is they are supposed to go into a judge and actually get a warrant. What he is talking about now is even with a warrant with these encrypted devices the warrant does not do them any good.  OK. Thank you Dina. That is NPR's Dina Temple-Raston. 