 For the past week the streets of Barcelona have sounded like this.   .  Separatists are rallying for independence from Spain. They plan to hold a secession vote this Sunday even though the Spanish government says that is illegal. Polls show the separatists do not have a clear majority among Catalans. Lauren Frayer went to visit one village in Catalonia where the mayor opposes independence. And he is not alone.   The village of Batea nestled in vineyards west of Barcelona has more tractors than cars. There is so much farm work Batea has almost full employment and it is bustling.  .  Mayor Joaquim Paladella shows me where voting usually takes place in the town hall but not this coming Sunday. He refuses to allow Catalonia's independence vote to be held on public property.   I do not see how independence would help my village. When our leaders wave the flag and lobby for independence they are not doing the real work of government. I am a Catalan but I am deeply discontented with the direction my region is taking.  He takes me to the local nursing home which has a long waiting list. Nurse Maria Pilar says she would rather see the Catalan regional government expand this facility...  .  ...Than spend millions on what she calls silly dreams of independence from Spain. While a majority of Catalans would like to vote on the issue polls show they are roughly divided over whether to break away and form a new country. Support for staying in Spain had been growing.  I would use the words demobilized majority more than silent majority.  Political scientist Berta Barbet says defenders of the status quo often do not get their voices heard.  This referendum will not be recognized by those that have not voted. And if the current government decides to go ahead even with low turnout they know they will have problems like because they - that is not the way to properly legitimize your decisions.  Spain says Catalans who vote Sunday are committing a crime. Anti-independence parties are telling voters to stay home. It is a dilemma. Vote in a referendum you do not believe in or skip it and you are not represented.   .  Catalan folk songs about wine play in the lobby of Batea's town hall. There are 28 wineries here for 2000 residents. It is an important industry which could suffer if Catalonia gets independence is forced out of the European Union and faces trade barriers.  .  That is why winemaker Joan Vaque will not vote Sunday he says showing me into his 18th century bodega.   We do not know what will happen to commerce. We hear a lot about Brexit how that change will affect British business. I do not want to risk the same thing here. For business owners independence is a loaded issue.  As he arranges wine bottles on a shelf Vaque points to the label.  .  It says product of Spain in big letters. That is at least one thing that would have to change he says if his region of Catalonia wins independence. For NPR News I am Lauren Frayer in Batea Catalonia Spain. 