 President Trump's foray into Middle East peacemaking seems to be in doubt once again. One of the key advisers drafting Trump's plan for Israeli-Palestinian peace is leaving the White House. And there is no sign yet of when or if the plan will be released. NPR's Michele Kelemen reports.  Jason Greenblatt was a lawyer for the Trump Organization before he was tapped to work with Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner in drafting a peace plan for Israelis and Palestinians. Just a couple of months ago he was on ALL  the administration's draft was essentially finished.   We are a lawyer is - our nature is to continue to tinker with it until the president asks us to put our pencils down. But if he asked us to put our pencils down tonight we could put our pencils down tonight and hear it when he is ready.  Now Greenblatt says he is leaving the White House in the coming weeks. Officials say he is still holding out hope that the plan will be released before he leaves. There had been indications it could happen soon after Israel's elections this month. But the White House will only say that this long-delayed plan will be released when it is appropriate. Many experts see Greenblatt's departure as a sign that the draft will not see the light of day or even if it does will not lead to peace talks. Here's David Makovsky of The Washington Institute for Near East Policy.  I noticed in his last tweet he does not use the word plan. He used the word vision which I think - I do not want to be Talmudic but I think it shows also kind of this is our reference point for the future as opposed to tomorrow at 9 a.m. - all sides are sitting around the table.  Administration officials praised Greenblatt for playing an important role in the administration's decision to recognize Israel's claims to sovereignty over the Golan Heights and to Jerusalem as Israel's capital. That move angered Palestinians who have since refused to engage with the Trump White House. Palestinian officials said they will not miss Greenblatt. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu thanked him for his dedicated work. President Trump is praising him as a loyal and great friend writing on Twitter that Greenblatt's quote dedication to Israel and to seeking peace will not be forgotten. Greenblatt is moving back to New Jersey to be with his wife and six children. One of his aides Avi Berkowitz will step into his role. And the State Department's point person on Iran Brian Hook will play a larger role on the team still led by Jared Kushner. Michele Kelemen NPR News the State Department. 