 So now that the U.S. and the European Union have just avoided a trade war as we just heard President Trump and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker announced that they had reached an agreement to work toward eliminating tariffs on industrial goods. David Wessel is director of the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy at the Brookings Institution. He joins us now. Hey there David.  Hi.  So it appears as though the U.S. and Europe took an important step back from confrontation. What do you make of this announcement?  Yeah. I think what the basic news here is that they took a step away from confrontation which of course is welcome which is why the stock market rose so much as the rumors and then the press conference that the president had with his European counterpart - I do not think we know very much. And the president has a habit of saying we are going to work this out and then a few days later you find out it is not so worked out. But it definitely is a step away from confrontation and that is a big deal.  The president was only just recently saying look be patient with my trade policies. Is he kind of vindicated here? He brought someone to the table.  No I do not think so. I mean basically he will argue that the tariffs he imposed on steel and aluminum which he did not promise today to waive and the threats of tariffs on European cars brought Europe to the table. But at the same time as Mara pointed out a lot of what they are talking about is very similar to the so-called T-TIP negotiations that broke down under President Obama. And also I think there was strong pressure from Republicans in Congress and the business community that was weighing on the president that he may have figured out that he had gone too far.  What are the odds of this deal being worked out holding together?  Well I think - I do not think we - there is a deal. I mean President Juncker of the European Commission referred to it as a deal but basically it is an agreement to talk. And if both sides are willing to compromise and they can work stuff out then there is a good chance of success. And perhaps the president has realized that it was not wise to have a multi-front war. And if he can make peace with the Europeans on trade that does free him up to pursue a more aggressive case against China where he has a lot more support both within the American business community and with our trading partners.  David Wessel why are you so skeptical? If the European Commission leader says yeah we pretty much have a deal and President Trump says yeah we have a deal why not give them the benefit of the doubt?  I do not know. I guess I am just a skeptical reporter.  .  But I mean what they said - because there is no agreement that we can look at. President Juncker said we agreed to establish a dialogue on standards. President Trump said we will resolve retaliatory tariffs. I guess I want to see what they have actually agreed to and see them stand up and give us a piece of paper and say this is what is changing rather than words. But I do not - I really do think it is important that today the president and one of our major trading partners are being nice to each other rather than beating each other over the head with baseball bats.  Is there any way that these negotiations become any sort of template in terms of dealing with China?  I think that is a really good question and an interesting one that we cannot fully answer. On one hand the president seems happy when our trading partners offer to buy more stuff as the Europeans did - more liquefied natural gas and soybeans. And we know the Chinese have floated something like this. So it could be a template. But it also may free the president to be more aggressive with China which has - does a lot of things that are unfair - considered unfair by most economists that are not things that Europe does.  David Wessel is director of the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy at the Brookings Institution. David thank you for speaking with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  You are welcome. 