 And while the trial of Paul Manafort has been underway the last couple weeks so have continued negotiations between President Trump's legal team and special counsel Robert Mueller. They are trying to agree on conditions under which President Trump would sit for an interview for Mueller's Russia investigation. Negotiations reached a new level of intensity this week when the president's lawyer Rudy Giuliani said the president's legal team had made its last and best offer. One of the concerns they have is what they describe as a perjury trap. Here's what Giuliani told Sean Hannity on Fox News Wednesday night.   Why do you want to get him under oath? You think we are fools? You want to get him under oath 'ecause you want to trap him into perjury.  With us now to discuss what exactly a perjury trap is and whether it applies here is former federal prosecutor Randall Eliason. He is now at George Washington University Law School. Welcome.  Thank you.  OK. First just start us off by defining - what is a perjury trap?  So a perjury trap is a specific legal defense. It is actually related to entrapment and it is actually an accusation of prosecutorial misconduct. So what it means is that the prosecutor calls you in to testify not because they have got some legitimate investigative reason to have you testify but simply to try to sort of trick you or trap you into some kind of a lie that they could then charge you with.  So if an important aspect of a perjury trap argument is the intent of the prosecutor does perjury trap apply in Trump's situation?  No it does not apply here at all. There is no suggestion that Mueller does not have a legitimate reason for wanting to talk to the president. The president is at the center of everything that he is investigating and he has not testified or given an interview yet at all. So Mueller has a perfectly legitimate reason for asking the president to testify. And simply the fact that you are asked to testify does not make it a perjury trap. If that were true then every witness who is called testify about anything could claim they were being set up with a perjury trap. Saying this is a perjury trap is like saying driving a car is a speeding trap. I mean you get behind the wheel it gives you the opportunity to speed and break the law but you still have to choose to do that. And all you have to do to stay out of trouble is abide by the law. And the same thing is true here. Being called to testify gives you the opportunity to commit perjury but you still have to choose to lie.  So if you think perjury trap clearly does not apply in Trump's case here why do you think his legal team has been so persistently making this point?  Well I think it is clear. I think it is definitely a part of the ongoing pattern by the president and his legal team to attack the Mueller investigation and try to delegitimize it you know calling it a witch hunt suggesting that it is unfair. This is just - this is of a piece with that entire argument. So by suggesting it is a perjury trap it is somehow unfair to ask the president to testify they are setting themselves up to make the argument down the road A if he refuses to do the interview which is starting to look more likely they will try to justify it by saying well we could not agree to that interview. It was a perjury trap. Or if he does an interview or ends up testifying in the grand jury and ends up being accused of perjury then they will suggest the charge is illegitimate or the whole investigation was unfair because it was a perjury trap. So it is all part of this defense tactic that is been on display for months now to try to undermine the Mueller investigation.  If you were Trump's lawyer would you think Trump doing an interview with Robert Mueller is a good idea?  I think you would have a hard time finding a criminal defense attorney who would recommend that the president sit for this interview as a legal matter. Now of course he is not just any client right? He is the president and there are some special considerations involved. I mean certainly I would think the president of the United States should always cooperate with law enforcement and agree to be interviewed in a case like this. But strictly as a criminal matter if he is your client I think it is - there is a lot of downside risk for the president in an interview like this and that most lawyers would probably recommend that he not do it.  Randall Eliason is a former federal prosecutor who now teaches at the George Washington University's School of Law. Thank you very much.  My pleasure thanks. 