 President Obama came into office promising to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay and to bring detainees to trial in civilian courts whenever possible. But far from shuttered the prison is still humming with activity and the first military trial on Mr. Obama's watch is now underway. NPR's Carrie Johnson reports on how the administration's plans went south.  The White House says it is sticking to its promise to close Guantanamo. It is relocated 64 detainees since the president took the oath of office. But that may be the only part of the Guantanamo machinery that is operating as planned. Here's Benjamin Wittes of the Brookings Institution. Mr.  The basic problem is that you have an administration that is internally divided about how to proceed that has no obvious partner and a toxic political atmosphere in which this is very few people's highest priority.  The plan to close the prison hit a series of roadblocks some political and some of the administration's own making. Advisers split over whether to try the masterminds of the September 11th attacks in civilian courts in New York or in military tribunals. New York politicians balked so that decision is still on ice. Attorney General Eric Holder talked last month to CBS about unexpected hurdles in the administration's path.  There have been restrictions that have been talked about by Congress some of which have been imposed. We are going to have to work with Congress in order I think ultimately to bring this case to trial.  But finding partners in Congress has been a lonely effort too with the sole exception of South Carolina Republican Lindsey Graham. Graham introduced legislation last week that would give the administration legal underpinning to hold detainees indefinitely. That bill had no co-sponsors. And both political parties voted to bar the White House from spending federal money to bring detainees onto American soil. Jameel Jaffer works at the American Civil Liberties Union. He says he is disappointed by the atmosphere. Mr.  The fact remains that we still have well over 100 people at Guantanamo who are being held in most cases indefinitely without charge or trial. They have never had an opportunity a meaningful opportunity to contest the evidence against them. And that is a moral travesty as well as a legal one.  To the dismay of human rights groups and even some White House advisers the first real activity in months is this week's military trial of a former child soldier. The U.S. military captured Omar Khadr in 2002 when he was just 15 years old. He is accused of throwing a grenade that killed a Special Forces soldier. Another detainee Ahmed Mahmoud al-Qosi pleaded guilty Monday in a separate military commission proceeding. The terms of that plea deal are secret for now a condition that some critics say contradicts Obama's pledge of transparency. Attorney General Eric Holder says closing Guantanamo remains a priority.  Guantanamo serves as a recruiting tool for al-Qaida. The intelligence continues to show that that is true. It has served as a wedge between us and our traditional allies.  But Ben Wittes says he sees little action behind the rhetoric. Mr.  The administration continues to talk about closing Guantanamo as a national security imperative and doing nothing to effectuate it. Now either it is a national security imperative in which case you should be fighting for it or it is not a national security imperative in which case you should not be saying that it is. The Justice Department says 176 men remain at Gitmo down from 240 at the start of the Obama administration. The military commission proceedings in Cuba will continue through August. Carrie Johnson NPR News Washington. 