 With us now is Ohio Republican Representative Jim Jordan. He is ranking member of the House Oversight Committee. Welcome back to the program.  Good to be with you today.  We have had a long day to digest a lot of this. Can you give me just your initial reactions to the hearing before the intelligence committee? What stood out to you?  Well I mean look - this - when you read the transcript there is nothing there. Even the Democrat chairman have indicated Audie that there was no quid pro quo. The president does not talk about any foreign aid. Even the president of Ukraine Mr. Zelenskiy has said he was not pushed in any way. You know but the Democrats have been trying to go after this president since before he was even elected. It is been nonstop. And they do not care about the facts and the truth they are going to do whatever it takes to try to get this president. It is unfortunate because it is not good for the country.  But I want to talk to you about a Republican colleague - right? - who is on the House Intelligence Committee Mike Turner. He shares much of your sentiments about the impeachment inquiry but he does not give the president's behavior in that July 25 conversation a pass. Here's what he said in this morning's session.   Now I have read the complaint and I have read the transcript of the conversation with the president and the president of the Ukraine. Concerning that conversation I want to say to the president this is not OK. It is not - that conversation is not OK and I think it is disappointing to the American public when they read the transcript.  So this is someone who has also seen both the transcript and the complaint and sits on the House Intelligence Committee - draws a different perspective.  Audie when you - when a whistleblower comes in front of you there are two things you have to assess. Frankly any witness when you are trying to determine credibility you have to ask two fundamental questions. The first one is do they have firsthand knowledge? Were they an actual witness? The second question is motivation. This whistleblower comes up short in both areas. Remember there was no...  Can we take the second one? Because we do not know the identity of the whistleblower unless you are about to give me some news.  I am not. But I believe The New York Times has indicated that it is a male. But I do not know the identity either.  I cannot draw that much more from that. I do not think people would want me to.  Yeah I...  So what do you mean by bias?  No the inspector general told us that the whistleblower had an indicia of arguable political bias for a candidate an opposing candidate. That is Washington speak...  He also said that he believed he was credible and acted in good faith. He was asked specifically this question.  When the inspector general uses that kind of language - indicia of arguable political bias - that is Washington speak for this guy did not like the president. And when you read the transcript you know he had bias because there is nothing in the transcript that indicates the president did anything wrong.  Does that mean you are up for more inquiry? Which is essentially what House Democrats are pushing for.  No I am up for finding out exactly what the Justice Department is looking into how this whole thing started in the beginning. And that is what the president points out in the call as well. He wants to know what was happening in Ukraine back during the 26 election - 2016 election that he somehow colluded with Russia to impact the election. That is what we need to figure out and that is what I am focused on trying to get to the bottom of.  And yet the president brings up Vice President Joe Biden and specifically his son. Those are not issues related to foreign interference in the 2016 election.  Audie come on. Come on. Someone gets paid 50000 dollars a month. He has no experience in the industry he gets hired in in the energy industry. Gets paid that for several years. The company that is paying him that gets - is under investigation and the vice president of the United States calls up tells - or actually meets with him in person and tells them you either stop that investigation or you are not getting foreign aid from our country and somehow that is not relevant? That is unbelievable.  Well today the former Ukrainian prosecutor general Yuri Lutsenko just told The Washington Post this afternoon quote From the perspective of Ukrainian legislation he did not violate anything. He also said quote Hunter Biden cannot be responsible for violations of the management of Burisma - that is the Ukrainian gas company you are referring to - that took place two years before his arrival. More and more information is coming out about this from primary sources. Does it raise concerns for you?  You left out the two most important facts. He was being paid 50000 a month.  No no no. To me what you are saying...  And his dad an important guy in the government said...  ...Is that there were - there was something corrupt going on and the prosecutor from Ukraine said this person did not violate anything. He said that by name and he said that this afternoon.  I did not say anything corrupt was going on. I am saying that he was paid 50000 a month and there was an investigation into the company paying him and his dad who had a pretty important position in our government said you are not getting the aid - the foreign aid that is supposed to come your way - you are not getting it unless you stop the investigation. That is all I said.  Hunter Biden was not under investigation.  And do not you think that seems a little strange?  No no. What I am doing is trying to make sure we are up to speed so that when people this afternoon or tomorrow hear from the Ukraine prosecutor hear these quotes and they hear look Hunter Biden's not responsible for violations that happened before he came to the company they can understand what is being said.  But that is  not - the point is that company that is paying him is under investigation. Whether it was warranted or not that is not the fundamental issue the fundamental issue is the vice president of the United States said stop the investigation. Why did he know - you said this information just came to light. Did Joe Biden know that a few years ago when he asked them to stop investigating? Of course he did not.  I mean Joe Biden was also carrying...  So you are missing the fundamental point.  ...Was carrying out the administration line at the time which was concerns about corruption in that country. He went there as an actor for the government speaking directly about these issues. So this is your depiction of their case. And I want to move on to ask another question which is that is it appropriate for any U.S. president to tell a foreign leader to work with the attorney general or his personal lawyer to investigate a political opponent?  The president is commander in chief of the country. The president conducts foreign policy. If that is what he thinks is in the best interests of the country for a foreign head of state to contact someone in our government who works in the executive branch or may not work in the executive branch but is someone that the president thinks will further the interests of the United States of America that is up to the commander in chief.  Well Congressman Jim Jordan Ohio Republican thank you for speaking with us.  You bet Audie. Take care. 