 Political campaign ads come in many shapes and sizes. There is the gauzy candidate profile and the blaring biting personal attack. And each year trends emerge. Our National Political correspondent Don Gonyea has noticed lots of spots featuring candidates with firearms shooting at things including TVs and thick copies of the Affordable Care Act. All of these spots seem to be inspired by a single ad from a few years back. Here's Don.  This story about this year's ads actually begins with this ad from the last midterm election season in 2010.   I am Joe Manchin. I approve this ad because I will always defend West Virginia.  Manchin was governor of West Virginia running for the U.S. Senate. The ad shows him walking across a field holding a hunting rifle. He loads a round into the chamber. Looking into the camera he mentions his National Rifle Association endorsement then the ad's real point - to distance Manchin a Democrat from an unpopular President Obama.   I will take on Washington and this administration to get the federal government off of our backs and out of our pockets. I will cut federal spending and I will repeal the bad parts of Obamacare. I sued EPA and I will take dead aim  at the Cap and Trade Bill.  He fires a single shot. A bullet pierces its target - the Cap and Trade Bill a White House-backed effort to dramatically reduce carbon emissions. Manchin won the election. Democratic consultant Karl Struble produced the spot.  The reason why the ad was successful is it was authentic. It is who Joe is.  But Struble adds they were careful not to go overboard.  I think that you need to be sensitive when you are talking about a firearm and how you use it. You know we wanted to make we sure were using it appropriately that it was not interpreted that you know in some way you know condoning firearms to oppose something politically.  Guns are nothing new as props in political ads but this was firing a shot to dramatically show how much the candidate dislikes something. The ad was probably the most talked about from that year. It is still talked about. Imitation followed. Let us jump ahead now to this summer.   We are down here to have a little fun today and talk about two serious subjects - the Second Amendment and see how much damage we can do to this copy of Obamacare.  That is Will Brooke running for Congress in Alabama. He shoots in super-slow motion at a printout of the law. Elsewhere in Iowa Republican U.S. Senate hopeful Joni Ernst fires away at a shooting range while an announcer says she will set her sights on Obamacare. In Alaska Republican U.S. Senate candidate Dan Sullivan with mountains as the backdrop carries a handgun - oh and there is an old TV perched on a rock behind him.   Millions of dollars of negative ads are flooding into Alaska paid for by Washington special interests. Pretty soon you are going to want to do this to your TV .  And there is this from a Democrat in Washington State who blasts away at an elephant piata.   My name's Estakio Beltran and I approve this message .  Travis Ridout is with the Wesleyan Media Project which tracks campaign advertising. He says these gun ads send multiple messages.  There is certainly that message that I am one of you - I support gun rights. But it is also that message of - you know I am frustrated with what is going on in Washington D.C. and it seems like no one can cut through that.  It does not work for every candidate. Manchin was well-known and the imagery reinforced who he was. Not so simple for political newcomers using the sound and symbolism of firearms to make a point but especially to get noticed. Don Gonyea NPR News. 