 In Sanford Florida this coming Monday opening statements are scheduled to begin in the murder trial of George Zimmerman. He is the neighborhood watch volunteer charged in the shooting death of teenager Trayvon Martin. And before the trial starts the judge hearing the case has to rule on some potentially pivotal testimony as NPR's Greg Allen reports.   Who was heard yelling for help in this 911 call.    The call was made by a neighbor the night George Zimmerman shot Trayvon Martin. Prosecutors say Martin was the one calling for help and have two experts on audio analysis prepared to back that up. The defense also has a team of experts prepared to testify that they believe it is not possible to say whose voice is heard on the tape. Judge Debra Nelson will rule which if any of these experts can testify. In court today Judge Nelson ruled in favor of prosecutors on another matter.  profiled vigilante and wanna-be cop. The judge said those terms would be allowed and further that prosecutors can assert that Zimmerman confronted Trayvon Martin.  He confronted Trayvon Martin that statement? That is the state's case and so they will be allowed to do that.  That question who confronted whom and started the fight that ended with Martin's death is at the center of the case. It will ultimately be decided by a jury of six that was chosen and sworn in yesterday. It is a jury of six women five white and one Hispanic. During jury selection prosecutors struck one African-American a man from the pool. The defense struck two African-American women and in court explained the reasons. Zimmerman's lawyer Mark O'Mara said one of the women had connections to a witness in the case. The other is a secretary for a pastor who has taken an activist role in supporting the Martin family's version of events. O'Mara says the court proceedings show race was not a factor in jury selection. MARK O' While people can look at it and have this reaction there is no blacks on the jury or there is no this or there is no that or there is no men on the jury tell me that we did something wrong in the process and I will agree with you. If you can look at that process and say it was done fairly then the result is fair.  Opening statements get underway Monday. Greg Allen NPR News Miami. 