 We are going to continue the discussion in our Week in Politics segment. E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and Georgetown's McCourt School is here. Hey there E.J.  Good to be with you.  And David Brooks of The New York Times is here with us in studio. Hi there David.  Hello.  All right so we just heard someone trying to grapple with the reality of the departures in the Republican Party. David I want to start with you. What does it mean for the constituency of someone like a Will Hurd right? Not only was he a minority lawmaker he was a former intelligence officer. Did he ever have one at all? Or - right? - or is this a party in which the people who might support someone like this they are just - there is nowhere for them to go?  Yeah well in the Congress there a lot of people like him that are keeping their head down. Some of them - and I have had conversations with many many of them - and many people...  But where are their voters right? I mean if everyone's...  Right.  ...Retiring it is because they think they cannot survive a primary.  That is right. In the - in this partisan moment they think they cannot survive. And Trump is pushing racial buttons now on an almost hourly basis. And for somebody like Will Hurd that is - it is hard to be a person of conscience and be part of that party. And so right now the voters are still with Trump mostly because he is part of the team. But I have to think there are a lot of those voters who once it is not a team element and wants the Trump era ends they will be eager to say good bye to all this.  E.J. there is so much conversation about how Democrats appeal to this person who might be dissatisfied with the president. Where is your head on this?  Well I think it is very important just to face up to the fact that the Republicans have become very nearly an all-white party. And Will Hurd's a real loss because he was a very well respected and liked Republican who really did cross these lines. But he looked at what is happened to the party even before Trump and said you know this does not work anymore. I mean Republicans have been using...  But all that is been known right? I mean what does it mean going forward? Do Democrats look at that and say hey there is a constituency out there we can get? Or do they say look we have got to be more progressive more left those guys got to figure out their stuff on their own?  Well no. I think the Democrats have been picking up people of color of all kinds in their party as they have left the Republican Party. And people of color are going to be very very important in the coming Democratic primaries. Or - this is not happening in the Republican Party. I think the break point was when President George W. Bush tried to his credit and failed to get immigration reform in the middle of his second term. He thought the Republicans needed people of color particularly Latinos. He did pretty - he did quite well among them. When Republicans walked away from immigration reform that was the beginning of what Donald Trump kind of completed by winning the Republican nomination in 2016.  I want to jump to another highlight of this week and that came in the Democratic primary debates.   Mr. Vice President there is a saying in my community. You are dipping into the Kool-Aid and you do not even know the flavor. You need to...  All right we are going to get into the flavor now. That was New Jersey Senator Cory Booker basically throwing some massive shade at the Vice President Joe Biden who was fending off slings and arrows from all directions. E.J. I want to hear shortly from you kind of what your impressions were in terms of a standout moment in those two days.  Well I think if you look at the debates together the people who really advanced the most were Cory Booker who had a very good debate because he not only went after Biden effectively but he also sounded notes of unity. And Kamala Harris got really beaten up in this debate. And so I think he is going to - he has a real shot at occupying the top tier. Elizabeth Warren had a good first debate. And while there is division on this I think it was very important for Joe Biden that he got through this in much better shape than he did in the first debate. On the whole I do not think these debates were very helpful to Democrats. Yes Democrats have to work out where they stand for. But I think some broader arguments they need - that need to be made about the dangers posed by Trump the need to protect health care advances and all sorts of other things kind of got lost because these were such - it was so important for these candidates to take each other on. And the questions kind of goaded that on. So...  I want to let David have...  ...It was not ideal for the Democrats.  ...A chance here. David here is your favorite candidate of the night.   If you think any of this wonkiness is going to deal with this dark psychic force of the collectivized hatred that this president is bringing up in this country then I am afraid that the Democrats are going to see some very dark days.  Spiritual leader and author Marianne Williamson you - she was the most Googled candidate the morning after. It sounds like you were one of them.  I was. And I do not - she does not have my vote but she has my admiration for that comment. The Democrats have to figure out what this election about. To me this election is about who we are as a country what kind of values we want to raise our children in. Donald Trump is not a policy revolutionary. He is a cultural revolutionary. And he is changing the culture of our values - how we define masculinity whether we care about honesty whether we care about racism. And so Democrats have to fight this on a cultural level too upholding certain values and saying we stand for these values Donald Trump is the opposite. And for all the debates about whether we should have private health care insurance or not you cannot have a wonkish response to what is essentially a cultural onslaught. The Democrats need a way to talk about values.  E.J. can you respond to this? Because even Williamson said the next day that you know said she was not sure how she did not until she saw the memes. I mean she knows she is not necessarily been taking fully seriously.  Well I half agree with David in the following sense that I think they needed to be much clearer about why it was urgent to defeat Trump. And some of the reasons David listed are among those reasons. On the other hand it is very important to move forward on the very issues Democrats talked about. On health care the problem is I think that the debate was incomprehensible to a lot of people on all these very particular details on Medicare for All versus say the public option. And I think the most devastating comment came from David Axelrod former - President Obama's senior adviser. The words preexisting conditions which helped Democrats win the House when Democrats said Republicans want to take these protections away that were contained in Obamacare those words were never spoken. So they need a much more broader and more comprehensible debate on the policy.  That is E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and Georgetown's McCourt School. Thank you.  Very good to be with you.  And David Brooks of The New York Times author of The Second Mountain. David thank you.  Thank you.  