 We have received a lot of questions from listeners about what the Republican proposals could mean for them and their families. And NPR health policy correspondent Alison Kodjak has been sorting through them with our producers and she is here to answer a few of them. Hi Alison.  Hi Robert.  The first listener we are going to hear from has a very common situation. Here she is.  My name is Denise Estrada and I live in Los Angeles Calif. My husband Rick  and I are both self-employed and we are both in our early 50s with one daughter in college. And we get our health care through the California exchange. We use Kaiser. Our family premium now costs us about 1100 a month so we are looking at about 16000 a year just for our premiums not including our deductible and we do not receive a subsidy. So here's my concern. Based on what I have read and what I have watched on television it appears that our age group - we are not retired yet but we are over the age of 50. We stand to see the biggest increase in our premium cost. So there is a lot of stress about that because it is a big unknown. Will our premiums rise astronomically due to our ages?  You know that is a valid concern. This bill does allow insurers to charge older people more than they do now and the Affordable Care Act has limits on that. It allows insurers to charge older people three times more than it charges the youngest. This bill allows that to go up to five times more. So the hope is that it will lower premiums for younger people. But at the same time the Congressional Budget Office says it is going to raise premiums for older people. And I actually looked up Mrs. Estrada's specific situation. The Kaiser Family Foundation has this little widget and a 60-year-old in Los Angeles County who does not qualify for subsidies is likely to see her premium increase 2600 a year.  Now we also heard from listeners who are anxious about the potential introduction or perhaps reintroduction of lifetime maximums for insurance coverage.  My name is Amy Lowe and I am from Dayton Ohio. We get our insurance through my husband's employer. My daughter is 16 years old and she has Crohn's disease which is an autoimmune condition that affects her small and large intestine. She requires infusions of a drug called Remicade every six weeks and each infusion costs 20000. So I would like to know if lifetime maximums are in fact being considered. And if so what happens to people like my daughter?  And that is a really good question. It is a complicated answer. The Affordable Care Act does ban lifetime limits on benefits. And those protections are at risk because states under this bill are allowed to ask for waivers from those consumer protections those regulations that are in Obamacare that define what insurance companies have to cover. And because of some loopholes in the law even if just one state gets a waiver from those all large employers can opt into those rules. So if a state gets a waiver from lifetime limits there could be a lot of insurance policies even those you get through employer that might have a 1 million 2 million 5 million limit. And it is not really a theoretical question because before the Affordable Care Act almost 60 percent of employer plans had a lifetime limit on it.  And of course a lot of people who use Medicaid are wondering what the future might hold for them. Let us listen to this.  My name is Emily Kane and I live in Pittsburgh Pa. My son's 2-and-a-half years old and he qualified for Medicaid through a clause that allows children who are chronically ill to receive Medicaid support. He has an endocrine disorder called adrenal insufficiency. In order to get him back to health and stability he is needed the assistance of a feeding tube which is now surgically placed. So I would like to know how the GOP's health care bill will affect our family's financial future and the future of my son's medical care.  That is a tough one. Obviously it is impossible to know exactly how this bill will play out over that much time. The Medicaid program that helped her son specifically is a state program. A lot of Medicaid programs can be implemented by the states. And so this is a Pennsylvania-specific program. The law - the proposed bill in the Senate would actually give states more power to regulate and implement their Medicaid program. So there is no reason to think this specific program's at risk but Medicaid's also facing enormous cuts. The CBO says that in 10 years there is going to be 26 percent less money for Medicaid. So that is where the concern is - whether the benefits will be there.  NPR's Alison Kodjak answering your questions about the health care proposal. Thanks very much.  Thanks Ari.  And if you have questions about the Republican health care proposals email them to us at nprcrowdsourcenpr.org and put health care in the subject line. And tomorrow morning we will hear what the Senate bill would mean for veterans. Most of them receive health care through Medicaid or the exchanges not through the VA. Listen for that and more as you begin your day with MORNING EDITION. 