 On Monday former President Bill Clinton was waiting for his plane to depart Phoenix just as Attorney General Loretta Lynch landed on the same tarmac. Bill Clinton decided to board Lynch's plane for a visit. And now the Justice Department is on the defensive. That is because Lynch is overseeing the investigation of Hillary Clinton's email set up. NPR's Carrie Johnson reports.  Attorney General Loretta Lynch says the impromptu chat with Bill Clinton onboard her government plane was a social call not an attempt to influence the ongoing FBI investigation of his wife.   He did come over and say hello and speak to my husband and myself and talk about his grandchildren and his travels and things like that. And no discussions were held on any cases or anything of that. And he did not raise anything about that either.  But even some Democratic allies say the meeting was a bad idea. Here's Senator Chris Coons of Delaware on CNN.   I do not think it sends the right signal. I think she should have steered clear.  Republican Donald Trump was less measured on the Mike Gallagher radio show.   You see a thing like this and even in terms of judgment how bad a judgment is it for him or for her to do this? I mean who would do this?  In Congress Republican leaders like Senator John Cornyn of Texas seized on the meeting to renew their calls for a special prosecutor. The attorney general says career lawyers and agents are driving the case people who follow the law not politics. But legal ethics experts say that chat in Phoenix this week did create an appearance of impropriety by Bill Clinton. Stephen Gillers is a law professor at New York University.  I think it was the height of insensitivity for the former president to approach the attorney general. He put her in a very difficult position. She was not really free to say she would not talk to a former president.  Gillers said the attorney general did what she could to explain the boundaries of the conversation. And he does not think she needs to recuse herself from the case. Still he says...  It feeds the dominant narrative that the Clintons do not follow the usual rules. And that is true even if we assume as I do that nothing improper was said. The public will be suspicious.  In the past Hillary Clinton has said she is not worried about the FBI investigation. But her campaign has not addressed the controversy over her husband's meeting with Lynch. Carrie Johnson NPR News Washington. 