 Mitt Romney is trying to focus on President Obama's economic policies and on the stump today he changed the subject away from his time at Bain Capital. That is after a week of tough questions about Romney's record in the private sector along with pressure to release more of his tax returns. The Republican is spending today in the Pittsburgh area raising money and campaigning. NPR's Ari Shapiro attended Romney's rally and took the pulse of some voters to see whether the Democrats' attacks are having any impact.  In Pittsburgh's historic South Side vintage clothing stores and tattoo parlors crowd bars and restaurants for space. 23-year-old Randy Recker manages a coffee shop here. It is one of two jobs he works to make ends meet. He is exactly the kind of voter that Barack Obama and Mitt Romney would both like to win over.  Currently I am registered independent as a voter. I would say more or less I have conservative views. But I did vote for Obama four years ago.  This year he has not made up his mind. He is not paying close attention to the campaign just yet. The question of whether Romney was involved in shipping jobs overseas still seems like background noise but he is interested in the issue.  I am a person that is willing to pay an extra dollar to know that somebody is being paid fairly because they are working hard and it is being done in America by American citizens.  And so if it came out that Romney was responsible for outsourcing American jobs overseas when he was in the private sector would that have an impact on who you would think about voting for?  Yeah no doubt. I would probably lean more towards Obama.  Just down the block retiree Charles Noogle shuffles slowly down the sidewalk. He is an independent who says all the talk about Romney's business record just confirms his distaste for politicians of any stripe.  Because they are all crooks.   They are situated for the rest of their lives and they have it real easy.  Whether these attacks stick or not they have put Romney on the defensive and given President Obama a break from questions about his own economic record. Today Romney tried to change that dynamic attacking President Obama repeatedly for what he called crony capitalism.  President Obama attacks success and therefore under President Obama we have less success and I will change that.   In this Pittsburgh suburb Romney rolled out new attack lines. He delivered them with a zealous relentless enthusiasm and the audience responded in kind. But the Obama campaign is not letting up either. This TV ad just started airing in Pennsylvania.   Romney has released just one full year of his tax returns and will not release anything before 2010.  You know what I have put out as much as we are going to put out.  What is Mitt Romney hiding?  Ads like that one are having an effect on people like Mike Dean. He owns a shop called Dormont News in a suburb just outside of Pittsburgh. He says he is a Democrat who sometimes votes for Republicans.  I would like to get to know Romney a little bit better.  That is what he says but it is clear that the Obama campaign has already made the introduction.  The general question probably is why is he afraid to show us his tax returns? Which he probably should. It is - all candidates usually do.  Cabdriver Samuel Hearst has heard these claims too but he thinks they are pretty routine. He is a Romney supporter.  There is always going to be attacks. None of us are perfect. All of us have made mistakes. Obama has made mistakes. I am sure Romney has made mistakes. You know what it boils down to is the core or the character of the person.  Political scientist Terry Madonna is at Franklin  Marshall College in Lancaster Pennsylvania. He says it does not look like these Obama attacks are having much impact on the race.  This race for the past five months is virtually unchanged despite you know the health care ruling by the Supreme Court despite the attacks by the president's campaign on Mitt Romney for Bain Capital among other things.  He says that could be because many voters have already made up their minds or it could just be that people are not paying attention yet. Ari Shapiro NPR News Irwin Pennsylvania. 