 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel in Tampa Florida where this evening Mitt Romney addresses the Republican National Convention.  a prime-time appearance on all the big television networks and the cable channels too. Four years ago Barack Obama's television audience for his convention speech was estimated at nearly 40 million. That is more than twice the number of people who watched the Romney's on 60 Minutes the other night. Only the presidential debates deliver more eyeballs. So what should Mitt Romney say to all those people? Well here in Tampa I have been asking Republicans at the convention what they think. Mike McMullen is a consultant and an alternate delegate from Western Pennsylvania who has worn a different Pittsburgh sports jersey every night. What should Mitt Romney say?  He has to define his message what separates himself from Barack Obama. And the bottom line is it is about jobs and the economy. That is the bottom line.  It is both the bottom line and by far the most frequently cited line when I asked what Governor Romney should say cited by Dave Yost an Ohio delegate who is the state auditor.  Jobs jobs jobs.  By delegate Dave Buell the Republican Party chairman in Washoe County Nevada.  Jobs jobs jobs. I mean this economy is hurting especially being from Nevada 12 percent unemployment highest in the nation. That is what Nevadans want to hear. It is how we are going to fix this economy.  Everybody is for more jobs. Everybody says they want to create more jobs.  Well it is not how can the government create jobs like it is what we have been doing. It is how can government get out of the way reduce regulations put in tax incentives so private companies will go out and create those jobs.  For Sarah Longwell the emphasis on jobs is doubly important. She is with the Log Cabin Republicans and Young Conservatives for the Freedom to Marry. Both groups work for gay rights and she does not want to hear the governor take the party line on that issue.  I want to hear Mitt Romney commit to being singularly focused on creating jobs not all the other noise that you are hearing on a lot of these other issues but singularly focused on growing the economy and creating jobs.  People had different views of how much detail Mitt Romney should offer about how he will create jobs and fix the economy. Ed Gillespie is a former Republican National Committee chair and a senior Romney adviser. What should the nominee say?  I have a plan along with my running mate Paul Ryan to make things better to turn this economy around to have a plan for the middle class to grow and prosper again that we can have more jobs we can have higher take-home pay. And I have a record of experience that you can look at and see that I can not only tell you that I am going to do these things but I have experience that shows that I can do these things.  Alexandria Coronado who is an alternate delegate from Orange County California wants to hear some things Romney will do to fix the economy but she says not a lot of things.  Maybe three things that he knows he can do to actually achieve getting the nation's economy back on track.  Saxby Chambliss is United States senator from Georgia.  He is got to be specific in some areas. Some areas he will not be able to get into the weeds but people need to walk away from his speech saying gosh you know that guy does really have a vision for the direction which America should go.  Tomas Bowling of Gloucester Massachusetts would like to hear something different from Mitt Romney. Bowling is 22 years old. He is a Romney delegate but his heart is with Ron Paul.  I think it would be really great if he would sort of you know extend the olive branch to the libertarian branch of the Republican Party and say you are welcome. You are part of my party. You are part of our party. This is our party.  But some other Paul supporters like Texas alternate Guillermo Jimenez who teaches eighth grade history hold out no such hope.  I do not believe there is anything Mitt Romney could possibly say to persuade me or my vote. The man is shown to be a completely empty suit. I do not believe he is sincere in about anything he says. He pretty much licks his finger puts it up in the air and sees which way the wind is blowing. And that is the kind of politician he is.  Most Republicans here are a lot more pro-Romney. Steven Langert who wears a yarmulke and used to be mayor of Lakewood New Jersey suggested a balanced message.  He has to say that government is here to protect the innocent that government is here to put a safety net out for those who cannot take care of themselves. And at the same time he has to tell us that government will not be burdensome to the entrepreneur and those who are looking to make a better life for themselves.  And Sonja Eddings Brown of Los Angeles is the president and founder of a group called Kitchen Cabinet that tries to win over women to the GOP. And she said something similar.  You know it would be interesting if the governor could say to women I want to be your safety net because a lot of women in the country are not married now. They are having kids later. They are divorced. They are young single mothers and the president of the United States is their safety net.  Some thoughts from Republicans - delegates alternates and others - here at the Republican National Convention in Tampa on what Mitt Romney should say in his acceptance speech tonight. 