 This was the week some Democrats running for president vocally criticized their apparent frontrunner. It is the week that the current president launched his reelection campaign. And of course this is the week that Iran shot down a U.S. drone and President Trump almost retaliated with force. We are going to talk about all of this in our regular Friday Week in Politics segment. Here with me in the studio is Susan Glasser who writes the Letter From Washington column for The New Yorker and David Brooks of The New York Times. Good to have you both with us.  Good to be here.  Thank you.  Let us start with Iran and the White House response to the U.S. drone being shot out of the sky. The back-and-forth of the last 12 hours seems to reflect a larger pattern we have seen with this president over the last few years where on the one hand he says he wants to get the U.S. out of wars in the Middle East and on the other hand he says do not test me. Here are two clips of him speaking during the presidential campaign.   We will stop racing to topple foreign - and you understand this - foreign regimes that we know nothing about. Our friends and enemies must know that if I draw a line in the sand I will enforce that line in the sand believe me.  And at the same time he has surrounded himself with hawkish advisers like Secretary of State Mike Pompeo national security adviser John Bolton. So Susan which do you think will win out - the position that we need to get out of the Middle East or the position that you do not cross this line in the sand?   Well so far Donald Trump is trying to have it both ways I think you pointed that out. Look - this is not a significant test for him. And in many ways we have been struck by the fact that it is the third year of his presidency there has not been this big international crisis in many ways. You could argue that this is now a crisis with Iran of the administration's own making because the president is the one who pulled out of the Iran nuclear deal. And in some ways it was only a matter of time before we got to this place with the Iranians. But I do think that Trump's instincts have been fairly clear and that in fact the Iranians were testing him. They took his measure. They I think have a theory of the case that Trump does not want war with them. Trump has been sending many signals to them that he actually wants to come to the table. He wants negotiations a la North Korea. And the question is can he override his own advisers to get there?  David do you agree?  Yeah. My colleague Peter Baker of The New York Times said that Trump talks really tough but he does not actually do anything and that has been the pattern around the - a lot of the country a lot of the danger areas he is been dealing with. The problem is that Iran is the aggressor here and that Iran's activities in the region - which involve bombing Saudi airports bombing Saudi pipelines - have been expanding. And so those were not touched by the nuclear deal those have always been a side issue that Iran has been involved in. So we can expect Iran to keep testing Trump until he probably somehow has to do something and then we hope...  So do you think this does lead to war ultimately?  Well I do not know if it leads to war. It leads to - there is a lot of dances in the Middle East where one side does one thing and the other side does another and sometimes you keep it in control and sometimes you do not. So it is perilous but there are a lot of options short of war.  Susan do you think that is more likely or is it more likely that there will be a North Korea-type scenario where eventually the two sides do sit down and talk to each other?  Well look - again I think even in the middle of this crisis which began by the way not just this week but even previously with Iranian attacks on non-U.S. tankers in the Gulf what you have seen throughout that is a pattern of the U.S. at the same time there is this very aggressive hawkish language also passing messages to the Iranians through the Swiss through the Omanis that seem to be directly from President Trump saying we want to talk we want to negotiate. Remember we are already getting quite close to the 2020 presidential cycle and the Iranians as with many other international actors have very little incentive to make a permanent arrangement one way or the other with President Trump and very much incentive to run out the clock wherever they can.  That by the way is the scary thing to me because we seem to have set an implicit redline which is if you kill an American we will do something to really escalate it.  I think it is an explicit redline actually.  Yeah Trump has said that very clearly.  Yeah.  And Secretary Pompeo flew to Baghdad recently and actually said that out loud. He said you know that is what we are looking at here. If there is one American harmed we will do something.  All right. Well Susan you mentioned 2020. So let us look ahead to next week when we will see 20 Democratic presidential candidate on stage in two shifts debating for the first time. President Trump is sure to be a target and former Vice President Joe Biden may be as well. This week he gave his opponents some ammunition with remarks about working with segregationist senators. David what are you looking for in these debates?  Yeah I had one candidate tell me he did not know how to prepare because there are so many. So he - there is so many people on the stage and they are going to be so physically close together. so he did not know what to do. And so I think they are - each of them are going to get only six to eight minutes so the idea is just to say something that gets you some attention.  Airtime.  And I would be surprised if they went after Biden but I have been wrong about that in the past. They have been quicker to go after him than they have than I thought they would be.  Susan what do you think?  Well first of all there is two nights of this spectacle. So the first night you know it will be Elizabeth Warren who will be you know sort of the leading candidate of the first batch of candidates. And then Biden will be literally in the center of the stage as well as metaphorically on the second night. So there'ill be potentially very different dynamics I think to the two debates. Certainly it will be a source of future trivia questions - can you name all 20 candidates...   ...Who took place in the first Democratic debates of the 2020 election? You know again I think there is a great incentive to go after Biden. I think you saw that with Cory Booker who got more airtime this week for his campaign than he has probably in any other week of his campaign so far for the presidency.  Kamala Harris went after him as well yeah.  Yeah absolutely. And you know once they - and once the other candidates - there are so many of them - saw that Booker was getting airtime then you saw the others piling on.  I want to ask you about one aspect of that divide which is the generational gap that continues to be an issue for the Democratic Party. I spoke yesterday with Democratic strategist Jamal Simmons. Here's part of what he said about the younger more liberal wing of the party.   Those atypical Democrats who do not always vote they show up when they are inspired. So I just think Vice President Biden is going to have to speak to that part of the party while he is also making his case to the establishment.  Do you think this is something that the Democratic Party can overcome a divide that can be bridged - David?  I think it actually will be tricky. It is funny when you look at the polling there is no divide over race there is no divide over income or education level but there is a massive age divide. And people just grew up in different generations and we see it even over the Biden comments on the quote segregationists that a lot of older Democrats think well you know if your chairman of your committee is a segregationist you got to work with the chairman of your committee. A lot of younger Democrats think no way do not do that.  What do you think Susan? Will this persist?  Well look - that is right. I mean in fact you even saw John Lewis the civil rights icon coming out today and essentially you know making a very strong defense in a way of bite. He must be very grateful for that. John Lewis saying well listen - you know I had to deal with segregationists when I was - and even Klan members - in the civil rights movement. You know that seems shocking I think to a modern ear. I had people tweeting at me like I do not even know who these senators are why should I care about this? You know right now American politics it is not just race. It is gender it is a whole bunch of issues where there is this enormous gap. It turns out that people like us David are closer to our grandparents.   Thank you for that.  All right. We have one minute left to talk about the president's launch of his reelection campaign this week.   We did it once and now we will do it again and this time we are going to finish the job.  That was a rally in Orlando for thousands of people. Susan did you hear anything new there?  I heard a reprise of the president's American carnage inaugural speech. It was a very dark message. It was very much aimed at his core supporters not at expanding the map in any way.  And the last word David?  Yeah I think Hillary Clinton should be really worried because he is really going after her in this election.   OK. Last word there from David Brooks of The New York Times and Susan Glasser of The New Yorker. Have a great weekend. Thanks for coming in.  You too.  Thank you.  