 It is time now for Platform Check where we examine what the candidates say they will do if they become president.   We should raise the national minimum wage.   And we will build the wall.   Our tunnels our ports our airports - they need work and there are millions of jobs to be done.  D.  ...New trade policies that put American workers first.  Today we are going to talk about family policies. That is paid leave and child care. This week Donald Trump unveiled a package of programs aimed at helping working families and also aimed at winning over more women voters. Meanwhile Hillary Clinton already had her policies spelled out. Here to compare the two is Danielle Kurtzleben. Hi there.  Hi.  So Donald Trump is offering maternity leave and that is not something that he has been offering for a long time. Where did this come from and what is in the plan?  Right so it is generally understood that his daughter Ivanka at the Republican National Convention this summer really started putting the spotlight on this issue for the Trump campaign. Here's what she said then.   As president my father will change the labor laws that were put in place at a time when women were not a significant portion of the workforce. And he will focus on making quality child care affordable and accessible for all.   So that really made people sit up and take notice. It brought maternity leave front and center for the Trump campaign in a way it had not been before. And like I said maternity - this is for new moms but not new dads. What he is offering is six weeks through the unemployment insurance program and he would not be offering mothers a full replacement of the wages that they are losing.  So once someone comes back from maternity leave someone else needs to watch the kids right? So what is Donald Trump proposing to be done about that about child care?  Really central to this program is a tax deduction which he explained in a speech on Tuesday.  D.  They will fully be able to deduct the average cost of child care for their state from birth through the age of 13.  Now when he first proposed this last month he was really criticized because this plan seemed like it would really help rich families a lot more than poor families. After all a lot of low-income families in the U.S. do not pay any income tax and therefore...  Oh.  ...A deduction really would not help them. So yesterday he tacked on something else. It is a rebate of up to 1200 for these lower-income families. Now let us put that into perspective - 1200. I mean if you pay for child care you know that that is not a...  Right.  ...Whole lot.  Yeah.  In some - you know especially in some really expensive cities it can cost 20000 or even more.  Right. Donald Trump yesterday said that Hillary Clinton does not have a plan for family policy but she does have a plan. What is it?  You are absolutely right. She does have a plan and she is had a lot of plans in this family-friendly area for a while. Central to this is 12 weeks of family leave. And she is stressing that it is not just maternity. It is for moms. It is for dads. It is for taking care of other family members. It can be for elder care for example. Her plan would replace around two thirds of a person's lost wages. Now as for child care she is really emphasizing that she wants to really help families cut back on how much they have to pay for child care. Here she is in her economic address this summer.   So we have to make it easier to be good workers good parents and good caregivers all at the same time. That is why I have set out a bold vision to make quality affordable child care available to all Americans and limit the cost to 10 percent of family income.  So she said limit there but the Clinton campaign has also been talking about this as a goal that they are trying to reach over time.  And these are really ambitious plans. How are these candidates going to pay for it?  So both candidates have provided pretty loose outlines. Donald Trump has said that he would pay for his maternity leave by getting rid of unemployment fraud. By one estimate there is 3 billion of unemployment fraud out there. So that is not a lot of money when you consider how much all of these policies could cost. You know it could be in the hundreds of billions of dollars. He has also said that his other economic policies however you know - getting better trade deals and reducing regulation and so on - would create so much economic growth they would also bring in more revenue. Now there are plenty of economists who would disagree with that. There are some who say that his economic policies could indeed reduce economic growth so that is not entirely clear. The Clinton campaign meanwhile like with a lot of her policies has said she is going to pay for it more with taxes on the wealthy. So that is really how the Clinton campaign is going to try to get at that.  So one of the things that is striking here is that both candidates are talking about these family issues. I mean we did not hear as much of an emphasis on these issues in past campaigns. Why are they talking about this now?  Well it is been kind of a slow growth in the movement to provide better paid family leave and other family-friendly policies. And one reason that is happening is that women are increasingly the primary breadwinners in their families. There are lots of single mothers out there and aside from that women are very well-educated these days. They are earning more. And by the way women vote more than men do. Aside from that the conversation is slowly getting less gendered. Millennial men in particular are also open to you know taking care of children and they really want their families to also have these kind of policies.  That is NPR's Danielle Kurtzleben. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 