 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And as NPR's David Welna reports there were no talks today but plenty of talking.  At his White House news conference President Obama referred to an unprecedented default on the debt as Armageddon. We should not even be this close to a deadline on this issue he said and added this should have been taken cared of earlier.  We are obviously running out of time and so what I have said to the members of Congress is that you need over the next 24 to 36 hours to give me some sense of what your plan is to get the debt ceiling raised through whatever mechanisms they can think about and show me a plan in terms of what you are doing for deficit and debt reduction.  If the president cast himself today as the man waiting for a plan House Speaker John Boehner struck a similar pose at a news conference here at the Capitol. If there is no plan at this late hour he suggested do not blame Republicans.  Time and again Republicans have offered serious proposals to cut spending and address these issues and I think it is time for the Democrats to get serious as well.  And one Democrat in particular Boehner said needs to get serious.  We asked the president to lead. We asked him to put forward a plan. Not a speech a real plan. And he has not. But we will.  Democrats say that plan would be dead on arrival in the Senate. President Obama today called it just making a political statement.  We do not need a balanced budget amendment. We simply need to make these tough choices and be willing to take on our bases.  But Majority Leader Eric Cantor declared on the House floor that Republicans will not agree to raising taxes.  That is why that construct does not work. We do not have the votes on this side of the aisle. I am not supportive of raising taxes on people who are trying to make it right now and cannot.  But after having praised that plan yesterday Speaker Boehner was more cautious about it today after meeting with fellow House Republicans.  Listen Senator McConnell pointed out that his plan is being put on the table as a last-ditch effort. We are far from the time for a last-ditch effort.  David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 