 Jury selection is underway in the retrial of four people involved in an armed standoff between ranchers and federal agents in Nevada back in 2014. The men are followers of Cliven Bundy and this is one of three separate trials in the case. NPR's Kirk Siegler joins us now from outside the federal courthouse in Las Vegas where the retrial is underway. Hi Kirk.  Hello Ari.  Remind us what happened in this standoff three years ago. It all stems from this tense armed standoff between federal agents and Cliven Bundy and his militia supporters at the ranch.  That is right. You know the Bundys are of course the cattle ranchers who resent the federal government controlling public land here in the West. This dispute started over their right to graze cows on federal public lands around their ranch and the unpaid leases that they owed to the federal government for doing that. But it turned into so much more. Many far-right activists extremist groups who have nothing or little to do with ranching quickly clinged on to the Bundys' cause. And it is important to know right off the bat that these cases are completely separate from the case against Cliven Bundy's sons who led that armed occupation of a federal wildlife refuge up in Oregon though that was largely inspired by this Nevada standoff. Now what is underway today is a retrial for four of those defendants in the Nevada case. Cliven Bundy and his sons will not actually be in court until after this first retrial is finished so a lot of drama yet to unfold here.  So high stakes for the government which was unable to get a conviction the first time. Remind us what happened in that first trial and what it says about the strength of the government's case.  Well the first trial here ended in a hung jury on many of the charges. And there is been speculation over whether the government is trying to go too far with a federal conspiracy charge here whether that is too strong with potentially long 20-plus-year prison sentences. And I mentioned Oregon and the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge occupation. The defendants there were of course acquitted. So there is enormous pressure on the prosecutors here in these cases. And also you have to consider the mood of the country right now especially in some rural areas. There are questions whether there is actually sympathy for these sorts of protests against the government even if they are armed. So it will be interesting to see how the jury in this retrial responds to that.  What are you expecting prosecutors to do differently this time?  I think we can see one possibly big new direction and that is federal prosecutors may try to link these first four men here in this retrial to a much broader and what they consider potentially violent and dangerous anti-government movement in the West. They are going to point to two subsequent events that were organized by militia groups who surrounded mines on public land in Oregon and Montana that some of these men were involved in where the government says the men paramilitary style surrounded the mines and tried to prevent federal officials from enforcing environmental regulations up there. So in answering your question I think this small retrial right here is going to get complicated pretty quickly.  We have been hearing for years about these armed protests and the trials that have come out of them. What are the larger implications for this case?  Well I think if you were to get an acquittal here there is a pretty big precedent that is going to be set and a lot of open questions. Would it be OK - if you do not agree with the Federal Land Policy does that make it OK to just take up arms and protest the federal government? I think that would be unclear here. I think that is why the stakes in this retrial and the subsequent trial of Cliven Bundy and his sons are as high as many people think they will.  That is NPR's Kirk Siegler reporting from Las Vegas Nev. Thanks Kirk.  Thank you Ari. 