 Well for that we are going to hear from our own Jessica Taylor. She is the digital political reporter here at NPR. And Jessica you just heard Michael Eggman there talking about Donald Trump and linking him to the incumbent. How common is this approach?  Every time House Democrats has tried to attack Republicans this cycle they are using Donald Trump in some form or fashion - in web ads in press releases. Now they really believe that Trump has expanded the playing field to well over 30 seats and that is important because that is the number that they need to flip to win back the House. And while I think Trump's nomination makes them cautiously optimistic about this strategy it is still unpredictable because he is drawing in new supporters and it is unclear if those new supporters can offset other ones that he is alienated. And it is important to note too that Republicans point out that Hillary Clinton's favorability numbers are not great either. And they think that she will drag down some Democrats too. So it is unpredictable on both sides.  Meanwhile the top Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan really took some time  to come around to endorsing the presumptive nominee. What about other GOP candidates? How are they handling this?  Ryan's hesitancy I think was what almost every targeted Republican feels and you know he was so reluctant yesterday. And we are seeing that in other top targets that really could lose their job like Senator Kelly Ayotte out of New Hampshire. She is tried to walk such a fine line. She has said she is supporting Trump but made clear she is not endorsing him. So it is semantics like that that they are twisting their words almost to say that they are not completely backing Trump. In Arizona Senator John McCain - he faces an unexpectedly tough re-election largely because Trump has energized a lot of Hispanic voters against Republicans and brought in new voters. So he is endorsed Trump but he said that - he admitted at a fundraiser that Trump hurts his re-election chances. One thing to watch too is how Trump coordinates with some of these Senate and other down-ballot campaigns. Typically in a presidential year you will see them working very closely with their national party's nominee. But as we get closer to November do they want to campaign with him? Is that worth the risk or is it a benefit to them? And remember Trump and his campaign - they do not always you know play well with others or work well with others. So how does that sort of dynamic play out? And you know if Trump does have such a drag on the down ballot do they completely distance themselves from the nominees as we get closer to Election Day?  So does this kind of district - the 10th in California - become one to watch - right? - does it reflect what will be going on more broadly?  If Democrats want to have any hope of flipping the House this is the type of district they absolutely have to win. It is one they have been targeting for years and it is one that President Obama won twice. It is a classic swing seat. And if they are not going to win this one then picking up the 30 which is already a long shot is out of the question.  That is Jessica Taylor NPR digital political reporter. Jessica thanks so much.  Thanks Audie. 