 The Trump administration maintains that separating children from their parents is a deterrent so now we are going to put that question to NPR's Carrie Kahn. She covers Mexico and Central America. Hey there Carrie.  Hi. Good afternoon.  So do you get the sense that that is the case? Are Central Americans getting the message that they will be separated from their children if they try to cross the U.S. border illegally?  The simple answer is we just do not know. It is too early to tell. You know the trip from places like Honduras El Salvador - we are talking about Guatemala - can take up to a month. And the policy just began at the beginning of May so people could already be on their way or have already gotten to the border. So the only way we really know is to look at the numbers of border apprehensions at the U.S.-Mexico border. And we just did get those numbers in for May. And families being arrested are up. Apprehensions are up. So right now we would have to say no. But those people who are probably on their way were there before the policy was in full force. So we will have to wait for the June numbers to come in but that will not be for another two weeks or so. But the message does get back home to relatives in these sending countries in Central America through social media and telephone calls. They do know what is happening.  In the meantime what is the situation in Guatemala Honduras or El Salvador? I mean is there any reason to believe that things are getting better back there and that there will not be as many migrants trying to flee these countries?  The short answer again is no. It is still bad. And if you look at Guatemala it is just suffered some major natural disasters - that big volcano explosion. This has been a tough hurricane season already. We are not even through the first month. There is flooding and heavy rains. I would say in Guatemala no things are not better. And the situation in Nicaragua - we have had more than 170 deaths while there is been protests against the administration of President Ortega. It is never been a sending country but I have heard from reporters that are down at the border that they have already seen Nicaraguans making their way heading north. So I would say no the situation is not better in the region. And there is signs of bigger troubles coming.  What if anything has the U.S. done in terms of outreach in these countries to for instance let them know that there is a new policy or drive home the message that migrants should not come?  I think the embassies in countries - Guatemala especially in El Salvador they are not doing much at all. There have been a lot of local press reports and a lot of discussions about what is going on but no declarations from the U.S. embassies in these countries. And also usually - I could just tell you in the past when there has been a change in government policies towards migrations. I could tell you about the Bush crackdown during the Bush administration they would buy PSAs in local markets to tell people of the dangers of coming and trying to deter people that way. And we have not seen any PSAs or declarations from U.S. embassies in those countries. But I do not know about backchannel agreements or help from the Trump administration to these countries. But we do know that the former U.S. ambassador to Mexico - she was just speaking to Weekend Edition Sunday just yesterday. And she said that the current hostile climate from the Trump administration has drowned out cooperation and talks on topics like migration and security. Here's what she said.   There were a lot of people working cooperatively working towards you know making both countries safer and more prosperous et cetera. And yet it did not always matter. That work was so often for naught because something would get blown up by a tweet or a comment.  So she is saying that cooperation is being strained on these important topics like migration and security back in these home countries because of the hostile stance that the Trump administration has taken toward Mexico and Central America.  That is NPR's Carrie Kahn. Carrie thanks for your reporting on this.  You are welcome. 