 Still no deal between the White House and congressional leaders or among congressional leaders themselves on a new coronavirus economic relief package. That is the headline out of Washington today as talks continue on Capitol Hill. Meanwhile we are now just a little more than three months away from November 3 and Election Day. And with the virus now extraordinarily widespread throughout the country to quote the Trump administration's coronavirus coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx there is a lot at stake in these elections. So we want to begin the program today by checking in on the 2020 presidential race. And who better to do that with than NPR's senior political editor and correspondent Domenico Montanaro? Domenico welcome.  Hey David.  First let us talk about the big picture. How are the relief talks in Washington and I guess more generally the pandemic affecting the race between President Trump and his presumptive Democratic opponent Joe Biden?  Well I mean the big picture is that Biden has the advantage. I mean if the election were held today right now it would certainly - the edge would go to him. And that is mostly because of Trump's handling of coronavirus and race relations. Majorities disapprove of Trump on both items. And he is you know also been pretty hands-off on these talks for a new relief package leaving it to his chief of staff and treasury secretary. But his chief of staff today said they are not close in the near term on a deal and that is bad news for millions of Americans seeing unemployment benefits run out as well as a moratorium on evictions in federally-backed housing expiring. So you know this comes as the U.S. saw its steepest drop in GDP this week almost 33 - never been seen since the U.S. began tracking that data after World War II.  Trump beat the odds last time even when he was kind of written off. What makes that different today?  Well I mean there is a few differences. One Biden is closer to or above 50 in a lot more states than Hillary Clinton was in 2016. Secondly and I think more importantly liberals are less likely to underestimate Trump this time. I think Trump is the factor - and people are probably less likely to register protest votes like you saw in some of those upper Midwest states that were so critical. Biden is doing much better than Clinton in polling with seniors and voters in the suburbs and those are both crucial groups. And that is not only huge for the popular vote but also in key states like Florida and Arizona with seniors and in those - like I was saying those former blue wall states of Michigan Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. Trump of course certainly has a solid base behind him. He is got a lot of enthusiasm. His campaign thinks the polls are underestimating GOP support. And even in places Biden is leading people are saying that their neighbors they think are less likely to be supportive of Trump publicly and that he will do better once they get into the privacy of a voting booth.  Could be a big week for the former vice president. We hear he may announce sometime soon his running mate. He signaled it will be a woman that it is likely to be a woman of color. These picks typically tend not to affect the race much. Still do you think this announcement might give him a boost?  Well you know there are lots of signs pointing to a Black woman in particular being in the finals for the running - I mean for running for VP. You know I think that is been particularly important because of the protests we have seen against racism across the country. You know look - people do not vote for the vice president. They vote for the person at the top of the ticket.  Top of the ticket.  But you know Biden - given Biden's age he is going to have to pick someone who people want to see is going to be ready on day one. And he also feels like he needs to fire up progressives so it is going to be interesting to see what the mix is.  And lastly I want to talk about something the president said this past week. He received a lot of pushback after suggesting he could delay the election which he does not have the authority to do and also cast doubts on voting by mail alleging without evidence that it would result in widespread fraud. Now the White House chief of staff Mark Meadows was asked about that this morning on CBS's Face The Nation. Here's some of what he had to say.   So he has not looked at delaying any election. What we will do is if we try to transform this and start mailing in ballots all across the country all 50 states what we will see is a delay because they are just not equipped to handle it.  Domenico we have got about 30 seconds left. Is this intended as a distraction a strategy? State officials say this may undermine trust in the election system itself.  Yeah I am not sure there is a strategy coming out of the White House on this. I think the president himself has been trying to raise questions about mail-in voting and that is because he is behind in the polls and it would not be surprising that he tries to say that he was robbed. You know he is setting up something like he did in 2016 about whether he would accept the outcome if he were to lose.  That is NPR's senior political editor and correspondent Domenico Montanaro. Thanks Domenico.  Hey you are welcome. 