 Coronavirus cases are surging again and some hospitals are running short on equipment like masks and gloves. There is a little-known government agency that has quietly started to work on challenges with the stockpile. It is called the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation. And now some members of Congress are asking why is a foreign aid agency working on a domestic issue? NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez explains. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Less than two years ago President Trump helped create a new agency to counter China. Its mission - loan money to projects overseas an alternative to Beijing's growing influence. So some people in Congress and other Washington insiders were stunned to hear the president say this two months ago.   This federal agency normally invests in economic development projects in other countries. I said how about investing in our country? ORDO He was in Pennsylvania at a factory that makes masks and other protective equipment. And he gave the Development Finance Corporation a new job here at home.   We have to take care of America first. It is got to be America first. ORDO The agency is just getting started. It will soon announce its first plan to loan money to refill the American stockpile. The money comes from a coronavirus aid package not the agency's regular budget. But George Ingram who worked on U.S. overseas aid during the Clinton administration says the new role raises several red flags.  The Congress was very clear in rewriting the legislation in writing the BUILD Act in giving the DFC a very strong development mandate that fits in with U.S. foreign policy. It did not have a domestic mandate. ORDO But the agency's CEO Adam Boehler says the president did not change the mandate. He just added a domestic element - a temporary one - to help fix a critical problem.  My view on this is these are extraordinary times. Hopefully it is once in a lifetime. And I think everybody for the most part understood why we would look to invest domestically. ORDO The questions are starting to build. Last week lawmakers in the House asked a watchdog the Government Accountability Office to review the change. Democratic Rep. Nita Lowey is the head of the powerful Appropriations Committee. In a statement to NPR she said she wants recommendations from the independent GAO. She wants to make sure this new coronavirus plan does not jeopardize the DFC's international focus - in this case countering China. Republicans had some question about mission creep too.  Well that is something we worry about - you know the overgrowth of any program. You do not want to go beyond that. ORDO That is Ted Yoho who sponsored the bill that created the agency. But he thinks that the shift is a wise move right now and will help secure vital supplies for the pandemic. Boehler says he spoke to members of Congress and understands their concerns.  Are you going to lose focus? Are you going to not accomplish your mission? ORDO He explained he is committed to both goals.  How we were going to set it up so that we did not lose focus and how none of the appropriated dollars for international were going to this. ORDO He says a bigger threat to the agency is getting Congress to give it enough funding for the foreign projects. As for the domestic plans Boehler says they take time. But he hopes to announce the first investments in just a few weeks likely in the pharmaceutical space. Franco Ordoez NPR News.  