 Last month when I was in Luxembourg City anticipating the British referendum on leaving the European Union I was given a tour a history lesson and practically a sermon on the merits of the EU by Heinz Elting.  If people are intelligent they should maintain and improve the structures of the European Union and the policies too .  Mr. Elting is a German-born resident of the Luxembourgish capital. He is a 76-year-old retiree who rides his bicycle around the city when he is not caring for his sheep. That is singular by the way. He owns one sheep. He used to work as a committee staffer for the European Parliament. The parliament is a movable legislative feast that spends a part of the year in Luxembourg. And when I observed that the United Kingdom would be the first country to leave the European Union if they voted that way Heinz Elting was quick to correct me.  Great Britain is not the first case of a country leaving the European Union. Greenland was first.  Greenland?  The Danish ice continent.  That is right Greenland. In case you were not tracking problems in 1970s European integration or in case you have forgotten here's the story. Greenland became part of the European Economic Community as the EU used to be called in 1973. Greenlanders did not want to. But Greenland was part of Denmark and the Danes outvoted them. A few years later Greenland won autonomy from Copenhagen and held its own referendum. It was a little smaller than last week's Brexit in which more than 30 million people voted. In Greenland more than 12000 Greenlanders voted to leave and just over 11000 voted to remain. Elting worked on the European parliamentary committee that had to implement that decision.  I remember that we did in the Legal Affairs Committee and at the European Parliament a report on the exit conditions of Greenland.  Well how long did it take to negotiate all of the provisions of Greenland leaving the European...  Well I think it took at least two years.  Two years. This does not augur well for the speed of the coming British separation. There actually are a couple of other cases but Greenland stands out by leaving the EU while remaining part of a country Denmark that stayed in. Now to be fair to all those people who have said that Britain would be the first country to leave the EU that is true. The treaties that turned the European Economic Communities into the European Union had not yet been adopted when Greenland pulled out. So procedurally what may now happen with the U.K. is something novel. 