 After days of speculation Governor Andrew Cuomo announced his resignation today. New York's lieutenant governor Kathy Hochul will fill his post. Here she is in 2018 becoming the first woman lieutenant governor to win reelection in New York.   Is not it time that we are done making history that we no longer have to have another female first? Can we get to that point?   I want us to be done with historic firsts because it should be expected that women will run for office and hold one half of all the positions - expected.  Well here's one more first. When she takes office in two weeks she will be the first woman governor in New York state. Karen DeWitt covers state government and politics for New York State Public Radio. Thanks for being here.  Hi Ari. Glad to be here.  Give us a sense of who Kathy Hochul is. Tell us about her.  Well she is from Buffalo. That is the farthest western part of New York. She is a former congresswoman. She is held a number of local-elected offices before Cuomo who is from Queens chose her in 2014 to balance the ticket. She is not a household name in New York but she is been a devoted cheerleader for Cuomo relentlessly traveling the state making multiple steps - stops in a day. And you know it is a big state. She will start in Buffalo be in New York City - in between go to Rochester and Syracuse all ostensibly to carry out his message. She is done that for years. But you know in those years she is made a lot of important connections with the New York political world by doing that. But that said you know Cuomo has kept her at arm's length. She is not part of his inner circle. For instance you never saw her in the national televised COVID briefings that the governor did every day a year ago. And in some ways that is going to serve her well I think because it seems like New York is really going to start on a clean slate.  You say Cuomo chose her to balance the ticket. How does she compare politically to him?  Well you know she comes from a more conservative background. She once received an A rating from the NRA. And about a dozen years ago when the idea of giving driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants was first proposed she opposed it. She was Erie County clerk then. She said she would call immigration officials if she saw anyone trying to get a license. Since then of course she is changed her position to align with Cuomo's. She is become a supporter of gun control. But you know even though she is more conservative unlike Cuomo she has good relationships with the progressive wing of New York's Democratic Party which is really gaining strength gaining more positions in the legislature. Personality-wise she is more at ease in a crowd of people making small talk you know a little more warm a little more friendly. But generally she is more low-key and less drama. She is not an attention-seeker in the same way that Cuomo is.  What has she said about the investigation into Cuomo and his resignation?  Well you know when the sexual harassment allegations first became public back in March she was pretty cautious. She said she wanted to wait for the attorney general's report before passing any judgment. Well seven days ago when that damning report came out she said that it documented repulsive and unlawful behavior that was just completely unacceptable. She stopped short though of calling on him to step down unlike every other politician in the state because she said it would be a conflict of interest since she is next in the line of succession. And today she said she agrees with the governor's decision to resign and she is prepared to take over as New York's 57th governor.  And what is going to be at the top of her to-do list as governor? What kind of shape has Cuomo left the state in?  Oh my goodness. Well it is not a slow time in New York politics - not a sleepy August not in New York or the nation. The COVID-19 pandemic is not over. The delta variant is on the rise. Even though vaccination rates in New York state are higher than most of the nation they have been stagnating in recent months. New York's eviction moratorium also ends on August 31. And the state has federal money to help tens of thousands of tenants but it has a lot of trouble getting that money out the door. It does not have a functioning program right now. So in just a matter of weeks she is probably going to be expected to fix that. I think she is going to rely on the goodwill of the state legislature and maybe some help there - the legislative leaders are very supportive of her - and get help from what is left of Governor Cuomo's staff because a lot of them are exiting.  Just briefly is she the Democratic de facto front-runner for the gubernatorial election next year?  Well yes I think that she will be you know just because she will have been acting governor for over a year practically a year and a half by next November's elections. I do not think she would have been considered the front-runner before. Frankly Attorney General Tish James who did the scathing report on Cuomo was considered the front-runner...  All right.  ...Even though she has not said whether she is going to run or not.  Karen DeWitt of New York State Public Radio thank you.  You are welcome.  