 The American Medical Association has largely stayed on the sidelines of political fights over the past 30 years or so. But a North Dakota law set to go into effect next month is spurring the doctor's group to get involved now. The law will require doctors in North Dakota to tell patients that medically induced abortions can be reversed. Now there is no scientific evidence to support that claim and the AMA is taking the state to court over it and another existing abortion law. Julie Rovner covers health policy at Kaiser Health News. She joins us now. Welcome back to the program Julie.  Thanks for having me.  We just described one of these laws. What is the other one and why is the AMA concerned about it?  The other law requires physicians to tell women who are seeking an abortion that it would end the life of a whole separate unique living human being. The AMA says that that law unconstitutionally forces physicians to act as the mouthpiece of the state. So these are two different laws in North Dakota. They are unhappy with both of them.  At the same time there have been several new laws restricting abortion access across the South and Midwest. So why is the AMA getting involved now?  It is really interesting. You know they have been involved on and off in sort of smaller ways. But you know they put out a press release. They are filing lawsuits. There is a lot of speculation as to why now. Some of it may be just they feel like these laws have finally gone too far. Some of it may be there is a woman president of the AMA and a woman past president and there'ill be a woman president next year. For a group that is long been older whiter and more male that is changing.  So what kind of stance had they taken in the past?  Well the AMA has been kind of everywhere on abortion. The AMA in the late 1800s led the fight to make abortion illegal in the United States. That was part of their effort to sort of centralize power over the medical profession. They wanted to get rid of unlicensed practitioners like midwives who had traditionally been involved with women's reproductive health. And they really did not change that position until just before Roe v. Wade. And even when Roe v. Wade happened the effort to liberalize abortion laws in the U.S. was really led by the legal profession not by the medical profession.  You reached out to the American Medical Association - seems like maybe they are not so comfortable with this new stance. Can you tell us what you learned?  Yeah. They made clear that their problems with these laws are not about abortion per se but about interference in the doctor-patient relationship which is true. And that is their complaint. I would point out that there have been a number of other abortion laws or abortion regulations that they have not been so outspoken on that would have equally interfered with the doctor-patient relationship.  For a little more context though how influential is the American Medical Association at this point?  Well they are still pretty influential in that people see that name and think oh the AMA - they represent doctors. But the AMA has represented a smaller percentage of doctors over the years. It is not quite as big and powerful as it used to be. But still the brand carries some weight and it carries some weight in Washington and in state capitals.  Does not it carry weight precisely because people see it as apolitical? And is this jeopardizing that?  Oh I do not think they have ever been seen as apolitical. The AMA really led the fight against national health insurance for decades. They have always been political. Where they have been I think loathed to intervene is on delicate social issues like abortion.  In this era of increased restrictions on abortion are other medical groups other professional associations and the like getting involved in legislative fights?  Well the American Congress  of Obstetricians and Gynecologists which represents most of the doctors who actually do abortions and take care of women's reproductive needs has long been fairly outspoken on many of these laws if not most of them. So there have been other physician groups that have stepped up to take the lead on this. There are also anti-abortion physician groups. They are much smaller but they are out there. And they also argue the AMA has sort of preferred to step back and let the fight go on elsewhere.  Julie you have been covering this area for a long time. What strikes you about this moment? I mean is this as significant as it looks?  It is hard to tell. As I said the AMA's been kind of everywhere on abortion issues. It looks like they are maybe coming out - finding this to be such a threat to the doctor-patient relationship that they are willing to take a leading role. It remains to be seen exactly where they will go from here.  That is Julie Rovner chief Washington correspondent for Kaiser Health News. Thanks for coming in.  Thank you. 