 President Trump made a surprising concession to North Korea. He announced that the U.S. military would suspend joint military exercises with South Korea.   We will be saving a tremendous amount of money plus I think it is very provocative.  Provocative is how Pyongyang has characterized these drills. They have served as a major defense strategy for Seoul in case of an attack from the North. Here to talk us through this announcement and its possible consequences is NPR Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman. Hi Tom.  Hi Ari.  What was the Pentagon's response to this announcement? Were they taken by surprise?  Well it seems they were. And from talking with people it seems this was not planned at the Pentagon before the summit but was decided on the ground in Singapore. And the military by the way has not received any orders to cancel the next military exercise in August so that gives you a sense of surprise. And the South Koreans said they are still trying to figure out what it all means. So they clearly were surprised as well.  There was also some confusion on Capitol Hill today about whether or not these exercises were actually off. Ultimately we have concluded they are not going to happen. But as you say they have not officially been cancelled.  Absolutely.  So when are they scheduled to happen and what is the purpose? What are they practicing for?  Well there are several large exercises each year. There is one in the spring called Foal Eagle with tens of thousands of soldiers aircraft and artillery. And another one in August - Ulchi-Freedom Guardian. And they are designed so both the U.S. and South Korean troops can plan against any attack from the North. That is the one that has not been canceled yet. Now why are these necessary? Because you have new troops coming in from the U.S. every year - new South Korean troops. So officials say they must be highly trained for any kind of scenario with the North. And also it is important to note that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis's top priority is to have a more trained and lethal American force.  And President Trump also mentioned that he would like to withdraw U.S. troops from South Korea altogether. What have you heard from military officials about that?  Well first of all the president says that is not on the table right now - removing the 28000 U.S. troops in South Korea. And South Korean officials say listen if there is going to be any reduction in troops we want to talk about that with the U.S. We will decide it together. Now some say it is important to have U.S. troops there to deter any Northern aggression - make the South feel more comfortable and sort of assure allies like Japan. But the president has long talked about bringing the troops home. And for the president it is all about saving money. We just heard him say that canceling what he calls war games will save a tremendous amount of money. That is not really the case. Maintaining troops in South Korea - that is serious amount of money. That is hundreds of millions of dollars every year.  But pulling those troops out would be a much bigger step than canceling the war games.  Yes and a very controversial one. A lot of people on the Hill would say that is not a good idea. A lot of military officers I think would say that is unwise.  NPR Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman thanks so much for coming in to the studio.  You are welcome. 