 So as we have just heard polls show that older Scots are inclined to vote no - or against independence - in tomorrow's referendum but there will be more young people than ever casting ballots. For the first time Scotland has lowered the voting age to 16. We hear now from NPR's Ari Shapiro who reports on the impact of the youth vote on Scotland's future.  It is lunchtime at Drummond Community High School in Edinburgh. Kids are all wearing the uniform of a smart black blazer white shirt and blue tie. Some 16 and 17-year-olds are here with their cheese sandwiches and their baked potatoes. They get to vote on Thursday over whether Scotland will become independent. Let us hear what they think.  Scotland will be a richer country if there is a yes vote. It is just a fact.  What if that fact does not influence any of the decisions I am going to make?  We will have more devolved powers.  Calum Preston and Mark Burns are passionate new voters on opposite sides of the debate. Preston the yes voter says before this campaign he did not care about politics at all.  'ecause all the parties were offering pretty much the same thing anyway. And if I voted it probably would not matter what I voted.  In the last two years these students have been inundated with campaign materials television ads lectures and debates. Many of them are eating it up. Nishat Mohammad and Zoe Clark say people who think teenagers are too immature to follow this debate clearly have not been following teenagers.  Our influence is more important than the older generation 'ecause we are going to be living here longer.  I think we have a fresher look because so many people become sort of disillusioned with normal politics but we are just coming into it now so we have not got like that - do not believe in it anymore.  Scotland's government declared two years ago that 16 and 17-year-olds would be allowed to vote in this referendum. At the time most everyone thought lowering the voting age would help the independence campaign. They assumed teenagers would be yes voters. Dr. Jan Eichhorn says that assumption was wrong on several levels. He is a professor of social policy at the University of Edinburgh.  The 16 to 17-year-olds are under 3 percent of the vote. So you are not - they were never going to be you know vote-decisive per se.  Eichhorn has conducted surveys of Scottish teenagers. And his findings on their political views defied expectations.  Sixteen to seventeen-year-olds are on average slightly less likely to vote yes than adults.  They are more likely than their parents to support keeping the United Kingdom intact. He says the level of political interest among teenagers is as high as adults. Ninety-seven percent of the people who are eligible to vote in Scotland have registered. And the most decisive factor determining a teenager's vote is an evaluation of how the economy would fare in an independent Scotland.  Overall they are informed. They have a slightly different way of getting that information but there is no evidence to suggest that they are less capable than adults of voting from a research point of view.  These teenagers are just as likely to read newspaper articles and campaign materials. Unlike their parents they are more likely to find those materials through social media. Facebook says in the last five weeks there were 10 million Facebook interactions about the referendum. Leonie Malone is 16. She says some of her 15-year-old friends are jealous that she gets this privilege.  We are allowed to have a baby and move into a house at 16. Why - I can get married. Why cannot we decide what is the best for our country?  Have you heard many people say oh this is ridiculous 16-year-olds should not be allowed to vote?  Yes and I think that is totally offensive.  She says kids used to show up at school and talk about reality TV. Now they are talking about actual reality. Even if this age group does not change the outcome of the independence referendum Dr. Eichhorn thinks they have changed Scotland.  I think it will be very hard in Scotland to say to young people well you can decide about the future of your country but you cannot vote for your local member of the parliament. I think that would be very strange.  So tomorrow will be the first time 16 and 17-year-olds have been allowed to vote in Scotland. But many people believe it will not be the last. Ari Shapiro NPR News Edinburgh. 