 In a typical election religious identity is a big factor at the polls. Surveys show that people who are more religious are more likely to vote Republican. But Donald Trump is not a typical Republican presidential nominee. So NPR's Tom Gjelten went to North Carolina to find out how some religious voters are choosing between two candidates they are not thrilled about.  We can all identify in different ways - by our age perhaps or by our gender or ideology or ethnicity.  .  Judith Martinez - a U.S. immigrant from Mexico newly married 51 years old devout Christian.  .  .  She is preaching this evening to about 25 Latino men and women in the basement of Mount Vernon Baptist Church in Boone N.C. This is her ministry.  .  Do not think you can accomplish something without Jesus she says. You might say I can stop drinking on my own but without Jesus it will not work.  .  Judith herself is a naturalized U.S. citizen. The immigrant men and women to whom she ministers have only temporary work permits.   Many of them are worried. They wonder what will happen after the election. They are afraid they will be deported. And they are afraid they will be separated from their families.  The election worries them because the Republican candidate Donald Trump says he wants to deport immigrants here illegally. Last year he said many of the Mexicans who have come are bringing drugs and crime. Judith does not like Trump.   He is crude very crude. Mexicans are some of the people here who work the hardest. He does not value their effort.  And yet Judith is a registered Republican. And when the election comes around she expects to vote for the Republican candidate - for Donald Trump. She says her religious beliefs her opposition to abortion and same-sex marriage influence her thinking.   I have always felt that the Republicans align with my beliefs. The Bible is very clear in telling us the way we should live and we are not respecting that.  Judith's inclination to support Donald Trump in spite of what he has said about Mexicans holds with a pattern identified by the Pew Research Center. How religious someone is can predict how they are likely to vote. The more religious lean Republican the less religious Democrat regardless of age gender or education.  Let your voice be heard.  Here in Boone N.C. that brings some surprising voter preferences.  Hi is your voter registration up-to-date? Would you like to register...  Volunteers are staffing a voter registration table at this community shelter serving people who are homeless or experiencing other poverty-related crises. It is called Hospitality House.  And I am finished with my voter registration.  Yep.  Awesome thank you so much.  Thank you.  Among the Hospitality House residents prepared to vote this fall is Renee Miller a 34-year-old single mom.  I have been here a year. I came here homeless and pregnant and addicted to drugs. And the Hospitality House has really been helpful. I have a healthy baby - beautiful girl.  Hospitality House gave her a free place to stay three meals a day and enrolled her in a treatment program. In politics Renee leans Republican even while acknowledging a Republican president like Donald Trump might be less likely than Hillary Clinton to support government spending for places like Hospitality House.  At this point you know if I had to vote today I definitely probably would say I would vote for Trump. And that still scares me because it is the Democratic Party that I feel like reaches out for these programs you know and stuff. But I just have a lot of mistrust for Hillary right now.  In part it has to do with her Christian upbringing in a conservative Pentecostal tradition.  I definitely want a leader who does believe in God or you know believe in the higher power that is out there you know. And I want people to be able to have religious freedom.  Hillary Clinton is a Christian and speaks often of her faith. But for Renee as for others religion goes with Republicanism. That is the pattern Pew Research found. Now there is an important exception. One factor weighs more than religion - race.  African-Americans you say? I think they are going to vote for Hillary.  Fred Brown a black man is another Hospitality House resident.  I do not like Trump at all cannot stand him. He got a big mouth you know. And he hides behind his money. I do not like that. I do not like any man that hides behind his money.  Brown says he loves and respects the Lord but with African-Americans whether they are religious does not really predict their vote. Recent surveys show Donald Trump getting only about 5 percent of the African-American vote regardless of religious affiliation. For others a strong faith does go with a slight Republican tilt. But here in Boone N.C. this year may be a little different. What a strong faith seems to predict here more than anything else is disenchantment. That is a widely shared feeling in the electorate this year even with nearly half of Trump supporters feeling very enthusiastic about him according to a new ABCWashington Post poll. A smaller share of Clinton supporters about a third say the same of her. But it is hard to find any enthusiasm among religious voters here in Boone. Indeed of a more than two dozen religious voters we interviewed here including Judith Martinez and Renee Miller not one is a hardcore supporter of either Trump or Clinton.  It is a real shame to me that with the country that we have that this is the best we can do.  I think it is a scary election for me. And there is part of me that wants to check out.  I am struggling very much in this election. And I do not necessarily think that the values that I hold dear are necessarily represented.  Jack Lawrence Kristene Martin and David Cuthbert - members of an interdenominational church in Boone called The Heart committed Christians who say their faith is central to their decision making. This is David.  That is where we find our identity first and foremost is being a Christian. It is not an extra ingredient or a separate aspect of our life. It is our entire identity.  Of the six people gathered at The Heart this evening two say they will probably vote for Hillary Clinton one for Donald Trump three are still undecided. None has found their Christian beliefs dictating a clear choice. Dejah Miranda Huxley says the question is who she votes against.  That is a tough way to look at it. But I know neither side will reflect my faith. I know that. I totally understand that.  She will vote against Trump. And here is Jack Lawrence.  I will tell you this I will not vote for anybody. I will cast a vote. But I will not vote for anybody.  In his case a vote against Clinton. Guided in life by their faith but not finding it much of a guide in this election. Tom Gjelten NPR News Boone N.C. 