 In Georgia the Republican candidates for governor are in a bruising runoff. A parade of notable endorsers has turned out for Karen Handel the former secretary of state and Nathan Deal a former congressman. Sarah Palin supports Handel. Newt Gingrich backs Deal. As Susanna Capelouto of Georgia Public Broadcasting reports the outcome of tomorrow's election could have implications for Palin and Gingrich both as they consider a run for president.  About 2000 supporters of Sarah Palin clapped and cheered this afternoon as she spoke in an Atlanta hotel ballroom.   Are you ready to elect a pro-life pro-Second-Amendment common-sense constitutional conservative who will fight like a mama grizzly for you for the values that you hold dear? Are you ready for Karen Handel to be your next governor?   Palin's endorsement pushed Karen Handel to the front of the crowded Republican primary three weeks ago. The former Alaska governor has been busy this political season supporting candidates with varying degrees of success. But her support of Handel matters to Glenda Lambert of Carrollton Georgia.  And that makes a big difference to me.  Why?  I am a female.   And I like to see a strong powerful female in charge.  Lambert came to a recent Republican barbecue in rural Whitesburg at a meet-and-greet for the candidates in tomorrow's runoff. Her husband Tim says he will also vote for Karen Handel.  I think someone new and you know we are kind of tired of the old politics and the old politician ways.  Like Palin Handel is in her 40s and has been on the political scene for only a few years. Her opponent Nathan Deal boasts an almost-two-decade long congressional career. The candidates have sparred over ethics abortion and support for gay issues. Voter Maggie Arnold is a Sarah Palin fan. But she supports Deal and does not appreciate Palin's meddling in Georgia affairs.  I had always thought that Sarah Palin was good but I do not like her coming into our state when she does not know the candidates as well as we do and telling us who to vote for. I am not pleased with that.  She trusts Newt Gingrich's endorsement of Nathan Deal. The former House speaker came to Deal's side the day after Palin backed Handel using robo- calls like this one.   This is Newt Gingrich calling for Nathan Deal for governor. Nathan is the tough qualified conservative leader Georgia needs now.  This is really a surrogate for the 2012 presidential election.  Tom Crawford edits the online newsletter Georgia Report. He says the runoff will be a measure of strength for Newt Gingrich.  Well if Newt Gingrich is serious about running for president in 2012 and a lot of people think he is and he is dropped a lot of hints to that effect then he really needs to show up well in his home state. This is where he is from. This is where he served in Congress. So you have got to look strong on your home territory if you want people to take you seriously as a national candidate.  Georgia is one of the most populous Republican states. Political scientist Steve Anthony of Georgia State University says that makes this race a target for anyone wanting to be a GOP presidential nominee.  A governor in a state can help you tremendously in a run for president. So a lot of these endorsements are aimed at gubernatorial races.  Presidential aspirations aside the winner tomorrow will face former Democratic Governor Roy Barnes in November. For NPR News I am Susanna Capelouto in Atlanta. 