 Tammy Duckworth became a Democratic senator for Illinois just last year. But the first time she met John McCain was well before she was ever elected to Congress. He had visited her while she was recovering at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. In 2004 the Blackhawk helicopter she was flying in Iraq had been shot down by insurgents. She lost both her legs in that attack. And after McCain's death Duckworth took a moment to remember her first meeting with the senator by writing about it in the Illinois paper the Shelbyville Daily Union. Senator Duckworth joins us now from Capitol Hill. Welcome.  Thank you.  So can you take us back to that first meeting with John McCain? You wrote that he actually joked the two of you had something in common. What did he say exactly?  Yeah. That is the thing about John McCain. He had kind of a subversive sense of humor.  He sure did.   And I was - there I was just a couple months after having been so severely wounded. And I was sitting on the therapy bed. And it is a room full of war-wounded and most of us amputees missing one two or even three limbs sitting on these mats going through our physical therapy. And he was walking around the room. It was a little bit notable because I was one of the few women. And he came and he sat down next to me on the therapy bed. And we got to talking. And they introduced me. And then they said you know this is Captain Duckworth. She was shot down. She is a helicopter pilot. And I said you know Sir you are a great hero to me Senator McCain. And he said well you and I both - you know we have something in common. I said - you know of course here I am just in awe of this great man this hero.  Yeah.  And I was hanging on to see what he was going to say. And he said you know we both flew into missiles and rockets. That did not take a lot of - that did not take any talent at all. Now what you do to recover is what matters.  Few people could have teased you like that at that moment.  Right right. You know and I had like done this whole build-up talking with him about how he was my hero and everything. And he said well I just flew into a rocket and so did you and that did not take any talent. Like OK well yeah you are right.  Falling out of the sky - this is not a talented thing to do.  Did he offer any advice at that moment about what to do how to move forward after something like that happened?  One day at a time one day at a time. And it is the philosophy that I have embraced myself which is - you know at the time when you are trying to get through that trauma you cannot think a year 10 years whatever. You just have to get through the day. And that is what I was doing - you know getting through the pain of each day getting through the therapy of that day whatever I had to go through the surgeries that day. And I can only imagine - well I cannot imagine. It is incomprehensible to me and to most Americans what he went through those five years in the Hanoi Hilton.  How much did Senator McCain influence your decision to eventually run for office after serving in the military?  Well I have always held him in high regard. I - you know my heroes were John McCain Daniel Inouye Bob Dole - the greats those who served and after their service in the military often with significant personal sacrifice found a different way to serve their nation. You know I was not ready to stop serving when I was wounded. I - there I was a helicopter pilot who could not fly helicopters anymore. And I was at a loss. And so at the time the opportunity to work on behalf of veterans came forward and that was what I thought I would do. And so I had always held him up as a role model as I had Senator Inouye who was a medal of honor recipient and as Bob Dole was himself a combat-wounded war veteran.  You said that McCain was one of your personal heroes. And you know obviously you guys had some policy disagreements. How did you handle that in your relationship with him?  You know he was inordinately kind. It was easy to handle any - the differences. I only got to serve with him a short time since I was only elected in 2016. And I - but even then he was very kind to me because I was able to pass many pieces of legislation in conjunction with him that had to do with service members. And John McCain was about his nation first was about love of this great nation and love of this democracy. And that is what he put first and foremost. And if you love this country as much as he did he was willing to sit down and talk with you and work with you. And I love this country more than life itself and so we found common ground.  What does his absence mean for such a sharply divided Senate that we have now?  Oh it is more than a loss. It is irreplaceable. I do not - not that you could ever replace John McCain but I do not think that that spirit is there at a time when you have a president in the White House who is trying everything he can to divide us. John McCain was a uniter.  Yeah.  And he did not always agree with you and I often disagreed with him. But the fact of the matter was he was civil and you could through love of country come together.  Democratic Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois thank you very much.  It is my honor. Thank you. 