 The Federal Election Commission cannot do its job. That is because one of its commissioners Matthew Petersen just resigned. It leaves the FEC with only three members instead of six meaning they lack a quorum. And it is the latest challenge for the agency that is been hamstrung for more than a decade. Dave Levinthal is a senior reporter at the Center for Public Integrity. He joins us in the studio to explain. Welcome to the program.  Hey. Thanks for having me.  All right. First remind everybody what the Federal Election Commission does.  The Federal Election Commission was created in the aftermath of Watergate to be a cop on the beat making sure that political committees and political candidates were abiding by federal campaign finance law. That always has not worked out in practice. There is a lot of gridlock. There is a lot of deadlocks and the commissioners do not always agree on even what the law says. And of course now we are facing the teeth of an election season. We have foreign influence issues of course that have dominated the headlines. And the FEC theoretically should be on the vanguard of that and is very much going to be on the sidelines going forward at least for the next many weeks potentially months.  And yet one of the commissioners - as we said Matthew Petersen - has resigned. Has he said why? And what does that mean for the work that this group can do?  Commissioner Petersen who is a Republican - he is been there for more than 11 years and he has not given a specific reason as to why he is leaving. But he along with the remaining commissioners - they have been there many many years beyond the expiration of their individual terms. Now the president of the United States in conjunction with the U.S. Senate are supposed to nominate and appoint new commissioners. And they largely have not done that for many years. This goes back to George W. Bush Barack Obama and now Donald Trump. The ball is in his court. Basically if you do not have four commissioners at the FEC you cannot do high-level business. And that means a lot of things. You cannot conduct meetings. You cannot enforce campaign finance laws. You cannot punish anyone for breaking the law. And you cannot create any new rules or regulations in order to make sure that all the political candidates and all the political action committees out there are abiding by the law as it is written.  What are the implications of this heading into an election season?  The implications could be sweeping and that largely depends on how long this sort of defacto semi-shutdown actually goes on. If we are talking months then you basically have hundreds thousands of different political committees and political actors who do not really have anyone monitoring their activity in the way that the FEC would be doing if the FEC was fully functional.  This was set up to be nonpartisan. Is there a bipartisan will to keep it functioning?  There really is not at this point and that is both internal and external. Internally the FEC has been at loggerheads over many many issues for many many years. You have on one side conservatives who take a very laissez faire approach to campaign finance and believe that hey look. Speech is great for the country. And if people want to use money as speech and spend it as they see fit they should have the right generally speaking to do so to a very significant degree. The Democrats out there - they feel very strongly that money plays too big a role in the way that American politics works right now and that we do not have a fair playing field in their estimation.  What have we heard from the FEC itself? Do they believe they are in semi-shutdown?  The remaining commissioners both the Republicans and the Democrats have said - or Republican and Democrat because that is all that is left at this point - is that they are going to try to do business as much as they possibly can. The transparency function of the Federal Election Commission will remain and that means that political candidates and political committees are going to have to file paperwork saying how much they have raised and how much they have spent on a periodic basis. But anything that is going to be much beyond that is pretty much going to be put on ice until President Trump nominates potentially new commissioners and the Senate acts on the one commissioner who Donald Trump has previously nominated two years ago roughly. And they just simply have not taken up his nomination at this point.  Dave Levinthal of the Center for Public Integrity thanks for sharing your reporting.  Thank you for having me.  