 What would you do if your sensitive personal information was stolen by hackers? That is the question of facing millions of people because of massive data breaches at the federal government's Office of Personnel Management. U.S. law enforcement sources tell NPR the hack may have exposed the information of more than 18 million current former and prospective government workers and employees are mad. NPR's Carrie Johnson reports.  At the American Federation of Government Employees the phone has been ringing nonstop. Jackie Simon is policy director at the union's national office in Washington and she has a message for the federal Office of Personnel Management.  They have really done an exceptionally poor job of dealing with this and certainly have been rather callous with regard to the impact on employees.  The idea that hackers have federal employees' names addresses and Social Security numbers is bad enough. But Simon says the long waits workers have been enduring on a helpline add insult to injury.  They have had nothing but trouble with the website nothing but trouble with the so-called customer service representatives who cannot answer their questions the very very long hold times.  And then there is this. One former government lawyer told me his notification letter was mailed to his parent's home where he has not lived since 1985. The letter for another person who worked at the Justice Department got sent to her husband's law firm where she is never worked. Union officials say they have no idea how many notifications may never reach the people whose data's been exposed. Katherine Archuleta leads the OPM. She says the agency will step up its efforts to help employees.  I do not - I do not want our employees to sit and wait on a phone. I do not want them to have to wonder whether their data has been - has been breached. I want to serve them in every way that we can  and that is why we are demanding from our contractor the services that the contractor said they would deliver.  The scope of the data breach is still under review. Federal law enforcement sources tell NPR more than 18 million people could be victims of the hack. And that is not counting friends and associates prospective employees may have listed on security forms. More than a dozen people including some at the highest ranks of the Justice Department and FBI told NPR they got notified their data was exposed. So did Congressman Will Hurd a Republican from Texas.  I am going to read a little bit. Dear Mr. Hurd I am writing to inform you that the U.S. Office of Personnel Management recently became aware of a cybersecurity incident affecting its system and data and you may have been exposed.  That matters because Hurd worked undercover for the CIA for nine years. Congressman Jason Chaffetz a Republican from Utah says he worries about the damage to national security. Chaffetz says he is heard from the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association. That group represents 28000 current and retired agents many of them feeling angry and vulnerable.   Only of the imagination limits what a foreign adversary could do with detailed information about a federal employee's education career health family friends neighbors and personal habits.  Raj De left the National Security Agency earlier this year. He got a warning letter too. De now works on cybersecurity issues at the law firm Mayer Brown.  This sort of breach has the potential to undermine one the faith of the federal workforce two the credibility of the government as a cyber regulator and three the belief of the public in the basic competence of their government.  De says Obama administration now faces the same challenge as many American businesses whose customer and employee information has been stolen - put simply regaining trust from its own workforce. Carrie Johnson NPR News Washington. 