 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. The summer campaign season is in full swing. Members of Congress fanned out across the country during the week's recess to march in parades knock on doors and make their case to the voters of their districts. There is been a lot of talk this year about the anti-establishment mood among voters. And one race that will test that dynamic is on Maryland's Eastern Shore. NPR's Andrea Seabrook reports.  It is 102 degrees. Amy Collie has her T-shirt sleeves pulled up onto her shoulders. She is been working in the fields out back behind the produce stands at Clayton Farms. Ms.  These watermelons are ours. We have got tomatoes. We have lima beans. We are known for our sweet corn. A lot of people come for sweet corn tomatoes. It is just an Eastern Shore favorite.  Clayton Farms is a family business on the highway smack in the middle of Maryland's Eastern Shore. Here' picking a ripe watermelon. It should sound hollow she says and hoists a long fat one up to her ear.  Ms.  That is a good watermelon.  Now picking politicians? That is harder says Collie. Ms.  I do not consider myself picking one side or the other. I never claim myself a Democrat or a Republican either.  Collie is like a lot of her neighbors. When November rolls around she checks out the candidates and chooses... Ms.  Whatever sounds right and fair and equal and is going to treat everybody fairly I think that is what we are for.  It is what makes this district so inscrutable. Many people will tell you they are not too keen on either party. They hover somewhere in the middle of the political spectrum. For years this part of Maryland was represented by Wayne Gilchrist one of the most moderate Republicans in Congress. That often angered his party and in 2008 Gilchrist lost a primary challenge from a man who is much truer to the GOP Dr. Andy Harris. Dr.   Hi there. I am Andy Harris.  Hi. Dr.  Dr. Harris running for Congress.  Harris is making the rounds of a Fourth of July parade in Severna Park a part of the district that is closer to Baltimore and much more suburban. The parade is classic complete with an antique fire truck and kids wheeling their pet ducks in a red wagon.   Harris marches in the parade with dozens of his supporters. Dr.  People are enthusiastic. They are looking forward to November. I think they want to change what is in going on in Washington. They want to change the direction of the country and they realize they get a chance to do it on November 2nd.  Though Harris won the GOP primary in 2008 he narrowly lost in the general election even though this district went big for John McCain. This year is a rematch and Harris says the wind is at his back. Dr.  Look on the issues that people care most about you know the wasted stimulus money the energy taxes cap and trade other bills that increase spending you know the congressman has not been on the right side of the issue. And I think those are what people are going to be looking at.  Harris says the guy who did win Congressman Frank Kratovil  Kratovil voted for the stimulus package passed in early 2009. Harris hopes that vote plus the anti-incumbent mood among voters will bring him a win this fall. But wait. Is the voters' mood anti-incumbent or anti-establishment? Because when it comes to Democrats Kratovil is no normal partisan and not every Republican thinks the stimulus was a bad idea. Take County Commissioner John Cole.  Without the dual effort of the stimulus and your support we would be nowhere.  Cole is sitting down to lunch with Democrat Frank Kratovil at the Market Street Public House in Denton Maryland. Cole is a lifelong Republican a fiscal conservative who is thankful that Kratovil voted for the stimulus. The federal money saved teachers and police from being laid-off and funded a new section of the local highway. So Kratovil is not apologizing for that vote.  The stimulus was a good thing. It is a good thing we did it. That is not inconsistent I do not think with saying we have got to put some mechanisms in place that force us to make tougher decisions.  In other words says Kratovil when it comes to the economy both the Democrats and the Republicans are right. And that is just the kind of politics these Marylanders like says local businessman Brian Tyler. Mr.  Well I think in this district it is a difficult task to balance the need to be both open-minded liberal and conservative. But if anyone can do it I think he is done a pretty good job.  So if the pundits are right and voters here want anyone but the incumbent that could favor staunch Republican Andy Harris. But if voters here stick to their centrist character they might actually favor the incumbent Kratovil continuing this district's independent streak into the next decade. Andrea Seabrook NPR News. 