 Presidential candidates deliver hundreds of stump speeches over the course of their campaigns and this week we are listening closely to the messages that the two major party candidates deliver in city after city. Yesterday we heard Hillary Clinton. Today it is Donald Trump. NPR's Sarah McCammon has heard many many of his speeches as she follows his campaign and she is with us now. Hi there.  Hey Kelly.  Donald Trump tends to deliver his stump speeches at these big rallies in these big arenas. Just tell us what that is like.  You know Kelly they are all pretty similar. I mean early in the campaign he used to be really free form and never speak from a script. He is been more scripted lately but you know just about every stump speech hits some of the same major themes. We are going to listen now to parts of a speech that Trump gave late last week in Pensacola Fla. Now there is always a rotating playlist of very loud music at these rallies. This one opened up with the country song God Bless The USA.    And defend her still today...  Now this is a crowd. There are thousands of people outside that cannot get in - fantastic. Way to go. Thank you. Thank you everybody.   So Kelly that was true in this case. There was a big long line of people who could not get in. But Trump tends to say this regardless of the size of the crowd. He pumps them up by telling them that they are part of a movement and there is a consistent way in which he tries to demonstrate that.   Polls came out today. We are up in Ohio. We are up in Florida. We are up in North Carolina - up. We are up nationwide. CNN two days ago - up nationwide.  OK so Donald Trump just cited a CNN poll there but we also often hear him spending a lot of time during his stump speeches actually attacking the media right?  Right. At just about every rally he points back to the reporters gathered at the back of the room and calls them dishonest. And you know again he is working with the people in the crowd here who almost always turn around and boo.   And with thousands of people outside I challenge those cameras to show this arena packed. They never do.   They never do. They never ever do.  Now the truth is a lot of crowd photos are taken by the media at Trump rallies...  Yeah.  ...Because the crowd is just such a huge part of the story.  OK so whipping up the crowd - that is clearly a thing that he does at these stump speeches. When he does start talking about substance what is his message?  So his attacks on the media are kicking off an indictment of something bigger what he calls the rigged system. He says the establishment the government the mainstream media have created rules and institutions that are hurting average Americans.   All the people who have rigged this system - and we have had a rigged system - for their own personal benefit are trying to stop our change campaign because they know that their gravy train has reached its last stop.   And it does not take long before Trump lands this message right on his opponent.   It is been happening long enough. And the reason they do not do anything about it is because the special interests and the donors control our politicians and they control Hillary Clinton.  Does Trump lay out how exactly he thinks the special interests and the donors have controlled politicians?  He does not say quite how but he walks through all the things he says have gone wrong because of people he says like Hillary Clinton - you know her handling of the attack on a U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi Libya and the private email system she kept while secretary of state.   Hillary Clinton has presided over the greatest series of foreign - and you know this - I mean the greatest series that I have ever seen of foreign policy failures and mistakes and blunders that anyone has ever seen. Everything she touches has turned bad. Now she wants to be president. I mean the only thing she is done well and she will go down in history for I have to admit is getting out of trouble with the emails. That is the single greatest achievement of Hillary Clinton.   True.   Lock her up. Lock her up.  And you can hear the crowd chanting lock her up there. So that is Donald Trump's case against Hillary Clinton. How does he lay out his own agenda?  So there are a couple of key issues he always mentions in really every stump speech. Let us hear that.   We are going to pursue new trade policies that put American workers first and we are going to keep our jobs in our country.  So he is promised to cut better trade deals even renegotiate existing deals like NAFTA. And then of course there is the issue that is been the core of his campaign.   We will also have a very very strong border...   ...That stops people and drugs - and those drugs are poisoning our youth and poisoning our people - from illegally pouring into our country. And we will build the wall and Mexico will pay for the wall.   Building this wall of course has been Trump's biggest most consistent promise of this campaign. Is it also - you know during these speeches is it the biggest moment?  Yeah I mean there are a lot of big moments. It is not just the wall. It is his promise to build up the military to be tough on our adversaries. And all these lines in Trump's speech feed into the iconic idea of his campaign.   We will be strong. We will be safe. We will win again. Ladies and gentlemen we will make America great again. Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you everybody.    A glass of wine in her hand...  And often Trump closes his rallies with this Rolling Stones song You Cannot Always Get What You Want which matches the kind of defiant tone of his speeches.  That is NPR's Sarah McCammon Thank you.  Thank you.    You cannot always get what you want. You cannot always get... 