 If you were to take a picture of the race for the White House between Joe Biden and Donald Trump today you would see Biden running ahead of the incumbent president. Biden's outpacing Trump by double digits according to the latest snapshot taken by the NPRPBSMarist poll. NPR's Domenico Montanaro joins us now to talk about what else is in that frame. Hi Domenico.  Hey Sarah.  So a double-digit lead for Biden sounds like a lot. Let us dig into those numbers a bit more though. Where is that support coming from?  Well Biden's got an 11-point lead - 53 to 42 over Trump. That is up from eight points at the end of June. Biden is getting 52 with independents a 16-point advantage over Trump. And they are tied at 48 with white voters which is stunning. Trump won them by 20 points in 2016. Just to underscore this no Democrat has gotten that high with white voters in a presidential election since Carter in '76. And there are far more people of color in the country now and Biden is winning them by a lot. Democrats look usually need around 40 with white voters to win in a presidential election. In 2012 President Obama got 39 with white voters and was the first Democrat to win the presidency with less than 40. So being at 48 is huge for Biden.  And the pandemic surely is influencing how voters think about the choice between these two men. What does the poll say about that?  Yeah. Voters do not see the president as particularly handling the coronavirus well. In fact they say they prefer Biden on handling the pandemic by 16 points. And just 31 say they trust the information they are getting from the president. That puts Trump in a difficult position right now. That is part of why he is promoting progress on a vaccine. Here he was today at the White House.   We are very close to having something that is going to be very very special in the form of therapeutics and vaccines.  You know experts say they do not expect a vaccine to be ready before the election. But Trump needs people to think that that is possible to help his standing.  And Domenico the other big issue of course this year has been race relations. How is the country viewing the protests around racial justice and which of the candidates is seen as more trusted to handle that?  Again Biden has a big advantage here - 23-point edge over Trump on this question with voters. As for the protests themselves there is some evidence that Trump's disparaging of the protest - stressing looting and the potential for crime if police are defunded - is having some effect. But mostly it is with his base. Overall 57 of voters view the Black Lives Matter movement favorably. Fifty-four percent have a favorable impression of the protests. Now favorable views of the protests are down 8 points from early June but most of that is coming from Republicans and people who live in rural areas. Trump's suburban messaging though just does not appear to be sticking. Sixty-five percent of suburban voters view the protests favorably which is actually up two points since June.  And Domenico this all looks pretty gloomy for President Trump. I know it is a snapshot in time but is there a path forward for him to win reelection?  You know a few things have to happen. His numbers have to improve in the suburbs or with white voters. Maybe some of those right-leaning independents go home to him because they see him as doing marginally better on handling coronavirus or his campaign does such a good job of muddying up Biden that he becomes unacceptable to the middle. Or you know he gets white voters without a college degree to turn out at a higher percentage than they did in 2016. That is possible. They turned out at a rate of 58 in 2016 so there is room to grow.  All right. That is NPR's Domenico Montanaro. Thanks so much.  You are welcome. 