 Earlier this week we spoke with Congressman Carlos Curbelo a Florida Republican who has introduced a bill to let DREAMers stay here legally. Well Republican Congressman Paul Gosar of Arizona would vote against that bill. I asked him why he thought people who were brought to the U.S. as children should face consequences for their parents' actions.  Do we allow the children as citizens to move forward and then allow them to claim their families who are the lawbreakers? Something's wrong with this process and we got it backwards. There are other ways to remedy this. In the '30s '40s and '50s we had an extended visitor status that we did every year allowing people. So no one's saying that you have to be deported right away. But what ends up happening - how about getting back to the rule of law you know? I think Justice Brandeis said it very very well. In a government of laws the existence of the government will be imperiled if it fails to observe the law scrupulously. If the government becomes a lawbreaker it breeds contempt for the law.  President Trump said yesterday that if Congress does not legalize DACA quote I will revisit this issue. How do you interpret that?  Well maybe what he is going to do because he is aware of where I you know proposed the long-term extensions for visitor status you know on a year-to-year basis - so there is other opportunities on the floor and - that are out there. There is remedies while we go through this aspect of a very articulated well-predicated discussion about immigration. If you put them all together in one it will never pass. But what the American people want is the trust to be restored. Trust is a series of promises kept. Start simple. Articulate with them what it takes to be legally in this country. Look at the definitions of the borders of this country and defining sovereignty of a country that enforces its laws can create its laws defines its jurisdiction and upholds those aspects. We have to have all these kind of conversations and they are begging for it. If they are - if the last election is not a wakeup call I do not know what is.  Historically Republican leadership has been reluctant to bring a vote to the floor if a bill would pass with a minority of Republicans and a majority of Democrats. Do you think they would make an exception for this bill? I know you would not support their making an exception for this bill but I wonder whether you think they would.  Well Ari you know if anything in the past - you know those four - my four terms - we see it all the time when we see debt ceilings when we see budgets when we see continuing resolutions. Leadership always goes off the - off-course because very few you know - they can get very very few Republicans who are not concerned about accountability and fiscal responsibilities to go along with them. So that is been the fallacy all along - is that leadership does it when they like to and do not use it when it is convenient for them not to. So from that standpoint you know - if they are going to bring that forward I am sure they could probably do that. But there are consequences. And I - once again I will bring it up. The American people are frustrated when you do not have a solution when you kick the can down when you do a knee-jerk reaction instead of solving the problem. Listen. Make a diagnosis. Break it up into pieces where they can actually articulate a decision and have a conversation with you. And let it go.  You have described what you would like to see. Given the Congress you know that you are a part of what do you think will happen?  I think this is the perfect storm because we are talking about budgets. We are talking about debt ceilings. We are talking about health care. These are all attractive interplays for all citizens and refugees and immigrants. So why not take it one piece at a time and have that discussion? We can show the American people that we can walk and chew gum at the same time. There should not be a hard lift.  You are saying wrap immigration into...  As piece by piece...  ...Something like that.  As piece by piece by having that discussion. There is plenty of opportunity to have that discussion. There is plenty of time to have this done in a conscientious fashion in six months. So from that standpoint I do not give the remedy that this is too short a time. It is just perfect to kind of nudge us. And the American public is watching. They want to see that their voices are being heard. They are scared. They do not know who their neighbor is. They want to know that they are following the law. They want to make sure that we are a country that we are - define borders and that we actually have a rule of law and that we are enforcing it.  Republican Congressman Paul Gosar of Arizona thanks for coming into the studio.  Ari thanks for having me - appreciate it. 