 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Madeleine Brand.  NPR's David Welna has the story.  Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus told committee members today they had an opportunity to make history by passing the mark or framework he is laid out for overhauling health care.  The mark for us today is a balanced commonsense plan that takes the best ideas from both sides. It is designed to get the 60 votes that it needs to pass. Now the choice is up to us.  Iowa Republican Chuck Grassley negotiated with Baucus for months but in the end he rejected the final product.  There is no plausible rationale for imposing all these new taxes and big spending on top of an economy that is doing its best right now to recover. And adding insult to economic injury most of the benefits from this bill would not start until three or four years down the road while the new revenue the new taxes start much sooner in some cases already next year.  And Utah Republican Orrin Hatch accused the White House and Democratic leaders of rushing the committee into considering an unsatisfactory bill.  Republicans want to work towards a responsible solution but we will not let this moment of crisis justify a solution that we cannot afford and starts us down a path of Washington takeover of our health care system.  That brought a tart reply from Massachusetts Democrat John Kerry.  There is no surprise listening to our colleagues on the other side of the aisle that they are finding a reason to disagree at this point - that is why the talks went on and on and on.  Still nearly half the amendments to revise the bill were filed by Democrats. West Virginia's Jay Rockefeller like many other Democrats opposes the health insurance cooperatives the bill proposes in place of a public option.  I personally do not believe that a health cooperative is workable as a solution or a replacement to the public option.  Even if Rockefeller continues opposing the bill a key Republican sounded today as if she might end up voting for it. Here's Maine's Olympia Snowe.  The mark before us is a solid starting point but we are far from the finish line. There are many miles in this journey with more than 500 amendments that have enormous implication in both policy and financing not to mention the process beyond.  Chairman Baucus has already tweaked parts of the bill to make it more palatable to Snowe and others. Nevertheless Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid is talking about using a parliamentary device known as reconciliation to pass health care legislation with just 51 votes rather than the 60 votes normally needed to pass controversial bills. That brought a warning today from Minority Leader Mitch McConnell.  I am suggesting that doing it is a huge mistake. It will be widely noted by the American people. There will be an overwhelmingly negative reaction throughout the country that choosing this kind of device to try to circumvent the normal rules of the Senate.  David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 