 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel in Washington.  And I am Madeleine Brand in California. And while Michele Norris is away I will be spending sometime co-hosting this program this summer.  That is right. We are trying something new here for ALL THINGS CONSIDERED at least. Madeleine is joining us from NPR West in Culver City that is right next to Los Angeles. Glad to have you Madeleine.  Well thank you Robert. It is great to be here and let us go to our top story today - it is actually in Washington not California. Judge Sonia Sotomayor took her seat today in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee. President Obama nominated her to replace Justice David Souter who retired from the Supreme Court.  It was the Senate and the nation's chance to focus on President Obama's first court nominee. She sat at a witness table facing the senators in a room packed to overflowing with staff news media and spectators. But on day one there were few fireworks to speak of. Senators took turns reading opening statements as did Judge Sotomayor. She spoke of her background.  In the past month many senators have asked me about my judicial philosophy.  fidelity to the law. The task of a judge is not to make law. It is to apply the law.  Judge Sonia Sotomayor - the real back and forth begins tomorrow. And judging from the strong words today from some conservative critics things should get more lively when questioning starts tomorrow. Republicans took Sotomayor to task for comments she has made in the past and about the role personal experience plays in her judicial decisions. But Sotomayor was not the only target of Republican fire. Here's Iowa Republican Senator Chuck Grassley.  President Obama said that he would nominate judges based on their ability to empathize in general and with certain groups in particular. This empathy standard is troubling to me. In fact I am concerned that judging based on empathy is really just legislating from the bench.  Indeed empathy was the word of the day at today's hearing. And Senator Grassley is on the line welcome to the program once again Senator. Sen.  Robert I am glad to be with you and say hi to Madeleine probably for the first time in my life.  Ah. There you are and not the last time sure. If empathy is troubling you what do we want - callous judges who disregard the impact of the law on people? Sen.  Yeah. I think if that is your description of what lady justice above the Supreme Court is all about if she is callous then I guess I would expect judges to be callous. But I do not think you have to use the word callous. I think it' What is a role of a judge in our society or system of government? What is the role of a legislator? A legislator is to pass laws because if you do not like the laws you can vote them out of office. But in the case of a judge they have lifetime appointment. You cannot vote them out of office. So under our checks and balances system of government it is very important that judges judge - in other words interpret law - and that legislators make law.  But this is what Justice Samuel Alito said at his confirmation hearing before the very committee. He said and I quote when I get a case about discrimination I have to think about people in my own family who suffered discrimination because of their ethnic background or because of religion or because of gender and I do take that into account. By your standard that would be disqualifying. He should have said instead my background my family counts for nothing. Sen.  That is absolutely right because I expect a person who is a judge to look at the four corners of the law and make decisions based upon what that law says. Now if it is not clear then of course they got a right to go beyond just the words of the law to court - debate and to other courts and to the history of - behind the bail. But here's I think where probably  But you did not vote against Justice Alito's confirmation. Sen.  No I did not. And let us put it this way you know she was very positive in saying today that fidelity for the law is going to be her benchmark. The extent to which she does not distract from that over the next three days is going to help her standing with members of the committee particularly Republican members of the committee. But I think we are concentrating on the negative today. Today was very positive from the standpoint of everybody - Republican and Democrat - saying that she was qualified from the standpoint of her educational background from the standpoint of her community activity from the standpoint of her being a judge and a prosecutor. It was only on a division of what a judge is supposed to do and I think hopefully I have been consistent - you know I have voted for every Supreme Court justice that is on the bench now except Stevens because he was there before I got there. And   Let me tell you something about Stevens Sen.  And I  Yeah. I want to ask you a question about that justice in particular and about this notion of empathy. His father as you may know was wrongly convicted of embezzlement when Stevens was a young man and then he was vindicated. Would not an experience like that make a person who sits on the bench think differently about the fallibility of the criminal justice system than another judge might? Do not our individual experiences in some way color the way we would answer a supposedly objective question? Sen.  If I were Justice Stevens I would not even have to use the example of my own father. All I would have to do is use an example of when justice has not been given to an individual that deserves justice and that happens in our society. And when there is an injustice that ought to be corrected and you do not correct much of an injustice to an individual by passing a law. Once in a while through a private bill it happens but that is what the judicial branch of government is all about to render justice. And Justice Stevens could render that sort of justice regardless of whether his dad had a bad experience or not.  I want to play for you what Lindsey Graham Republican of South Carolina said today what he told Judge Sotomayor at today's hearing very briefly.  Unless you have a complete meltdown you are going to get confirmed.   Agree with that? Sen.  Well I do feel that she has gotten off to a good start and if she continues to answer questions within her statement of her love is fidelity of the law and her working as a judge is fidelity is the law that is where most of the criticism come from. And let me say most of the criticism has not come from cases that she is made decisions on most of it has been come from speeches she is given off the bench or interviews she is given off the bench and things of that nature. So maybe she is going to convince us that her - in a sense her political statements were nothing more than just her political statements  Right. Sen.  And they have nothing to do with her judging.  Senator Grassley thanks a lot for talking with us once again. Sen.  I am glad to talk to you any time.  U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley Republican of Iowa. 