 Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders will remind you he is not a Democrat. Since his 2016 presidential run Sanders has focused on bringing more independents like himself into the party. Many of the candidates he has endorsed in Democratic primaries this year are not faring well but Sanders tells NPR congressional correspondent Scott Detrow that wins and losses do not measure what he is accomplishing.  Does Bernie Sanders' endorsement matter? Even Bernie Sanders seems skeptical.  The issue here is not that I think a Bernie Sanders endorsement or frankly the endorsement of anybody else is some magical potion to get people elected.  Sanders says what he is really trying to do is encourage first-time candidates to run for office. Last month Sanders campaigned in Pennsylvania for Democrat Greg Edwards who was running in a crowded House primary. Edwards says there is no question that helped.  It did a lot of good for our campaign increased my name ID. It helped me get volunteers helped with fundraising certainly. And we got a lot of media attention out of it. I think we probably got four or five press hits.  But that help only went so far. Edwards ended up coming in third. Only two Sanders-endorsed House candidates have won contested primaries and one of them was an incumbent.  You see that is a stupid argument. I can be a hundred percent in terms of my endorsements. All you got to do is endorse the establishment candidates who have a whole lot of money who are 40 points ahead in the poll. You know what? You will come and say Bernie you were a hundred percent supportive of these candidates. They all won. The candidates that we support by and large with few exceptions are candidates who are taking on the establishment who are often outspent.  Sanders says he is still focused on the larger goal of building a movement and opening up the party to independents and outsiders.  You know I hope they win. Maybe they do not. But if you get 45 percent of the vote now next time you may well win. But you got to start somewhere.  One Sanders-backed winner - John Fetterman who took out an incumbent in a crowded statewide primary for Pennsylvania lieutenant governor.  I do not care who you are but you know when somebody says please hold for Senator Sanders and then you hear his voice on the line going hey John - you know you are just like oh my gosh.  Fetterman had hoped for a Sanders endorsement in 2016 when he ran and lost in Pennsylvania's Senate primary. That call never came and the political landscape has shifted a lot since then.  I am proud to say that what I ran on in 2016 did not change in 2018. It was not - you know these things are becoming more and more part of the Democratic mainstream.  These things being the types of policies candidates like Greg Edwards campaigned on this spring.  Universal health care Medicare for All around universal preschool around debt-free college you know around increasing the minimum wage from 7.25 to 15.  Sanders and his allies like 2016 campaign manager Jeff Weaver say that matters much more than a win-loss record.  You know many of these issues were considered fringe issues and now they are mainstream issues. And we take for granted that there of course are legions of Democratic candidates running on those platforms. The Democratic national platform also includes many of those planks.  Sanders agrees.  I think we have had real success in moving the ideology of the Democratic Party to be a pro-worker party to stand up to the billionaire class. We have got a long way to go.  Even if many of his handpicked candidates are coming up short more of the Democrats who are winning are lining up closer to Bernie Sanders anyway. Scott Detrow NPR News. 