 The high season for the 2014 midterm elections is upon us and Republicans are increasingly confident that when election day closes the GOP will control both Houses of Congress. That raises an important question. In this time of polarization and gridlock what difference would it make? NPR's national political correspondent Mara Liasson explores that question.  This midterm election does not seem to be about anything in particular other than whether you like President Obama or not. There is no overarching issue no competing national agendas. Instead it is just a series of very expensive brutally negative races for Congress. Here's former Democratic Senate aide Jim Manley.  I am not so sure it is going be a referendum on anything but what it is all about I would respectfully suggest is who controls the Senate for the next two years.  And that is about it. It is all about who controls the Senate. The House is not expected to change hands. But since nothing much happens in the Senate now under a narrow Democratic majority why would things be any different under a narrow Republican majority? On Sunday on Meet The Press President Obama tried to answer that question saying the fate of his agenda on issues like the minimum wage equal pay and infrastructure hangs in the balance if he does not even have one chamber of Congress making his arguments.   I know that you know given the gridlock that we have seen over the last couple of years it is easy to say that these midterms do not matter. But the fact of the matter is that on every issue that is important to middle class Americans overwhelmingly we are seeing a majority prefer the Democratic option.  From the Republican point of view putting a break on that Democratic agenda would be a positive outcome. Scott Reed the senior political strategist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce says a lot would change with a Republican Senate.  I would not go so far as to call it a mandate but I would call it a step in the right direction. And I think the press will be forced to cover it as a repudiation of the president's leadership style and thus it will be a new day. The president will be - and the White House team will be focused on legacy legacy legacy. And there'ill be an opportunity to try to get some things done that are good for the country.  Those things might include compromises on immigration or energy but so far the Republican leadership has not laid out a governing agenda. Last week the Wall Street Journal editorial page implored the GOP to run a campaign that is about more than quote attacking Mr. Obama. Minority leader Mitch McConnell has begun talking about what he would do as majority leader in the Senate. In remarks at a private meeting with the Koch brothers that were leaked to a liberal-leaning YouTube channel called the undercurrent McConnell laid out an aggressive agenda.   In that muffled audio McConnell says we are going to go after them on healthcare and financial services - on the EPA - across the board. He goes on to say he will put riders on spending bills that only need 50 votes to pass. That strategy would set up a series of confrontations with the president - Scott Reed.  There will be an opportunity to pass some bills and send them to the president where he will have the opportunity to either veto them or not.  In addition to veto fights there would be other changes. Republicans would get more oversight of the Obama administration. The White House would get more subpoenas - Jim Manley.  Just imagine all the subpoenas that former Secretary Clinton is going to have to deal with in the next two years under such a scenario. For me it is nothing short of a nightmare.  If Republicans overreach and let the Tea Party call the shots President Obama might be able to do what other presidents have done when they lost control of Congress - turn the tables. Former Obama White House aide Stephanie Cutter does not exactly see a a silver lining for Democrats if they lose the Senate. But she says...  If Republicans win control of the Senate there is opportunity. And that opportunity is one - hopefully if they come to the table we could get something done. And if they decide not to do that then the opportunity is to really show the difference in agenda and vision for this country between Democrats and Republicans.  So if the Senate changes hands one thing will not change - gridlock. It may be more dramatic and clarifying than the gridlock we have today but gridlock all the same and it will set the table for the 2016 presidential elections. Mara Liasson NPR News Washington. 