 Does collecting an unemployment check sap people of the will to work? Republican Jon Kyl of Arizona said this in the Senate recently.  That does not create new jobs. In fact if anything continuing to pay people unemployment compensation is a disincentive for them to seek new work. I am sure most of them would like work and probably have tried to seek it but you cannot argue that it is a job enhancer. If anything as I said it is a disincentive.   Pay people for not working and they will not. We wondered how attractive that argument is to conservatives. So we have called up Ken Rogoff professor of economics at Harvard co-author most recently of  Eight Centuries of Financial Folly and a fiscal conservative who advised the McCain campaign. Welcome to the program once again.  Thank you Robert.  And what do you make of the argument that an unemployment check is a disincentive to job-hunting?  Well there is certainly a truth to it and many people believe that is why Europe with much more generous benefits has higher unemployment. But today we are in a once-every-50-years once-every-75- years recession. There just are not a lot of jobs. And it is hard to believe that that is really what is holding people back from getting them that they can collect a modest unemployment check.  That the number of jobs available is simply outnumbered by the number of people who are unemployed.  Yeah absolutely. I mean look at young people today. They are not looking to be unemployed. There is a massive unemployment rate among people in their early 20s. This is not your normal recession and we cannot treat it this way. And absolutely I worry about the incentives people have to work and absolutely we do not want to be like Europe Spain with 20 percent unemployment. But on the other hand this just is not a normal circumstance.  But as you say benefits are much higher in other countries. I assume that employers if not employees are taxed rather heavily to support those benefits in those countries.  Well that is right. I mean something's got to pay for it. So it is not a free lunch to extend unemployment benefits. It is going to cost tens of billions of dollars. But I would just say that of the various stimulus programs that we are doing I think the unemployment benefits is an important one especially from our sense of fairness - that you know we have a society we have an economy which is pretty rough-and-tumble capitalist economy. There should be some social safety net. It is important to strengthen that and enhance it temporarily. I would not recommend keeping it on for 25 years. I think the high unemployment is going to last for at least a couple more years.  There is another argument made on behalf of unemployment benefits.  Give an unemployed worker a check and it goes straightaway to buying food and children's shoes and gasoline. Give an employed person the same amount in say a tax break and it could just sit in the bank and would not stimulate the economy. Is that true?  Well I think that is true. I mean I think that is not the main argument because frankly there is a lot of other things that does discourage employers from hiring workers because they know that they might have higher taxes. I mean I think the stimulus argument is not really what this is about - to me anyway. It is a fairness argument.  When you hear Senator Kyl making the argument - and I think Senator Cornyn of Texas has made the same point - what do you make of that? Is - are they being truer conservatives in the clutch? What do you say?  Well I mean they are making a correct point but they are stretching it. The empirical work suggests that maybe if you get an extra week of unemployment benefits your unemployment lasts a day longer and that is in normal times. I think it is important to have some checks and balances not to get carried away. But they are really taking a small point and stretching it out into something bigger than it is.  Ken Rogoff thanks a lot for talking with us.  My pleasure.  Economics professor Kenneth Rogoff of Harvard University co- author with Carmen Reinhart of the book  Eight Centuries of Financial Folly. 