 In 1987 the book The Art Of The Deal elevated Donald Trump from Playboy developer to best-selling author. Here are the opening words of Trump's self-portrait as a shrewd and creative deal-maker.  I do not do it for the money. I have got enough - much more than I will ever need. I do it to do it. Deals are my art form. Other people paint beautifully on canvas or write wonderful poetry. I like making deals preferably big deals. That is how I get my kicks. That is the first paragraph of The Art Of The Deal. And there is another name on the cover of that book beneath the portrait and the big golden letters spelling Trump - the name of Tony Schwartz. He was the ghostwriter. Schwartz did not weigh in on the presidential campaign until this week in a lengthy interview with The New Yorker and now he joins us from our studio in New York. Tony Schwartz welcome to the program.  Thank you.  Donald Trump speaks of having written The Art Of The Deal. How much of the book was written by Trump? How much was written by you?  Well every word was written by me. I wrote the manuscript handed it in to him. He made a few red marks on it handed it back to me and that was the form in which it was published virtually completely.  The opening line that I read - I did not do it for the money - and later - deals are my art form - did he say such a thing?  He did not so it was a form of poetic license. You know my job was to paint the most appealing portrait of him which is what any ghostwriter's job is.  Oh but let us say you were the ghostwriter from hell and wrote a completely unflattering but utterly true line to begin the book. What would you have said?  I do it for the money and the fame and in an attempt to fill the emptiness that I feel inside. And this is the true story of my life.  You had a lot of access to Donald Trump during the writing of this book. How much time did you spend talking to him and listening to him?  The whole process took about 18 months. But over about eight or nine months I sat in his office virtually every morning from the time that office day started until late in the day listening in on his phone calls because it turned out that was the best way to get the information I needed for the book. So one of the reasons that I have stepped forward to speak about him is that I am extremely concerned about what he would be like as a president. And one of the chief things I am concerned about is the limits of his attention span which are as severe as any person I think I have ever met. And it turned out that when I tried to interview him directly he just could not pay attention for more than a few minutes at a time. No matter what question I asked he would become impatient with it pretty quickly. And literally from the very first time I sat down to start interviewing him after about 10 or 15 minutes he said you know I do not really want to talk about this stuff. I am not interested in it. I mean it is over it is the past I am done with it. What else have you got?  In what way did the impression he made on you during those months - some years ago we should add - I mean in what ways does it carry over to concerns about him as a possible president?  Well I have already mentioned one which is the idea of someone as president in an incredibly complex and threatening world who cannot pay attention is itself frightening. Then there is the fact that he is so incredibly easily provoked that his - I can only call it his insecurity makes him incredibly reactive whenever he feels threatened which is very very often. So for example this piece of Jane Mayer's in The New Yorker came out on Monday and on Tuesday I received a long and threatening letter from his lawyer designed I think to muzzle me. And for 25 years I think Trump has done a very very effective job of muzzling anyone who has worked for him or with him by signing very very strict non-disclosure agreements before they start working with him. It just turns out that I started with him so early that he had not thought of it yet. And the reason I am stepping up is because no one else seems to be free or willing to do so. Believe me it is not fun.  Well let me try to plead the candidate's case here for a moment.  Go ahead.  Profiles In Courage was I think a Pulitzer Prize winning book by John F. Kennedy before he became the presidential candidate. There were always claims that he had not written it that it would been ghostwritten for him by friends and aides to his father Joe Kennedy. There have been a lot of politicians who have had books ghostwritten for them.  And they acknowledge that they have been ghostwritten if they are asked. They do not go around saying I wrote that book. And more important than that Robert the portrait that I painted of Trump in that book is not today by my lights a fair or accurate one. I helped to paint Trump as a vastly more appealing human being than he actually is. And I have no pride about that. I have said already and I will say it again to you that I did it for the money. It certainly is weighed on me over the years. Now since he you know announced for president - is in a position to potentially become president it makes my decision back then look very different than it did at the time.  You feel complicit in the making of the myth of Donald Trump is what you are telling me.  Well I do feel complicit but you know I am not the issue here. I mean who cares that I feel complicit? That is my problem. The real issue is is this guy the person who is in a position to actually lead our country forward in the most dangerous era probably any of us have ever been in? Most people have never been through World War II anymore. They are - you know they have passed on. That is what I am concerned about not trying to expiate my sins. I mean I hope I do to some extent but it is not the important part of this.  Tony Schwartz the ghostwriter for Donald Trump's book The Art Of The Deal - the story about him in The New Yorker magazine is by Jane Mayer. Tony thank you.  Thank you. 