 And as NPR's Carrie Johnson reports the Obama administration is counting on the new acting director to try to get the agency back on track.  Todd Jones spent years as a U.S. Marine and he is got the direct approach to prove it. Here's what he says about his plans for the troubled ATF.  There are going to be some changes that happen. And there'ill be a refocusing on our primary mission which is violent crime.  Violent crime as opposed to big sting operations or national security cases. Jones has been listening to employees in Washington and he will soon be headed out for meetings across the country. He says ATF employees should not be consumed by two big congressional investigations of the agency's conduct or an ongoing review by the Justice Department's inspector general.  Do not be distracted. This is a good agency. It is got a lot of professionals in it. It is got an expertise I think that does not exist in other parts of the government.  Darrell Issa a Republican member of Congress from California is leading one of those congressional probes into the failed gun trafficking operation. Issa says he thinks Todd Jones is an honorable person but Issa adds that he is not done with his investigation of ATF or higher-ups at the Justice Department.  This is not about individual people because individual people will always be flawed. This is about a system that allowed those flaws to go on for a long period of time and not have the kind of check and balance that the American people expect.  Meanwhile inside the ATF some agents have worried that Jones the top federal prosecutor in Minnesota might not understand what investigators do. But Jones says he commanded a military police unit in the Marines. And Tim Dolan the police chief in Minneapolis says he wants Jones on his side in a fight.  He is somebody that you want standing there next to you when things are going badly.  Dolan says he is worked closely with Jones to reduce gun violence in the city. Recently Jones found a way to bring a federal case against two men who robbed a coffee shop and pistol-whipped employees there. Jones got prison sentences of almost 30 years for both of them. Under the old approach they would have gotten much shorter sentences in the state courts Dolan says.  Anybody that meets him is going to have a hard time not liking Todd Jones. He is the type of guy when like I say when the going gets tough he can be one of the toughest people in the room.  And Jones has been in tough spots before. Minnesota Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar nominated Jones to be the U.S. attorney in the state. She says he was the best person to take charge of a place that had suffered under allegations of cronyism in the George W. Bush years.  Todd walked in an office that had been bruised and had been in the news when in fact they had always had this amazing reputation. And he really righted the ship and did a great job and the office is back to where it once was.  Jones will serve as the ATF's acting director. Given the political fights over gun rights it is unlikely he or anyone else will be confirmed by the Senate. So Jones is keeping his job as U.S. attorney in Minnesota which could require some juggling. But Klobuchar says if Jones can handle his five children he can handle balancing both those jobs. Carrie Johnson NPR News Washington. 