 Young protesters have taken to the streets across the country spurred to action by police brutality and frustration with a system that they say is not working for them. As NPR's Juana Summers reports it is a moment that could help Democrats galvanize disillusioned young people but it could also have the effect of further alienating them.    George Floyd.  As a steady stream of protesters marched past Owen Mihavetz in Baltimore was taping the names of victims of police brutality typed on slips of paper all over a car. There were more than 100 names.  We are hearing a lot about George Floyd. In 2015 we had Freddie Gray. But like all these ones like Paul O'Neal Samuel DuBose Akai Gurley Terrence Crutcher - these are cases just as serious but not as many people know about them just 'ecause of the frequency of how much has happened.  He also spoke to the frustration that a lot of millennial and Gen Z protesters say they are feeling as Democratic leaders are urging them to channel the emotions of this moment into voting.  We have been voting for as long as the country has been a thing and I do not see anything getting any better. People are still dying. It is - this problem is still here. And these politicians are all telling us that we need to - like we put them in power. Now it is time for them to do their parts.  Democrats are concerned that the generational gap in election turnout will continue in November something that could pose a challenge for former Vice President Joe Biden. He struggled to generate enthusiasm among young voters during the primary though those same voters strongly disapprove of President Trump. Sarah Audelo the executive director for Alliance for Youth Action says that campaigns have historically failed to engage young voters many of whom have not voted before and do not show up in models.  Campaigns skip engaging them and then we have a self-fulfilling prophecy of young people not turning out because candidate campaigns are not directly contacting them and making the case for why they should vote for them.  A number of senior Democrats have been reminding young people that elections matter too. One of them is former President Barack Obama who long ago popularized the saying do not boo vote. Joel Payne is a Democratic strategist.  Do not boo vote - is fine as a call to action but that has to be matched with accountability. That has to be matched with by the way here are the things we are going to do once you vote.  Candidates for office are seeing the urgency of these young protesters and some have joined in with them. Jamaal Bowman is running for Congress in New York challenging longtime incumbent Democrat Eliot Engel. He says he gets it and that the leaders asking these young people to vote for them have to offer more.  If people feel that the system does not work for them and they not only feel but there is evidence of disenfranchisement marginalization neglect and oppression how the heck are we going to expect them to now come out and vote?  Cliff Albright a founder of the Black Voters Matters Fund says this is an opportunity for organizers.  There is no sense in complaining about how young folks are not going to be active or how young folks are not engaged because they do not care. They are demonstrating on a daily basis on a hourly basis that they care that they care passionately. And they are telling us what it is that they care about.  Ultimately Albright says Democrats need to pay less attention to the techniques young protesters are using and more attention to the issues they are raising and the solutions they are demanding. Juana Summers NPR News. 