 And joining us now as they do most Fridays are our regular political commentators E.J. Dionne of the Washington Post and Brookings Institution and David Brooks of the New York Times. Happy Friday. Hello both of you.  Hello.  And happy Friday to you.  Now as we just heard unemployment numbers are up for the second month in a row and the White House did not want anyone to read too much into last's month dip but here we are again. Is this a trend? And I am wondering how the White House begins to answer that question posed by Congressman Hensarling of Texas. Where are the jobs?  Now part of the problem is not their fault. When you have a financial crisis you have a long long slow very frustrating recovery. And we are sort of in the middle of a normal financial crisis recovery which is very slow and miserable. But the thing that can be done is I think over decades we have added weight after weight to the economy and made it less flexible a little more rigid made it hard for people to hire and fire with various regulations and taxes and things like that. And it is time for a generation-long effort to really reduce that stuff.  E.J. not their fault. Now Republicans are not buying that argument.  But politically it is a huge problem for the president. Even if it is the Congress that is going to hold up action this is starting to look like a boulder in the road not just a bump. Washington is talking about deficits and the real economy is telling us that joblessness is the problem.  We are going to get to deficits in just a minute though. But can the White House pull the levers to actually create jobs?  Well they are talking about doing some things but they do not have a lot of room to do things. They can try to pass another payroll tax cut although it has not done much this year. They maybe can extend it to business. They are talking about their infrastructure bank an idea which is a good idea although it would take time to get moving. But again given the make-up of this Congress it is hard to see anything substantial getting through between now and the election.  And now...  If there is one thing we should learn from this - the government is really bad at short-term economic manipulation. It can lay the foundation for long-term growth but manipulating jobs and the economy quarter by quarter it is just beyond its power.  And just one thing on that though. You know David Leonhardt a great blogger economics writer at The Times made the point that we have lost a half a million jobs in state and local government over the last two years and we are - if we added them at the same pace we were we would have added a half a million jobs. That is a million jobs lost. Government can clearly affect government employment and the withdrawal of the stimulus from state local governments has been caused...  A lot of those were government jobs. You know we are going to move to this debate over the debt ceiling talks and the sort of the sword of Damocles that is hanging over everyone's head. E.J. in your column yesterday you say that the president's goal at least politically is to get through this negotiation and with a deal that keeps the government running but also keeps his political center intact. And he is got quite a roadblock there in his own party in the Senate Democrats.  I am still skeptical. There is still a lot of liberal Democratic mistrust. The just say no wing of the Republican caucus is very big. I still think you end up back with some smaller deal. Although who knows how they pass it? But now at least Obama can say to elite opinion well I tried to get the big deal. And he can say politically to everybody else look you know the Republicans interested in cutting the deficit or not? So I think that is where it ends up.  Whenever you have a sort of high-level negotiation and this kind of brinkmanship there is a little thing called leverage that often determines where you land. In the end David who has the leverage in this case?  And so both of them are feeling very vulnerable and I think that is one of the reasons you see so much movement these days. I think what is happening in Washington is kind of great. You have got Republicans and Democrats serious negotiators doing serious things. Liberals on the left on the extreme left and extreme right are very unhappy. But this is the first time in years we have begun to see real talking on big stuff. I think it is kind of great.  You know I talked to a senator today and he described this sort of disconnect that when he goes home he is here are some people who think oh they are going to work it out they are not going to shut the government down. They will get a deal by August 2nd. And he says the people who are actually in the room and involved in the negotiations are not so sure about that.  But Boehner is thinking like an incumbent not just like an opposition person. He does seem to take seriously what this might do to the Republicans in the long-term.  What do you think about his role in this and his negotiating skills?  If it were up to Obama and Boehner we would have a deal.  So you - praise for Boehner but you say the Republican Party in your column this week may not even be a normal party anymore.  Right. And I think Boehner is a normal politician. Whether the Republicans in the Michele Bachmann base is ready to go along with him that is a very open question.  E.J.  Boehner's problem is he is stuck between a Democratic rock and a Tea Party hard place. In order to get Democratic votes you have got to have some revenue in whatever deal they have. But if you put too much revenue in you start losing Republican votes. And Boehner has the possibility of a rebellion against his leadership. So he is in a very difficult position.  E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and the Brookings Institution David Brooks of The New York Times thanks to both of you. Have a great weekend.  And you too.  You too. 