 And now we turn to another high-profile case this one in Sanford Florida. Today the defense rested its case of the trial of George Zimmerman. He is the neighborhood watch volunteer charged with second-degree murder in last year's shooting of Trayvon Martin. In nearly three weeks of testimony prosecutors and the defense have called almost 60 witnesses. Zimmerman himself did not testify. NPR's Greg Allen joins us now from the courthouse in Sanford. Hi Greg.  Hi Robert.  And I guess it really was not a surprise that Zimmerman did not take the stand in his own defense was it?  No I do not think so. You know he - we have heard a lot from George Zimmerman in depositions he gave and in the interviews he gave to police. His voice has been heard in courtroom - the courtroom a lot but his lawyers always said they would only put him on the stand if it was warranted. I think they have a certain amount of confidence that it just was not needed in this case.  There have been some tense moments in the courtroom. Tell us about some.  Well last night the courtroom did not shut down until 10 p.m. Some of the attorneys were starting to say this is going on too long to be humane and there was some very heated exchanges between the defense attorneys for George Zimmerman and the judge who is trying to run the courtroom the way she wants to. They were arguing over motions about information they wanted to put into the trial about Trayvon Martin some of his text messages on his phone where he talked about some of his past fights and some other material. Ultimately the judge said they should not be in but left everybody with a sore taste to the - a bad taste in their mouth and then the courtroom started today. Some of that same tension started this morning but they finally got through the day.  What would you say have been some of the strengths of the defense's case in some of their witnesses?  Well you know the defense brought forward a procession of witnesses all of whom listened to this 911 call that many people have heard where you hear someone screaming in the background. There were several people - family friends business associates - all who said they were sure that was George Zimmerman. Some people called him Georgie. So that certainly was one part of their case. But maybe the strongest part is this neighbor someone who lived in that townhome community someone named John Good who came out while the fight was going on between Trayvon Martin and George Zimmerman and much of what he said kind of corroborates Zimmerman's story. He says he saw Zimmerman on the bottom. He says Zimmerman actually looked at him and asked him for help and that he saw the person that he described as Trayvon Martin on top. That kind of goes along with Zimmerman's story and that does a lot to help his case. We also heard from a gym owner who - at a gym that George Zimmerman worked out at for a year or so and he said that George Zimmerman was certainly no athlete. He was soft and he described him as someone who really could not handle himself in a fight.  Yeah. He was saying he was - he was not good enough to actually have been aggressive in the encounter with Trayvon Martin which is strange - then he was called back today  Are you promoting your advice to George Zimmerman online?  Right. And I think they dispensed with him fairly quickly because of that. They went forward from there. But he said - I mean I think the argument from the defense lawyer was that well how will that help you saying that George Zimmerman got to you to train right? The guy could not handle himself in a fight.  I train guys who have to resort to shooting people. How about the prosecution? Who is been their best witness?  Well you know the - someone who is described as their star you might recall is Rachel Jeantel this young woman from Miami who was on the phone with Trayvon Martin when the fight began. And her testimony while different very different from what George Zimmerman says was somewhat problematic and I am not sure how much credibility she will ultimately have with the jury. She just was not very kind of respectful of the judge the court and the attorneys. Eventually she kind of came around and the story she told was that Trayvon Martin was on the phone when something had - there was a bump and the phone is dropped suggesting that maybe it was George Zimmerman who started the fight. But she is about the only person we really hear saying that and it will be interesting to see how the jury weighs what she says against what George Zimmerman says.  OK. So closing arguments tomorrow eh?  That is right. They will begin tomorrow. The judge scheduled two hours for the prosecution's argument. The defense will present its closing arguments to the jury for three hours though not until Friday. The prosecution then has one more hour for rebuttal.  And then it goes to the jury.  Right. And they will have a lot to consider here about who to listen to what - whose story they believe - George Zimmerman's or the story that the prosecution has brought saying that he was you know profiled Trayvon Martin and that he started the fight.  Thanks Greg.  My pleasure Robert.  NPR's Greg Allen in Sanford Florida. 