 Happy no-shutdown day. This last day before the deadline Congress managed to pass a measure that will keep the government open for the next two-and-a-half months. Fears of a shutdown subsided after House Speaker John Boehner said he would be leaving at the end of next month. NPR's Ailsa Chang has been looking into what Boehner might be able to cram into the next four weeks before he is out the door.  So there will not be a government shutdown tonight but Democrat Dick Durbin of Illinois tells Republicans this is no achievement.   It is a sad state of affairs when the GOP measures success on not shutting down the government.  Or maybe it is a sad state of affairs that no one seems all that relieved as if something worse is coming. If you listened to the Senate floor you would be told that America still lost this week even without a shutdown. Here's how Republican senator and presidential candidate Ted Cruz of Texas put it.   Republican leadership has said we will never ever ever shut down the government and suddenly President Obama understands the easy key to winning every battle. He simply has to utter the word shutdown.  Cruz believes Republicans lost an opportunity today. He would have liked to see Planned Parenthood lose federal money.   Republican leadership says we surrender. We will fund Planned Parenthood.  And it is this angst this feeling that there is still a lot left to fight about - that is the real reason no one is quite celebrating today. Government funding will run out again in mid-December so shutdown talk will come back soon enough. And conservative Republican Mick Mulvaney of South Carolina says it is going to be a lot worse.  It will be messy in many many more ways just because there is going to be so much more at stake.  Here's what is at stake through the end of December - the debt ceiling funding for new roads and bridges big budget negotiations and extending tax breaks - lots of chances to fight rolled into one deliciously tumultuous fall. So the question now is what can House Speaker John Boehner get done before he leaves office at the end of October? Mulvaney thinks Boehner should leave well enough alone.  I never liked lame-duck sessions. I do not think we should pass significant legislation in our ordinary lame-duck between the time of an election and new Congress. There is a complete lack of accountability when we do that and I think to a certain extent that same circumstance applies here.  But many other Republicans think Boehner should flex his lame-duck muscles hard all through the next four weeks especially on the biggest stuff like getting a new budget agreement. Democrats want to bust spending caps for domestic programs and Republicans do not find that appetizing. Boehner's allies like Tom Cole of Oklahoma say the White House should come forward now with its best offer before new House leadership takes over.  It becomes extremely difficult for new guys who are just learning their job and just building up their credibility to pull off a really large agreement.  But some Republicans say jamming to get things done under Boehner is not necessary because his likely successor is a guy who does not seem all that different from Boehner current majority leader Kevin McCarthy.  I will not be as tan.   Skin tone's not the only thing. There is also the tone within the caucus that McCarthy will have to address. Conservatives now emboldened by Boehner's resignation will demand to be heard but Democrats warn the presumptive speaker in waiting he will also have to contend with them. Here's Senator Chuck Schumer of New York.   Instead of pledging intransigence and gridlock to pick up a couple - a handful of extra votes from the very most conservative hard-right members of this entire body we hope Republicans running for leadership will reach across the aisle and try a new approach.  House Republicans will be picking their new leaders next Thursday. Ailsa Chang NPR News the Capitol. 