 It is the final night of the Republican National Convention and President Trump is expected to deliver a blistering critique of his Democratic opponent Joe Biden. Trump is also set to talk today about restoring law and order in the country. Here he is earlier today commenting on Kenosha Wis.   We will put out the fire. We will put out the flame. We will put out the vandalism because the vandalism and the looting is ridiculous.  With me now to talk about what to expect tonight are NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson and NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe. Hey to both of you.  Hello.  Hi there.  All right Ayesha I want to start with you. What do you think we will be hearing from the president tonight exactly?  This is really a moment with the unrest in Kenosha Wis. where the president will present himself as a defender of America defender of the suburbs really. And that is what we have heard throughout the week. It is a message that is really geared towards a mostly white audience a message about fear and really fear of the cities. I was in Baltimore last night for Vice President Pence's speech and he got huge applause lines when he talked about there will be law and order. And tonight I expect we will hear more of that from President Trump. He will blame Democratic mayors and governors for the unrest and say if Joe Biden wins it will get worse. Joe Biden of course is speaking out against this. In television interviews today you know he made the point that Trump is in charge right now with all of this is happening. And he said - and Biden said that Trump is rooting for violence. I do expect though that we will hear Trump condemn violence on all sides. That has been the line that the White House has taken so far.  Well how much do you think President Trump will be speaking directly about Jacob Blake? This is the Black man who was shot by police in Kenosha.  It is not clear that he will mention him directly or even the alleged white vigilante who shot and killed two protesters. You know talking about the victims was a part of the strategy that we saw from Kamala Harris you know Joe Biden's vice presidential running mate. She gave a - sort of a prebuttal speech. Here's a little bit from her.   Jacob Blake shot seven times in the back in broad daylight in front of his three young sons - seven times in the back in broad daylight in front of his three young sons. As Vice President Biden put it the shots fired at Mr. Blake pierced the soul of our nation.  So Harris is definitely focusing on Blake. She also criticized Trump for his coronavirus response which she said made things worse than they had to be. And she argued that on the coronavirus the biggest test of Trump's presidency she argued that he failed.  Well Mara let us turn to you now. I mean how much is this law and order message playing with voters so far you think?  Well there is no doubt the Trump campaign feels the tide is turning for them on this issue that people are becoming more concerned about rioting than they are about racial justice. There was a new poll out today from Marquette University in Wisconsin that shows white support for the Black Lives Matter movement has evaporated since June. It was plus 25 positive back then. Now it is evenly split. And the fact that this unrest is happening in Wisconsin one of the three blue wall states that got Trump to the White House last time he only needs to hang on to one of them to win this time as long as he keeps all his other states. And Wisconsin is considered probably the easiest one for him to keep because there are an awful lot of Trump-like voters there. Sixty percent of the Wisconsin electorate is white non-college. So he has a pool to fish in there and this is the Trump campaign strategy to use the law and order message to find people who look like Trump voters but did not vote in 2016 and get them to come out this year.  OK. So the campaign is looking to expand its support among white nonvoters. But you know at the same time Mara what we have been seeing at this convention we have been seeing the Republicans feature a lot of Black speakers other people of color as speakers throughout this week. What do you think is the message that they are trying to convey here?  Well one of the messages they are trying to convey is that Trump is not a racist. They want to reassure especially white suburban women that regardless of what you hear from Trump he is not racially insensitive. Nikki Haley was the most effective messenger on this. She said it is fashionable for Democrats to call America a racist country. I do not think that is true but people do not like to be called racist. They did not like it when Hillary called Trump's supporters deplorable in 2016. That is why Trump made such a big deal over that comment. And all this week the Republicans have worked really hard at the convention to address all of Trump's deficits whether it is about COVID or the economy or character and certainly about race. And that is why - what those Black speakers were there for.  OK. So a big moment tonight for the president. Real quick I want to go to each of you with just one quick parting thought ahead of the speech. Ayesha let us start with you.  Tonight is the last big scripted moment and crafted message for Trump. And so after this he is going to be going back to doing rallies and tweets. And I will be interested to see if he will stick to his message.  And Mara real quick.  Well after this the next big thing is the debates. I cannot think of a campaign where debates will be more important. It is going to be the best opportunity the Trump campaign has to prove their point that Biden has lost a step or two or as Trump says - likes to say Biden is shot. The problem is at his convention he gave a pretty presidential address ...  All right.  ...From the Oval Office. So now they are switching to say Biden is a really good debater.  That is NPR's Mara Liasson and Ayesha Rascoe. Thanks to both of you.  Thanks.  Thank you. 