 NPR's Planet Money team has noticed that some people are calling this November's elections a competition between socialism and libertarianism. Recently we brought in a socialist who explained socialism. He pointed out that he does not see any similarity between the Democratic Party and his own ideology. Well today we do the same for libertarianism. Here's NPR's Adam Davidson.  Is a vote for the Republican Party a vote for libertarianism? Short answer absolutely not. That is according to David Boaz with the CATO Institute and the author of  A Primer. He says let' What do libertarians believe? Mr.  Adult individuals have the right and the responsibility to make the important decisions about their own lives. And our government today interferes with that right in a whole variety of ways. It tells us where to send our kids to school how we have to save for retirement. It tells us what we can smoke and who we can marry.  Boaz says that both parties go against these core libertarian values. Mr.  Well yeah. It is mostly Democrats who want to raise our taxes and tell us how to save for retirement and how to give to charity. But it is mostly Republicans that tell us what we can smoke and who we can marry. So there are ways that both liberals and conservatives interfere with individual freedom and the pursuit of happiness.  If you apply traditional labels of conservative and liberal it gets really confusing trying to place libertarians on a political ideology map. Sure  no taxes no welfare little regulation of private companies. But then libertarians start sounding like fringe lefties. Legalize all drugs even the super-hard stuff same with prostitution. Gay marriage should be legal. And we should have wide-open borders all immigrants welcome - and totally free trade with the rest of the world.  No foreign military actions unless defending the U.S. from a direct attack. Pull out of Iraq and Afghanistan - completely and totally. Boaz says libertarians do tend to vote for Republicans more than Democrats. Why? Why do libertarians vote with a party that is made up of many social conservatives and interventionist neocons who are against gay marriage against legalizing drugs and the rest? Mr.  The Democrats are not for gay marriage. The Democrats are not for easing up on the drug war. So there is not as much difference on those issues as there might be.  Boaz says libertarians are like most of us. If they are going to vote they have to vote for someone they do not agree with on everything. Since neither party supports taking the government out of our private lives at least the Republicans support less government in the marketplace. But no he says this November's election is not between socialism and libertarianism. It is a race between two slightly different approaches to government intervention in our lives. Adam Davidson NPR News.  And in case you missed Adam's first report on socialism you can find it at our website npr.org. 