 In Florida in this week's primary Democrats chose a familiar face to challenge incumbent Republican Governor Rick Scott. Charlie Crist is Florida's former governor and a former Republican. As in most governors' races education and jobs are key issues. And NPR's Greg Allen reports in Florida another issue has become important - the environment.  It is an unusual race. Like the incumbent Rick Scott Charlie Crist is running for a second term as governor. In his first term Crist was a Republican. Four years later he is back running for governor - this time as a Democrat. After winning the nomination Crist said one of the issues in the race is who will better protect the state's natural resources.  It is about making sure that we have somebody who understands that Floridians care about our environment. And we need to have somebody that protects it.  In Florida for years protecting the environment was a bipartisan concern. Former Republican Governor Jeb Bush made restoring the Everglades a  top priority. Four years ago when Rick Scott first ran for the Republican gubernatorial nomination he was an outsider to Florida politics. Paula Dockery a Republican state senator at the time advised him on environmental issues. She says she talked to Scott about the importance of Floridas water quality coastline and wildlife preserves to the states tourism-based economy.  But this governor just did not understand that. Maybe it is because he has not been in Florida that long or maybe it is just because that is not a high priority to him.  After taking office Scott oversaw the dismantling of a state agency that served as a check on runaway development. He cut hundreds of millions of dollars from the budgets of the state's water management districts. He eliminated funding for a state land conservation program. And there are many other policies that angered environmental advocates.  We are here to draw the line against dirty drilling in the Everglades.  In Southwest Florida environmental groups fought the Scott administration over permits issued to drillers in the Everglades. The issue is now showing up in campaign ads.   Rick Scott drank from a fountain of campaign cash from the company that profited off pollution.  That is an ad run by a NextGen Climate Action a Super Pac run by billionaire Tom Steyer. He is a former investor - now an environmental activist -working to address climate change. He is expected to spend as much as 10 million in Florida targeting Rick Scott. Around the time Steyer's group started running ads here Governor Scott decided to accept an invitation from a group of Florida scientists. Scott has been a climate-change skeptic saying in response to questions I am not a scientist. In response the scientists from several Florida universities offered to brief him on climate change. Scott took them up on their offer after opponent Charlie Crist requested and received his own briefing. Before the meeting in Tallahassee Scott spoke to reporters.  What Im looking forward to with the scientists today is listening to their solutions.  The governor is in a tremendous position for leadership here.  David Hastings is a marine science and chemistry professor at Floridas Eckerd College and one of the scientists who briefed Scott. He said after the meeting he didnt see any signs Scott has changed his views on climate change.  You know to be honest I do not see him taking leadership in this issue. And I am tremendously concerned about that.  But now Governor Scott is making protecting the environment part of his re-election campaign. Hes pledged new spending on water quality land preservation and the Everglades. Eric Draper who heads Audubon of Florida one of the states leading environmental groups says its fair to be skeptical about Scotts intentions. But he says for environmental advocates theres a practical matter to consider.  He could be governor for four more years and we need to get out of him what we can.  Theres another reason the environment is likely to play an important role this year in Floridas election. Also on the ballot in November is a statewide referendum that would earmark billions of dollars for protecting the states natural resources. Neither candidate has endorsed it yet but its an issue that may help drive turn-out of voters who are concerned about the environment. Greg Allen NPR News Miami. 