 From NPR News I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. Robert McDonald is President Obama's choice to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs out of scandal and mismanagement and today McDonald is in front of the Senate for his confirmation hearing. He is a former CEO of Procter  Gamble he has spent most of his career with the company that sells products like laundry detergent and diapers. And to learn what this nominee could bring to the VA we are joined now by NPR congressional reporter Ailsa Chang. Hi.  Hi.  How unusual was the President's choice when he tapped McDonald to be the next VA secretary?  It was pretty unusual. I mean typically the kind of people nominated for this position are retired generals. Know McDonald does have some ties to the military. He graduated near the top of his class at West Point and then served five years in the Army where he rose to the rank of Captain. But the White House's decision to nominate McDonald signals a very different direction. It means the administration thinks that what the VA needs right now is a really great manager someone who can quickly resuscitate an agency that is been mired in inertia mismanagement and lack of accountability.  And what about a career at Proctor  Gamble would lead the White House to think that McDonald would lead an agency like the VA?  Well first of all its size. Procter  Gamble has about a 120000 employees. It owns some 300 brands worldwide. It is a complex sprawling operation just like the VA which has about 300000 employees. And there is this thinking that someone trained to listen to what customers want might actually help deliver more responsive better services to veterans. But here are the differences unlike in a business where executive decisions can come down more swiftly McDonald would have to work in a large cumbersome federal bureaucracy that often gets stonewalled by Congress. If he needs more money to do something he will have to show for Congressional hearing and get both chambers to pass it. And that is no easy task I mean look at what is happening right now both houses have agreed the VA is in crisis and needs immediate legislation to help revamp the system but that bill's been stymied for more than a month and a half now.  Well McDonald testified today. What kinds of ideas did he propose to help reform the VA system?  Well first he talked about how the VA is this loosely connected system of individual administrations and that he plans to reintegrate that system so that every employee is measured against what he calls a central strategic plan just like a Proctor  Gamble. He will more actively recruit doctors right out of medical school so they can start their careers at the VA and remain there for years. Just as many people including himself started their careers at Procter  Gamble and you know while they were young and worked their way up from the bottom. And finally McDonald says accountability will be key for him.   It is unconscionable to me that you have an organization where one of the stated values one of the stated values - the first stated value's integrity. Yet you have people lying and you have people tolerating it. The West Point honor code says I do not - we do not lie cheat steal but we do not tolerate people who do. You do not want people in your community lying.  Basically the key message McDonald telegraphed today is that he is going to be around everywhere. Every senator will have his cell phone number. But whether he will get the adequate funds to make transformations possible will still be up to Congress. That said he is expected to be confirmed easily and they are expecting a floor vote on him next week before the August break.  OK Thanks Ailsa.  You are welcome.  At NPR's was Ailsa Chang at the Capitol. 