 Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said today it is time to end a federal prohibition on marijuana - most congressional Democrats agree so do a growing number of Republicans. Trouble is lawmakers do not see eye to eye on how to do it. Callum Borchers from member station WBUR reports on that partisan divide and what is at stake for businesses caught in the middle.  Schumer has not always been an ally of marijuana enthusiasts but now he is pledging to use the power of his office to lift the federal cannabis ban.   We are going to fight to make sure it happens. My thinking of course like so many others has evolved on the issue.  The majority leader wants to clear some criminal records and impose a marijuana sales tax. Some of the money would fund a special program for cannabis entrepreneurs from neighborhoods targeted in the war on drugs. The plan is similar to a House bill called the MORE Act which stands for Marijuana Opportunity Reinvestment and Expungement. Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts is a co-sponsor and she says the lucrative marijuana marketplace must welcome people of color.   People who were disproportionately locked up and now being locked out of a multibillion-dollar industry.  The push to legalize marijuana at the federal level has Republican backers like Congressman Dave Joyce of Ohio but he is cosponsoring a narrower plan that would regulate marijuana like alcohol and enable the VA to prescribe cannabis treatments to veterans. Joyce argues that what Democrats bill as a restorative justice program would be unfair to other business owners.   You are going to tax the people who went in the industry and followed the laws of their state and we are going to then wipe the slate clean for all the people who have been in the black market against it and then subsidize them to now get in business against them? That does not make a lot of sense.  Joyce notes that under his plan states would be free to tax marijuana or launch social justice programs on their own and some already have. Leah Samura used an equity initiative in Massachusetts to get her license for a recreational marijuana store near the Harvard campus in Cambridge. There is a certain irony to the location.  First I think to be a Black woman in Harvard Square with a cannabis shop that used to be a police station I think it is just an amazing opportunity.  That is right. When Samura opens Yamba Boutique this fall she will be selling weed at a former outpost for local cops. Bringing her business to the verge of opening has not been easy. Cannabis may be legal in Massachusetts but the federal prohibition makes banks wary of issuing business loans. So Samura turned to a private investor named Shawn Hope. He is a successful attorney and real estate developer but the new marijuana venture is a stretch even for him.   Thankfully we were able to partner together. I essentially leveraged my family's worth in real estate to be able to participate. But there is tremendous risk.  Lifting the federal cannabis ban could reduce the risk by using bank lending. It could also bring the law in line with public opinion. In a recent Pew poll 91 of American adults said marijuana should at least be legal for medical use and 60 backed recreational use. Plus the vast majority of states have legalized medical or recreational marijuana already. But a bipartisan deal does not look imminent. And it remains unclear what President Biden a cannabis skeptic would be willing to sign. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki was asked about that.   The president supports leaving decisions regarding legalization for recreational use up to the states.  That sounds a bit like the status quo. Psaki added Biden wants to remove federal criminal penalties for marijuana possession but it is possible that even if a full legalization bill makes it through Congress and reaches his desk the president might veto it. For NPR News I am Callum Borchers in Boston. 