 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. Eight Republican presidential candidates take the stage tonight for a debate in Ames Iowa. It is a big week for politics there. On Saturday Iowans will cast ballots in the Ames straw poll. It is a test of voter enthusiasm and a campaign's organizational strength. Both the straw poll and the debate are set against the backdrop of the Iowa State Fair. That is where candidates and voters get a chance to mingle over fattening deep-fried novelties often on a stick. And I am joined from the fair in Des Moines by NPR national political correspondent Don Gonyea. We will get to the food on the stick in a minute but first how is the fair and what are you hearing from the candidates?  Well the fair is gorgeous beautiful weather. And the candidates have been all over this state. By one count I saw something like 100 visits by candidates this week. But ultimately it all leads to step one of this big 72 hours tonight's debate. And it just feels like in that debate it is time for them to mix it up a little more than they have. The first couple of debates have been I think it is fair to say uneventful. They have been uniform in their criticism of President Obama. And if you are struggling to break through or looking to establish yourself that just does not get it.  Now not all the candidates are actually fully participating in Saturday's straw poll and I am wondering what that means for tonight's debate. Who is considered to be the frontrunner?  Romney is certainly the national frontrunner but it feels like the frontrunner in Iowa is Michele Bachmann. This is a place where she does very well. There is a large Christian conservative base among the Iowa GOP and they are active and they turn out. Certainly she is got Tea Party support too. So in some ways we have two frontrunners but Romney has decided really not to play here in a big way. Because four years ago he invested a lot of time a lot of money he won the straw poll and then finished second in the caucus when it rolled around. So he is just dialed back the importance of this event.  Don there is something at that state fair called the soapbox. It is where candidates stand up and make a short speech and take a few questions. Mitt Romney got a pretty rough reception today it sounds like.  It got contentious pretty fast. Now there were some people in the first couple of rows who got there early. They were not Romney supporters. I would venture to say that they are not Republicans either. They seemed to be you know Democrats or progressive Democrats. And they immediately went after Romney during the question and answer asking him about corporate profits and corporate tax loopholes. Give a listen to his response.  Medicaid and Medicare are promises we can keep and there are various ways of doing that. One is we could raise taxes on people. That'  corporations.  Corporations are people my friend. We can raise taxes on - of course they are. Everything corporations earn ultimately goes to people.  Again I do not know how well you could hear people in the crowd but that was kind of the tone for much of this Romney appearance. Certainly what he was saying played well with Republicans in the crowd but you wonder how it plays more broadly than that.  What do we expect to be the dominant issue tonight?  The economy is going to be certainly a dominant issue and especially all of the events of the past week - what the markets are doing the Standard and Poor's downgrade. But again they are all in pretty much the same place on their condemnation of President Obama. The key will be how they separate themselves from one another in terms of the way forward.  Well Don we can hear a lot of activity there behind you. And since you are at the state fair I assume that you have managed to find something wonderful to eat on a stick?  I had the deep-fried stick of butter and...  How is that even possible?  Well that is all I am going to say about it.  Right. Well I hope you have some Rolaids in your pocket. Don thanks so much.  Exactly. Thank you.  That is NPR's Don Gonyea. 