 The Trump campaign claims to knock on a million doors a week. The Biden campaign has not knocked on any doors for months. Instead it has focused on outreach by phone and text. But the big unknown as NPR's Asma Khalid reports is whether any of that is as effective as pounding the pavement.  When you ask Democrats why they are not door-knocking they say they do not want to risk getting people sick in a pandemic. But Republicans are doing this work. Joe Biden's campaign manager Jen O'Malley Dillon tried to downplay the divide in a call with reporters the other day.  JEN O' While you might hear our opponents spend a lot of time talking about the millions of door knocks or attempts that they are making week to week those metrics actually do not have any impact on reaching voters.  She says Democrats are focused on quality conversations.   That is virtual that is over the phone that is over the text that is in person when that is safe and is warranted.  The Biden campaign says in August it had 2.6 million conversations with voters in battleground states. But day-to-day organizing is just not the same for a bunch of left-leaning groups supporting Biden. At this point in 2016 Working America was having about 100000 conversations a week with people on their front porches. They have had none since March.  Door-knocking is in our DNA. We believe that there is nothing - and the evidence supports this - that is as effective as a well-deployed face-to-face interaction.  Matt Morrison is the executive director.  That said what we have lost in texture and interaction face to face we have tried to make up for in scale.  Working America has built an army of volunteers writing letters and sending texts. And Morrison thinks it is working. Republicans say they are also contacting millions over the phone each week but nothing can really replace face-to-face interaction.  Everything is one side though on the ground.  That is Joe Gruters. He is the chairman of the Florida Republican Party.  We are doing our mini-rallies. We are doing the bus tours. We are doing meet-and-greets. You know it is a - we are doing in-person. The difference is is there is no opposition on the other side.  Democrats think what Republicans are doing is irresponsible. Molly Ritner is Biden's deputy states director.  We think that what voters are looking for right now is responsible leadership and that comes from the VP and what he is saying but it also comes from the campaign.  Plus she says because of the pandemic many more Americans are at home on their phones these days.  What we are finding is that we are able to actually connect and reach more people than we have been in previous cycles through the phone.  The Trump campaign says the Biden campaign is fighting a quote air war while it is investing in a muscular field operation. The Trump team requires its staffers to read this book about Barack Obama's ground game. And one of the authors is Hahrie Han a professor at Johns Hopkins.  So the Trump campaign they read the book and then they say OK. Like I need to go out and have conversations with people at the door. Like yes that is a part of it but it is part of a bigger interlocking system. You know there is a sense in which on a field side in some ways the work that is the most important can often be the most invisible.  What she means by that is that she is not sure the Trump campaign understands that Obama's team was adept at building relationships before they even got to the door. Political scientists agree that knocking on doors is a proven way to marginally boost turnout. But really David Broockman from the University of California Berkeley says even in a normal campaign year the vast majority of Americans will never get a knock on their door.  Just knocking on a door does not turn out a voter. It is having a conversation with a voter that turns out a voter.  And Broockman says you can have that conversation over the phone. In fact you can probably have more of them because he points out you save time. You do not have to walk between houses. Asma Khalid NPR News. 