 Today a major legal victory for college athletes and a big defeat for the NCAA. A federal judge has ruled that some NCAA players are entitled to payment for the use of their names images and likenesses. The anti-trust case was brought by former UCLA basketball star Ed O'Bannon and 19 other plaintiffs. NPR's sports correspondent Tom Goldman joins me to talk about today's ruling. Tom this is being considered a landmark decision. What did the judge say about which college athletes could get payment and for what exactly?  Yeah well the ruling was in favor of basically men's basketball and major college football players. So these are the one's who will benefit from the money which will be capped I should say. That is the good news for the NCAA. So we are not talking about bankrupting the NCAA here. But it will have to be at least 5000 per athlete. As this and other cases move on you know they are going to have to confront what to do about all the athletes - male and female who are you know varsity scholarship athletes in school. But the thing that separates it right now - it is the big revenue generators of men's basketball and football. They are the ones bring in the money they are the ones depicted in these video games.  And those are the sports that are also bring in billions of dollars in TV contracts. And Tom as I understand it this was considered a novel use of anti-trust law. Now the judge has ruled yeah actually this does apply here.  Well I believe anti-trust because the allegation was that the NCAA and its member colleges and universities were restricting compensation having the athletes sign documents that essentially signed away their ability to get paid for their likenesses so a restraint of trade restricting compensation. That is why the judge ruled it was an anti-trust violation.  So given this ruling this defeat for the NCAA Tom what happens now?  Well the decision can be appealed. The NCAA said today that it disagrees with the court's decision and it is reviewing the full decision and will comment more later. But just the fact that it disagrees I think we are assuming the NCAA will appeal and this thing could get locked up in court for a while longer. An earlier decision I should add prevents these players for collecting from past damages. So that was the kind of thing that could have really you know taken a big bite of the NCAA coffers.  Tom there is a bigger picture here - and that is the shifting balance of power between the NCAA and the athletes. And today's ruling clearly seems to continue a trend of the scales tipping towards the athletes.  That is absolutely right. You know yesterday we had the vote by Division I board of directors giving the so-called Power Five conferences more autonomy in rule making which in theory will allow the 65 schools in those five richest conferences to give out extra benefits to athletes - making their scholarships whole increasing health coverage even relaxing the rules about athletes you know making contact with agents while the athletes are in school. You have also got the Northwestern football players remember who you know were waiting for a decision from the NLRB whether they can unionize. That would be a major thing. And there is at least one other major lawsuit. And just in general the mood - you talk to anyone and people see the billions of dollars from TV contracts there is going to be even more money this year the first year of a college football playoff at the highest level which is going to generate even more. So the whole idea of college sports is awash in money. And today yesterday and in the future we are going to see - we probably will see more of these decisions going in favor of the athletes.  NPR's Tom Goldman. Tom thanks.  You are welcome. 