 Here Is the definition of uncomfortable. President Obama goes to Troy New York to talk up community colleges and innovation. In the audience are New York's Democratic governor and New York's Democratic attorney general. According to the New York Times the White House has asked the governor not to run for election next year. The White House evidently thinks the attorney general would stand a much better chance. Well that may be what is happening in private. But when it came to public acknowledgments of the two  Now first of all a wonderful man the Governor of the great State of New York David Paterson is in the house.  Pres.  Your shy and retiring Attorney General Andrew Cuomo is in the house.  Pres.  Andrew is doing great work.  Elizabeth Benjamin was busily blogging about this event and its subtext for the New York Daily News. What was it like? Ms.  It was weird actually to be honest with you. I mean the body language during the speech was really telling. During this shout out that the president gave to him he was not looking at the governor directly. And when he introduced the attorney general he shot him this wide smile and was very happy.  Now let us recap. Governor David Paterson was the lieutenant governor. He became governor when Eliot Spitzer resigned. Ms.  Right.  And how would you appraise Paterson's political stock in New York nowadays? Ms.  Low. Parking basement level at this point.  Ms.  I mean he really has had a tumultuous tenure. The day after he ascended to take the position there were questions and revelations about his own extramarital affairs and of course while that is not prostitution it just sort of set a tone and then subsequently there were revelations about drug use. I mean it just went downhill from there. He did have a brief moment when he was very strong on the economy and he did well then. But then the Caroline Kennedy mess was not so fantastic when he had to pick a successor for Hillary Clinton's seat when she became Obama's secretary of state and it has not really recovered since.  And how about the political stock of Attorney General Andrew Cuomo who of course is a son of former governor Mario Cuomo. Ms.  Right. He is doing quite well. I mean - and he in 2002 almost had his career go down tubes completely by challenging party favorite - who is black - former state controller Carl McCall in a primary. A long-shot primary ended up angering a lot of African-Americans and Democrats in New York. And dropped his bid and then worked his way back for a really amazing comeback in '06 and has been strong ever since. National news strong you know the students loan stuff pension fund investigation Wall Street. I mean his numbers are very very good.  And talk about comebacks is the Republican who has put the fear of God into the Democratic Party is it actually Rudy Giuliani the former Mayor of New York City?  Ms.  Rudy Giuliani. We just recycle people here in New York. Yes it is Rudy Giuliani of course. And the concern by the White House is that if David Paterson insists on running and Andrew Cuomo does not challenge him and feels like he cannot for whatever uncomfortable racial problem that might touch off then Rudy Giuliani has a good shot at taking that platform of Governor of State of New York in a blue state. And then subsequently potentially spring boarding himself back into the national scene.  Well Elizabeth Benjamin thank you very much for talking with us. Ms.  Thank you for having me.  Elizabeth Benjamin writes the Daily Politics blog for the New York Daily News.  This is NPR National Public Radio. 