 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am David Greene.  And I am Melissa Block. Here' empathy. It became a dirty word last year during the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor. While the language may have changed President Obama still wants voters to know he understands their problems now more than ever. NPR's Scott Horsley reports.  President Obama was talking with a group of supporters outside a Virginia home this week. The afternoon was warm so the president stepped out of the shadows.  I know folks in the sun are hot so I am going to stand in the sun to make sure that you know that I feel - I feel your pain.  It was a light moment but one that underscores a serious challenge for the president. A recent ABCWashington Post poll found nearly half of all Americans do not believe he understands the problems of people like themselves. That is up from just a quarter when Mr. Obama took office. And in recent days Mr. Obama has repeatedly said in effect I get it. Pres.  It breaks my heart 'ecause those are the folks that I got into politics for. You are the reason I am here.   Mr. Obama says Americans should not let their frustration turn them against one another. But University of Texas historian H.W. Brands says turning on some common opponent is how successful politicians often bond with their supporters. Professor H.W.  In American politics you make progress by identifying your enemies as much as by identifying your friends. Now Obama has come around to that. But he does not seem to take to it very natural. He does not seem to enjoy it.  Brands contrasts that with Franklin Roosevelt who reveled in attacking Wall Street and industrial fat cats. Ironically that style came more easily to the aristocratic Roosevelt than it does to Obama who is only lately returned to stressing his family's working-class roots. Pres.  My wife and I we came out of hardworking families who did not have a lot.  Mr. Obama's bootstrap biography is genuine. But no matter how humble his origins Brands says many Americans do not see the president that way. Mr.  For some reason it is kind of a personality thing. Bill Clinton could make a better case of that than Obama. Clinton was such an enthusiastic guy who was clearly somebody who would rather be eating doughnuts at the corner stand. I think it was easier for ordinary people to identify with him.  The lack of identification with President Obama shows up in everything from complaints about his cool demeanor during the oil spill to questions about his religion. Brands wonders if race may also be a factor. Mr.  It is easy enough for working-class whites to identify with a Bill Clinton type. But for the majority of people in this country who are white to identify with Barack Obama I do not know. I do not know what role it plays.  Brands recalls having dinner with the president and a small group of historians last year and says Mr. Obama seemed at ease in that gathering of intellectuals. That is not necessarily a plus for an American politician. But Brands says the president has to be true to his own personality. In the end his political fortunes are likely to depend more on whether the economy actually gets better than his ability to show an understanding of just how bad it is been. Scott Horsley NPR News the White House. 