 For some of those who are going to Cleveland next week the trip has become more of a burden than expected. There are delegates who did not know that they would be on the hook for the whole cost of casting a vote for their candidate. From member station WBEZ in Chicago Lauren Chooljian has the story of some political newcomers from Illinois.  I know. That is a little female. She is noisy .  Out here among the cornfields and wind turbines about two hours south of Chicago you will find Rita Gaus and a pack of adorable Goldendoodle puppies.  I used to do standard poodles and everybody called me and asked for Goldendoodles. So I said well we are going to try it. And it took off - and supply and demand demand and supply I guess .  On a typical summer day the Gaus family farm is home to 13 dogs a couple litters of puppies not to mention some grandkids who are all cared for by Rita and her husband. And so there is never really been much room for politics. That is until Donald J. Trump came along. Gaus said she connected with a couple of Trump Facebook groups and to her surprise someone on the Trump campaign reached out and asked her to be a delegate. She was not entirely sure what she was signing up for.  Because I asked and I said what is involved? And they said well you just get to vote you know? And I am like OK I can do that . Yeah they did not say that vote cost you five grand .  It might not cost that much but hotel rooms in Cleveland are going for more than 300 a night. There is a flat 600 fee for transportation to and from the convention and food not to mention flights or gas parking and everything else.  Oh my gosh.  Maria Hough was one of many first-time delegates who say they had no idea they would have to spend all that money on this trip.  And I am like wait a minute you know? I got to pay to go vote for my man.  This is a scene that played out many times around Illinois last fall. People completely new to politics like real estate agents a home fragrance sales woman - they called the Trump campaign looking for hats or signs and ended up as delegates to the Republican National Convention.  The traditional Chicago political joke is we do not want nobody nobody sent. And these you know - frankly these are the nobodies that nobody sent.  This is attorney Kent Gray the guy responsible for helping the Trump campaign find potential delegates in Illinois. Typically convention delegates are a mix of Congressmen party leaders or other elected officials who have access to campaign accounts to cover these costs. But this year some of Illinois' top Republicans like Senator Mark Kirk opted to skip the convention because they do not support Donald Trump. So the Trump campaign cast a wide net for delegates.  I had some that I had to make sure they were still registered to vote or they had to get - they had moved and we had to make sure they had re-registered to vote.  To cut costs some delegates are getting creative. They are bunking together in hotels or carpooling even if they do not know each other. At least six Illinois delegates have launched GoFundMe pages but only with minimal success. One delegate who is on disability is planning to put the whole trip on his credit card and figures he will be in debt for years. But regardless of the costs many of these first timers are not deterred. Maria Hough says casting her vote for Trump will be part of history.  And I really really believe in him. So I just want to make sure nobody's going to mess with me . You know if my little vote counts by God I am going to be there to do it.  But beyond casting that one vote many delegates still are not sure what else they are in for. For NPR News I am Lauren Chooljian in Chicago. 