 If you are going by the numbers these are boom times for Republicans. They control the White House and Congress. And just as importantly they dominate state governments. That grip got a bit stronger last week when West Virginia Governor Jim Justice got up on stage next to President Trump and said this.   Today I will tell you as West Virginians I cannot help you anymore being a Democrat governor.   So tomorrow I will be changing my registration to Republican.   With that Republicans now have 34 governorships. In 26 of those states Republicans control the legislature too. NPR's state politics editor Brett Neely is here to talk more about it. Hey there Brett.  Hey Audie.  So how did we get here? Because this is like a historic moment basically for modern politics and Republicans.  Yeah it is historic. Republicans have not controlled this many governor seats since 1922. And we really got here because of 2010 the midterm elections in 2010 when Republicans did so well in Congress. They also recaptured a lot of governor's mansions. They had a lot of help obviously from outside groups such as Americans for Prosperity that focused on these lower-profile races. The other thing that happened is that Democrats lost track of the ball and did not invest as much in the state level.  It is a lot of power. What have they done with it? Can you give us some examples?  We have seen a lot of tax cuts for example very aggressive efforts to reduce the influence of labor unions the expansion of gun rights stricter voter ID laws restrictions on abortion - a lot of the things that Republicans talk about as being very important to them.  And yet they are still facing a big challenge legally because of the actions they took drawing congressional districts right?  Yeah. And it is not just congressional districts. Republicans won really significant gains in 2010 and 2011 was when redistricting happened. And because Republicans were in control of so many places they were very aggressive about drawing lines in their favor. Now this fall there is going to be a really really important case in the Supreme Court. It is a case out of Wisconsin about how far state lawmakers can go in drawing those lines and whether a partisan state lawmaker can really draw a very partisan line to minimize the other party's influence in the legislature. But it would also apply to congressional districts. And because Republicans have benefited so much from drawing these lines if the Supreme Court says that partisan gerrymandering cannot be as aggressive as it is been it is going to really have a big impact on their state influence.  Right. We are talking about elections then. So looking ahead how much ground do Republicans have to defend?  Well in a lot of ways they are a victim of their own success right? Between now and November 2018 Republicans have to defend 27 of the 38 governor's seats that are going to be up for election. And it is going to include some really large and important states like Florida and Michigan and Ohio. And you know one of the things that is also a challenge is that unified government does not always mean a harmonious government. You know you look at a place like Kansas where Republicans eventually revolted against Governor Sam Brownback's tax cut plans and they voted to raise taxes earlier this year. So there could also be some very challenging primary fights for Republicans. But it is very early in the cycle. We do not know how things are always going to turn out. And you know there are some instances where Republicans are doing surprisingly well. They have got a series of governors in the Northeast in what are considered pretty Democratic-leaning states. And those governors are all quite popular and do not seem to be in any danger of losing their job so far.  What about Democrats? What is their plan going forward?  I mean I think that they are really betting that President Trump is going to remain unpopular. And they are really betting that their voters are going to be highly motivated to come out...  So you - the local races will be national.  Everything will be nationalized. That is really part of their plan. They are actively raising a lot of money. President Obama is very involved in that effort. But there is a lot of work to do. And I will give you one example from Virginia which is going to have legislative elections later this year. Democrats have been really proud of their efforts to recruit candidates to run for the Statehouse there. In 2015 they only had candidates in 39 of the state's 100 districts. So this year they have got 67 candidates - great. You know that is a big improvement over where they were before. But boy that means that there are still 33 seats where they cannot even find a candidate to run. That just shows you how far Democrats have to go.  That is NPR's state politics editor Brett Neely. Brett thanks for explaining it.  Thank you Audie.  