 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. President Obama gave a late-afternoon talk to the nation this afternoon and it came with two headlines. First he said that he had just spoken with Iran's new president. That is the first time that an Iranian and an American president had spoken directly in more than three decades. We will have some more on that a little later. But first the president's other headline. Three days - that is how long Congress has to pass a short-term spending bill and avert a partial government shutdown. President Obama urged House Republicans to act quickly. He wants them to pass the stopgap spending bill approved earlier today by the Democratically controlled Senate.  I realize that a lot of what is taking place right now is political grandstanding but this grandstanding has real effects on real people.  Despite the president's tough words it is not clear how this will play out. As NPR's Tamara Keith reports even the next move is uncertain.  As expected earlier today the Senate passed a bill to keep the government funded through the middle of November. And over the very loud objections of a handful of Senate Republicans as expected it keeps Obamacare intact. This is where the predictable part of the shutdown showdown comes to a close. It is anyone's guess what the House will do next. Richard Hudson is a North Carolina Republican and a member of the House whip team.  I honestly think we do not have a - we have not coalesced around a consensus yet. But hopefully we can get together and do that.  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi is largely left on the sidelines watching and wondering how it is going to turn out.  I do not know that they even know what they are doing. So it is impossible to say how we might react to something that they do not even know yet what they are going to suggest.  Even people in the room with House Republican leaders are not sure. When asked GOP aides shrugged. Oklahoma Republican Tom Cole who is closely allied with the speaker says the House will send something back to the Senate. But what that is not clear yet. In order for House Republicans to pass something he says they will need near total unity.  You cannot count on any Democratic votes for this. So pretty quickly get to 180 or 190 on anything the leadership's for. But then you have got to go find the last 25 30 votes and that is a painstaking and time-consuming process.  There are lots of ideas floating around. Cole would prefer to attach something small like a rollback of the medical devices tax that is part of the health care law.  Now that may be smaller ball than a lot of people want to play but I think if it moves me in the right direction I am willing to take a first down instead of a touchdown any day.  But hardliners in the conference want to keep going for that touchdown. Some want to again pass a bill that defunds Obamacare. Others want a one-year delay. For his part Texas Senator Ted Cruz who has been driving the Obamacare fight is encouraging House Republicans to stand strong.  And I hope and believe that when the House takes this up again House Republicans will continue to stand together on the side of the American people. And I am also hopeful when the House sends the bill back that it will be an opportunity for every Senate Republican to come home to stand for the principles that we all share to stand with the American people.  House Republicans are expected to huddle tomorrow in their usual meeting room in the basement of the Capitol to try and settle on a path forward. And Senate Democrats have a message for them.  We are not going to be extorted. The country's not going to be extorted.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid says he will not accept any changes to the bill related to Obamacare.  Let them send us whatever they are going to send us and we will send it right back to them stripped of all this craziness that they have. So we have made it clear the only way to keep the government open is to just do the right thing.  To Reid doing the right thing means accepting the Senate's Clean Spending Bill. Many believe it could pass the House today if Speaker John Boehner would just bring it up for a vote. But that would mean alienating those in his own party including Congressman Hudson.  I think it would be devastating to the speaker's support in the conference.  So how can the Speaker satisfy his flock? For Hudson it is really all about Obamacare.  I am for whatever we can do to delay it and would prefer not to shut the government down. But it is more important to me that we stop the law.  Even more important he says than getting re-elected. The shutdown starts Monday at midnight. Tamara Keith NPR News the Capitol. 