 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. Congress has been racking up record-low scores with the American people in polls recently. In a few minutes we will hear more about those numbers. First though  town hall meetings.  It is August lawmakers are back in their districts. But this year many are choosing not to hold the typical town hall meeting. NPR's Peter Overby has that story through the eyes of one Republican freshman. NPR's Peter Overby has that story through the eyes of one Republican freshman.  When Chip Cravaack was running for Congress last year he told the same story over and over about how a town hall meeting - or the lack of one - had gotten him into politics. Cravaack was running in Minnesota's 8th District. He would tell voters that in the summer of 2009 - that summer of Tea Party protesters filling town halls - he and some other Tea Party supporters went to the Democratic congressman's office to ask for a town hall meeting on health care. Here's Cravaack in a video by a group called the Minnesota Freedom Council.   And we walked in. We talked to the staffer there for about oh gosh two and a half hours and - requesting a town hall meeting. And finally I guess he got fed up with us and he said the congressman's too busy to meet with you.  Cravaack says that unhappy experience eventually led him to run as a Republican against the 18-term incumbent and win.  I hope they are paying attention in Washington.   The 8th District is huge - 27000 square miles. It is pretty sparsely populated except for Duluth the one big city which is also where the regional TV stations are based. When Cravaack came home for the August break he did not schedule a town hall meeting in Duluth.  I will do my best to get to Duluth when I can.  He made that comment earlier this month. Now there is nothing in the House rules that makes lawmakers hold town hall meetings. There is just a long tradition and the notion of Norman Rockwell's small-D democracy. Still even after the vitriol of the 2009 forums some observers argue that lawmakers have an obligation. Dave Walker was formerly Congress's chief auditor.  Quite frankly it is part of the job of a member of Congress to engage with their constituents and to meet with the public in open forums.   Walker is a founder of the nonpartisan group No Labels. It calls for less hyper-partisanship in Washington. No Labels polled congressional offices and it says 60 percent of members did not plan any town hall meetings this month. Democrats were worse offenders than Republicans the study said notwithstanding media reports of GOP lawmakers avoiding or limiting their meetings. Republican Cravaack is not against town halls. He had two of them this month. But both were a hundred miles or more outside of Duluth. He did get to Duluth for private meetings. And liberal activists latched onto something that looked almost like an open forum - but not quite.   What do we want?  Town halls.  When do we want it?  Now!  It was an invitation-only 10-a-plate luncheon this week hosted by local members of the National Federation of Independent Business. The NFIB had backed Cravaack's campaign. So when he got to the NFIB luncheon on Tuesday protesters were already there. But Cravaack had anticipated them.  You guys want a town hall?  You want a town hall?  Yeah.  OK. Be at the airport tomorrow 4 oclock.  He said later that his schedule had opened up. On Wednesday afternoon he started the long-awaited Duluth town hall with a plea for civility.  So we can hear each other and have a good dialogue between each other so I can get what you need me to hear.  The emotional peak may have come late in the session. A college student challenged Cravaack's assertion that programs must be cut now to spare future taxpayers.  And this is the future speaking asking why you are not raising taxes on people who can afford it?   She and Cravaack did not come to an agreement. But in the hour-long meeting nobody threatened anyone else either which on the civility front is progress from two years ago. Peter Overby NPR News. 