 Today in Raleigh North Carolina more than 100 family members and friends packed a federal courtroom for a bail hearing. They were there to support seven men who have been arrested. They face a variety of terrorism charges for conspiring to commit acts overseas. Our story comes from Leoneda Inge of North Carolina Public Radio.  The U.S. district courtroom filled up fast this morning as people came to see the terrorism suspects. Six of the men are U.S. citizens and another is a legal resident. The government contends Daniel Boyd is the ring leader of the group of suspects. His sons are also in custody. Carol Abuomar lives just south of Raleigh. She says she knows the Boyd family. And she calls Daniel Boyd Saifullah. Ms.  Knowing Saifullah and his family we know that they are good people. They are really good people. And they would do anything for anybody non-Muslims and Muslims alike.  But testimony today from FBI Special Agent Mike Sutton paints a different picture of 39-year-old Daniel Boyd. Sutton says Boyd talked of loving jihad and despising a U.S. military presence at Muslim holy sites. Federal officials played several recordings of what they say was Boyd talking to his family and a witness. In one  Muslims must be protected at all costs. Scott Silliman is the director of Duke's Center of Law Ethics and National Security. He says it is understandable why homegrown terrorist groups come together. Mr.  And it is this sort of religious rhetoric that is very very influential basically on a young man who seems to be concerned about doing something in the world and becomes disenchanted with his life in the United States.  Many of the people who came to watch the proceedings were teenagers and young adults like Faraz Fareed a University of North Carolina student. Fareed says two of his friends were in court today wearing orange jumpsuits and shackles. Mr.  We are still waiting to see what credible evidence they have that they were actually you know supporting or did they take an active role in it you know? As far as I know they just look like they just got dragged into it. But I mean we will see.  As the seven men marched out of the courtroom during a break from the bail hearing  This is a setup. Legal experts say it could take a year for the trial to begin. For NPR News I am Leoneda Inge in Durham North Carolina. 