 Just how far was the Trump Justice Department willing to go to investigate leaks as the Russia investigations played out? Pretty far it turns out. In recent weeks we have learned the DOJ secretly obtained phone records for reporters who were breaking stories at The New York Times The Washington Post and CNN. Now The Times has broken this story. Prosecutors also subpoenaed records from the accounts of Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee as well as staffers and family members including a minor. The Justice Department's own inspector general is launching a review. Democratic senators are calling for testimony. And we are going to question one of the lawmakers whose records were seized Congressman Eric Swalwell of California. And he joins us now. Congressman welcome.  Thanks for having me back.  How did you first learn about this?  By an email that I almost deleted. I thought it was spam. And then when I read it carefully it was clear that Apple had complied with a Department of Justice records request. From there I learned just as everyone else has that was a part of a larger effort to target Chairman Schiff myself and staffers on the Intelligence Committee at a time that we were doing our job to hold the president accountable.  I will just let listeners in on that you are - we are on a cellphone to you. You are in the car on the way to the airport. So we will try to bear with this line. If I repeat things it is because it is coming in...  Sure.  ...A little bit garbled. But I mean just what went through your mind when you did figure out this was an email you should pay attention to? What was your reaction?  I was very troubled that the department would do this you know and especially once I had learned. Because the real national security threat was not Chairman Schiff or myself or our staffers. It was the acts of Michael Flynn and the Trump administration and people who were you know abusing power and drawing us close to Russia. So this is not about me or Mr. Schiff. And it is really about a president who would weaponize the Department of Justice to go after his political opponents.  You mentioned Mr. Schiff. That is Adam Schiff who at the time was the ranking Democrat. He is now chair of the Intelligence Committee. He and you are the two that we have confirmed so far whose records were subpoenaed. To your knowledge did it go wider than that? Anyone else?  I know staff were also subpoenaed. I know that - family members of those subpoenaed including a minor a child. I am not aware of other members. And that is why I support Chairman Schiff's call for an inspector general report. And reading public reporting it looks like we are headed that way. And that should get to the bottom of this to make sure that there is real consequences for people who may have violated the law.  This was reportedly in the service of finding out who might have been leaking to reporters. So let me ask you for the record were you leaking to reporters?  No. No. I did not then and I have not since.  If the Justice Department had legitimate reason to believe that the House Intelligence Committee was a source of leaks of classified information is there anything wrong with them subpoenaing the records and trying to find out what was going on?  Well if you have a good legal reason you know probable cause. But just because Donald Trump would on a daily basis identify Adam Schiff as a leaker that does not give you probable cause. And so you have to develop an investigation not just have a wide fishy expedition which is what it looks like. This was - I am really troubled that this lasted for so long from multiple attorneys general. And it looks like it is only shut down recently.  You are referring to - we are told that this began when Jeff Sessions was attorney general that it went dormant for a bit and then was revived under Bill Barr President Trump's - former President Trump's last attorney general. What does that tell you about how determined that administration was to go after leakers?  We saw a pattern in the Trump administration a determination to go after political opponents and so - the smear-and-clear operation against Masha Yovanovitch in Ukraine the effort to try and have the Ukrainians put dirt on his perceived presidential opponent at the time Joe Biden. And then of course to go after members of the House Intelligence Committee. Look. I am not above the law. Chairman Schiff's not above the law. But this is a pattern of going after political opponents. And it is not based on any evidence that he or I did anything wrong. And we did not which is why the investigation rightfully has been called.  Well let me ask what next? We know that the Senate Judiciary Committee says that they want testimony from Barr from Sessions. They are prepared to subpoena if they need to. Will the House Intelligence Committee investigate it squaring the circle in a way investigating the investigation  of your committee?  Yeah. Well I think the inspector general investigation is important. I will leave it to Chairman Schiff and Speaker Pelosi and other committees who may have jurisdiction to decide what is next. But look. This is not a 500-year flood right? This is a president who is seeking to come back in power tells people he may be reinstated by August may run again in 2024. And I do not think he will be so patient next time to wait for the Department of Justice to do his dirty business. And he may just say that whoever the political opponent is should just be thrown in jail and to hell with an investigation. And that is what worries me if we do not do anything to remedy this.  That is Congressman Eric Swalwell Democrat of California. We caught him on his cellphone headed to the airport. Safe travels and thanks for taking the time.  Sounds good. All right. Thank you.  And NPR has reached out to the Justice Department and former AG Jeff Sessions. They are declining comment. And we have so far been unable to reach former Attorney General Barr. 