 The capping of the oil flow off the Gulf Coast may only be temporary. Engineers are now trying to decide whether it is safe to keep the oil well closed or if they need to open it up and try once again to capture the oil. In any event the star of the show is a plucky little piece of equipment called a 3-ram stack. It sits on top of the well. We have asked NPR's Richard Harris to answer a few of our lingering questions about this heroic piece of equipment. Richard I am glad you are here once again to help us understand this.  Sure.  And first remind us again what exactly this thing is doing.  Well the 3-ram stack is part of what BP calls a sealing cap which as the name suggests is sealing the top of the well. And basicall the rams are valves that can slam shut in the case of an emergency. And when they closed the valves yesterday the oil stopped flowing into the Gulf. That is why it is sort of heroic.  Heroic but how long had they been working on this?  Well conceptually BP says they have been working on this since the very beginning. But they were actually making - tailor-making little changes to this final product right up to the very end. In fact they even modified it after they installed it on Monday because one part of the stack started leaking. So they actually took a replacement they had built and had on hand - on standby just in case. They lowered it down a cable one mile to the seafloor and they installed it down there.  All this sounds like it is very expensive particularly since you are building custom parts and then bringing spare parts and then having things at the ready that you might or might not have to use. Any idea what this costs?  Well I called BP today and they said they have no number for it but it is clearly a vanishingly small sliver of the 3.5 billion that they have spent so far on the spill. I also talked to David Summers an emeritus professor of mining engineering at Missouri University of Science and Technology. He also writes for a popular oil and gas website called the oildrum.com which has been following this disaster since day one. And Summer says the real cost to BP has not been so much in dollars as it has been in reputation particularly in light of some of the spectacular failures that we have talking about that preceded this success.  Every time they put something in there and it does not work they get that much more egg on their face. So the pressure to be sure that this time it is going to work is really what was driving the whole thing.  And that meant not only getting the hardware right but testing it and rehearsing it carefully before they actually got down to business which they did.  Now obviously this key piece of equipment is coming very late in the process. We are now almost three months into this disaster. Should they maybe have built this ahead of time and had it on standby? And is this the kind of thing that might be required for all oil wells deepwater oil wells in the future?  Well we will have to see what the regulations in the future are. But I must say that the delay here was not just not having the equipment on hand it was also really not knowing what to do here. Because you may recall that there was a lot of focus not so very long ago on this top kill procedure. And if that had worked they would not actually have needed this stack at all. So that said David Summers says he is sure that looking forward the oil and gas industry will plan to have all sorts of gear standing by in case anything like this happens again. Prof.  But they are going to have to engineer them to make them flexible so that even if they owned a variety of different wells - because you know every well is in a different geology and a different location under different levels of water. So you know you cannot design too specifically to any one particular instance.  And let us remember that this story is not over yet. The 3-ram stack is a critical piece but it is only a piece of the solution and that has not yet come to fruition.  Thank you very much Richard and thanks so much for all your work on this story.  My pleasure.  That is NPR's Richard Harris. 