 Republicans in swing states continue to fight a battle over last year's presidential election. Donald Trump's false claims of voter fraud have inspired lawmakers in Arizona Wisconsin and Georgia among others to pass new laws and pursue investigations. In Pennsylvania the state Senate just approved subpoenas seeking the personal information of millions of voters. Pennsylvania's attorney general is a Democrat who has vowed to fight the subpoenas and protect voter information. Attorney General Josh Shapiro - no relation - welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Good to be with you.  What are the stakes here?  I think our democracy is on the line. It is been on the line in the courtroom where we have pushed back efforts to disenfranchise voters every single time. It is been on the line in state capitols where laws are being pushed to make it harder for people to access the ballot box. All of those items are interconnected and they all are based upon the big lie. And so we are pushing back in court and we are pushing back in the court of public opinion. And we are winning to protect the good people of Pennsylvania.  Well I want to talk about that broader issue and the question of whether Democrats are winning. But first to get specific with these subpoenas a lot of the information being sought is already public. So what are you afraid is going to happen if Republicans get the information that they are seeking?  Well the subpoenas only highlight how the Republican leaders in Pennsylvania continue to really try and manufacture controversy out of nothing. As you correctly noted they already have the vast majority of this data. Anyone can have it. It is publicly available. But they are also seeking the private personal information of 7 million voters - things like driver's license numbers and Social Security numbers. And they have absolutely no business prying into this personal data and they do not...  And what are you afraid will happen if they get that information?  We have laws in this commonwealth and statutory interpretation - constitutional interpretation pardon me - by our state Supreme Court that places a premium on personal privacy in Pennsylvania. And so they cannot simply take this private data and give it to a third party and follow the law.  What makes you believe they are going to give that to a third party? I mean would there be anything wrong with lawmakers getting that data and keeping it for their own investigation?  They have already indicated that they are going to give it to a third party and I believe that violates the law in Pennsylvania.  If the alternative is for Republican lawmakers to write new election rules without going through this process first without a thorough investigation would not you rather policymakers actually have access to the data before writing new rules?  If lawmakers were honestly and forthrightly trying to examine all of the different aspects of the election and listen to the local clerks who by the way have told them what reforms would be necessary like early canvassing of mail-in ballots I would applaud them for that. But that is not what this is. Understand that before they launched this sham audit the only person they checked in with to make sure he was comfortable was Donald Trump. Furthermore we have had two legal audits in Pennsylvania that have confirmed the results of the election - that at the presidential level Joe Biden won by just over 80000 votes.  Democrats in the state Senate are in the minority in Pennsylvania and they filed a lawsuit trying to block the subpoenas. What other options are available to you?  Well I am happy to see that the Pennsylvania Senate Democrats filed their own litigation. As for my office we have a lot of legal options at our disposal. We have a very strong winning record when it comes to protecting the will of the people and protecting the sanctity of the vote.  You said at the beginning of this conversation that Democrats are winning this fight. To many people that is not how it looks. I mean what makes you say that? I look at the number of states where partisan audits are going forward where legislation is passing - it doesn' Because we have a safe and secure free and fair election that is been audited twice the attempts to try and roll back our laws and make it harder for people to vote have not gone through - again thanks to the veto pen of our governor.  So you mean in Pennsylvania specifically not necessarily across the country.  That is correct Ari. And here this sham audit is not going to be successful. I want to be very clear for anyone fearful that their privacy is going to be compromised because of this stunt I got you. You simply cannot take the personal data of 7 million Pennsylvanians hand it over to some unknown third party in service to the former president. That will not happen here.  So Pennsylvania has a Democratic governor who is committed to vetoing this kind of legislation. But when you look across the country what do you think your party needs to do to win this broader fight over voter access?  I do not think it is about my party winning the fight respectfully Ari - I will just push back on you - I think it is about all Americans coming together to win this fight. I think it happens by speaking truth. I think it happens by voting out of office the people who are willing to put themselves and the big lie before our Constitution. We have real challenges in this country. We should have spirited debates over health care policy and tax policy and infrastructure policy yet we cannot do that. We cannot address the real issues facing the good people of the United States of America until we get past this. And that is going to require speaking truth and it is going to require voting these people out who further the big lie.  That is Pennsylvania's attorney general Josh Shapiro a Democrat. Thank you for talking with us today.  Thank you Ari. 