 We are joined now by Sheldon Whitehouse Democrat of Rhode Island and member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Welcome to the program.  Thank you - wonderful to be with you.  So help us put this all in context. Where are you focusing your efforts at the moment? Is it with encouraging colleagues like Joe Manchin to vote against Kavanaugh or is it pressuring uncommitted Republicans?  It is two things. One it is trying to broaden the public's understanding of this whole nomination's process to consider all of the private behind-closed-doors special interest prescreening that was done under the auspices of the Federalist Society. It is to understand a little bit better what all of this dark money that is out campaigning for Justice Kavanaugh's all about and then to focus on how that has come through to the court with other nominees in terms of those same special interests now being in front of the court with amicus briefs and then winning really big decisions from the court. So Kavanaugh steps into a much larger process and I am trying to bring some attention to the special interest influence in that larger process.  At the same time there are outside groups liberal activists who are also trying to pressure people to vote no on Kavanaugh pouring money into that effort. Are you working with them?  Nope. They are out there doing their own thing. The other issue obviously we are working on is trying to see what we are going to get our hands on in the Judiciary Committee by way of documents and so that is an ongoing unknown question.  You mention these documents. We have heard Minority Leader Senator Schumer also call for the release of documents from Kavanaugh's time in the Bush administration. What is your response to progressive activists who say hey he is been on the bench 12 years we know what we do not like already why are you guys focusing on documents?  Because cases are going to come up before him and the documents that he is been involved with that reflect his prior views may be important in understanding how he is going to rule in the future. Probably the most dangerous prospect for this nominee is that he is being put on the court by President Trump with the specific expectation that if the Mueller investigation comes before the Supreme Court in any way he will rule to limit or inhibit the Mueller investigation.  And is there evidence of this in his past that you think leads to be the case?  Yes. There are things that he has said about the scope of executive power and the need for executive power to be uninhibited by any kind of judicial or law enforcement investigation that I think open up a broad area of very legitimate inquiry. And of course he would have looked into that as staff secretary at the White House when any investigations came up. So there is a whole series of areas in which he is on record that the archives of the Bush presidency or the National Archives have. And we believe we should have access to those materials. And if there is nothing there we obviously will not bring them up. It is going to be a lot of work to look through them but I think that is part of our responsibility.  Before I let you go progressive activists are saying they want Democrats to put up a fight no matter what to the end. In the meantime we have an NPR poll last week that found for a lot of Democrats in terms of voters the battle over the Supreme Court nominee just is not really a huge motivator - right? - to get out there to the ballot. Is that a problem for you?  Well I have got a much simpler task. I am a United States senator. I sit on the Judiciary Committee. I represent the state of Rhode Island. And I have a very clear duty to look at all Supreme Court nominees and make sure that they will judge fairly and honorably that there are not any side deals that they have entered into in return for their place on the court and that Rhode Islanders of whatever stripe can be - can expect to be treated fairly before this court.  And on that point will you be meeting with Brett Kavanaugh?  I expect so. It is an ordinary courtesy particularly for somebody on the Judiciary Committee to meet with the candidate before the hearing.  Senator Sheldon Whitehouse Democrat from Rhode Island thank you so much for speaking with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thanks Audie. Good to be with you. 