 Speaking of protests they are not limited to college campuses these days. On any given weekend activists on either side can likely find a rally to join. But on the left NPR's Vanessa Romo found activists trying to make spending a part of the anti-Trump resistance.  Allyson Kapin identifies as a super liberal who used to feel deeply bummed whenever President Trump went on a Twitter rampage. But Kapin is no ordinary lefty. She is the brains behind Women Who Tech so she is an entrepreneurial techie who makes things like this.  America's swear jar but for toxic ideology.  It is her latest creation an app called We Can Resist It that launched late last month. And this is how it works.  Every time Trump tweets something dangerous or hateful the applet you automatically donate to a nonprofit that is fighting to protect our democracy.  It is one piece of a national movement of anti-Trump pro-cotts  - think the opposite of a boycott. And an increasing number of these inventions are intended to target one sliver of the so-called resistance says Kapin.  We are really seeking to engage all the people who are just brand new to politics. They showed up for the first time in their lives at marches and they were left asking what is next?  She says if Democratic organizers do not have an answer and a plan then there is no way they will gain control of the House in 2018 and take back the presidency in 2020. Nate Lerner agrees which is why he is also targeting this new generation of novice activists with his Boycott Trump app. He says voters do not have to wait for another election.  They can still speak through their wallets and through their purchasing power every day. We want to remind them of that and give them the ability to take action through that.  The app which is essentially a database of businesses with ties to the Trump administration tells people what to buy and what to leave on the shelf. So an anti-Trump chocaholic with a cat who likes the occasional beer can buy a Milky Way bar and Whiskas kitty treats but definitely avoid those Coors Light Tallboys. Why? Because the CEO of the beer company held a fundraiser for Trump. And Lerner's app does something else. It connects users to executives at pro-Trump companies.  You know for example when the ACA was being repealed folks would contact their representatives. But we want to push people to also contact these companies and say hey you are supporting a president who is threatening our health care system.  The ability to reach these disaffected people and turn them into disaffected consumers is probably greater now than it is ever been.  That is Joel Naroff. He is an economic strategist. And he says social media and smartphones have made it far easier for consumers to express their political leanings at the cash register. And that is appealing for some big companies which explains why many out themselves. But here's an ironic twist. The apps that are encouraging the lefty shopping activism are also being used by conservatives to find out what not to buy. So for every Milky Way bar that someone on the left is buying someone on the right is picking up a Coors Light six-pack. Vanessa Romo NPR News Washington. 