 Well joining us now to talk about what all of this means is NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Hi Mara.  Hi Robert.  What is happening here? Is all this theater or did today's dueling news conferences actually serve some purpose?  Well it is theater in the sense that it did not seem to do anything to advance what was happening inside the room which as far as we understand right now is very little. The president continues to appeal to his target audience which is independent voters  I am ready to compromise. I am ready to tell my Democrats that entitlements have to be reformed - in the case of Medicare in order to help reduce the deficit in the case of Social Security to strengthen it for future generations. So he is trying to make clear he is willing to move to the middle do something about his side's sacred cows but the Republicans will not budge.  And Speaker Boehner?  And then Speaker Boehner on the other hand is playing to his own conservative base his anti-tax base. He did try briefly to sell the idea of a grand bargain but he gave up on Saturday because it would involve the Republicans moving even temporarily on taxes. And he was back to his old talking points today.  The grand bargain would have been several trillion dollars in cuts including some tax increases.  Including some tax increases and that did not fly.  Do we have a clear sense at this point of what President Obama's bottom line is and what the Republicans' bottom line is?  Well we know the president and Democratic leaders in Congress do not want to touch Medicare benefits. They are willing to squeeze Medicare in some ways but not benefits. We also know that Democrats and the president insist on some kind of tax hikes in revenue increases if they are going to agree to deep spending cuts. And the latest ratios they were discussing in the talks were about 4-1 or 5-1 spending cuts to tax hikes.  Mm-hmm.  For Republicans we have heard many say no tax increases at all not even closing loopholes on corporate jet owners. Other times they say no net tax hikes which would presumably make room for closing some loopholes with some offsetting tax cuts such as the one the president himself wants which is an extension of the Social Security payroll tax cut that he negotiated in December. Others - Republicans say no tax rate hike.  Mm-hmm.  No one is talking about a rate hike at least in the short term. So I do not think we are crystal clear about where their lines on the sand are.  Well one reading of this is that it is just insoluble. I mean you cannot reconcile those two positions.  Well that is a perfectly fair - that is a perfectly fair reading of this. At the moment it does not look like there is a path to solving this problem but the markets have not weighed in yet. And many veterans of past budget fights think there will have to be a negative market reaction in order to break this impasse.  As you have said President Obama has his eye on independent voters. Speaker Boehner has his eye on the conservative Republican base. Is it possible to tell who is actually winning politically so far in this?  I think everybody is losing. The speaker of the House definitely loses. He looks like he could not lead his troops this weekend. He floated this bargain and it got shut down and he immediately retreated. President Obama is the one that stood to gain the most from a deal. And without one you would have to say he is just stuck with a deteriorating recovery and more evidence that he was not able to bridge differences and make government work. One thing I was struck by in his press conference is where he decried the political process where folks are rewarded for saying irresponsible things to win elections - he often says that.  Mm-hmm.  But he said so when we are actually in a position to try to do something hard we have not always laid the groundwork for it. And even though everyone said they wanted deficit reduction both sides say they want tax reform that lowers rates and broadens the base neither leader laid the groundwork to do this huge grand bargain. They cooked this up on the golf course two weeks ago. They tried to sell it to their respective bases. But it strikes me that something of this magnitude and complexity needed a lot of groundwork a lot of explaining and education to sell it to the country and the Congress.  I want you to define one other element here which was the sort of package that the Biden group was negotiating the smaller deal. What is that understood to be?  That is understood to be weighted towards spending cuts a lot of spending cuts. But the Democrats were saying if you are going to do that much spending cuts we need some tax increases. We need some loophole closings. And there are some loophole closings the Republicans were willing to consider if they got tax cuts that offset them some they were not. They had not gotten to 2 trillion which is what the Republicans say they want. Republicans were also balking at defense cuts.  Mm-hmm.  So they were still a far way away. That deal would not have big structural reforms in Medicare. It would not solve the deficit over the long term. It would take a bite out of the problem.  And so the talks continue this week.  Talks continue.  Thank you Mara.  Thank you.  NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson. 