 Right. As a matter of fact we talked to delegates in Colorado from New Hampshire from Ohio. We had to meet them at their early breakfast to get a word in and we heard to start from Chris Liquori. He is from Portsmouth N.H. And he was saying that he was just stunned at what the email hack revealed.  I think I posted 42 different Facebook statuses about her resignation.  The tone of those status updates...  I remember speaking with you about a month ago saying you know it needed to happen yesterday a month ago.  So now that it is finally happened you are feeling...  Sweet release.  Liquori was at the New Hampshire delegation breakfast at a local hotel. That is where people pick up convention hall passes and of course gift bags. That is where you got your tote bag and everything .  Yep.  The swag bag...  Yep all the gear.  What is in it this year?  I have not even looked yet - a thermos a couple of thermoses stickers some food I guess.  But Liquori says it is hard for him to enjoy it given how upset he is about what hackers revealed in the DNC emails. Sweet release is not the half of what he is feeling. We found a quieter place in the delegate hotel lobby to hear more.  We need someone that is actually going to be neutral running the DNC. I mean this is just completely crazy what Debbie Wasserman Schultz has gotten away with doing and I think all of the staffers that were involved in these email leaks need to go too. I think people need to lose their jobs over this because nobody has any faith in the party anymore.  And similar scenes played out among the Sanders supporters over half-eaten bagels and buffet food warmers of scrambled eggs. We visited three different hotels where delegates were in the halls shaking their heads. You could hear snatches of can you believe as you made your way through the crowds. But this is not just about the logistics of what happens next - apologies recriminations the next in line to lead the party. Thirty-six-year-old Ohio delegate Gigi Traore says it is about trust and the DNC broke it.  We are in this rut of constantly doing wrong. So it is like how do you trust a party like that and how do you go out and be an activist an organizer and support the party when we are constantly having these issues arise?  And that distrust extends to the Democratic nominee herself. Gigi Traore already sees Clinton as being in a state of perpetual scandal. She refers to Hillary Clinton stiffly as Mrs. Clinton. What is your reluctance behind putting that energy behind Hillary Clinton? What is holding you back?  It is a trust issue. If the Clinton campaign or Mrs. Clinton herself will come and say I apologize for X Y Z - like take ownership of what she did do wrong instead of scapegoating around it or nobody asked me - that is not what a leader does. A leader shows up and says you know what I messed up I apologize. That for me would be like refreshing.  So what is next? Traore is resolutely against Donald Trump. But when it comes to knocking on doors putting in the work voting for Hillary Clinton...  Something miraculous may happen between now and Thursday. They sky may open up and God may say Gigi this is it - but as of right now no.  Anita Lynch of Denver is also unsure. She says the progressive left is looking for some wins and the party has made some nods in their direction. The party's reviewing the use of superdelegates the party officials who get to vote any way they like in the nomination process. And Lynch credits Sanders for influencing the party platform in ways that would have been unimaginable years before like a call to abolish the death penalty and support for a 15 minimum wage. Do you think that he has had a profound influence in the direction of the party and voters like yourself have had an influence and is that enough for you?  The first part - I agree. Absolutely it is had an influence on our party. It is pushed our party further left. And your second question was...  Is it enough?  Is that enough - not for me no and not for most of our Colorado delegation.  Seventy-four-year-old Anita Lynch takes the long view. She is not just thinking about whether or not she will vote for Hillary Clinton this fall. It is too soon and her feelings are too raw to answer that right now. For her it is about all those enthusiastic kids she is met along the way.  Because I think for a lot of young people they do not - and this is not a criticism - they do not have life's experiences. You know when you have lived - Bernie and I have lived 74 years and you see the waxes and wanes of things. It is not about the immediate gratification. Even if I try to talk to them and say hey wait this out trust that you know we can make things better they do not have that long-term perspective to know that.  And back here in the convention hall we actually received a text later on today from Anita Lynch - Scott Horsley she is from your home town of Denver - saying quote it is wild in here we Bernie people are not happy campers. Talk about the ways the party has tried to mollify Sanders' supporters.  Well they have done a number of things. We mentioned Wasserman Schultz's resignation and then agreeing to even hand over the gavel for this convention. There is also a primetime speaking role tonight for Elizabeth Warren darling of the party's progressive wing. And as you mentioned the DNC has agreed to a study of the way future primaries are conduction to de-emphasize the roll of those superdelegates who overwhelmingly backed Hillary Clinton this year. We just heard a short time ago a presentation about that recommendation to study superdelegates both from a spokesperson from the Clinton camp and for the Sanders camp. And that certainly got some of the loudest applause that we have heard this evening.  One of the loudest boos of course for the platform where there is no mention now of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Obviously that is a bone of contention still.  Bernie Sanders' supporters tried to get a TPP plank installed in the platform. It is notable that both Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine the - her running mate - who were supporters of the TPP initially have both backed away from that support. But there is obviously still a great deal of skepticism in the hall. A short time ago we heard loud and lengthy chants - no TPP.  So compared to the RNC what are we seeing here?   You know we are seeing some of the same fractures that we saw at the RNC. Neither of these parties is wholly united but I - if anything I would say that the fault lines are louder and deeper on the Democratic side than they were on the Republican side. That is even though organizers here hope to present what they say will be a more positive optimistic message than the gloom and doom that we heard a lot of last weekend in Cleveland.  That is NPR's Scott Horsley here with me at the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia. We will have more throughout the night. 