 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. In states that have opted to run their own health insurance marketplaces the Affordable Care Act is developing something of a personality. Whether through humor catchy jingles or as straight talk  to persuade uninsured Americans to buy health insurance as required by the federal health law. California has rolled out the first ads in its campaign. And as Stephanie O'Neill from member station KPCC reports it is taking a no-nonsense approach. STEPHANIE O' California's 80 million ad campaign is targeting about 5 million uninsured residents who qualify to buy health insurance on the state-run marketplace called Covered California.  O' Phase one began airing on Labor Day in three test markets and includes this spot that takes viewers on a sort of road trip through California with highway signs welcoming them to what the narrator describes as a new state of health.  O' A second welcome ad is in Spanish and shows smiling people welcoming viewers into their homes and businesses.  O' Subsequent ads will focus on real Californians with real stories about illnesses and accidents and the financial toll they can wreak on the unprepared. It is a straight talking strategy that Daniel Zingale with The California Endowment a private grant-giving organization says makes sense in a state as large and as diverse as California.  When you actually get down to the facts about what is in the law and specifically what benefits you and your family that is when you get people's attention. O' But while just the facts may be just the ticket for California some other states are betting on less conventional approaches.  O' Oregon for instance launched its 4 million media campaign in early July with introductory ads showcasing local musicians such as Portland folksinger Laura Gibson who croon not about health insurance but rather about the virtues of healthy living in Oregon.  O' In Minnesota the state's nearly 9 million ad campaign relies on humor by showing folk legend Paul Bunyan and his sidekick Babe the Blue Ox in a series of painful mishaps that feature everything from woodpeckers attacking poor Paul to the lumberjack injuring himself in a waterskiing accident.  O' And in Maryland a 2.5 million ad campaign is extolling the virtues of health insurance with images of blue crabs a hunky fisherman a slew of smiling people and this catchy jingle.  O' But no matter how clever or creative these ads may be their success ultimately will be measured by how many of the young and healthy residents they enroll in health insurance when they open for business on October 1st. For NPR News I am Stephanie O'Neill.  This piece is part of a collaboration with NPR KPCC and Kaiser Health News. 