 The budget cuts approved this week brought a brief halt to the debate over how best to reduce the deficit - spending cuts versus tax revenues. Democrats lobbied hard but failed to include new taxes in the final plan. We are going to look now at the relationship between the deficit and taxes - it is complex to say the least. But as NPR's Wendy Kaufman reports mainstream economists agree the tax cuts of the past decade have added to the federal deficit.  In 2001 and 2003 President Bush cut taxes across the board for most Americans. Those cuts were set to expire at the end of last year but President Obama extended them until 2012. Maya MacGuineas heads the bipartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. She is about as close to an independent voice on tax policy as you will find in the nation's capital. And here's her short take on the impact of those tax cuts.  Certainly having those tax cuts have brought total revenues down and that has contributed to the deficit.  How much of the cuts added to the deficit? Opinions vary. But James Horney of the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities a liberal research institute puts the figure through the end of last year at about 2.5 trillion.  This is not alchemy or anything. It really is taking available information adding it up and coming up with the cost.  He relied on Congressional Budget Office estimates and not everyone likes those numbers. Curtis Dubay of The Heritage Foundation a conservative think tank believes the tax cuts likely added to the deficit though he thinks Horney's number is too high. But he says...  I do not have a dollar number to say how much less revenue came in.  He contends the tax cuts spurred economic growth and brought in added revenue in the middle of the decade. But then when things turned sour the gains were lost. So what about the future? Will the tax cuts be extended again or will they be allowed to expire? And what impact would that have on the deficit? Remember the cuts are slated to end in 2012 a presidential election year. And Maya MacGuineas says it is highly unlikely that all the tax cuts will disappear.  Generally the discussion is whether to let them expire for just those making over 250000 or sometimes you even hear discussion of limiting it to people making over a million or not having them expire at all. But there are not very many people who are focused on letting all of them expire.  If all of them were to expire it is estimated that Americans would pay more than 3 trillion in additional taxes over the coming decade. But if the cuts were ended just for the wealthy the government estimates it would bring in between 700 and 800 billion more than if the tax cuts remained in place. Dubay of The Heritage Foundation thinks that last number is a bit high.  If we allow those rates to go up the economy will slow compared to what would have happened and we will not get that much revenue. It might be 500 billion over 10 years. But revenue will go up. It just will not go up as much as anticipated.  Five hundred or 800 billion is a big number but the government's debt is more than 14 trillion and rising. And says MacGuineas...  You are not going to fix the problem by just letting the tax cuts for the upper-income people expire. That is for sure.  As she sees it deficit reduction must include both spending cuts and significant tax reform. The U.S. she says has a great opportunity to dramatically change the tax code to make it more fair spur more growth and reduce the deficit all at the same time. But at the moment at least that is not likely to happen. Wendy Kaufman NPR News. 