 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. The Justice Department is investigating the credit rating agency Standard  Poor's for its ratings of mortgage related securities. SP along with rating agencies Moody's and Fitch have been widely blamed for helping to inflate the housing bubble that spurred the financial crisis. This news comes not long after Standard  Poor's made headlines for downgrading the credit rating of the United States to double-A plus. NPR's Tamara Keith joins us now. And Tamara the timing of this news does make you wonder if this investigation is in any way a response to that downgrade of U.S. debt?  And according to our sources it is not. We have spoken with people familiar with the investigation and they say it started well before the downgrade of U.S. debt. You know the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission have been digging into the financial crisis for some time now. And you know it is most likely that this is an offshoot of those investigations.  And what exactly is the Justice Department investigating in this case?  The New York Times is reporting that the investigators are specifically looking into whether SP analysts wanted to give lower ratings to some of these mortgage-backed securities but were then overruled by business managers people on the money side. And if the Justice Department can prove this it would be huge because SP has long insisted that its ratings are independent. Jeffrey Manns is an associate professor of law at George Washington University and we spoke with him. He tracks the credit ratings agencies.  It certainly would be a significant indictment of Standard  Poor's and their methods. Ratings matter in as much as the reputation of the rating agencies are sound and if there is a conflation of the business side and the analyst side for rating debt that calls into question the business as a whole.  And I should say that this is only an investigation at this point and it is a civil investigation. And SP insists that its independence and objectivity have always been core principles in the rating process.  So Tamara let us back up just a little bit. What are the mortgage securities in question here?  But these were toxic assets being advertised as something much safer than they actually were. And the agencies in investigations and hearings and things that have come since then have been accused of having sort of a cozy relationship with the firms that were bundling the securities because those firms were actually paying to get ratings.  So Tamara we have been talking about investigations into SP what about the other rating agencies Fitch and Moody's? Are they also being investigated?  Our sources are not saying and we also checked with the Securities and Exchange Commission and they neither confirmed nor denied the existence or nonexistence of an investigation. So we are not getting a lot from the government but Fitch says that it is not aware of any government investigations involving Fitch. Moody's repeated a statement it said that it periodically receives and responds to requests from oversight and governmental authorities in connection with ongoing inquiries. And I guess we can read into that what we like.  In terms of the law Tamara what would the Justice Department have to prove in a case against SP say?  Well the ratings agencies have sort of a protected status. Their ratings are opinions and opinions are protected by the First Amendment. So the Justice Department would have to prove that SP did something much worse than just give a bad opinion. They would have to prove that the statements were misleading or there were omissions and that SP knew that it was doing that.  Okay. NPR's Tamara Keith thank you very much.  Thank you. 