 The last time I spoke with our next guest it was from the West Wing of the White House. Marc Short spent a year and seven months as the man whose job it is to steer the president's priorities through Congress - a tricky job - the official title White House director of legislative affairs. Short left the White House last month and waded straight into controversy at his new gig at the University of Virginia where some faculty are not greeting him with open arms. When Marc Short stopped by our studio today I asked him about the reception he is gotten as a new senior fellow at U.Va.'s Miller Center. When you were hired there two professors resigned in protest. And their resignation letter reads in part the appointment of Mr. Short runs counter to the center's fundamental values of nonpartisanship transparency openness a passion for truth and objectivity and civility. How do you answer that?  Well Mary Louise I am really excited to be a part of the Miller Center. It is a great institution. It is a bipartisan study of the presidency. And I think it is unfortunate that some chose to condemn the lack of civility yet were unwilling to have one conversation with me before they decided they wanted to resign.  But what is your understanding of what their issue is?  My understanding frankly is that I think that they have an objection to the Trump presidency in general. And I think if you are going to have a bipartisan study of the presidency it is kind of hard to study the Trump presidency if it is only going to be academics who can determine right or wrong or what should be determined from the Trump presidency.  I will let you react to one other voice at the Miller Center - Nicole Hemmer an assistant professor there who describes herself as a conservative. She wrote you have used - you Marc Short - have used your professional skills to abet attacks on liberal democracy. I mean I guess what I am asking is it does not sound like they are saying we do not like Trump. We do not like Trump's policies. They are arguing that the administration you served poses a threat to democracy.  I think that this presidency was clearly elected by the American people. It won a majority of the electoral votes. And I do not believe it is a threat to American democracy. And I look forward to sharing my viewpoints with Ms. Hemmer whenever she wishes to talk to me about it.  Is the press the enemy of the American people?  No the press is not the enemy of the American people.  So you disagree with the president on that?  The press is an open and free - press is foundational to American democracy. It is absolutely essential to protect our democracy. And they have a responsibility to keep elected officials accountable. At the same time I do think the press also has a responsibility to get things fair...  Of course.  ...And get it reported accurately.  Again President Trump has repeatedly launched attacks on the press - calling it fake news calling American news media the enemy of the American people. So I am asking do you disagree with him on that point?  I think I just said that I think that a free and fair press is essential to American democracy. I do not believe they are an enemy of people. So I think I have answered that question. But I also do believe the president is frustrated by what he views is an extreme bias against his administration and feels that - some studies have said more than 90 percent the coverage is negative. And I think that is a source of enormous frustration for him.  I am curious - taking the long view because you have served behind the scenes in Republican politics for something like two decades now. Is the Republican Party of today of August 2018 is it still the party of Abraham Lincoln of Ronald Reagan?  I sure think it is. But I also think that parties adapt and change policies. I think the biggest change that frankly - with the Trump administration is bringing in new voters from the Midwest that surely appealed more to a populist message particularly on trade. And that is I think counter to some of the positions the Republican Party has had in the past. But as opposed to looking that as a challenge or something that is breaking us we should look at it as a chance to embrace new people into the party.  So you think the Republican Party is in a better place today than say five 10 years ago?  I think that the Republican party has control of the House the Senate and the White House. And so I think objectively you look at it and say it is in a pretty strong place.  Not all Republicans agree. Steve Schmidt a prominent Republican - served as John McCain's campaign manager - he quit the party in June. George Will conservative columnist quit the party during the 2016 campaign. Max Boot conservative thinker quit the party. I could go on. A lot of your fellow Republicans do not seem to believe that President Trump is changing the party for the better.  We could go through each of those individually. I think there are individual reasons for them. I think candidly Steve Schmidt had been leaving the Republican Party for quite some time and had been - his commentary on MSNBC - I think you would go back several years dating before the Trump presidency - was pretty uncomfortable with the Republican Party. But sure there is people that are never-Trumpers that are still inside the party. But hopefully we will learn to win them over with looking at the president's accomplishments.  That is Marc Short. He was legislative director for the Trump administration now a visiting fellow at the Miller Center at the University of Virginia and also a political consultant. Thanks so much for stopping by.  Thanks for having me.  