 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. President Obama's approval rating is pretty dismal right now and as the saying goes when the going gets tough presidents get out of Washington. All right that is not actually saying but it does happen. And President Obama is just back from a two-day visit to Minneapolis. While he was still there earlier today he delivered a speech about the economy. In the audience a woman named Rebekah Erler and her family. The trip was billed in part as a day in the life of Rebekah. NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith reports this is a throwback to a time before Barack Obama was a household name.  In 2007 when his candidacy was still considered a longshot then-Senator Obama spent a day walking in the shoes of a home health aide.   I am Pauline Beck. I am a SEIU homecare worker in Alameda County. And today Senator Barack Obama walked in my shoes.  Let me see this back here.  In a video posted by the labor union that arranged it Obama is young and energetic and does not have a hint of gray hair. They go to the home of one of her clients an elderly man.  I prepared breakfast for him. I helped to make the bed. I cleaned the house. I did some laundry.  Obama once described it as one of his favorite days of the campaign and he still talks about that experience says Dan Pfeiffer a Senior Adviser to the president.  He does. He does. He talks about that day. We joke about it. There are fewer of us around now who were there for that but that day meant a lot to him.  Going back and watching the 2007 video it is striking how now years later the president is talking about the same policy prescriptions -- not as accomplishments but still as aspirations. A lot has changed since then. It was a simpler time -- before the great recession hit -- before congressional gridlock became the norm. And in some ways it seems like this new day in the life campaign is an effort to remind Americans and maybe Obama himself of that guy who first ran for president.  All right I am going to let everybody enjoy their burger and I got my date over here.  His date was Rebekah Erler a 36-year-old accountant and mother of two preschool-aged boys. Her husband's construction business went under in the great recession but they have worked their way back and even recently bought their first home. She and the president sat down for cheese-stuffed burgers and iced tea at a place called Matt's Bar. She had written the president a letter telling him her story.  I am that a little surprised that...  Although the trip was supposed to be a day in the life of Rebekah it was more of a lunch meeting followed by a day in the life of Barack Obama. After lunch they took the motorcade to a town-hall-style event. Obama described their conversation to the crowd.  Just talking about how she would done everything right - her and her husband. She is working hard and raising two beautiful kids and she has a great life. But it is a struggle and wondering if anybody in Washington knows it. You know what I told her is the same thing I want to tell all of you which is I know it. You are the reason I ran for office.  It is easy to look at this much-hyped day in the life with a lens of cynicism. It makes for pretty pictures on the White House Instagram account. But it also seems to signal a yearning in the president - a desire to connect both with people outside of the bubble and with the young senator who said hope and change were possible and not just slogans.  I was you guys. You know somebody out here is going through what my mom went through. Somebody out here is going through what my grandma went through. Somebody out here is going through what Michelle and I went through when we were first married and our kids were first born. It is not like I forget.  A recent Gallup poll President Obama's approval rating at just 41 percent. Odds are against him fulfilling any more big campaign promises in his final two years in office. As he closed his remarks Obama implored the audience.  Cynicism is you know popular these days but hope's better.  And harder to come by. Tamara Keith NPR News. 