 Today's markets aside it has been a week of bad economic news. And that means more trouble for the Obama administration as we head toward November's midterm elections. Joining me to talk politics as we do most Fridays are E.J. Dionne of the Washington Post and David Brooks of the New York Times. Welcome back to you both good to see you. Mr. E.J.  Thank you. Mr.  Good to see you.  David let us start with you. We just heard that Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke's message was he expects the economy to continue to expand at a relatively slow pace  slow expansion. To those who would say look we need more urgent action from the Fed from the administration you would say no. Mr.  Well no. I would say from the Fed we need more action. I think what we have learned over the last year is monetary policy is the way you pump up the economy when you need to. Fiscal policy does not work so well. We have tried that with a big stimulus package. This was supposed to be the summer of recovery. The administration predicted we would be producing 500000 jobs a month. It is just not happening. And the lesson is that you  it is very hard to pump up the economy short term with borrowing and spending and tax cuts. That is for the long term. The countries that have very small stimulus like Germany are growing really well. The countries with big stimulus like us not growing well. Monetary policy is really the only way you can do that and that is where Bernanke comes in.  And E.J. if you look at the accumulation of bad numbers that the administration is dealing with and the country is dealing with on housing unemployment manufacturing - all of it put together - where is the silver lining here for Democrats? Mr.  If there is a silver lining there I have not found it yet. I mean this is just not good news which is why I think it is unfortunate that Bernanke did what he did. And just by the way on David's point Germany is growing for other reasons I do not think it is their fiscal policy. But what is unfortunate is in the beginning of this downturn Bernanke was willing to take every risk on the side of pumping money into the economy because he thought it might collapse otherwise. Now he is showing some ambivalence. And if you think as I do - and a lot of people do - that the risk of continued unemployment is higher than the risk of long-term inflation you wish he had been more aggressive today. It is not like unemployment is at 7 percent which would still be high. It is at 10 percent. And so I think President Obama but also the economy overall would have been better off if Bernanke had jumped today and done more.  Let us turn to politics - in particular this week's primaries on Tuesday. And on the Republican side a couple of results that are worth talking about. In the Florida's governor's race in the Republican primary you had State Attorney General Bill McCollum who had the backing of the party. He lost to a rich outsider Rick Scott. And then in Alaska the final conclusion is not set yet they are waiting for absentee ballots. But Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski part of the Republican Party establishment here in Washington may have lost to an inexperienced politician Joe Miller who had Tea Party backing - and that of Sarah Palin. David Brooks what are the lessons you take for the Republican Party here? Mr.  Well Bill McCollum in Florida is plenty conservative guy but he is got some establishment links and that is apparently bad. And the same with Lisa Murkowski. She is pro choice on abortion - that sort of hurt her. But more to the point she is an appropriator. She is a sort of non-ideological dealmaker who brings pork back to Alaska.  Which Alaska tends to love. Mr.  Usually like that. But not this year at least not among these primary voters. And so she may have lost to a guy who was endorsed by Sarah Palin and who was much more ideological and came out really hard about health care. So it was a more ideological philosophical rejection of the normal appropriator pork barrel politics.  But does that spell bad news for Republicans come November? Are they picking people in the primaries who do not stand a chance? Mr.  The real test there is Nevada where Sharron Angle is now tied with Harry Reid the majority leader who looked like a dead duck and now is at least tied. So that is the test case. I doubt Alaska will go Democratic.  E.J. Dionne the lesson for you from what we saw on Tuesday? Mr.  Well I think the Republicans are going through an insurrection and the Democrats are not. If you actually  there is been a lot of talk trying to merge one common theme out of these primaries and there is not a common theme. The Republicans are a very conservative party. Conservatives are on the march. By the way if Alaska does not want all that money they can send it our way to other states. And so I think on balance this is a problem for Republicans. It is the same problem where we are going to talk about with Glenn Beck. I think that if Democrats have a shot of pulling this thing out containing their losses it will be because the Republicans nominate candidates who are too right wing - like Sharron Angle like Rand Paul and like these candidates on Tuesday.  You mentioned Glenn Beck. He is holding a rally here tomorrow - here in Washington - at the Lincoln Memorial on the anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s I Have A Dream speech. Unclear how many Tea Party activists will come but it is expected to be big. David do you think the Tea Party is having a real effect on the Republican Party? Is it steering the boat? Mr.  Yeah I am thinking of going to the rally. I am thinking of going with my New York Times polo shirt and prove my speed in the 40-yard dash - get the hell out of there.   I want pictures of that. Mr.  You know I think they are having an effect. They are pulling the party back from a more - even compassionate conservative to a more libertarian to a more old right more almost pre-Reagan. The government really has no business even like in Social Security. Will they have a short-term effect politically in destroying Republican fortunes this year? I think the evidence is no that the independent voters may not like the Tea Party but they are still leaning Republican just because they are so upset about the spending and what the Democrats are doing.  E.J. Dionne thoughts on Glenn Beck's rally and what it means? Mr.  Well I think the most striking thing is that Democrats really want to talk about it a lot and Republicans do not want to talk about it at all. Republicans know again that one of their barriers is that people like Beck and some of these other right-wingers if they create an extremist image for the party the party's got a potential problem. Republicans want Beck to turn out their vote. They do not want him to start turning out the other side's vote. They are much better off if he is preaching to the converted on Fox News than to having that wide publicity for statements like Barack Obama is a racist with a deep-seated hatred for white people or that Obama's programs are reparations. The notion that he is having this rally on the anniversary of the civil rights rally is really - to be very charitable remarkable.  Okay David good luck with the race tomorrow. We are looking forward to hearing your results.  Mr.  I will root for you David.  Thanks to you both for coming in. David Brooks of the New York Times and E.J. Dionne of the Washington Post and Brookings Institution. 