 We are going to explore net neutrality now through metaphor. Stick with us. According to the FCC they are writing rules for the Internet to preserve the status quo.  The FCC website says this - the open Internet is the Internet as we know it. It treats all traffic that flows across the network in roughly the same way. Well some people fear providers could change the flow by charging more for certain businesses.  But it is a complicated issue and net neutrality is not a scintillating term as even the man who coined it admits.  You know I kind of agree it is boring.  Tim Wu of Columbia Law school is running for lieutenant governor of New York. But he is most well-known because he coined the term net neutrality.  Ultimately you judge a phrase not by whether it sounds great the first time you hear it but whether it seems to stick around. And like it or not net neutrality has stuck around.  Another advocate for net neutrality is Tim Karr.  Well you know I have had people wonder whether or not I am talking about you know tennis in Switzerland.  Get it? Net - neutrality. Tennis - Switzerland.  Well Tim Karr of the organization Free Press says there are lots of metaphors to explain net neutrality. You have probably heard this one - the highway.  What the Internet service providers are proposing to do is that they want to set up a fast lane and a slow lane on the Internet. They want to have a fast lane for the few companies that can afford their tolls. And then they want a slow lane for the rest of us.  Well here's another metaphor. Picture a fully clothed man in the shower.  And the Internet - it falls into my house. This water - this nourishing water is everything.  He gets very very wet.  Let us just turn down the knob some on what they can do on the Internet.  OK. As found on YouTube - the shower metaphor. But Berin Szoka president of the think tank TechFreedom says we should avoid metaphors altogether.  The beauty of the Internet really is that it defies metaphor. It is constantly evolving. It is hard to put that in a box.  Szoka argues the metaphors are all biased even Net Neutrality he says is bias against internet providers. He prefers Open Internet.  Well whatever you call it Tim Wu says you cannot control what catches on.  That is what I have learned in life. You just throw things up like spaghetti and see if anything sticks.  Ah Spaghetti. You cannot beat a good food metaphor. But if you have a better one for net neutrality tweet it to us npralltech. 