 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  As NPR's David Welna reports the closer the polarized Senate gets to November's elections the harder it is been for Democrats to move a pile of unfinished business.  Thirty-one House Republicans joined 241 Democrats in giving final passage to the long-stalled unemployment bill. Right before the vote majority leader Steny Hoyer deplored how the GOP had tied up the bill so long in the Senate where only two Republicans voted for the measure.  Millions of people had lost their unemployment insurance because we could not get 60 votes in the Senate. Had almost every Democrat saying we need help now.  Even after Senate Democrats mustered a 60-vote supermajority and broke the filibuster Republicans insisted on dragging out the debate one more day before allowing a final vote. Rhode Island Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse vented his frustration on the Senate floor.  And time will just tick tick tick tick past with nothing being accomplished here. We could be working on jobs legislation. We sure need that. But the side of this chamber that has the strategy to prevent anything from getting done whose policy is no no matter what the question is that is their answer.  This afternoon Senate Democrats decided it was just not feasible to bring up an energy bill that also addressed global warming. They instead turned to passing a long-stalled bill that would extend tax credits and loans to small business in hopes of creating more jobs. Only one Republican Florida freshman George LeMieux is saying he will back the bill.  And the money is going to small businesses people who are really being impacted by this recession. The money gets paid back it is deficit neutral. I think it is a good thing.  Still LeMieux says even he cannot promise to oppose a GOP filibuster of the very measure he is co-sponsoring. He says his Republican colleagues should be able to offer amendments to the bill. Democrats say such amendments are only meant to slow the measure down. Utah Republican Bob Bennett does not disagree.  We Republicans who do not have a voice in what goes into the bill do have a voice in saying slow down and I think we are saying it.  Are Senate Republicans simply trying to run out the clock? That could be. Texas Senator John Cornyn leads the effort to replace Democrats with Republicans in November's midterm elections.  I am not for passing anymore bad legislation. And anything I can do to stop bad legislation I am happy to do until the cavalry arrives in November hopefully.  It is Republicans realizing the midterms are drawing nearer that Democratic numbers do not look great that control of the Senate could be in reach.  Sarah Binder of the Brookings Institution says Senate Republicans are betting on voters being fed up with Democrats in November.  Thus it makes sense for them to do whatever they can to block Democrats from in part trying to improve the economy since ultimately the midterm elections are going to rise or fall on what happens with the economy between now and then.  Before leaving for their August break Senate Democrats hope to pass jobs legislation a stalled war funding bill and confirm Elena Kagan to the Supreme Court. Oregon Democrat Ron Wyden says all that could prove a tall order.  For those who want to obstruct you know the business of the Senate this time is paradise.  David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 