 The Trump campaign is struggling to explain the practices of the Donald J. Trump Foundation Trump's charity. The Washington Post's David Fahrenthold has been digging into the activities of the charity and this week he reported that it had spent more than a quarter million dollars to settle lawsuits involving Trump's businesses. Now David Fahrenthold welcome back to the program.  Great to be here.  And to illustrate what you found this week I want you to tell us about the story of the flag pole at one of Trump's resorts the Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach Florida. What happened?  Sure. It starts in 2006. Trump puts up an 80-foot-tall flagpole in front of Mar-a-Lago this oceanfront club in Palm Beach. That is way too tall for the town code. And so after this long fight between the - Trump and the town Trump's club ends up owning the town 120000 in unpaid building code fines. Now eventually there is a legal settlement in which the town agrees to waive the 120000 of fines if Trump's club will agree to make a hundred thousand dollar donation to a particular veterans charity that the town has chosen. Now that donation is made but not by the club. Instead it is made by Trump's charity the Donald J. Trump Foundation. It is hundred thousand basically saves Trump's business from having to make the same payment.  How important is the distinction between a check drawn by the club and a check drawn by the charity the foundation?  It is huge. So the club is owned by Trump. The club and Trump are effectively the same. But a charity is not Trump's property. It is a tax-exempt organization. He is the president of it but it is money should be used for charity. You cannot take money out of your charity to pay off one of your businesses' bills. The business owed a hundred thousand dollars. The charity paid it instead saving that business a hundred thousand dollars. That is called self-dealing and the IRS prohibits it.  Donald Trump says he is under almost permanent audit by the IRS. To your knowledge has the IRS looked into the Trump Foundation?  We have asked and it is possible they are and they are just not commenting on it. The one investigation we know about is by the New York attorney general who regulates charities in that state. And that Trump Foundation is headquartered in New York state.  You have also reported about how Trump allegedly used 20000 from the Trump Foundation to buy a 6-foot-tall portrait of himself. And then again in 2014 he spent 10000 to buy another portrait at a charity fundraiser. Do you know where those portraits are and are they in the possession of some charity?  Which - it is a good point. They have to be. If the Trump Foundation pays for them they have to be put to a charitable use or else if Trump hangs them in one of his clubs that is self-dealing - again a violation of the law. We know we are one of those paintings is because last night Univision anchor and Miami  Enrique Acevedo heard about this heard that it - that one of these paintings - that 10000 one - might be at Trump's Doral Golf Resort in Miami. Enrique used points and bought a room wandered around a hotel in the middle of the night talked to the cleaning people. And they opened the door into the Champions Bar and Grill which is a part of Trump's Doral Golf Resort. In that door was the paint - the 10000 painting of Donald Trump hanging on the wall in Trump's for-profit business.  Now there have been lots of responses from the Trump campaign - not very detailed responses. But you initially asked them about all this. Have you received any response from the Trump campaign or from the Trump Foundation?  No. I have asked a number of times about - before this story came out - with some very detailed questions about all the purchases we described with - that appear to be acts of self-dealing sort of giving Mr. Trump a chance to say it is not what it seems or there is some of the paperwork you are missing. And I heard no response at all - literally not even a no-comment. The only response came out 12 hours after the story posted yesterday which called the story inaccurate but provided no actual examples of inaccuracies.  In addition to these items that you have reported on were there other obvious philanthropic gifts that the Trump Foundation made that you could say well there was 300000 given to this charity or a half a million to that?  The Trump Foundation does give out money to charities. And when you look at its donations though you do not really see the kind of pattern - sort of causes you see with other wealthy people's donations. There is not one kind of cancer research or one university that Trump gives to in big amounts again and again and again. Instead his gifts seem to really track his business. Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach and some other Trump businesses make a lot of money off renting themselves out to charity. And so Trump often uses the money in the Trump Foundation to give to the charities that give back to him that are his customers and pay money to his businesses.  David Fahrenthold of The Washington Post thanks for talking with us today.  Hey thank you. 