 Voters from both parties appear highly engaged this year. But in every election tens of millions of people do not vote - either because of barriers to voting or apathy or inconvenience. NPR's Don Gonyea went to the county with the lowest voter turnout rate in one of the lowest turnout states West Virginia to find out why people there sit out.  McDowell County is so steeped in coal culture that in the summertime the local theater group features a play about a true tale of murder the miners union and the coal bosses in the 1920s.   Well I am telling you to stand...  Stand.  ...Fight...  Fight.  ...Unite...  Unite.  ...And declare war and justice on these evil coal barons and their political pimps.  Coal still drives the politics here. Long a sure bet for Democrats McDowell County has gone solidly Republican in recent national elections. Trump with promises to save the coal industry won 75 percent of the votes in the county in 2016. Forty-two-year-old Tammy Lester who was downtown running errands with her 13-year-old daughter says she likes Trump but she is not seeing much good for the economy.  He is doing pretty good I guess. But you know he promised all these jobs. Where they at down here? You know I think they just overlook West Virginia.  Unemployment in the county is 9.3 percent. More than 1 in 3 live below the poverty line. Lester's support of Trump and her frustration with the economy make her a pretty typical resident here. She is got a lot of company in another area too. I will just ask the question. Do you vote?  No sometimes.  No sometimes - that means?  It is iffy.  You are not really committed to it.  No.  She is registered but cannot recall the last time she voted. Turnout in McDowell County was the worst in the state 36 percent in 2016. Lester tells me she works at a fast-food restaurant. She says politicians from the president on down do not care what happens here.  Yeah when our kids graduate they have to leave. I just had my middle son graduate. He is got to leave. My daughter when she graduates where is she going to go? She will have to leave.  Thirty-two-year-old Josh Mullins is another nonvoter but he is a Democrat.  I just do not think we needed someone like Trump in office. I mean he is got a mouth on him that may get us in trouble.  Mullins is currently laid off from a restaurant job.  I just - I do not think my vote matters.  Not at all?  No. I mean Hillary won the popular vote and we still have Trump for president.  So that kind of makes you down on the whole...  Yes.  So the Electoral College fuels his cynicism about voting - finally to 26-year-old Brittany Jenkins who sits in front of a floral shop she owns with her mom in the city of Welch. She is registered to vote but says she is only done so three times and only when she is actually known the person running for local office. She does not vote for president or governor - her reasoning...  Because we do not matter. We are so small. It really do not matter. I mean literally look. You look up and down the streets. There is nobody.  She says it is like this place is not even on anybody's radar - especially politicians'. So you feel kind of disconnected from the whole political process here?  Yeah I mean disconnected from the world - period. I mean we have just kind of been washed off the map.  And when you see ads on television or when flyers for candidates show up in your mailbox what do you think of that?  I have never got a flyer out of my mailbox.  No flyers no targeted direct mail - it is something I heard from several people in McDowell County. They just feel ignored by any candidate who is not local. Don Gonyea NPR News. 