 Today Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe said he has restored voting rights to 13000 felons who have completed their sentences. Back in April the governor who is a Democrat had tried to restore those rights to more than 200000 felons. But Republicans objected took him to court and won blocking the governor's action. Now McAuliffe says he is fighting back. He told a crowd of supporters in Richmond he is committed to his promise.   We will proceed with the restoration of civil rights in conformity with the court ruling. But let me put this in plain English. We will proceed.   NPR's Pam Fessler has been covering this issue and she is with us now. Hey Pam.  Hi Kelly.  So first just help us understand this story. It sounds like it is taken a few turns and could be a little bit confusing.  Right exactly especially if you are one of those felons who would like to vote.  Right.  Early this year McAuliffe he issued a blanket order that restored the voting rights to 206000 felons who had served their time. That is similar to what a lot of states already do. But Republicans said he did not have that authority that he has to restore these rights one person at a time. The Virginia Supreme Court agreed with them. So now McAuliffe says he will restore those voting rights on a case-by-case basis. And he began with the 13000 felons who registered to vote after his first order. And he says he will then take up all the other cases.  So what are Republicans saying about this?  They are basically going to wait and see how this unfolds. William Howell who is the speaker of the House of Delegates says that they are going to review what the governor does very carefully just to make sure it is all legal. Their big complaint is that by issuing this across the board order that he did in April that he ended up restoring rights to felons who were not eligible. And in fact his initial list included the names of 132 sex offenders who are already locked - who are still locked up. Republicans also suspect McAuliffe's doing this for political reasons. He is a close friend with Hillary Clinton and they say he is trying to help her in Virginia by giving the vote to ex-cons many of whom are African-American and more likely to vote Democratic. McAuliffe denies this.  I mean but Virginia is a swing state. So the question is Will McAuliffe's move make a difference in the November election?  You know you never know what is going to happen. But to be honest I really do not think so. Only 13000 felons registered so far. They now have to reregister and you just never know who is going to actually show up and vote. And right now polls show that Clinton has a comfortable lead over Donald Trump in the state. So unless the race is really close it probably is not going to make that much of a difference at least to the outcome of the presidential race. But I think it does make a huge difference to these individuals who are involved. I spoke this afternoon with Tammie Hagen-Noey of Richmond. She was convicted in 2010 of drug possession. She was thrilled to get her rights restored earlier this year then she was very disappointed when they were revoked by the Supreme Court of the state. She was very discouraged. She told me it felt a little like there was a foot on my head again. Today she is very happy.  That is NPR's Pam Fessler. Thank you very much.  Thanks. 