 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. Congress has found a way to reopen the Federal Aviation Administration. The FAA has been partially shut down for almost two weeks with more than 4000 employees and tens of thousands more contractors sent home. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid announced this afternoon that he has reached a compromise with Republicans but it is a temporary fix and does not deal with the underlying problem. NPR's Brian Naylor joins me now. Brian I think around this time yesterday we were saying there was a slim to no chance of this happening. What happened today? What did they agree to?  I know. That is why we should not into predictions. All right?   Exactly.  Well apparently Senate Majority Leader Reid and Obama administration officials and Republicans have been working behind the scenes and they say they have reached a bipartisan compromise. We are told that the way this will play out tomorrow the Senate will approve by unanimous consent the House-passed version of a temporary reauthorization. Now you may recall from our conversation yesterday the Senate provision that many Senate Democrats found objectionable which was a partial rollback of a program called Essential Air Service which provides a subsidy for airlines to encourage them to fly the rural airports. Under this deal the Senate will pass temporary a bill with that program - or rather with that provision intact that is rolling the service back. And then Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood will use his authority and waive those cutbacks. Now that was a 16 million savings House Republicans wanted. But even they acknowledged it was just a bargaining chip. And I am told Transportation Department officials say LaHood has the authority to issue waivers when appropriate under the law.  So that waiver then means the money will still go to those rural airports at least temporarily.  That is right.  What about the long term authorization?  Well that still remains unresolved. They have had to pass these temporary extensions this will be the 21st because House Republicans and Senate Democrats cannot agree on some issues. The biggest is a provision Republicans want to put in the bill that would reverse a ruling by the National Mediation Board that makes it easier for airline employees to unionize. So that can gets kicked down the road a bit again. But at least for now the furloughed FAA employees and construction workers are not facing six weeks without paychecks.  So this means everybody gets to go back to work?  Right. Now there were of course the air traffic controllers who remained on the job and those 40 airport inspectors who are working without pay. But once this is approved by the Senate and signed by the president the FAA will be reauthorized until mid-September. And the 4000 furloughed employees will be reinstated and the construction projects at airports across the country will be able to resume and that affects some 70000 construction workers.  What a difference a day makes. Brian what about the airline ticket taxes that have not been collected since this all started July 23rd?  Well that is all lost revenue to the government - never to be reclaimed. About 30 million a day is what the estimated loss was. So if you figure roughly a two-week shutdown that is about 420 million the government lost because of this.  But the airlines I think gained that money right by keeping the ticket prices the same and then...  Most of them did. Most of them did.  Okay. NPR's Brian Naylor thanks so much.  Thanks. 