 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  NPR's Richard Gonzales has been following the case. He joins us from San Francisco. And Richard there were a lot of couples around California today waiting at city halls and at courthouses to get married. They are going to have to wait longer.  But in one sense he split the difference. He said the request for a permanent stay is denied but he did not rule that gay marriages could resume immediately as some supporters of same-sex marriage had hoped. He said that gay marriages may resume on August 18th at 5 p.m. In essence he gives the supporters of Prop 8 time to appeal.  And how are opponents of same-sex marriage reacting to the judge's ruling today?  Well the supporters of Prop 8 say that they will appeal immediately to the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. Douglas Napier is an attorney for the Alliance Defense Fund one of the groups who advocate for Prop 8. He says that the net effect is that Judge Walker's ruling will invite chaos. And here'  For him to say well I am going to go ahead and let you run to the courthouse and get married knowing that this - my decision may likely or possibly be reversed leaves a lot of uncertainty and it is not necessary to do that. Let us settle the law first. Let us settle this issue and then once all the dust settles on everyone's decisions and we know what the final result is then we can act.  The other side keeps trying to say that if gays and lesbians marry the world will end. I just looked outside and the air is fine.  That second voice you heard is Rick Jacobs. He is the founder and chairman of the Courage Campaign a supporter of gay marriage. He says that the delay of a week for same-sex marriage is not really significant in the long run. However there may be people who do not agree. There are a lot of folks at San Francisco City Hall as you mentioned before who were prepared to tie the knot today at least a dozen couples were there. They were joined by hundreds of their supporters and they did go away disappointed that there will not be any marriages today or for the next week for that matter.  And conceivably even not then right if the Court of Appeals decides you know what we are going to extend this stay? Marriages cannot go forward right now.  Come next week the appeals court could implement its own stay and it could say that while we consider the question of Prop 8's constitutionality there should be no more gay marriages. So we will have to wait and see.  NPR's Richard Gonzales in San Francisco. Thanks so much.  Thank you. 