 The White House is coming to the aid of farmers hurt by its own hard-line trade policies. The Trump administration says today it will make an estimated 12 billion in government assistance available. That includes direct payments to growers. The announcement came from Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue. NPR's Brian Naylor joins us in the studio now. Hey there Brian.  Hi Audie.  What reason did the administration give for doing this?  Well farmers especially hog farmers and soybean growers in red states have felt the brunt of the retaliatory tariffs placed on agriculture by China and other nations which the Trump administration has penalized with tariffs on their exports. China the EU Canada Mexico - they have all been hit by U.S. levies on some of the products they send to the U.S. including steel and aluminum. And so they have retaliated placing their own tariffs on U.S. agricultural exports and targeting farm states that have supported the president and Republican lawmakers in general. So Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said today that the aid would show that the president has the farmers' backs.   The programs we are announcing today are a firm statement that other nations cannot bully our agricultural producers to force the United States to cave in.  At the same time the president was tweeting just this morning that tariffs are great right? We heard...  Yeah.  ...Him in a speech talking about how this is going to really make a difference and open up markets. So what is the message being sent now by the action of providing emergency aid?  Yeah it is interesting. I mean he seems to be saying yeah they are great but they are going to cause some parts of the American economy to suffer at least for now. Here's how he put it today in Kansas City where he was addressing the VFW Convention. He said the tariffs are bringing countries to the table.   Making tremendous progress - they are all coming. They do not want to have those tariffs put on them. They are all coming to see us. And the farmers will be the biggest beneficiary.   Watch. We are opening up markets. You watch what is going to happen. Just be a little patient.  So just be a little patient seems to be the message. There will be some short-term pain but long-term gain.  Questions about the money - how will it be spent? We are talking 12 billion. Where did it come from ?  Yeah.  And is Congress involved?  Well so the administration says no we do not need congressional approval because they are going to use a Depression-era program called the Commodity Credit Corporation to draw the funds from the Treasury. And as USDA officials explain there will be three forms of aid - direct payments to some farmers including soybean and dairy and hog producers. Some of it will be used to buy surplus crops from other farmers - fruits and nuts and some meats. And that will be given to food banks. Some of our listeners might remember the government cheese program back in the '70s. Audie I know you do not.  Right .  But it is that same program. And some of the money will also be used to develop new markets for export.  I cannot imagine lawmakers do not have something to say about it though.  Yeah so Congress does not have to approve it which is probably a good thing because the response so far has not been very positive. The farmers are hurting because of the Trump trade policies on one hand. And on the other hand they do not want the government bailing them out. Republican Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska who is often been a critic of the president said the administration's trade war is cutting the legs out from under farmers and the White House's plan is to spend 12 billion on gold crutches. Others are saying hey what about my state? You know why are you singling out farmers? Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski says the tariffs are hurting her state's seafood industry and wonders where you draw the line. Senator Ron Johnson a Republican from Wisconsin told reporters it is becoming more and more like a Soviet type of economy here. So whether the grumbling goes any further remains to be seen.  That is NPR's Brian Naylor. Brian thank you.  Thanks Audie. 