 State governments around the country are setting up new health insurance marketplaces to comply with the federal health law and there are all sorts of details to work out including a name. California is looking for a new name and logo for its health benefit exchange. As Pauline Bartolone reports from Public Capital Radio state officials are getting a lesson in marketing.  The word exchange is government-speak. But the people building California's health insurance marketplace want a name that does not communicate bureaucracy. They want it to sound like a fresh approach to what many feel is a broken health system. Peter Lee directs California's Health Benefit Exchange.  What we are trying to figure out is when we launch and go public what is a name that is going to stick that is going to grab hold that all Californians are going to say boy that is where I go to find health care?  The exchange will have a website where people can buy government subsidized private health insurance. Planners hope at least three million customers will enroll for benefits starting in 2014. That is why they need a name that will grab all Californians.  Almost half of the people that are going to be eligible for subsidized coverage in the exchange are Latino many of whom are Spanish-speaking. But that is not the only market. We have about 600000 people that speak Asian-Pacific Islander languages. Some of them speak Mandarin some speak Hmong.  They got hundreds of suggestions and tested some with multi-lingual focus groups.  We are testing the idea of Avocado. The idea of Ursa the idea of Eureka these are names or concepts or words that have a thread which is unique to California.  The name Avocado got laughs but is now out of the running. Other names borrowed from Spanish like Calvida and Beneficia. They considered Healthifornia and Wellquest. Claudia Caplan is a marketing expert with the RP3 Agency in Maryland. She is done everything from naming fast-food hamburgers to marketing for a freight rail carrier. She says a name for a new health marketplace should have humanity but should not be too cute.  This is a whole new world for people in terms of how they are going to access insurance and it might be wise to give them a name that makes them feel good about doing that as though they are being sort of metaphorically wrapped in some nice warm arms that are going to take care of them.  Caplan says a name is not as important as what you build around it.  It is going to be such a turnoff if you give it this great nurturing name and it just turns out to be the DMV all over again.  California's exchange staff is sharing notes with other exchanges. Maryland just came up with their name and logo. Dr. Joshua Sharfstein is Maryland's secretary of Health and Mental Hygiene and chair of that state's exchange. DR.  We had some that had like verbs in them like Cover Me Now Maryland Cover Insure Maryland Get Health Care Maryland those sorts of things.  One person even suggested www.icantbelieveitsthiseasytobuyhealthinsurance.com. But the Maryland planners wanted something safe and trustworthy catchy a name that conveys that exchanges enabled people to chose between different private health plans.  In the end we went with Maryland Health Connection. We thought it was simple. It illustrated the importance of connecting with insurance brokers producers - connecting people to insurance products as well as connecting people to health care and health.  California is expected to release its new name and logo in November. The front-runners? Eureka and Ursa that is Latin for bear and a symbol on California's state flag. Condor is off the table. For NPR News I am Pauline Bartolone.  That story comes from a partnership with NPR Capitol Public Radio and Kaiser Health News. 