 On this program back in December we had a story about a Texas woman named Tammy Boudreaux. She would not yet decided whether to buy health insurance on healthcare.gov. Carrie Feibel of Houston Public Media has this update. Boudreaux decided to buy insurance thanks to a bottle of hot sauce.  Last November Tammy Boudreaux was uninsured and wielding a knife. She was cutting the wax seal off a bottle of hot sauce when it slipped and stabbed deep into her index finger. Boudreaux went to the ER and paid out-of-pocket to get it stitched up. At that point she started thinking seriously about an Obamacare plan.  I am an adult klutz.  But the healthcare.gov website was annoying to work with and she was surprised at the high prices. Here she was right before Christmas.  Woah shut the computer. Find something else to do.  Boudreaux is 43 and lives in a suburb of Houston. At the time she was working as a freelance social worker. The holidays came and went but she remained undecided about whether to buy insurance. But her finger was not getting better.  I could not grab a shovel when I wanted to garden. I could not grab small items. I could not use my finger on the keyboard.  Not only that but the finger hurt. A minor accident had become a major problem and she needed to fix it.  I think that was part of my hesitation with getting the insurance because I thought oh I really do not need it. I can make do. I will get by. No I cannot get by. It is my finger it is a pretty serious injury. And I am relatively young I do not want to live the rest of my life with this impediment if I do not have to.  So Boudreaux chose a Blue Cross Blue Shield plan off the healthcare.gov website. It cost 336 a month. The plan started February 1 and within a week she was in the operating room. After that came weeks of rehabilitation at Houston Methodist where she sees a hand therapist Peggy Boineau.  We are going to look at strength today. So turn your hand this way straighten that joint.  Boudreaux has to flick tiny beads into a plastic bucket an exercise to loosen the finger joint.  I think I am cheating. Am I cheating?  Are you?  The new insurance plan does not cover everything. First Boudreaux had to meet a 3000 deductible. And there were co-pays like 50 per therapy session. But Boudreaux says it is worth it. Louis Adams is a spokesman for Blue Cross Blue Shield. He points out that two-thirds of Texans who enrolled on the federal website chose one of his company's plans.  We are pleased to know that Tammy and so many others looking for health insurance that best suit their individual needs chose us and are giving us the opportunity to be with them when they need that coverage.  Boudreaux believes that if other uninsured Texans had just pushed the difficulties of signing up they would be as pleased as she is now.  I am really impressed that Obama started this. I think he is going to be viewed similar to Johnson with his focus on social issues which is good.  In Texas only about a quarter of people eligible to sign up for a new health plan actually did so. Open enrollment for 2015 begins November 15. For NPR News I am Carrie Feibel in Houston.  This story is part of a reporting partnership with NPR Houston Public Media and Kaiser Health News.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 