 It is election day again and the 2018 midterm primaries are in the homestretch. There are key elections in five states today that highlight divides within both parties and they could set the table for what is to come over the next few months. To walk us through what is important today NPR political editor Domenico Montanaro is here with us again. Hi Domenico.  Hey there Ari.  So we have got Kansas Michigan Missouri Washington state and Ohio.  Yep.  The special election in Ohio has been getting a lot of attention including from the president. Explain why.  Because this is a pretty Republican place. This is the 12th Congressional District in the suburbs of Columbus Ohio. Only one Democrat has won here since 1940 and yet it is a close race between Republican Troy Balderson and the Democrat in the race Danny O'Connor. Now Trump's approval ratings here have not been holding up in this suburban district. Balderson though has made the gamble that he has to stay really close to President Trump. In fact Trump was there on Saturday in Ohio campaigning for Balderson. Let us listen to some of what he had to say.   He is just not going to disappoint you. He is really smart and he is a really hard worker. Troy Balderson come on up.   But Domenico as you point out the president's not very popular in this district. So is there a risk to having him come campaign there?  It is a risk. You know and it is one of the theories that is going to be tested tonight. If Balderson loses or the Democrat comes close it will be a big sign to other candidates in similar places that Trump might be a big liability. And that would put a lot of other seats in play. Consider this. There are 69 Republican-held seats that Trump won by less than this district or Hillary Clinton won in 2016. That is why millions of dollars have been spent to protect this seat. Like I said if the Democrat wins or comes close that would set the limit perhaps for the number of seats that could be vulnerable. And Democrats only need 23 to take back the House. And this could set that limit at 69.  Oh so a real forecast based on what happens tonight. Let us look to some of these other states. Some big names are on the ballot. For example in the Kansas governor's race Kris Kobach is a well-known figure. Tell us a little bit about this.  Well you know listeners might know Kobach because of his role in running President Trump's election integrity commission. He was going in search of basically widespread voter fraud that the president claimed was a reason for why he lost the election which he lost by 3 million popular votes. Kobach's commission really did not find any evidence fizzled but still kind of irritated a lot of even Republican governors Republican attorneys general who said that they did not see any evidence of this. He is challenging the sitting governor. Trump has endorsed Kobach because of his role with him. And there is lots of personal loyalty at play. And we have seen the president feel really emboldened by the fact that he is been endorsing a lot of these candidates and they have been winning.  So we said tonight's races show the divide in both parties. You have talked about the Republicans. What about among the Democrats?  Well you know I mean we talk about Kobach. We talk about Trump names that have sort of become household names. There is another household name on the left that is started to sink in and that is Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez who was that candidate who is a Democratic Socialist won in New York in November was somebody who was tending bar and wound up defeating a longtime Democratic incumbent someone who was thought to be potentially a speaker. And...  She is become a national figure almost overnight.  And part of that is because she is putting her name and her brand onto a lot of these candidates whether it is in Michigan or in Missouri where she is backed a candidate against longtime Democratic incumbent William Lacy Clay. And if she has success that'ill be a big boost to her movement. But if she does not that could be a real problem for her as well.  NPR's Domenico Montanaro covering tonight's primaries - thanks Domenico.  You are welcome.  And with polls now closed in Ohio Kansas Missouri and Michigan stay with us here on your local NPR station and at npr.org. We will let you know when the results are in. 