 College students across the country you can now exhale. Today a bipartisan group of senators announced a deal to stabilize rates on federal student loans. Two weeks ago the rates for undergraduates doubled to 6.8 percent. Lawmakers have been working to avert the hike but they could not agree on the basics until now as NPR's Cory Turner explains.  Let us get the bad news out of the way first. Undergrads you know that sweet rate you had up until July 1st 3.4 percent? Well sorry but those days are over. Here's the good news courtesy of Republican Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee. SEN. ANDREW LAMAR ALEXANDER JR. There are 11 million students headed for college who are borrowing money from the federal government. They are thinking about how to pay the bill and for every one of them the interest rates on their loans will be lower.  Lower at least from what they have been these past two weeks. How low? Well new rates will be pegged to the 10-year Treasury note. That means for undergrads the interest rate on loans taken out this year would be 3.86 percent. That is more than the old 3.4 percent but it is not bad. And Republican Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina he wanted to make this clear at today' Subsidized or unsubsidized your rate's the same. SEN.  In other words we are not asking some students to pay a surcharge to borrow under the student loan program so that they can subsidize others.  As for graduate students this year you are looking at just over 5.4 percent interest and Plus loans just over 6.4 percent. Now as that 10-year Treasury rate goes up so will the rates on new student loans. But Iowa Democrat Tom Harkin made clear lawmakers included a traditional safeguard. SEN.  And we put a cap and a cap on the front end has always been a feature of the student loan program since its inception in 1958.  Critics of today' 8.25 percent for undergrads 9.5 percent for grad students and 10.5 percent for Plus loans. The deal is not entirely done either. It is Congress after all and the House has cobbled together its own version of a compromise. But there is not that much daylight between the two and both sides expect something in place by the time students start taking out loans for the new school year. This bipartisan bargain comes just one day after the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau released a pretty mind-boggling number. Total student debt by the CFPB's latest estimates is now close to 1.2 trillion. And the problem is not just interest rates on federal student loans. It is the cost of an education. At today's announcement Maine's independent senator Angus King recalled a conversation he had years ago with a financial aid officer who said for 50 years the price of one year at a good private college roughly tracked with the price of a new Ford. SEN. ANGUS STANLEY KING JR. The last time I looked a new Ford today you can get a pretty good one for about 18000 and you are talking almost 60000 at a private college.  So today's deal is a big deal at least considering the alternative. But it will take a lot more than one compromise to ease the debt burden already weighing down the nation's new grads. Cory Turner NPR News Washington. 