 And the allegation here is that by getting candidates on the Green Party line you can siphon a few votes away from a Democratic candidate. Is that true? Is that the purpose here?  I had no intention of running for office this year. But I got together with my friends on Mill Avenue - we call ourselves Mill Rats because we hang out on Mill Avenue. That is where I live. That is where they live. And five of us decided to run for office. Four of them are Green and I am a Republican.  And did you encourage them or help them become candidates on the Green Party line?  Well they are Green. That is who they are. That is what they believe. We do not agree on a lot of things.   Although there are a lot of things on the Green Party platform that frankly are not that extreme and are very reasonable and rational. I encourage people to look into the Green Party platform. But...  But I gather the state Green Party in Arizona has disowned these candidates.  Well the grand poobahs of the Green Party do not get to decide who is on the ballot. It is up to the people. And that is kind of the point Robert is I am a post-partisan. You know I affiliate with the Republican Party but I do not obey them. I do not have to do what they want. They do not get to decide whether I run or not. I ran without their support. I ran on my own. I - as a write-in candidate. I got 11073 votes and I am on the ballot and it has nothing to do with parties. This is about power to the people.  Now is that a serious run for office or is that a prank or a dirty trick?  The dirty trick here is coming from the Democrat Party. These guys have a right to run. They are wonderful people. They are wonderful candidates and I am looking forward to allowing their campaigns to develop and helping them where I can so they can tell their story. They deserve a voice.  Well if they are such great potential candidates why do not you try to get them inside the tent of the Republican Party where you belong?  Well because they are not Republicans. They do not believe in the Republican Party. I mean you should hear their...   ...what they say to me about my beliefs. They are not Republicans.  Here's what Paul Eckstein a lawyer who represents the Democrats told The New York Times. I am going to quote now. These are people - he is talking about your friends. These are people who are not serious and who were recruited as part of a cynical manipulation of the process. They do not know green from red.  Get to know these people. These are quality candidates. They have every right to be on the ballot. I am proud of them for what they have done. The fact is voters deserve a choice and regular people deserve a voice and if the Democrat Party does not like that too bad. Welcome to the democracy in America.  Well Steve May thanks a lot for talking with us about it.  Thank you. Hope to be back sometime after we all win.   Okay. Steve May who is a Republican in Arizona speaking to use from Tempe. 