 Donald Trump is still running for president. Many in the GOP establishment thought they had a chance to get him out of the race. There was a huge backlash over his criticism of Senator John McCain's status as a war hero. Instead Trump was back on the campaign trail today with a stop in South Carolina. And as reporter Sarah McCammon heard Trump is showing no signs of backing down.  As soon as he took the stage Trump made it clear he was going to speak his mind. He said he does not use teleprompters.   They are too easy. Other people use teleprompters. Maybe when you run for president you should not be allowed to use a teleprompter because you find out what you are getting. Does that make sense?   Trump told the crowd of hundreds of retirees near Hilton Head Island that what they are getting is a savvy businessman who knows how to outsmart the competition.   I am so tired of politicians. Nobody knows them better than me. If you cannot get rich dealing with politicians there is something wrong with you.  He repeatedly touted his wealth his social media prowess...   You know I have many millions between Facebook and Twitter. It is great. It is like owning a newspaper without the losses. It is incredible.   Incredible.  ...And his strength in national polls of likely Republican voters. Trump shifted away from his criticism of McCain and instead took on several of his opponents in the GOP presidential contest.   And then I see Rick Perry the other day and he is so - you know he is doing very poorly in the polls. He put glasses on so people will think he is smart.   And it just does not work. You know people can see through the glasses.  But the gloves really came off for South Carolina senator Lindsey Graham a close friend of John McCain who had this to say on CNN about Trump.   That he is a jackass.  Trump mocked Graham calling him a lightweight.   Here's a guy - in the private sector he could not get a job. Believe me. He could not get a job. He could not do what you people did. You are all retired as hell and rich OK? He would not be rich. He would be poor.  And he did not stop there. Trump recalled how a few years ago Graham called him to ask for a favor - a good word with his contacts at the TV show Fox  Friends.   You know I am saying to myself what is this guy a beggar? He is like begging me to help him with Fox  Friends. So I say OK and I will mention your name. He said could you mention my name? I said yes I will - and he gave me his number. And I found the card. I wrote the number down. I do not know if it is the right number. Let us try it - 202...  And Graham's phone apparently blew up.   The mailbox is full and cannot accept any messages at this time. Goodbye.  Graham seemed to take Trump's insult in stride. He tweeted probably getting a new phone - iPhone or Android? For over 40 minutes Trump rambled at times and wove in familiar talking points his concerns about illegal immigration and his success in entertainment and real estate. He suggested that would have translated well in recent negotiations with Iran over a nuclear deal.   We should have doubled up the sanctions sat back for about three months and let them call us. And believe me I would have made one hell of a deal. That one's easy.   Trump ended the speech with a salute that was reminiscent of Richard Nixon - arms in the air flashing V for victory signs.   In the crowd was Mary Hubbs a retired Colonel from the Army Nurse Corps. And she liked what she heard. This veteran was not bothered by Trump's comments about McCain's military service or Trump's general tendency to make controversial statements.  Some of them maybe needs to be said. A lot of people think some of those things and they do not say it. And I think he is a doer and not just a speaker about it.  Not everyone was pleased to see Trump. About 50 protesters stood outside holding signs with sayings like stop spreading hatred and Donald you are fired. But with hundreds more showing up to support Trump and his big fortune to fall back on it seems unlikely he will be going away anytime soon. For NPR News I am Sarah McCammon in Bluffton S.C. 