 This week the director of the Office of Government Ethics resigned. Walter Shaub Jr. who has tangled with the Trump administration over potential conflicts of interest said there is not more I could accomplish. And he took a job with the nonprofit Campaign Legal Center. He joins us now. Mr. Shaub welcome to the program. WALTER SHAUB JR. Thank you.  When you say there is not more you could accomplish do you mean you have gained as much compliance with ethics rules as the law guarantees or the Trump administration just will not comply with the law no matter what you do? SHAUB JR. I have made as much of a difference as I can in this job. I do not think there is more that I can do. And I have done what I can to call attention to the things that concern me...  Yeah. SHAUB JR. ...And have used the only resource available to me which is to just be very public about those concerns.  Do you wish you could do more? SHAUB JR. Yeah I do and I think the laws need to be changed to be strengthened.  Is Donald Trump or his family profiting from his position as president? SHAUB JR. Well I think the real problem is that there is no way to know. There is no way to know what decisions he is making. Are they motivated by his own financial interests? Are they motivated by his policy goals? And in the past presidents have resolved conflicts of interest by getting rid of their assets. The mere fact that he holds them means there is a question mark over almost everything he does including the decision to frequently go to his own properties which gives them free advertisements. So...  You would find those visits violations of government ethics. SHAUB JR. No and this is sort of a nuanced point that I need to make and that is that the laws do not apply to the president. The decision by Congress to exclude the president from the primary conflict of interest law was one of necessity because we cannot have the president recusing not participating in matters where we need a president to participate. But it was not a decision that the president's above the law and should not do the same things that the people who work for him have to do. It is a decision of pragmatic necessity. We need him available. And all of our past presidents for the past four decades have understood that it is not a free pass that it is a matter of necessity. And so they need to do what they can to act as though the laws apply.  The General Services Administration ruled that Donald Trump's stake in a hotel that is a few blocks from the White House did not violate a lease that expressly excludes elected officials. Did the GSA in that case fail to enforce an obvious ethics violation? SHAUB JR. So I am not an expert in government contracting law. To me I think the language is concerning. It says an elected official shall not partake in the contract. What my point is though is we would not even have to be asking that question if he had divested his interest in that hotel.  Yeah yeah. But it is a reminder as well that the office you directed the Office of Government Ethics has a fairly narrow - pretty narrow brief. That is a case like that we do not go to your office to appeal the decision of the General Services Administration. SHAUB JR. That is right. We do not have enforcement power. One of the features of the existing ethics program that has worked for the past four decades - and I do not believe it is working now - is that there is a compliance structure where we have a limited set of rules that set the bare minimum. And if you violate them you are either a rule violator or a criminal depending on the nature of the rule you violated. But we ought to be able to hold government officials to a higher standard than saying well at least they are not criminals. And in that vein the ethics program has always had a set of traditions and norms as to what people are going to do even when we are not talking strictly about violations. We are talking about abandoning the norms and ethical traditions of the executive branch that have made our ethics program the gold standard in the world until now.  Well given that you had experience with the George W. Bush administration and then the Obama administration when you became director is the behavior of this White House dramatically different from those two White Houses? SHAUB JR. I have only good things to say about the ethics program that President Bush ran as well as the ethics program that President Obama ran in the past two administrations. Both were incredibly supportive of the ethics program and they proved that ethics is not a partisan issue. I can only describe my experience with the way they have run their ethics program in the White House right now as one of disappointment which pretty much reached its peak when I finally got my hands on the waivers they have been issuing and discovered that they were unsigned undated. One was explicitly retroactive. Most of the rest of the ones are implicitly retroactive. And that is just no way to run an ethics program.  I mean these are waivers to presidential appointees saying you do not have to file or you do not have to comply with ethics rules. SHAUB JR. Not file but comply yes.  Comply - when Donald Trump was elected you famously unfurnished your office ready to vacate it at a moment's notice. Did you ever feel deterred by the threat of being dismissed? SHAUB JR. No. And in fact the reason I took things out of my office was to remind myself not to be attached to that office and not to be afraid to take stands that I needed to take.  Walter Shaub outgoing director of the Office of Government Ethics thanks for talking with us. SHAUB JR. Thanks. Thanks for having me. 