 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa block.  And I am Audie Cornish. The Supreme Court gave broadcasters a huge win this week in their battle against a service called Aereo. Subscribers in 11 cities have been using it to watch and record broadcast TV. With Aereo now deemed illegal NPR's Elise Hu explores what is next for consumers.  In her final year as a law student at NYU Amanda Levendowski learned the nitty-gritty of copyright law. She says it is worth it because that is how she first heard about Aereo.  I really wanted to be able to stream local channels so I could watch TV shows sooner than the sort of one-week delay that you get on Hulu and without doing an additional long-term paid subscription with a deluxe service.  Like cable. The two-year-old Aereo lets her do exactly what she wants. It picks up live TV signals and sends them to Internet-connected devices like phones tablets desktop computers. So Levendowski became a subscriber this January.  I am watching the World Cup in one tab and on my recordings I am able to watch the episode of The Good Wife.  The service costs users anywhere between 8 and 12 a month.  I can watch it at home. I can watch it from campus. And you can record a significant amount of television shows to watch later.  Those TV shows Levendowski has saved to watch later is exactly what she is worried about now. It is unclear how long she and other Aereo subscribers will still get the service. Aereo was showing network TV content without paying the same licensing fees cable and satellite companies do. That led to a legal battle that wound up at the Supreme Court. In March I asked Aereo's CEO Chet Kanojia what would happen if he lost? Do you have a contingency plan in case it does not go your way?  No.  Wednesday the Supreme Court ruled Aereo's service is running afoul of copyright laws.  It is got to unwind pretty fast.  That is Forrester analyst Jim Nail. He says it will not make sense for the company to start paying rebroadcast fees because that would end its price advantage over cable. But he does credit Aereo for giving cable some competition even if it lost in court.  What this does give these incumbent you know cable companies and broadcast companies - I think it gives them a little bit of window to continue improving and growing out their own TV-everywhere services. And if they get that right then there is much less incentive for consumers to pay attention to those new innovators.  Aereo says it is still evaluating its options. The company holds more than a dozen patents so it is technology could live on in reworked ways but analysts are not optimistic.  It is just flat-out illegal so how long can a company continue an illegal activity?  For subscribers like Levendowski the binge watching begins. She is got to catch up with hours of recorded TV especially her favorite The Good Wife on CBS.   We have always had bad timing have not we?  We have.  I might binge through these final episodes of The Good Wife to get up to real-time. I just know that that is going to be sort of an emotional move.  What she is really sad about is what happens in the Fall when new television seasons begin. By then Aereo will likely be over. Elise Hu NPR News Washington. 