 President Biden is firmly defending his decision to pull U.S. troops out of Afghanistan. After days that brought relentless news of Taliban victories and shocking scenes of chaos at the airport in Kabul Biden delivered remarks from the White House this afternoon.   Our only vital national interest in Afghanistan remains today what it has always been - preventing another a terrorist attack on American homeland. I have argued for many years that our mission should be narrowly focused on counterterrorism not counterinsurgency or nation building.  All right. For reaction we will now turn to someone who has thought a lot about U.S. national security interests. Elissa Slotkin is a Democratic representative from Michigan. She serves on the House Armed Services Committee and she has worked in both the CIA and Department of Defense. Congresswoman Slotkin welcome.  Thanks for having me.  So Biden's central message this afternoon was that remaining in Afghanistan just was not in the national security interest of the U.S. Do you agree with that central premise?  Well listen. I do not think there is actually much disagreement between Democrats Republicans between most people that after 20 years we want to be out of Afghanistan. I think that is a different question than what we are seeing on TV right now. But I think the overall idea that we should be done or ending our conflict there most people agree with. I just do not think we wanted it like this.  I am getting the sense from this response that you have real concerns about how this pullout has played out in the last several days.  Well who does not? I mean I think - look. Anyone who is worked in war zones anyone who is worked in national security anyone who is served there in any capacity - I mean we are gutted watching this right? We are gutted. And I think it is just an extremely emotional thing to watch on television. And you know we are getting a ton of calls into our office and people want to know what is going on and what is happening. And you know for many of us the focus needs to be right now on life and limb. You know we seem to be doing better today. The airport needs to remain open not only to get American citizens out and the Afghans we work with but to allow other Afghans who are not in our program to take their own transportation on civilian aircraft out of there. We need to make sure we focus on life and limb right now. Later we can get to the politics and how this all happened.  Right. Well let me ask you about the information that you are receiving. At this point I know that you have been briefed by the secretaries of state and of defense on the situation in Kabul. Did you hear anything that explains why the Afghan government fell so quickly so much more quickly than expected?  You know I have not. And I think this is part of just the review that I know is coming - right? - of what we knew what our intelligence was telling us what we were doing at the State Department at the Defense Department. Of course that will all be reviewed. But I think - you know look. I was in Iraq and when the U.S. military is standing next to you and you are a foreign military we stiffen your spine. You know we give you the sense that you can be out there and fighting and that we are with you. And I think you know what is hard to imagine especially for all of us who have trained folks on the ground or been on the ground with Iraqis or Afghans is that when you leave that will to fight and that you know stiffening of the spine really goes away. And it just went away so fast in this situation that I think it was shocking for everybody.  Do you think the military the U.S. military should have been better prepared to anticipate that loss of will among the Afghan security forces?  Well I do not think that that was a secret. I mean I think lots of the estimates that were out there were anywhere from I think three months to a year or something like that. So it was not that you did not see that. And frankly we lived that in Iraq in a big way. I think it was just the speed would have been hard I think for anyone to understand - that between Friday and Sunday you know the president would flee the country and the military would lay down their weapons and run. I mean I think that was stunning even for standards of you know the post-911 era.  I saw a month ago that you told Reuters that you wanted what is called a day after plan from the White House an idea of how they might detect future al-Qaida plots after this U.S. pullout. That was of course before the collapse of the Afghan government. How confident are you in that day after plan now?  Well look. I think we are going to have to reevaluate everything that is going on there. And again right now it is life and limb. Right now we have got an airport that needs to stay open. But hopefully if we can hit some equilibrium then we need to understand how we are going to make sure that groups like al-Qaida groups like ISIS groups - you know other terrorist groups do not once again use that area as a safe haven. Now the good news is I think we have learned a lot over the last 20 years about how to protect ourselves how to protect our allies. But we still need a diplomatic infrastructure and an intelligence infrastructure. That cannot be done completely remote. So I think you know at this point we got to figure out what is going on in the next 48 hours. But then I sincerely hope that the administration will come and brief all members of Congress on this.  What is your confidence level in this administration at this point? - because President Biden said this afternoon that the U.S. would be able to respond quickly to any threats that emerge in Afghanistan national security threats. Do you believe that to be true at this point?  Well at this point I want to have a classified conversation and I want to be briefed on that right? I mean that is not something you have a conversation about on the radio and in public. We want to - we need to know how we can protect ourselves and our allies and our partners.  So at this point the administration has not given you any clear answer on how it would detect emerging threats without a diplomatic or military presence in Afghanistan. You do not have a clear answer at this point.  I would like to see more on that. Yes.  OK. You signed a letter calling for the president to help evacuate all those Afghans who have helped U.S. troops to evacuate diplomats other non-governmental organizations. What specifically do you want to see from the administration on that front?  I think when we think about the Afghans who so many people served alongside and worked with we have to think about them and their safety and getting them out keeping that airport open so that they can get out either through us or through a third party through charters through third countries. But we also have to understand that the world is watching us and that the American handshake has to mean something. When we shake someone's hand and we tell them that we are going to work with them that if they work and they risk their lives for us we are going to protect them that has to mean something. And we have to live up to that. And that is my expectation right now.  Do you have any sense at this point why visa applications for many of these people were not expedited sooner?  Look. I think immigration is a very complicated thing and there is no doubt about it. You know making a decision to bring someone to American soil before they have gone through our vetting is not something we are used to doing. So I think it challenged everybody. But that does not escape - that does not allow us an out. We knew from April that we were going to be pulling out and we should have been doing it faster.  Democrat Elissa Slotkin of Michigan thank you very much for joining our show today.  Thank you.  