 Ivanka Trump took a role in the White House a few months ago and some people assumed then that the entrepreneur who talked about empowering women and expanding child care would be a moderating force on her father. As NPR's Vanessa Romo reports there is now limited evidence for that.  Ivanka Trump is a lot of things - a mother a wife an entrepreneur an Instagram goddess and First Daughter. But you know what she says she is not?   I do not profess to be a political savant.  That was her on Fox this week deflecting a question about the president's controversial tweets and that was before the president's latest attack on MSNBC's Mika Brzezinski. But she also said this.   You know I try to stay out of politics.  It was an odd answer for someone with a West Wing office who is an adviser to the president. And it set off an intense backlash from critics who argue that she cannot in one instance choose to be perceived as an influential voice within her father's inner circle and then in another simply be a woman concerned with issues.  When you are working for the president in the White House it does not really seem like it should be an option.  That is Jill Filipovic a Trump critic and the author of  The Feminist Pursuit Of Happiness. She believes Ivanka Trump has been positioned to tamp down the fears of moderates and women a sort of salve for those concerned about the president's policies on everything from the environment to refugees to women's rights. But she thinks women are being bamboozled.  Because what she is really doing is kind of putting a pretty face and a palatable face on what is a very very ugly and very misogynist administration.  She says that because it does not appear as though Trump has had many successes. Despite the First Daughter's efforts to sway the president on the Paris climate accord he went the other way. In all of the advice she dispensed in her book Women Who Work she remained silent about reproductive rights. And despite touting that she would be a champion for women's economic empowerment just today the White House announced it may dissolve the Council on Women and Girls.  I think she is dynamic needed and classy and inevitable.  That is Doug Wead a former White House adviser to George H.W. Bush and an author of several books on first families. He says inevitable because above all else an inner circle needs to be filled by the most loyal staffers.  It very quickly comes down to loyalty. They can be ideologically aligned but if they have not learned how to be disciplined they quickly are not needed.  Plus he says it is still way too early to draw any conclusions about what Trump might accomplish by the president's side. Think of FDR and his daughter Anna.  We are only now learning how Anna Roosevelt practically ran the White House her last year in office.  Well here's what I also know about being a White House adviser. There is one person's political views that matter and it is the president's.  Tina Tchen agrees and she was Michelle Obama's chief of staff. Remember that council that might get cut? That was Tchen's baby. Her take on Trump and really anyone who works for the president is simple.  If you are doing your job you are not speaking out separately from the president of the United States because that is who you work for.  She is got some advice for progressives and feminists who blame Ivanka for not being able to achieve more.  Ultimately the direction of the policy begins at the top. So it is never any one adviser. It really starts with the president.  And this week he stepped in controversy once again when it comes to women. Vanessa Romo NPR News Washington.  