 President Trump says he has cut a deal with Guatemala to stem the flow of migrants to the U.S.   I think it is going to be a great thing for Guatemala. They do not want these problems either so we were able to get this done. And we got it done fairly quickly.  The agreement was signed in the Oval Office this afternoon. It is a so-called safe third country asylum agreement and it follows days of threats from the president. There had been talk of imposing a travel ban of tariffs on Guatemalan goods of taxing money sent home by Guatemalans living in the U.S. NPR's Franco Ordoez broke the news of the possible travel ban. He is been following all this. He joins me now. Hi Franco. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Hi.  So what happened this afternoon? ORDO Well President Trump just announced here at the White House that the administration had signed an asylum agreement. You know it really was a big agreement that would force migrants traveling through Guatemala to seek asylum out of the United States. It applies to Salvadorans as well and Hondurans. It is a key component of Trump's strategy for reducing migration. And frankly it is quite a turn of events considering that just earlier this month the Guatemalan high court had said you cannot do this kind of agreement. But Trump did not believe it and he threatened to take action against them.  And was it those threats that prompted Guatemala to agree to this which they as you suggested had been resisting? ORDO Well it certainly seems like it had an impact you know? This is - they were certainly scared of the consequences. It is a small - it is a poor country that depends on the United States. The local business community particularly was very scared of the tariffs and was pushing the president of Guatemala Jimmy Morales to do what President Trump was seeking. You know we - as you mentioned we also reported on the travel ban that was directed at Guatemalan nationals who come to the United States legally. Those are the business peaceable  themselves.  But to the point you made a moment ago Franco that Guatemala's high court had ruled the president cannot do this at least not unilaterally - I mean can this agreement even come into force? Will it be legal in Guatemala? ORDO Yeah. I mean I think that is the big question. I mean we still need to be a little bit cautious here. The high court did say the president cannot do this unilaterally - that is the Guatemalan president cannot do this unilaterally - and authorize an international treaty. Such pacts are supposed to be ratified by the Guatemalan Congress so this deal may not quite be done yet. It will have to go back to Congress.  All right. And this would seem to be in terms of how the president has approached this straight from the Donald Trump playbook of how he prefers to negotiate with foreign governments. ORDO It really does. I mean just this morning former - I was - I - you know I heard from some former ambassadors who were in touch criticizing Trump for giving up on diplomacy in favor of bullying. But his supporters - Trump supporters that is - you know are crediting his hard-nosed negotiating style with getting results. You know it was just a couple of months ago that he did this with Mexico. He threatened to impose big tariffs that would start at 5 and then go up to 25 if Mexico did not stop the flow of migrants. They acted. And Trump at the last minute pulled back his threats. Now Guatemala you know actually acted sooner. But as we mentioned there is still a few things that really need to be unravelled in Guatemala.  And just to situate this in the broader context the goal here for President Trump is reducing the flow of migrants at the border cutting down on immigration. ORDO Absolutely. I mean that is the goal. They want to reduce - you know they want to reduce migration. And I should also note that - look. This was a small country that Trump can have influence over. They depend on the United States very increasingly. You know right now Trump is also trying to push Sweden - pressure Sweden to release a U.S. rapper who is in jail on assault charges. There is a big question whether a country - you know a larger country a wealthier country that does not rely on the United States in the same way will act in the same way. You know they are less likely to succeed.  NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez reporting there on the deal signed this afternoon in the Oval Office between the U.S. and Guatemala. Thanks Franco. ORDO Thank you. 