 For most Americans this year brings a much-needed break from political campaigns. But the few elections that are happening are getting a lot of attention. That includes the governor's race in Virginia which is held in off-years. It is one of the first major contests after the election of Donald Trump. NPR's Sarah McCammon reports the race is testing the strength of the Trump brand at the state level.  The frontrunner in Virginia's Republican gubernatorial primary is campaigning on what would traditionally be considered an impressive political resume.   I helped author the Contract with America and advised the president.  In this campaign ad Ed Gillespie is seen alongside former President George W. Bush. Gillespie is also a former Republican National Committee chairman lobbyist and in 2014 the unsuccessful Republican nominee for U.S. Senate.   I am Ed Gillespie. I know firsthand how the system works.  That of course is the political system the same one that many voters repudiated by electing Donald Trump. One of Gillespie's 2 rivals for the Republican gubernatorial nomination is hoping Virginia primary voters are still feeling that way. Corey Stewart Trump's former state campaign chairman has been going after Gillespie's deep ties to the party leadership.   All right I call him Establishment Ed.  At a small campaign rally held in a parking lot in Virginia Beach several weeks ago Stewart an attorney and county supervisor painted Gillespie as more of the same.   This guy who does not want to change anything. He does not want to change anything. It is the establishment.  At campaign events Stewart draws frequently from Trump's repertoire giving his opponents catchy nicknames promising to crack down on illegal immigration and as he puts it take back Virginia.   And by the way who is excited that we finally have a real president of the United States?   Stewart a native of Minnesota has also been running on a theme of preserving Southern heritage making multiple statements opposing the removal of Confederate monuments. Gillespie for his part has been walking a delicate line when it comes to Trump neither denouncing nor fully embracing the president. Here's how he answered a question from a reporter for the Washington D.C. news station NBC4 about whether he wants Trump's support if he is the party's nominee for governor.   I want to have everybody who is willing to help me come in and help you know? This is going to be a tough race. And so obviously help from President Trump Vice President Pence - I am happy to have all the help I can get.  While he has a substantial lead in the GOP primary Republicans may face an uphill general election battle in Virginia the only Southern state that Democrat Hillary Clinton won in 2016. Political scientist Quentin Kidd of Christopher Newport University says successful Republicans have to bring together divergent factions of the party while appealing to new transplants from outside the state especially in the Washington D.C. suburbs and along the coast.  There simply are not enough Republicans in Virginia left who care about the things that Virginians cared about - conservative Virginians cared about in the 1950s and '60s - Southern heritage cultural issues issues related to race and ethnicity.  Kidd says that is no longer the Virginia of today and certainly not of the future. Voters from both major parties will choose their nominees on June 13. Sarah McCammon NPR News Virginia Beach. 