 The White House says tonight at 9 p.m. Eastern President Trump will introduce the world to the person he wants to serve a lifetime appointment on the Supreme Court. Democrats and Republicans have mobilized for a fight that will cost millions of dollars and perhaps impact the midterm elections in November. Whoever replaces retiring Justice Anthony Kennedy will likely influence the court for decades. NPR's Nina Totenberg has covered the confirmation fight for every current Supreme Court justice and she is here with us to discuss the latest. Hi Nina.  Hello Ari.  So what is going to happen tonight?  I have not really a clue.  .  And I am astonished that even top people very closely connected to this process both inside the administration and outside the administration do not appear to know. I mean I am sure somebody knows. A couple of them know because they have to move people around to get them in place unless of course it is Brett Kavanaugh who is here in Washington.  In Washington D.C. already.  And that does not take a lot of movement. But everybody else - nobody seems to really - we have not had the authorized leak yet .  What does that tell you - because with other Supreme Court nominations at this point there would have been some murmurings of who it is going to be.  Well you know in the last one Gorsuch we certainly thought that it was going to be him but we could not confirm it. And this one I am not sure if the president is just playing with us in the press corps and the public or if he is playing with his aides too or he really has not or had not made up his mind.  This is a president who has now been in office a year and a half. He is become more confident in his own...  Right.  ...Instincts and he is made choices in the past that have defied advisers.  You know if you look at this last time he was a newbie president - brand new - and he had a nomination to the Supreme Court. He would made lots of promises to his base. But he really did not know how to pick a Supreme Court justice and they did not have much of a staff in place. And they outsourced it to The Federalist Society and it went very smoothly. My sense is that this time he is much more personally involved much more sort of saying I can pick this person I do not need aides to tell me who might be the best on this or the best on that. And when he said I cannot lose with any of these people he means he cannot lose with any of these people. The one person I think has had some influence on him is the Republican leader of the Senate Mitch McConnell who is very anxious to get this done.  Let us run through the four people who we believe are the finalists. You mentioned Judge Brett Kavanaugh. He is on the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  With a long track record he is been on the court for 12 years served in many capacities very important capacities in the George W. Bush White House and for that reason is viewed with some skepticism apparently by President Trump. Then also on the list on the other end of the not-so-establishment person is Amy Coney Barrett a former Antonin Scalia law clerk Notre Dame law professor who serves on the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. But she is something of a lightning rod because she has openly questioned Roe versus Wade the Supreme Court's abortion decision. On the other hand she is got huge backing on the right for obvious reasons. Then there is the so-called compromise candidate Raymond Kethledge who serves on the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals in Michigan - also very conservative very likable apparently. And my guess is he did well with the president in his interview. And lastly - Thomas Hardiman who was the runner-up last time or so we think of the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals. That is the appeals court on which the president's sister Maryanne Trump Barry served until his election. And she is apparently put in more than a good word for Hardiman.  NPR legal affairs correspondent Nina Totenberg who will be covering this confirmation battle - thanks Nina.  Thank you.  And many stations will have live coverage of the president's announcement at 9 p.m. Eastern tonight. 