 Judith Viorst the author of the iconic children's book Alexander And The Terrible Horrible No Good Very Bad Day has a new book of poetry. It is about what happens after you grow up all the way up.  Even though I am pushing 90 I am only a girl of 88.  The book is called Nearing 90. WEEKEND EDITION books editor Barrie Hardymon visited Viorst at home to talk about it.  Judith Viorst's children's books are on many many shelves. But she is also a prolific poet.  The poets I revere are Auden Dickinson Hopkins Eliot and Yeats. But I decided somebody has to write about Metamucil and saggy kneecaps. So why not me?  Her latest book of verse is part of her poetry series on the decades - Hard To Be Hip Over 30 How Did I Get To Be 40 Forever 50 Suddenly 60 I am Too Young To Be 70 Unexpectedly 80 and now Nearing 90. Can I ask you to read one or two poems?  Sure.  Once upon a time I flirted - smooth skin long-haired tight-skirted never satisfied with what I got foolish choices duds I dated bad vacations jobs I hated. What did I complain about? - a lot. Once upon a time I twinkled. Now I am achy creaky crinkled also slowed down sidelined out of touch - no stroke no chemotherapy and as of now dementia-free. What is there to complain about? - not much.  We met in her cheerful brightly colored Washington D.C. home where she is lived with her husband Milton a retired journalist for decades. There are photos of them their children and grandchildren on every available surface and wall at every conceivable moment in their lives. When they first moved to Washington she took a job as an editor at a science nonprofit that also published books. They asked her to write about the NASA space program.  I remember coming home sobbing to Milton saying I have finally gotten a chance to write a book. And they want me to write about space. And I do not even know where space is. And spoken like a true reporter he said say yes. We will figure out where space is.  She did of course go on to figure it out. She is now the author of science books poetry fiction nonfiction four musicals and some of the most beloved children's literature of all time. Viorst has been a writer since she was 7.  My first masterpiece was an ode to my dead mother and father both alive at the time and quite irritated.  It was a short poem which she still remembers called Children's Blessings.   They took them up the golden stairs far away from me. I wonder if ever again my parents I will see.  But they were alive.  They were alive and as I said very pissed off.  . Well you got to start somewhere. The famous Alexander the one who went to bed with gum in his mouth is her youngest son who she said had more than his share of bad days trying to keep up with his brothers. Lulu And The Brontosaurus is the product of a rainy day babysitting restless grandchildren. And her book about the death of a beloved cat is a response to a difficult question from her oldest son and became the classic The Tenth Good Thing About Barney.  Tony was - I do not know - 5 or 6. And out of the blue he said to me mommy am I going to die someday? So you know all prepared in my mommy way I said everybody dies. Everybody dies but not for a very very very long time. And he says mommy I do not want to die. And I said in my lowest moment as a mother maybe they will invent something . Then I decided what I better do is write a book work it out for myself and my son.  Viorst gets asked a lot for parenting advice. After all she studied Freudian psychology and wrote a few nonfiction books. One is called Necessary Losses which is almost the mission statement for all her books even the one starring kids. Loss is hard but crucial. And it does not feel good.  Practically everything that I have written that is funny or joyful I have probably lived through first with tears and crying and bitching and moaning and carrying on. I mean I am not your merry little lady bouncing chucklingly through life. But eventually I pull myself together. I am hoping that I am now doing it at a quicker pace.  Viorst is still writing still reading widely looking forward to grandchildren graduating and feeling pretty great.  Somebody asked me recently what my favorite time of life was. And I absolutely stunned myself by saying right now.  That is Judith Viorst. Her new book of poems is called Nearing 90. Barrie Hardymon NPR News. 