 Maybe Maxim Borodin was depressed in ways his friends just did not recognize and threw himself off his fifth-floor balcony this week in Yekaterinburg Russia. Maxim Borodin was 32 and a reporter for the local Novy Den website where he would done tough stories about crime and political corruption including Yevgeny Prigozhin the oligarch indicted by the United States for running the troll factory that helped Russia try to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Maxim Borodin was not just reporting on the latest craze in spa treatments. Reporters for the website say there were no signs of a struggle in his apartment. But he would been previously threatened for his stories. And Paulina Rumyantseva his editor told CNN as Maxim had big plans for his personal life and career there is nothing to support a verdict of suicide. Journalism is a dangerous trade in Russia. At least 35 Russian journalists have been murdered since 2000 according to the Committee to Protect Journalists and the Glasnost Defense Foundation. They were not covering shooting wars or riots but powerful Russian institutions. A surprising number have implausibly fallen or slipped to their deaths. In March 2007 Ivan Safronov who was investigating the sale of Russian arms to Iran and Syria died after falling from a fifth-floor window. It was ruled a suicide. In November 2009 the independent broadcaster Olga Kotovskaya fell to her death from a 14th floor window. She would been battling for control of her station with a member of the government. Her death - also ruled a suicide. February 2012 Victor Afanasenko editor of a newspaper that had been investigating paramilitary raids in southern Russia died after slipping in his home. November 2015 Mikhail Lesin often described as President Putin's state media czar - but had fallen out of favor with him - was found dead after a fall in his hotel room in Washington D.C. The FBI says he fell from extreme drinking and blunt force trauma to the head and injuries to his neck arms legs and torso. That must have been some fall. March 2017 Nikolai Gorokhov the lawyer for Sergei Magnitsky who was the source of reporting on Russia's largest tax fraud fell from a fourth-story window while trying to move a bathtub. Russian authorities made that explanation with a straight face. Mr. Gorokhov remains in a coma. Their names are on a roll of honor with almost 30 more dauntless Russian reporters. Let us hope brave Russian journalists stay away from windows.   