 So I would like to mix up some sex and sass and a little bit of tango in this next song. How about that?  The word cabaret is taken from the French to describe small intimate spaces where the performances take place.    Rusted brandy in a diamond glass.  New York cabaret star Lady Rizo fills those small intimate spaces with a signature mix of elegance a little blue humor and this voice...    ...only the fools know what it means. Temptation temptation...  Lady Rizo performs to sold-out crowds all over New York City. She won a Grammy for a duet with Yo-Yo Ma. Now she is taking her act out West where she is currently on tour. Lady Rizo joins us from the studios of NPR West. Thanks very much for being with us.  Oh it is so delightful to be here.  You have been describe in your publicity materials as - I have never had to read anything quite like this as quote The product of a night of unrestrained indulgence between Peggy Lee Mel Brooks Nina Simone Dean Martin and Janis Joplin.  Yeah. It was a crazy orgy and they were all there.   Yeah. I exist between boundaries because I am a comedian.  Mm-hmm.  And I consider myself a chanteuse and a singer. And it is really an equal mix. One of my first explorations with Lady Rizo was the song I Will Follow Him you remember the '50s kind of - I think it is Little Peggy March song and...   Yeah. Ooh very good. Yeah.  Well I...  That is nice.   But I always thought God this sounds like a stalker song. And if you just twist it a little bit theatrically it is kind of a very scary stalker song. So I like to not only sing songs but explore them in a way that tweaks the dark humor of things.    I love him I love him I love him and where he goes I will follow. He will always be my true love. It is you.  You seem to speak of Lady Rizo as her.   Well this can get into a whole other conversation of alter egos. But I can have so much more freedom if there is a little bit of separation from the name of the person that I was born as which is Amelia Zirin-Brown who is a wonderful gal as well.   I have heard. Yeah.  But it is actually freedom from humility if that makes any sense.  Oh my god. Yeah. No it does.  Because Lady Rizo has no apologies and exists in a land of diva.  Mm-hmm.  I think that everyone has to struggle with this idea of finding these parts of themselves that can be overly egocentric and underly filled with that kind of positive ego. And I do not think Amelia has a lack of an ego but sometimes Lady Rizo needs to step in and be like boldness is required here.    She tears you down darling. Says you are nothing at all. But I will pick you up darling when she lets you fall. You are like a diamond that she treats you like glass. Yet you beg her to love you with me you do not ask. If I were your woman if I were your woman if I were your woman...  You have a group and tell us about - I like to think I am a gentleman but I cannot phrase this any other way. Please tell us about your Assets.  Oh my Assets. Well I first started doing Lady Rizo as an exploration of burlesque and cabaret together. My sister she is an incredible dancer she dances with a modern dance company called Mark Morris and we were like let us do a collaboration and we thought about doing something highbrow. And then we were like let us forget about highbrow - lowbrow is where it is at. And so we decided to make a burlesque show with live music and I would host and I would get to explore this comedic side. And we did our first show in like a Burrito Shack in Long Island City Queens and we sold out.  Forgive me is it hard to sell out a Burrito Shack? I mean it is not Carnegie Hall.   Well you know everything's hard in New York to sell.  All right. I have never sold out a Burrito Shack so I should be respectful yeah.   You know it is hard to sell anything in Long Island City Queens.  I have to ask and the name?  Assets.  Yeah.  Well I believe...  That is all part of the double entendre?  Yeah. And I feel like everyone can get behind it.      In this era of big venues - and for that matter social media...  Yeah.  What is the place for something like cabaret?  It is a very good question because you know for all these years I have done kind of the opposite of what most artists do. I have not recorded a proper album. Instead I have been slaving away on the boards performing live so I can really perfect what I am doing. It is a very old fashioned way of approaching a career. I think as we approach a time with less human-to-human contact the place for intimate venues is even more desired. I have been really happy about the economic downturn because it is really meant great things for my business.   People want to be around each other holding a martini wearing something that makes them feel alive and watching a woman in a sparkly gown come to a microphone and whisper sweet nothings into their ear. Lady Rizo from our studios at NPR West. She is currently on a tour of the West Coast. So tonight you are in Seattle?  Oh yes. Tonight I will be in Seattle at Fred's Wildlife Refuge it is called. So hopefully the animals will come out.  Well thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you so much Scott. 