 That is the men's Final Four it is also Final Four weekend in women's college basketball. Their semifinals tip off this evening in Indianapolis and that is where we find NPR's Tom Goldman. Hi Tom.  Hi David.  We are talking a lot about Connecticut this weekend. They are in the women's Final Four as well.  Yes they are. They certainly are. They are playing Notre Dame tonight.  And they already have two straight titles under their belt. This could be number three. I guess they are the odds-on favorite.  Well not with everyone. They are certainly one of the favorites but they do not have the dominance and the ability to intimidate the past UConn women's teams have had. And even their coach acknowledged that - Geno Auriemma. And Notre Dame is certainly aware of that even though Notre Dame has lost three times this year to the Huskies. In the plus column for UConn they do have Maya Moore. She is the best player in the country. She dominates games. They basically play six-person rotation. That means a lot of minutes for those six players but Geno Auriemma gets the most out of them. And a couple of freshmen post players Stefanie Dolson point guard Bria Hartley have been the big contributors too.  And what do you think the key is if Notre Dame is going to contain Maya Moore and have a chance?  Well I think what you have to do you have got to play as good a defense as you can. The Irish have an outstanding point guard in Skylar Diggins and she and forward Devereaux Peters they could keep Notre Dame close for a while David. But this really should be the fourth UConn win over Notre Dame this year.  And on the other side we have Texas A  M facing Stanford and I know Stanford is known for a pretty high-flying offense. I mean can the Aggies keep up? Do they have a defense that can keep up with them?  Yeah well their defense is what they are all about. If their defense plays the way it usually does you know they could make this close and maybe even pull off the upset. The Aggies are this scrappy defensive-minded team. In the tournament they have held opponents to less than 45 points a game. Their defense is keyed by their guards the Sydneys - senior Sydney Colson and junior Sydney Carter. And they have been great at shutting down opposing guards. And that is why the Stanford senior point guard Jeanette Pohlen is one of the keys today. Point guards start the offense - they drive the team. And Stanford has this dominant frontline with the Ogwumike sisters - Chiney and Nnemkadi but they need Pohlen to direct the offense to them and they need Pohlen to hit her long-range outside shots as well. And for her to do that she is got to handle the defensive pressure from those Sydneys.  We have some perennial powerhouses on the women's side - Tennessee Baylor - both out. What is that done to the tournament? I mean more competitive more open?  You know the fear David among those who want the women's game to keep growing in popularity is that this may make it less competitive. You know there is just not the widespread talent in the women's game that there is in men's. Most of your top-rated high school female players end up going to a handful of premier college programs. And that is why many expected and hoped that this Final Four was going to be the four number one seeds. It was believed that would give us the best basketball in Indianapolis. But as we have talked about Texas A  M Notre Dame they are number two seeds they are no slouches and they could you know make for some potentially good games tonight.  That is NPR's Tom Goldman reporting on the Women's Final Four which kicks off tonight in Indianapolis. Tom enjoy the games.  Thanks David. 