 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. More than 800 people died last weekend when a boat they were taking to flee the war suffering and terror in the Middle East capsized in the Mediterranean Sea. Those who died were characterized by most news outlets as migrants. They came from almost 10 countries including conflict zones like Syria and Somalia. Why do news organizations often including NPR say migrants? We are joined now by Mark Memmott NPR standards and practices editor. Mark thanks so much for being back with us.  Glad to be here.  Why do we say the victims were migrants and not say refugees?  Well let us work through the words. Refugees leave their homes or their countries to escape persecution or they might be seeking safety because of wars as you said. Some may have been forced from their homes by armed forces. Certainly many of the people who we have been hearing or reading about are refugees but they have been coming from more than a dozen countries and they have been coming for many different reasons some of them maybe just to seek better lives. The word migrants fits for them all. As the dictionary says a migrant is a person who moves from one place to another and in particular it is a word applied to those who leave one country to settle in another. We have not been using the word immigrants for a very sad reason. The people who did not make it to Europe - the hundreds who drowned - never got the chance to immigrate. One immigrates when you arrive in a new country.  Does the choice of word frame the story in a certain way for people?  Yes and I think it also helps them understand what the situation - you know the word migrants puts a picture in listeners' minds. These are people who are on the move many have traveled hundreds thousands of miles. And as we learn more about the individuals or the families who have been part of this migration and the reasons they have left their homes we probably will refer to many of them as refugees. But without knowing the specifics of their stories the word that seems to fit best when reporting about them is migrants.  Let us move on to another topic. The New York Times recently ran into some trouble with one of its sources in an article they had about the rise in popularity of vaping - electronic cigarettes - e-cigarettes. Help us understand this story if you could.  Well I should begin by saying that you know as the expression goes there but for the grace of God go I or in this case we. What happened to The Times could happen to NPR and actually may have happened. We just do not know it. Here's the story. A Times reporter posted a message on Twitter. It was a callout. She wanted to hear from - and I am paraphrasing her words - teens who vape and who are willing to talk about it with a reporter twice their age. One of the people who got in touch with The Times made up a good story. He pretended to be an 18-year-old high school senior from Mississippi who enjoys a particular flavor endorsed by a rapper known as Lil Ugly Mane. The Times found out about the hoax after the pretender bragged about it on Twitter.  So a prank.  A prank - he wanted to see if he could get it into The Times see how far he could go. In fact he said afterward that he had an even greater story to tell but he liked the reporter so much that he did not press it too far.   News organizations use social media callouts these days including this one.  Yes. I mean we want to find quote unquote real people. We need to talk to those who have been affected by events. We cannot be everywhere. Social media callouts are another way of reaching out. The thing is there is hard work to be done once the responses start coming in. Identities need to be verified. Stories need to be checked out. Claims need to be challenged sometimes. We do not want to be trolled as the hoaxers say and end up reporting someone's fun but fabricated tales.  One of the things I like about social media callouts is that - assuming you can verify the story - you can get a diversity of experience that you do not get 'ecause I - we both remember the days when for example if you needed to talk to a citizen about let us say filing his or her taxes you would literally walk out into the newsroom and say you know anybody here know someone who has to get a tax extension? And you would wind up with a shoe salesman from Winnetka because some guy who worked in the newsroom knew him or her.  Right a guy who knows a guy would put you in touch with an accountant who then would track down one of his clients who is willing to talk - a classic way of finding people. This is kind of the - similar in some ways. You are putting out a call for input if you will. You are putting out a call for people to get in touch. The thing is it is just another tool and the key is what happens after the responses start coming in. That is where the skill we call reporting comes in. The old rule in newsrooms as you know Scott is if your mother tells you she loves you check it out. We need to remember that when we do these social media callouts too. We need to check that person out.  Mark Memmott - NPR standards and practices editor. You can write to him directly at word matters - all one word - npr.org. Thanks very much Mark.  You are welcome. 