 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. The U.S. Department of Labor reported on Friday that the number of people filing for unemployment benefits dropped for the first time after 11 consecutive reported increases. But 13 million Americans are still out of work and that number now includes many more older Americans. With 401s and IRAs plummeting more people who would have been contemplating retirement are keeping their jobs or even looking for new work often competing with much younger applicants for fewer and fewer jobs. Cynthia Metzler is president and CEO of Experience Works. That is a national nonprofit group in Arlington Virginia that helps train and place older workers. She joins us in our studios. Thanks for being with us. Ms.  I am delighted to be here.  And why are seniors or older workers being harder hit in this recession than in previous ones? Ms.  Well there is a number of reasons - one that you just hit upon. Many people retired are going to rely on their 401 and savings and they have discovered that they do not have enough money anymore to continue to pay their bills. Another reason is many people are continuing to work into their older years and they have been working maybe in the same place for 20 30 40 years and that place has closed down. And others find themselves to be not quite as strong as they were in the past and so they are physically not able to do the same work that they were doing and they have to find other work. Many people find themselves to be a widow or widower and the income they had from their spouse is not there and they do not have enough to live on. So there is a number of reasons and they are all very sad because most of these people do not know how to find work in today's world.  Sandra Wolfe found herself in just such a situation. She is 63 years old a widow and looking for a job. Ms. Wolfe retired from the banking industry in 2007. She is now working with Mature Services in Akron Ohio to update her computer skills as she hunts for work. She joins us from member station WKSU in Kent Ohio. Thank you so much for being with us. Ms.  You are very welcome.  So what happened? Ms.  Well my husband preceded me in death so the income is not what it would have been. Also I still have a lot of energy and I do not want to just sit back. I want to still be active and working.  Yeah. So what is the job market like nowadays for you? Ms.  Very difficult. For people who have retired you have done one thing for so long and things have changed. When I was younger and I first started working when you applied for a job it was one job. You only really needed to do whatever you applied for. Now you have to wear a whole lot of different hats. So you are not applying for one job you are applying for many jobs.  What is it like to be in the same job market as people who are less than half your age? Ms.  Well it is difficult because some of them are just coming out of college and the employer has a tendency to look at people my age and older or around my age as health hazards. They think that younger people are healthier.  Well what is your thinking like at this moment? Ms.  I am very healthy still have lots of energy and if I did not need the money to supplement my income I would just do volunteer work. That is how important helping is to me.  And may I ask Ms. Wolfe do you have some kind of retirement income and pensions or savings and how is that looking now? Ms.  Savings are pretty much gone but I have my husband's pension and I also have my pension from the bank. But the cost of living is so high.  Yeah. Ms.  You know housing gas everything is so expensive that it is hard to retire and really retire.  Ms. Wolfe thank you so much. Ms.  You are very welcome.  Sandra Wolfe joined us from member station WKSU in Kent Ohio. Want to turn back now to Cynthia Metzler of Experience Works. You busier than ever? Ms.  We are seeing an over 50 percent increase in the requests of people coming to us for assistance. And we have a waiting list right now of over 2000 people.  But do you see people who had who had assiduously planned to spend these years finally enjoying themselves people who worked hard and had delayed plans to vacation and travel and that sort of thing or take adult education courses now they cannot do that? Ms.  Yes we do see exactly the people you are talking about. We see people who had planned to retire  they saved they thought they had lived the kind of life where they were going to be able to be in Florida or South Carolina or wherever they were living in their years of retirement seeing their grandchildren taking the kind of courses that you mentioned. And now they simply do not have enough money to pay their bills. They may be facing foreclosure. We have seen - in the way we count statistics - an increase of about 140 percent among our applicants of people who are at risk of homelessness. So people who thought they were going to have one kind of life are finding themselves in an economically strapped position.  Cynthia Metzler president and CEO of Experience Works thanks very much. Ms.  Thank you. 