 A couple of summers ago Sarah Kinlaw of the band SOFTSPOT was on a boat off the coast of North Carolina with her father. A sudden thunderstorm swept in and it inspired this song from the band's new album. It is called Maritime Law.   I often go out on the water with my father because that is what he enjoys. It is something that we do together. It was a beautiful day. It was calm.    The unabated winds were not in warning...  And it felt like all of a sudden waves were breaking. There is lots of wind. It was - it was scary.    But I feel they found me out woke me from my sleeping as I felt my ship touch its east end down into the sea.  We just kind of waited it out. And I mean I feel like it is very symbolic you know because growing up obviously well at least in my case I looked towards my parents for guidance for safety for comfort. And the symbol of just being out with him in an unpredictable setting and something in which he could not control - that was powerful to me.   I knew eventually that things were going to be OK that we were not going to get into any kind of super serious trouble but to see him worried even for a moment really stuck with me made we feel like a child again.    Waiting for some kind of clearing the kind that seeks me out makes me feel I have earned it. Stood saint-like in prayer for some kind of mercy but the sea said to me that it owes me nothing.  I think safety is something that I sometimes take for granted and something that when lost even for a few minutes causes an immense shift in perspective. And I think something that the song purposefully explores is what happens during that shift.    Oh like her. Oh I sail alone.  So in the song I find that when the element of safety is lost you hear the song flip into more of a chant more of a prayer.   A lot of the work that I most often explore is really emotional. It is like psychological. It has to do with like feelings or perception. And in this case it was a byproduct of something bigger something more than just feeling. It is weather. You know it is the boss.   Sarah Kinlaw of SOFTSPOT - the band's new album Clearing is out now.    There is a pool between the endless love that comes from me that keeps my arms and  and folding cards steady. And ... 