 According to scout law Boy Scouts must be trustworthy loyal helpful friendly. But do they really have to be boys? A teenager in New York City wants the Boy Scouts to grant official membership to girls including herself. Yasmeen Khan of member station WNYC has this report on the latest challenge to this old organization.  Sydney Ireland who is 16 has been part of the Boy Scouts since she was 4. She started tagging along with her older brother and became an unofficial but enthusiastic participant. No one seemed to care about having a girl around. Sydney did not think about it either until she was about 10 or 11.  Because one time I was on a camping trip and somebody said like - why are you here? - like why a girl was there. It is fair question. But it was kind of like I did not really think about gender as much until then.  And that is around the age when Sydney wanted to earn merit badges too. She was doing the same activities and mastering the same skills as the boys around her. But as a girl she could not officially earn awards. So for the last few years Sydney's been asking the Boy Scouts to officially let girls in.  Right now they are like discriminating against girls. And I am just like - I am just calling it as it is.  The Boy Scouts of America which is a private organization does not see it this way. And it does have some coed programs. But Sydney specifically wants a shot at becoming an Eagle Scout the top rank. That is only for boys. She takes scouting and the skills involved so seriously that she is sought membership outside the U.S.   This is a square knot.  This is Sydney at 13 tying knots over Skype to a troop in South Africa. Coed scouting is actually common around the world. Sydney also joined a Canadian troop and earned the highest scouting award there. Invariably people ask Sydney - why do not you just join the Girl Scouts?  It is like saying like just because you are a girl you should be part of this and this 'ecause like it is for girls.  The Boy Scouts declined an interview for this story. However the Girl Scouts talked to me.  No we are not the girl equivalent of the Boy Scouts although we were probably founded to be something similar.  Andrea Bastiani Archibald is the chief girl expert - her real title - for Girl Scouts of the USA which is girl only. She touts her organization as welcoming to all girls and their interests.  But if it does not feel right for them I really laud their parents and those girls for finding the space that is.  And there are others like Sydney who are drawn to the Boy Scouts and are already participating because local troops let them.  I still do hear from people I am going to say once a month all over the country.  Danelle Jacobs who lives near Santa Rosa Calif. led a troop of girls a few years back called the Unicorns. They wanted to be official members of the Boy Scouts and got some media coverage about it. Jacobs now fields occasional calls from parents also frustrated by the boy-only policy coming from the top.  Boy Scouts were chartered in 1916. There is a lot that is changed since then. And so I think you know for them to say well it was created only for boys is - well you know women did not used to get to vote.  New leadership at the Boy Scouts seems to be aware of a need to evolve. Randall Stephenson the organization's president gave his first address at the Boy Scouts' national meeting last year.   Do we want to grow this movement?  The Boy Scouts has lost about a million members over the last 15 years. Stephenson said there has to be a willingness to change.   We always have to beware when we find our institutions restricting customer choice.  If the Boy Scouts do ever decide to let girls join they would be guaranteed new customers. Sydney Ireland would likely be one of the first to sign up and she will not be alone. For NPR News I am Yasmeen Khan in New York. 