 Michael J. Fox left high school in British Columbia to become an actor. And when a social studies teacher told him you are making a big mistake Fox you will not be cute forever Mr. Fox told him...  Maybe just long enough sir. Maybe just long enough.   Michael J. Fox has won Emmys Golden Globes People's Choice Awards for his roles in Family Ties the Back to the Future series of movies and Spin City and of course founded his own foundation for Parkinson's research. Thanks so much for being with us.  My pleasure. Thank you.  You have given commencement speeches. Do you ever feel a little awkward about that?  I do. I usually open them with What the hell were you thinking?   I have always had a bit of an impostor syndrome when it comes to that because I never finished high school although I - well I have to correct that. I did get my GED...  Right.  ...15 years later  my 4-year-old at the time who is now 20 and a college student.  Yeah.  But yeah I always felt a little kind of short coming up short in the education department. But as I have you know kind of come to the conclusion we all get an education and somehow over the years I managed to get one.  Yeah. You thoughtfully break your book down to specific disciplines just - almost as if it is a degree program. Now for example the section under economics you talk about your experience as a young actor in L.A. You were working and successful but the economics did not pay off for a while did they?  I did not really realize that within a few months they would be asking for that money. So that was my lesson in economics. It is kind of the idea of when you are an actor supply and demand means you are the supply and if there is no demand you are in big trouble.  Yeah. And also every dollar you earned you had to pay almost half of it to other people. I do not mean just the government either.  So - no I was paying 20 percent to a manager 10 percent to an agent 5 percent to an accountant and 50 percent to the government. So that left just enough for plain wrap macaroni and games to duck the landlord.  And you wind up playing Alex Keaton a young capitalist.  Yeah a young Friedman economics major yeah. Someone who loved money. It is ironic that now as I am a fundraiser for a foundation some of our biggest supporters are people on Wall Street and in the financial industry - hedge fund managers and stuff - that grew up idolizing Alex Keaton. So it is - it is come around in this weird karmic way that these people that I was satirizing end up being my biggest benefactors.  You were appearing in Family Ties which became awfully popular while you were shooting Back to the Future which also became awfully popular. But your schedule is almost painful to recall from those days. What do you remember?  And it was only that I was so young and willing and eager and ambitious that I was able to accomplish - to a great you know to a great success. The directors and the editors and all that stuff really covered my tracks and made it easy for me.  Lest people think that the Teamsters have some kind of wake-up service we will explain - they are the union that runs the livery in Hollywood and really most of the country.  Yeah you can tell their kids at the playground 'ecause they are the ones watching everybody else play.   OK I want it understood You are making jokes about Teamsters I am not.  I have a lot of friends. They will understand.  Mr. Fox do you learn more from success or disappointment and even failure?  They will be filled up. And if you try to fill them up with ego or a kind of immediate gratification you are going to short-shrift yourself and you are going to lose the opportunity to find out what happens when you give the loss space to fill itself and let life kind of come in and fill the cracks.  Yeah. We are speaking with Michael J. Fox. He has a new book out A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Future. You do say in the book that you have learned from your illness.  Yeah absolutely. For example right as I speak to you now I am waiting for a pill to kick in which is not helping me out and not kicking in. And they kind of go on their their own schedule.  Yeah.  My natural state is one that is affected by the shortage of dopamine production in my brain. So my natural state is to be halting and at times tremulous and kind of just physically disturbed. I mean that is my natural state given the situation in my brain. But I am always as happy either way. And so when it comes to me body language lies.  You talk about your friend and mentor Gary Goldberg with whom you did Spin City. And he told you I guess a while back - not so long ago that he is learned how to bend time now.  And I thought I hope in 10 15 years that my wife Tracy and I will be able to conspire in the same way to make some space for ourselves and make a life for ourselves outside of the expectations of others and just you know enjoy that kind of peace.  Mr. Fox can I ask Do you think people have expectations of you?  So I do not burden myself too much with others' expectations - or even my own expectations. I think your happiness grows in direct proportion to your acceptance and in inverse proportion to your expectations. It is just a matter of putting one foot in front of the other - or doing the next right thing so to speak.  Mr. Fox I cannot thank you enough for speaking for us now.  My pleasure. Again I am sorry that it is so halting. Next time I catch you maybe the pills will be working. But I have enjoyed the conversation. Thanks.  Gosh it is been an honor to talk to you.  Nice to talk to you.   And you can read an excerpt from the new book by Michael J. Fox A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Future and hear more of our conversation with him on our website NPR.org. 