 Imagine youve just been told you have only a short time to live. What would you want your family and your community to remember most about you? In St. Louis an unusual hospice program is giving dying patients a chance to define their legacy. Julie Bierach of St. Louis Public Radio explains in this report.   Suzanne Doyle sits quietly thumbing through a stack of books and photo albums she helped create. Shes a middle-aged woman with a soft-spoken demeanor. Doyle is the founder of Lumina a program at BJC Hospice here in St. Louis that helps patients leave statements that go beyond a simple good-bye. Her eyes begin to moisten as she recalls a recent patient Courtney Strain who died of brain cancer last summer at the age of 25. In the months before Strain died she met weekly with Doyle where she revealed one constant frustration. Strain said she felt like an outcast - that people didnt know what to say to her so they said nothing at all. Ms.  I said you know I am thinking Courtney that you can be a teacher. You know what people - not just your age but all dying people - need. You can be a teacher. And I wonder if together we could come up with some kind of teaching tool.  The teaching tool they completed together is a simple guide they called What You Can Do When a Friend  Faces the End of Life. And its Courtney Strains statement on how to treat the dying. Becky Brooks is Strains mother. She says Lumina gave her daughter a voice at the end of her young life. Ms.  You really need someone outside the scope of family and friends to help you and to be a sounding board. And for you to say the things that sometimes arent so nice to hear - that was very empowering for her.  Experts say honoring someones life and legacy has always been part of the hospice philosophy. There are 25 volunteers with the Lumina program and most are not trained medical personnel. Instead theyre storytellers who learn how to interview dying people so they can help them leave tangible statements of values and legacy - books CDs photo albums letters. Volunteer Susan Kissinger says it is difficult and emotional work. She helped a middle-aged ALS patient write a series of letters to his wife and kids before he died. But Kissinger says its a gift to be let into hospice patients' lives. Ms.  There will be times when the emotion will rise up - and just breathing through it and letting it go. And that is I guess a gift that I have to offer - is that I can just be present there and accept the gift without being overwhelmed.  As expected volunteers often form deep bonds with hospice patients. Connie McIntyre met with 84-year-old Adell Durant once a week for about eight months. Durant grew up in Mississippi. Her sister died at a young age and Durant lost all contact with her nieces and nephews which was a great source of sadness for her. So Connie McIntyre got in touch with the local paper in Durants hometown and it ran a photograph of Durants lost family. Ms.  Within days she started getting phone calls from various people who knew the family and who were sharing information and then eventually from family members. And she reconnected which was one of the highest joys of her last months.  From summer to fall of 2009 Adell Durant was able to talk and visit with her newfound family. In her final recording - dated November 12 2009 - she expressed her gratitude to Connie McIntyre. Ms.  My life would not have been what it is now if it hadnt been for her because she brought my family together - with me praying and she calling the company getting the pictures in the paper because I really didnt know how to do it by myself. Thats what you call a friend.  Adell Durant died on December 1st 2009. Her recordings were given to her family as a legacy to be shared with future generations. For NPR News Im Julie Bierach in St. Louis.   And one of the things Courtney Strain left behind is a simple guide for the family and friends of people who are dying. You can read some of the things that she wanted people to know on our website npr.org.   And this is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 