 We are privileged to speak with a great many famous writers on this program but none whose name is more familiar around the world. If there are any children who are listening and yawning this morning perk up. You will want to hear this. Jeff Kinney's Diary Of A Wimpy Kid books have sold 180 million copies around the world international bestsellers that have been made into four movies for which he is been executive producer. There are 13 installments of Greg Heffley's diary - I am sorry - journal. But now there is a new middle school Samuel Pepys on the scene Greg's best friend Rowley Jefferson. He is the kid at the center of Jeff Kinney's new expansion. It is called Diary Of - and Rowley most certainly is - An Awesome Friendly Kid. Jeff Kinney joins us from New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Oh thanks for having me on.  Rowley is a great young man. And Greg is not always nice to him is he?   I think he is not. You know the thing that I have learned from the four movies and the musical that we put together is that the audience is always rooting for Rowley to win. And you know as a person who Greg is based upon I am always like why are they rooting for this guy? So I decided to embrace that. He is a really positive kid. He is really incorruptible in a way.  I do not think I knew that. So Greg is based on you?  Yeah. He is sort of based on the worst parts of myself. You know he is sort of a comically exaggerated version of my worst points as a person. Yeah. He is a three-dimensional character. So he is got his good sides too.  Have you grown up since then or did you have to remain a jerk just aesthetic reasons?  . Yeah. I hope that that quote gets put on my book somewhere.  .  You know I think that Greg is sort of complex. And he is a reflection of sort of human foibles. So I think that is what I am as well.  Was it a - therefore a relief to spend some time in Rowley's world?  It was. And it was kind of a surprise. It is sort of easy for me to write for Greg. And I was not so sure that I could write for this other character who was more naive and innocent and positive. But I found it to be really refreshing. It is been kind of exciting in a way.  I mean to help us understand Rowley he wants to create a character with superpowers that he calls Amazing Guy.  Yeah.  And which is to give him this backstory - I am going to quote Just had good parents who raised him to be a nice person and that is why he decided when he grew up he would fight for people who needed his help.  That is right. And he uses padded gloves so he does not hurt the bad guys too much.  Aw. He is a wonderful young man.  .  He really is. So what is Greg's problem? Or he is just a kid.  I think he is a kid who is in a rush to grow up. I think he is a kid who wants to get to that next level. He wants his bedtime to be a later. He wants a cellphone. He wants to be able to see the PG-13 movie instead of PG. And he does not realize what a good thing childhood is what a good gig it is. And Rowley is really quite the opposite. He loves being a kid. He is not in a rush to grow up. And like I said he is very pure.  I have read that at first you thought Diary Of A Wimpy Kid was a comic strip for adults.  Yeah. I was writing for the humor section not the kids section of the bookstore. My father introduced me to comics. And he introduced me to Carl Barks Donald Duck and Uncle Scrooge comics. And I always thought of comics as being for grown-ups or maybe just for everyone. So after eight years of working on Diary Of A Wimpy Kid I showed it to an editor who brought it in-house. And my eventual publisher told me that I had actually written a children's series which was an absolute surprise to me.  Well you cannot complain about results though can you?  No I cannot. I love this.  Does Greg make bad choices so that kids do not have to?  You know I am really not trying to moralize to kids at all. I think Greg is sort of like a standup comedian who gets up on stage and talks about his own experiences. But it is through the prism of weakness and human failing. He would not be that interesting of a character if he was always heroic.  Always heroic? I am trying to...   Never - sometimes every so often.  Yeah.  I think he saved a squirrel with a broken leg once. So...  Do I have this right? You just quit your day job?  Yeah. I had my day job until April of last year. So I guess it is been about a year.  I guess the first run for this book is 3 million copies. Do you worry about the future?  Do I worry about the future? That is a great question. I was not worried until right now . Am I worried about failure? I am excited. I am very very very lucky to be in this privileged position that when I write a book it reaches millions of kids. And that is something I really embrace. I try to do my best by kids and to try to write the funniest books possible.  I found myself thinking at the end of the book every young man or woman deserves a Rowley.  I think you are right. I think Greg does not deserve a Rowley but he got one. So he is very lucky.  Jeff Kinney his new book Diary Of An Awesome Friendly Kid. Thank you so much for being with us.  Thank you.  