 When I am feeling low I say time for sports.   The Portland Trail Blazers closed out the LA Clippers last night. Are they a more talented team or do they just have fewer injuries? Wounded superstars are a storyline in these NBA playoffs. Our Tom Goldman joins us now from Portland. Good morning Tom.  Hello Scott.  And did the fact that LA did not have Chris Paul and Blake Griffin on the floor make the difference?  Well you know it certainly contributed to the outcome. A basketball team feels the loss of a star player more acutely than in other team sports. Obviously fewer people on the court the star's presence is more significant. Losing two All-Stars? Yeah that changed the story of the series. The Blazers went from being underdogs to being the team expected to win. And they did but the depleted Clippers fought hard especially last night. The Blazers acknowledged they were playing a shorthanded team but feel as if they could have beaten LA at full strength.  Half of your job Tom is to keep people on the East Coast up to watch West Coast basketball games because the games  go to 30.  Here to serve Scott here to serve.  Something coming up that people will not want to miss.  Well yeah Portland's next series. So the conference semifinals against a team called the Golden State Warriors. The defending champs the Warriors are dealing with their own superstar injury the most significant one in the playoff of course reigning MVP Steph Curry. He is out probably another week to 10 days at least with a sprained knee. Golden State's favored over Portland without Curry. But the Blazers are a confident team playing good defense. And frankly Scott they are enjoying the hell out of being one of the last four teams competing in the powerful West after losing four starters from last season and being projected to finish at the bottom of the standings this season.  Let us move to the NFL draft. A young man named Laremy Tunsil offensive lineman from Ole Miss was about to be the No. 1 draft pick when little video appeared on Twitter and Facebook right?  Holy moly - a bizarre real-time moment as the draft was unfolding yes. Twitter and Instagram were hacked by someone apparently with revenge on their mind. His Instagram included a text message where he appears to be asking an Ole Miss athletic official about money for rent and his mom's electric bill. Twitter showed a little video of him smoking marijuana.  Yeah inhaling in a gas mask which by the way I think it was probably just barbecue smoke from The Shed Barbecue.  Well he was laughing too much for that I think. But you know it is good barbecue but it does not make you giggle I do not think.  I have got to tell you. Scholarship athletes are millions of dollars for their schools nothing for themselves. They cannot by the way if they had the time hold a part-time job. I think a lot of people might be sympathetic to a young student from a poor family who just wants a little help so his mother can pay her electric bill. I mean is there clearly a good or a bad guy in this story?  Yeah. You know you should say first if the fact is the true story about the bills - I mean a lot of facts still have to come out. But yeah in answer to your question it is harder today to figure out a good guy and a bad guy than say 10 years ago when an infraction was an infraction and the NCAA enforced its rules against rule-breaking athletes and schools. A lot has happened since then. Courts have ruled that some NCAA rules barring payments to athletes are illegal. And there is a more widespread belief that as you say football players and men's basketball players in the top conferences generate bushels of money and do not get much of anything for their efforts. So yeah not as easy today to define exactly what a scandal is or who is at fault.  NPR's Tom Goldman thanks so much. Talk to you in a couple weeks my friend.  OK. Thanks Scott. 