 The city of Reggio Calabria in southern Italy is home to one of the most powerful criminal syndicates in the world a mafia-type organization known as 'Ndrangheta. It is a brutal mob funded largely by drug trafficking. And it is been tied to corrupt local officials. For the past four years Judge Roberto Di Bella has taken a new kind of approach to try to deplete the ranks of the group. Judge Di Bella presides over juvenile court and he is trying to prevent the children of 'Ndrangheta members from joining the family business. Judge Di Bella joins us now via Skype from Reggio Calabria. Welcome to the program judge.  .  Hello.  And we will be assisted today by translator Jane Chila also in Reggio. Thanks so much for your help Jane.  OK. All right not at all.  Judge Di Bella can you explain how the program works? Are the children who appear before your court - they have somehow gotten involved in these crimes. They are being used already at a young age?  .  Yes. And very often it happens at 12 or 13 years of age.  And what kind of crimes are we talking about?  .  Homicides and mainly drug problems.  The young children - you said ages sometimes 12 years old - are implicated in homicides?  .  Yes. Not exactly 12 but that is the starting from 14 15 years old.  And it is my understanding judge that in certain circumstances you have actually removed these young people from their homes and placed them with other families or in youth facilities. How do you do that? Do not you get resistance from their families?  .  In many cases the minors are sent to communities or families - volunteer families. And the mothers understand that their children are better off for them. And when they understand - the mothers - they accept that these decisions are the judge's. And many times the mothers - they actually beg the judges to help their children to take them away.  So you are describing the mothers of these young people who are desperate to help their child find another path so they do not get embroiled in this violent family business. And what you are describing - taking these young people out of the dangerous family situation and putting them with other families I guess it is something akin to an American foster system. But can you describe what kind of situations these young people are walking into? I mean who are the families who are opening their doors to in some cases convicted criminals?  .  They usually contact families - volunteer families that have already been prepared with the anti-mafia people. And so they know exactly how to handle the situation.  How long do they stay away from home these young people - indefinitely forever? Or is it sometimes a temporary period of time?  .  Usually it is temporary. Anyway they leave families when the minors reach their 18th year.  Do you have any idea what these young adults do when they leave those volunteer family situations? I mean when they turn 18 and they are released do they go back into the criminal syndicates?  .  Up to now there have been no cases of these children going back to the criminal life. And in many cases they also help them find a job. And the mothers also want to go where their children are located because of course they go to different places.  You are obviously trying to help these children. But inevitably your efforts I imagine are diminishing the power of this mafia organization the 'Ndrangheta. So has this been risky for you? I mean how has the organization responded to what you are doing - literally taking their children out of their homes? Have they threatened you? Have you been threatened?  .  I cannot say exactly I have been menaced but many of these fathers are now in prison.  Judge Roberto Di Bella and translator Jane Chila. We spoke with them via Skype from Reggio Calabria Italy. Thanks to both of you.  .  Thank you very much. Goodbye. 