 An online corner for curious thinkers a relic of a bygone Internet Yahoo says it is shutting down its QA forum Yahoo Answers.  Can you boil your earphones? Can you fall in love with a potato? How is baby formed? That was another one.  That is journalist Jaishree Kumar reading some of the site's most popular questions wistfully because Yahoo Answers was a crucial resource for her growing up.  There were some questions like I swallowed a watermelon seed. Am I going to get pregnant? Maybe they were just joking around. But at the age of 11 you probably think that like hey can that happen? Can I end up growing a watermelon baby accidentally?  During her childhood in India Yahoo Answers was there for Jaishree Kumar when no one else was.  To be honest I think the lack of sex education I had in my own country in my own social settings is sort of tied up with this because I was going to Yahoo Answers to look for like you know what would constitute as basic sex education.  News that the website will stop allowing new posts on April 20 and will disappear entirely on May 4 has many former users looking back over these past 16 years for their Yahoo Answers greatest hits.  When I was in fifth grade we had an explorers project and every person in my class got assigned an explorer.  That is Jacqui Levitan of San Francisco.  I was Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo. And there was another boy in my class who also was Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo and so I kind of was feeling a little competitive. And I decided I wanted to prank him a little. And so I kept trying to convince him that Cabrillo's favorite color was pink. And he was not believing me and so then I took to Yahoo Answers and posted a question from one account saying what was Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo's favorite color? - and then went in and answered it with a different account.  She looked it all up.  Answered February 13 2009. According to most of my research Cabrillo's favorite color was pink. My name is Catalina Rodriguez and I am distantly related to Juna Cabrillo. I have done a lot of research about this topic and it is quite true.  Levitan remembers her poor classmate dressing in pink for his presentation. No word on if points got deducted.  The first time I used Yahoo Answers arguably was in high school when we had take-home tests that I could copy and paste the test question into Yahoo.  That is Michael Dugan of Atlanta.  Funny enough it was pretty much anything. Like I am a chemist now and I know I definitely used it on some chemistry tests in high school and even college.  Tan Tran says he also relied on Yahoo Answers with a dash of hope.  The funny thing about Yahoo Answers is you can rank up responses. The highest rated I pray is usually the correct one.  Dugan says he saw warning signs though.  Like when I searched an answer to cheat for a test you know you would dive down a rabbit hole and you would see some dumb response to a pretty easy question. And you would always laugh that.  Will my laptop get heavier if I put more files on it?  That is writer Luke Winkie reading an example. He called Yahoo Answers the most earnest place on the Internet.  You read it and you are not sure if it is someone kind of just making a joke or if it is someone who is genuinely curious about this.  Which is precisely why people like Sophie Armstrong are sad to see it go.  I was really hurt when I heard Yahoo Answers was going to close because it has had a incredible cultural impact on the Internet.  Shane Conerty  who runs a meme account called Sad Yahoos is dedicating the next few weeks to preserving the site's content.  So after May 4 there will be a Yahoo Answers home I guess dedicated to the ridiculousness of Yahoo Answers.  And its incredible cultural impact. RIP Yahoo Answers. 