 The annual Oxford-Cambridge University boat race took place in London yesterday. And reporter Vicki Barker was one of those throwing a party along the race route. For boat race party-throwers and the oarsmen themselves the day unfolds with military precision - or at least it is supposed to. Vicki Barker has more.  The man duck saw that something needed to be done...  Kitchen 11 A.M. boat race minus three hours and fifteen minutes. Preparations begin. Right tea sandwich - white bread that you have taken a rolling pin to so it gets thinned a little bit. Butter. Apply smoked salmon. Scissor or tear some dill. Slice off the crusts. Make two diagonal slices to make four tea sandwiches. Done. 45 A.M.   Ice poured into ice buckets. 05 P.M. guests arrive.  My name is Charles Charles Kingsmill. Lovely to be here at this lovely party to celebrate the forthcoming victory by Oxford this afternoon in the boat race.  I am Jane and clearly Cambridge is going to win.  I see. So this is one of those mixed marriages.  Yes yes yes.  Go.  And the 158th boat race is underway.  15 p.m. Zero hour. Guests run out into the riverside garden as the boats led by Oxford surge by.   Then run back to watch the rest on TV. But the race has been stopped.  Because somebody swam across the river to stop the race.  What?  What?  This is unheard of. Shocking stuff.  The aquatic protester removed the race eventually restarts then...  Oh he is lost an oar.  ...disaster for the Oxford men as the umpire refuses to halt the race.  It is victory for Cambridge. Victory...  Oxford's ordeal is not over yet.  Some guy just went unconscious in the back of the boat and then they lifted him out .  00 P.M. the ailing Oxford oarsman is held for observation overnight. The post-race award ceremony is cancelled and party guest Patrick Howse is philosophical about the chaos that is come to a British sporting icon.  I think we just sort of accept this sort of thing as an inevitable consequence of being English really.  Or as the English are fond of saying must not grumble.   For NPR News I am Vicki Barker in London.   This is NPR News. 