  Jungle Night by Sandra Boynton.  Sandra Boynton and Yo-Yo Ma have collaborated. You might wonder how does the artistic maestra of children's board books and greeting cards collaborate with the cello maestro? It is a board book. It is a soundtrack. No wait it is both - a book with a soundtrack and now a video. And it is called Jungle Night.   Listen to the cheetah - chee chee tah.  The narrator by the way is Keith Boynton. Sandra Boynton whose books have sold more than 70 million copies - most to close friends and family she insists - and Yo-Yo Ma who is recorded more than a hundred albums and performed for nine U.S. presidents - I believe including Chester Alan Arthur - joins us now. Thank you so much both of you for being with us.  It is great to be with you.  Thank you. It is exciting.  So I am not particularly proud of this question. But Sandy Boynton you know the story famously is about the snoozing sounds of various jungle animals. So how do you choose which animals? I mean there are a lot of animals in the jungle.  They have to audition for me. They have all got difficult managers you know?  .  And you just - it is - you know - so you just you know - and you got to be kind of ruthless you know? The alligator comes in. It cannot really cut it. You just say next you know? That is just the way it goes.   Can you hear the crocodile? - snorkel-oon  snorkel-oon.  I think Sandy said to the alligator you have got to give me something I can sink my teeth into.  .  Ah. Ah.  Oh. Oh.  I cannot believe I am hearing such atrocious puns from two so conspicuously intelligent and accomplished people.  Right. Right. And the elephant said tusk tusk .  Oh no. Oh no.  Oh it is getting worse. The story of course is accompanied by Satie's Gymnopedie No. 1 - by the way a piece of music that always gets to me. I often listen to it. But you have - you have rearranged it for the jungle.   We wanted to do a lullaby. And I think at first we thought we were going to write something or improvise something. But you cannot be in the same space you know these days. So in trying to think about what existing piece had the kind of mesmerizing feel it is not hard to come up with the Gymnopedie. But it is not very jungly . And it was actually one late night - I do not sleep . My poor parents - I never did sleep . And so I was curious to see if I could add a jungle rhythm to it. And I searched on the Internet just to try it out you know to do the music editing. And all drums were much too fast for it. And I finally had the idea to go into trance drums. And I found a track that I thought that might do it. And then it turned out that I could actually buy that track from the percussionist. It was a guy named Matos Sevikas  and he is Lithuanian. So I did that. And then Ron Block is the person who does the guitar of Alison Krauss Union Station. It was kind of exciting for it all to pull together like that.   A source of Sandy's creativity comes to having her subconscious available to her. So what strikes her subconscious? Like she is fumbling around on the Internet listening to trance drumming right? Who else does that?  .  But in a subconscious state and then figures out maybe this rhythm might jive with the Gymnopedie and then sort of figures out that maybe this is something we will ask Yo-Yo to play. And I mean it is all somewhat wacky like doing Ravel's Bolero with 300 kazoos you know?  Who would do that? That is...  Which she has done...  .  ...Yes yes.   Who else would do that? But that is what actually strikes very young children.  You know and I find this fascinating Yo-Yo 'ecause we certainly wanted to ask you - you have an Audible original out now Beginner's Mind in which you talk about the value of having the mind of a child when you begin a creative task.  That is because I never grew up.   And so it is - see I do not have to work at it. It just comes at me naturally. I have the mind of a child because every time I perform it has to be as if it were clean chalkboard and you start from new every time. You are not doing something because you did it yesterday because that does not count. It is like you are playing on the beach and you have your pail and your shovel and you build a sand castle. Every time every day it is going to be a new one because the tide comes in and washes it away. You work with the moment and that requires a beginner's mind.  What a great description. Oh my goodness. That is - I like the idea of a sand castle as a mandala of sorts too...  Yeah.  ...That it just you know it is great.  It was such a great description. I am inclined just to turn to you and say OK top that. But I will...  I am going to grab my cello. I will be right back.   So...  Yes.  But look communicating with children and the child in all of us as you have for so many years I will bet that means a lot to you too. Is that what you go through creatively?  Well my experience of every children's book writer that I know and admire is that they are not actually writing for specific children. They are writing for themselves as a child first and foremost. People who write for children tend to be absurdly in touch with their own childhood. I have much more trouble understanding adults than I do  children. So I just - you know I loved what Yo-Yo was saying and I understand it. I understand how exciting it is to find that place. And both Yo-Yo and I have grandchildren. And there is just nothing better than seeing things through their eyes. I mean talk about something that is fresh every single time. It is so illuminating to be with young children. I do not know. It is - I have not had to get a real job yet and that is a good thing.  Sandra Boynton Yo-Yo Ma - their book their soundtrack their video Jungle Night - thanks very much to both of you. And good dreams this weekend.  Oh thank you so much. This was fun.  Fat chance. Sandy's staying awake.   Oh that is right.  Good point.   I do have one last request. Yo-Yo Ma you could make someone very happy by telling people that BJ Leiderman writes our theme music.  Oh well of course. Did not you know that BJ Leiderman writes your theme music?   And gosh you guys are so lucky to have him write your theme music. My goodness. How did you get him?  Oh that is a long story. I cannot go...  Yeah.  ...Into it now - with many auditions. The alligators were lined up as you can imagine.  .   Yeah. Now it can be revealed. The alligators chose him. 