 Librarians will tell you if you do not know the answer look it up. They will even help. But right now lots of librarians have this question - just who is Aaron Yang? From Chicago Anne Ford reports on the mystery.  There are about 9000 public libraries across the country and nearly every one has a summer reading program. They are designed to keep kids and adults opening books during the summer. Participants are on the honor system and use a website to track their reading. In return they can get some library swag - things like keychains or notepads. For years Pennsylvania librarian Rebekah Garrety has heard from dozens of colleagues who have received the same email.  I signed up for the teen summer reading but I live in California. Is it possible to mail my prizes to me? I really appreciate it.  These emails are signed Aaron Yang. If he gets a yes Yang thanks them. If he gets a no Aaron Yang asks again and yes again.  They think I am a scam - a scam or a spambot not even human.  Aaron Yang is definitely a human. He is a 20-year-old in Southern California. He says his passion for summer reading programs started when he was 14 and clicked on the wrong one online.  And only when I would finished participating in it I realized oh no they are in Texas.  After he explained the library mailed him his prizes anyway. Then he was off and running. By his count he is now contacted around a thousand libraries and acquired untold numbers of pencils stickers and awards. Wina Mortenson is a librarian in Galesburg Wis. When Aaron Yang signed up for her library's reading program she thought...  Maybe this is someone I have never met before or maybe they live a little farther away like La Crosse.  When she learned he lived in California she cheerfully mailed Aaron his prizes.  It is just what makes him happy. When he first said oh some librarians hate me I said librarians?  When people get an email from Aaron they say they have gotten Yanged .  That is Genna Mickey a librarian in Sugar Grove Ill. Her library got Yanged a few years ago.  At the time when I found out I was amused.  But Mickey says she is not amused anymore. And she is not the only librarian who bristles at emails from Yang.  Libraries are underfunded as it is. So I think he is taking advantage of the good-heartedness of some librarians. And by doing that he is taking resources from their community.  But Aaron Yang insists he is in it for the programs themselves not the prizes. In Wisconsin librarian Wina Mortenson says she does not understand why anyone would object.  If we can do a service to somebody who is halfway across the country from us I say hooray. I mean you just have to have fun with him.  Rebekah Garrety in Felton Pa. understands why underfunded libraries might get territorial about the communities they serve. Even so she says she is on Yang's side.  I think he has a genuine love for libraries and a genuine love for learning and kind of expanding his own horizons. And I think he just likes things.  And yes those things cost money but a library's mission is to keep people reading. Meanwhile Yang's activities have inspired some new swag. Thanks to one of his librarian fans you can now buy a T-shirt online that reads We Are All Aaron Yang. For NPR News I am Anne Ford in Chicago.   