 Drummer Brian Blade's rhythm has propelled the music of everyone from Bob Dylan and Joni Mitchell to Wayne Shorter and Herbie Hancock. But he is also a composer with his own group. Landmarks is the new album from Brian Blade  The Fellowship Band.   Blade records in his brother Brady's studio in Shreveport Louisiana. And he joins us from there today. Welcome to the program Brian.  Thank you Rachel.  So you have described this album as a kind of journey. And since you are there in Shreveport tell us about that particular landmark and why it is important to you and your musical travels.  Well Shreveport - it is the place I was born and raised. It is my roots. I think it - the folks that sort of raise you and see you grow from this little little one into a teenager. And you know it molds your way just what you are made of.  You are returning home. I mean you have been there now for a few years but you moved back. You were living in New York right? What was that decision-making process like? What propelled you to need to go home?  Well I guess I would been traveling you know a touring musician now for you know 20-something years. And when I moved to New Orleans to attend Loyola University when I was you know 17 or 18 rather in 1988 I - you know since then I have just been either there or New York or for a time in Portland Oregon but drifting a lot. I used to just live out of my one suitcase and have my drum set and guitar with me. And I would be on tour. And the tour would end in a particular city and I would just hole-up in a bed-and-breakfast somewhere for a week until the next tour would begin. In a way my life...  A drum set is not easy to travel with if you are a light traveler.   You know it is funny. My - the whole notion of light. And you know I realize my burden. What I have taken on...   Yeah.  ...Is just - I have kind of - I realize OK this is it. I need these things to do what I do so I make it work.  Let us dig into the album a little bit and listen to a track that widens the geographical area that inspired your music. This one is an abbreviation of three adjoining states. I am probably going to massacre this but it is called Ark.La.Tex. right?  Yeah. Ark.La.Tex. Yes.  Ark.La.Tex.  That is correct. Perfect.  OK. Let us listen.   So there are not exactly obvious musical references to Arkansas Louisiana or Texas in this piece - no kind of Cajun fiddles or twangy guitars. What was happening in your mind when you composed this piece? What images came to the fore?  Well I do not know. It is hard to say I - other than you know  my depiction musically of this region where we live you know where Arkansas Louisiana and Texas meet here at the northwestern corner of Louisiana. I guess in terms of the structure of the song - these sort of three different moods - it unfolds in this very small way - these seeds. Then all of a sudden you cross a line and the landscape changes immediately.   And the piece is moving. There is a current there. You are being propelled somewhere on a journey of sorts.  I hope so. I know like you say there is no like fiddles or you know like what might be considered country music. But I think it is in there - you know the gospel and these traditions of what jazz music is about - this improvisatory trip that we are taking you know.   So the drummer-composer I think is kind of a rare breed right?  I do not know.  It is not a lonely club?  I hope not.   Maybe it is a lonely club. I do not know.  Do you actually compose from behind your drums?  You know I never write at the drums. I compose with my - with a guitar. It has to first inspire me. You know I have to be excited about it. Oh it is like OK - something you know some spark is there. And then - it is funny - I bring it to the band. And then I have to then become the drummer in the band. You know I have to play this music that this guy has brought in...   ...This other guy. So it is great. I can then see it objectively and truly almost you know experience it in a new way as the drummer then and have to come up with my part you know and figure out what is going to serve this song that has been put before me.   So if this album is one big journey so to speak - sticking with the metaphor - what do you hope that listeners fans of yours will take away from this particular trip they have taken with you through landmarks.  I love records. I love albums. I like listening to the entirety of something. But hopefully you know I would hope that each individual piece might reveal something touching and holistic in its own way and say OK that is the Fellowship Band you know.  Makes me want to take a road trip.  Yeah.   Crossing that line.   Drummer and composer Brian Blade. His new album with the Fellowship Band is called Landmarks. He joined us from Blade Studios in Shreveport Louisiana. Brian it is been so fun to talk. Thanks so much for making the time.  Thank you Rachel.   You can hear Brian Blade  The Fellowship Band's new album Landmarks in its entirety as part of our First Listen series. Go to our website NPR.orgmusic. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 