 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. And this is for the record.   Forty years ago this month North Vietnamese troops captured Saigon. The long war in Vietnam was coming to an end.   The  forces are now almost at the gates of the capital. The new president here...  In the midst of the political fallout the U.S. Government announced an unusual plan to get thousands of displaced Vietnamese children out of the country. Here's President Gerald Ford on April 3 1975.   I have directed that money from a 2 million special foreign aid children's fund be made available to fly 2000 South Vietnamese orphans to the United States as soon as possible.  It came to be known as Operation Babylift. The very first plane to leave as part of that mission took off on April 4 1975 just a few weeks before the fall of Saigon and the end of the Vietnam War. For the record today - looking back at Operation Babylift. We are going to hear from some of the people who were on that first flight. Col. Bud Traynor was the pilot. COL.  Real name is Dennis but I am Dennis III so I ended up little Buddy and that stuck for the rest of my life. And at the time I was a captain.  And Col. Regina Aune the flight's chief medical officer. COL.  I was a first lieutenant just barely in the Air Force two years just beginning to learn what it really meant to be you know a military officer and be involved in military operations. I will never forget that day. It is as fresh to me right now as it was the day it happened.  Bud Traynor was used to flying cargo around the Pacific in C-5 planes. He remembers when he first heard about this very different mission.  I got a call from the 22nd command post. Hey we want you to take the cargo in and when you get there we want you to bring out a load of people. OK. C-5s do not really carry people. It is a cargo airplane. And so they said well how many people can you take? And I said I have 73 seats. No no no how many can you really take?  The passengers in question were children - hundreds of them many under the age of two. The C-5 is an enormous airplane with two levels - a cavernous cargo compartment below above it the flight deck and troop compartment where those 73 seats were. Most of the kids were too little to walk. They had to be carried onto the plane handed over from one crew member to another.  We bucket-brigade-loaded the children right up the stairs into the airplane.  And I did a quick nurse's assessment of the children and then handed them to the crewmember next to me. And hand-over-hand we got these children in the troop compartment until the troop compartment was filled. We decided that because the children were so small that we would put two children to a seat and we took all the armrests out of the seats. So there is three seats across on either side of the aisle. So we put six children in three seats.  But there was not enough room for all the kids in that troop compartment. So the others were taken to the cargo area.  We put them in little groups and we secured them to the floor of the aircraft with cargo tie-down straps and litter straps and blankets and pillows and whatever we could to kind of secure them to the floor.  Dozens of civilian women came on board too to take care of the children. Most of them stayed down below. The trouble began only minutes after takeoff. There was a rapid decompression inside the aircraft.  The cockpit filled with condensation - you know poof. And you know instantly what it is.  At that moment Regina Aune was above the cargo hold. She heard a bang.  When the fog cleared I looked down through the grate that I had been kneeling on and saw that the back end of the aircraft was gone. I saw the South China Sea.  The locks on the giant cargo doors at the back of the plane had failed. The doors blew out taking with them a chunk of the tail.  It cut all control cables to the tail. So I am pulling and pulling and pulling and my nose is going down further and further. And we are going faster and faster and faster. And I cannot figure this out.  Bud Traynor managed to stabilize the plane and turn it back toward Vietnam. After that his only option was a crash landing. The impact was fierce.  I ended up sailing all the way down the troop compartment aisle banging into the seats and could feel the bones in my foot breaking and crashed into all the you know the edges of the seat and those kinds of things as I went from one end of the troop compartment to the other.  That is when I said you know goodbye to my wife. And I thought I was gone then.  I remember thinking this plane is crashing and I am going to live through it and I have to figure out how to take care of everybody once we finally come to a complete stop.  We came to a stop and I thought to myself I am live. And so I undid my lap belt fell to the ceiling rolled open the side window and stepped out and saw the wings burning. And I thought oh no that is the rest of the airplane.  The plane went down in a rice patty just a couple miles from Saigon. But the aircraft had split apart. The cargo compartment carrying children civilians and crew members was crushed. But the troop compartment was largely intact. Regina Aune did not have time to think about her injuries. She and the other crew members who survived started carrying the children off what was left of the plane. Help did come quickly - helicopters to evacuate the survivors.  One hundred and seventy-six lived and 138 died. So we are on the plus side of luck there. But unfortunately those people who were downstairs did not have much of a chance.  Bud Traynor and Regina Aune were honored by the military for their actions that day. They both stayed in the Air Force built careers and families. Still each felt pulled back to April 4 1975 craving some kind of connection to the other survivors.  There was no mechanism for anybody to find me let alone me find them. The kids had a name when they left and then they got a new name when they went to their adoptive families. So there was no tracking for me.  I read everything I could possibly read and tried to find everything I could possibly find that mentioned Operation Babylift or even the C-5 crash. I always wondered what happened to all the children and you know how their lives were progressing. But I had no real way of finding them.  My name is Aryn Lockhart and I was born in Vinh Long Vietnam and raised primarily in northern Virginia.  Aryn Lockhart as you may have guessed was one of the children on that plane at least that is what she believes. It is impossible to prove because there was no passenger manifest. From an early age her adoptive parents told her as much as they knew about where she came from and her presence on that flight. But those conversations only triggered more questions. Lockhart combed through all kinds of documents and news articles and eventually...  I was able to find an article about Regina Aune.  Regina Aune who at that point was stationed in Charleston S.C. More than 20 years after that plane crash her phone rang. It was a woman named Aryn Lockhart.  And then she told me who she was and it was just overwhelming. I was just speechless. And I remember thinking I must have held Aryn in my arms because every single one of those babies that was upstairs I had held in my arms for just a fleeting minute. But if Aryn was upstairs then I held her. And now she is talking to me as an adult. It is hard to explain how overwhelming that was for me.  Bud Traynor was looking to make his own connections. With social media he saw his chance. He started a Facebook group for survivors of the C-5 crash. It was not long before more than 200 survivors and family members had joined the group and organized a reunion.  Those were actually people on my plane. And so I get to meet them all grown-up and they have got kids of their own the same age. And so there is a great feeling of camaraderie I guess an extended family of sorts.  Regina Aune and Aryn Lockhart have been to those reunions too. For Aryn it is helped her fill in the blank spaces of her own past.  Most people take for granted how their past sort of fit together. And this is just their past and this is their information and it is all very clear. When you have nothing but holes and gray and uncertainty about your history it is a challenge.  Regina Aune did not just fill in the gaps of that one day in 1975 for Aryn Lockhart. Their lives became intertwined after that very first phone call. They even traveled together to Vietnam and returned to the crash site. Regina Aune says Aryn Lockhart has become part of her family.  It is hard to imagine that she was not in my life at some point because she is so much a part of it now.  Reconnecting with her and other survivors at reunion events has helped Regina move past some of the trauma of that day.  When I listen to them talk about their stories - and believe me they are not all Cinderella stories - what I sensed was their gratitude their gratefulness for being alive and for being given the opportunities they were given. And so that helped temper some of that sadness and sorrow and grief. So I look at it - I do not want to say in a more positive way but in a way in which I can see that those who died in the crash did not die in vain. Let us put it that way. That out of it came new life maybe not the way we wanted it to maybe not the way we thought it should have but hope. Hope came out of that. But I do not want to forget what the cost was.  That was Col. Regina Aune Aryn Lockhart and Col. Bud Traynor reflecting on Operation Babylift 40 years ago. We have got photos of that crash on our website. I am clicking through them now. They are pretty amazing. You can see the photos at npr.org. 