 In one Alaskan fishing village crime has become a laughing matter. It is not so much the small town crimes but how they are written about. The Unalaska crime report is full of animal aggression and intimate encounters gone awry in the Aleutian Islands. Alexandra Gutierrez from member station KUCB introduces us to Alaska's most poetic police sergeant.  When Sergeant Jennifer Shockley heads out on patrol each day she is got the police blotter on her mind. Her goal is to paint a detailed picture of the town's often ridiculous crimes.  I can only imagine that somebody who is never been here would think that this is some kind of Twilight Zone town where every form of human oddity and absurdity exists all at once exacerbated by alcohol.  Twilight Zone is an understatement. Since Shockley first started compiling the blotter six years ago she is written about vampire attacks herds of feral horses chasing down cyclists and ravenous prowlers who steal boxes of handkerchiefs only to be discovered by the trail of blood and pizza they left behind. The crime that happens in Unalaska also known as Dutch Harbor is innocuous for the most part. That gives Shockley some creative license. Take this item for example.  Domestic disturbance. A grown man asked an officer to tell his grown dipsomaniac son to go beddy-bye. The officer helped the drunk to bed but declined the request to feed the family cat on his way out.  Or this one about a routine animal complaint.  Petite piles of poo prompted protest to police.  While most blotters are dry retellings of a police department's calls hers are so outrageous that they even make her laugh. She strews her write-ups with words like ruffian sternutation belligerent and loud. And her storytelling ability has earned her a wide following. James Mason the editor of the Dutch Harbor Telegraph and regular publisher of the blotter says that Shockley has readers across Europe and South America according to Google Analytics. He describes Shockley's entries as little soap operas and says that they are far and away his most anticipated feature.  My hits on Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday are the highest of the week and that is because of the blotter.  For her part Shockley enjoys the positive feedback and gets a kick out of being able to mix a little bit of wordplay in what would otherwise be a dull part of her job. As far as she is concerned any minor incident is a poem waiting to happen.  I am still searching for the perfect palindrome. I have not found it yet and I think it is going to be really really difficult to do but I would love to have an entry that is a perfect palindrome.  And Shockley thinks that one day she will find a situation out there just waiting to be turned into a limerick. For NPR News I am Alexandra Gutierrez in Unalaska.  You can enjoy some highlights from Sgt. Shockley's reports on our website NPR.org.   This is NPR News. 