 Berlin's nightclubs have typically brought in around 1.6 billion a year for the city. The pandemic is pushing dozens of clubs towards bankruptcy but the clubs may have a solution. As NPR's Rob Schmitz reports they are now bringing the clubbing to you.   Wearing a black baseball cap black shirt and black pants DJ Tommy Four Seven bobs his head to the beat as his hands move over the turntables like a nimble chef juggling four scorching frying pans at once. He looks lost in his own musical world. And that is probably a good thing because Tommy Four Seven's audio gear is set up in a white-tiled room facing a window overlooking an empty Berlin street at midnight in the middle of a global pandemic.   Tommy Four Seven does not seem bothered by this. That is because he is being streamed to thousands of homes where Berlin's clubbers are doing something they likely never imagined they would resort to dancing alone at home. This is clubbing in the time of COVID-19.  If you are a DJ like me that - I kind of react from the crowd. I like to read the crowd and look into their eyes and kind of bounce and vibe off them. It is very strange just to be isolated DJing to a camera.   But for how odd it seems DJs promoters and club owners in Berlin are adjusting to the times. Each night at 7 oclock they offer the free clubbing service United We Stream. They call it the world's largest virtual club. After just two weeks the site attracted 5 million viewers from across the world and nearly half a million dollars' worth of donations. Lutz Leichsenring co-founder of Berlin's Club Commission says 30 of travelers to Berlin come for the nightlife. And COVID-19 put a stop to it all.  I think this is probably the most difficult time since World War II to be honest. Everything is shut down. There is - there are 9000 people who are directly employed in clubs - are without work right now.  That includes DJs like Tommy Four Seven who prefers to stick with his professional name.  When the news came out and I just had two months of gigs canceled it was a huge shock. And I just laid on the sofa. I could not really focus on anything creative.  But now he and other DJs are back in their booths playing their sets for virtual clubbers around the world.   Berlin clubber Lars Schott  loves United We Stream. He watches it a few times a week. He says ever since Germany restricted public gatherings he is been pretty lonely.  In Germany there is a law that it is only allowed to go out with your family. And here in Berlin the problem is 50 of all people have no family.  So he watches United We Stream with his other single friends in other cities over the video messaging platform Zoom.  I share my experience with other friends for example in Frankfurt or in Hamburg. And they have the same music on. We drink beer together and chat via Zoom.  And sometimes when the conditions are right they even dance alone in their respective empty rooms.  But dancing is only working if you are drunken. We are here in Germany. And to be honest it is not our culture to dance in front of Zoom but if after two or three hours.  And if he is had even more drinks then Lars Schott will close his eyes focus on the music and manage to put the quarantine and the loneliness out of his mind.   He will pretend he is back at his favorite crowded Berlin club with all his friends.   And he will dance as if this virus never existed. Rob Schmitz NPR News Berlin.  