 And it is time to play The Puzzle.   Joining me as always is Will Shortz. He is the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzlemaster. Good morning Will.  Good morning Korva.  So Will it is really hard for me to say - and I wish Lulu was here to break the news. But it turns out through some listener surveys that not many people enjoy The Puzzle. So WEEKEND EDITION will now fill that space with more news. Starting next week it is coming to an end.  Well of course you told me beforehand. I wish I could convince you otherwise. But it is been a good 31 years.  I can tell you as NPR's regular morning drive time newscaster I can vouch for the relentless news cycle. We apologize to our Sunday Puzzle fans that this was so sudden. But let us end it with just one last challenge OK? So Will can you repeat last week's challenge for us please?  I said name a small but well-known U.S. city followed by its two-letter state postal abbreviation. And I said this string of letters reading from left to right spells two consecutive words that name distinctive characteristics of bunnies. What city is it? Well the city is Hope Ark. And you do that string. It is hop and ear.  We got over 650 correct responses. And our randomly selected winner is David Marx of Wexford Pa. Hi David. Congratulations.  Well thank you Korva. Hi Will.  Hey there.  I am excited to be a part of this but kind of sad too that it is the last one. I feel honored to be the last participant in what is been a great run.  Well we are glad to have you here David.  Well thank you.  David when we called you up you told us something very exciting about your son. Can you tell us?  Oh I would be happy to. He got married to his wonderful partner Natasha . Jacob and Natasha have been together for a while. And the same day that I spoke to you all was the day they got married.  Oh congratulations.  Oh thank you.  Oh that is lovely. There is a beginning.  Exactly. Yeah yeah.  OK David. Are you ready to play The Puzzle?  I am all ready Korva. Let us go.  Let us go.  All right. David and Korva considering the occasion it seems appropriate today to bring a puzzle about endings. I am going to read you some sentences. Each sentence has two blanks. The word that goes in the first blank contains the consecutive letters E-N-D. Drop those letters. And the remaining letters in order will spell a new word that goes in the second blank to complete the sentence. For example right now dark lipstick is blank. So this is something hip people might blank. Well you would say dark lipstick is trendy. And this is something hip people might try. OK number one. It could only blank bad things when hundreds of enemy ships sailed into blank.  Portend and port.  That is correct. In a children's rhyme I intended to buy blank for a salad when I was going to St. blank.  Endives and Ives.  That is it.  Wow.  The rap singer wore several blank around his neck. And his blank were held up by a large shiny belt.  Korva? .  Well I think the end one has to be pants.  Yeah yeah. And stick end in there. What would hang around the neck that has end in it?  Pendants. Pendants. There we go. Pendants and pants.  Oh you got it. Pants is...  OK.  Pendants - yeah pants...  OK.  ...And pendants. That is it. The stylist had a hard time blank the client's minimalist aesthetic with his need to wear some blank. That is a tough one. Here it is again. The stylist had a hard time blank the client's minimalist aesthetic with his need to wear some blank. And that second blank is like fancy flashy jewelry.  Bling and blending. Blending and bling.  That is it. Nice.  Great.  And here's your last one. I did not have enough money to order a beer at the pub. So the blank said I could resort to blank.  Bartender and barter.  Good job.  David you are great.   Oh man. It is so much easier at home.   Oh wow. Congratulations. That is terrific. David for playing our Puzzle today you are going to get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games which you can also do at home. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. David what member station do you listen to?  WESA in Pittsburgh.  David Marx of Wexford Pa. thank you for playing the puzzle.  Oh thank you for having me.  OK. Will it looks like we do not have another challenge to announce for next week.  Well as just about everyone listening has probably figured out by now this was an April Fool's. The weekly Puzzle is not going anywhere.  .  And I do have a new challenge.  We better say that again because of all the angry people who - what have you done? It is April Fool's everyone. Will is not going anywhere. Good one Will. What is next week's real challenge?  Yeah. So it comes from listener Eric Iverson  of Eagan Minn. And listen carefully. Pick an even number between one and 10 that is one more than four and two more than 10. Here it is again. Pick an even number between one and 10 that is one more than four and two more than 10. What number is it?  When you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle. And click on the Submit Your Answer link. Just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is this Thursday April 5 at 3 p.m. Eastern Time. Yes there is a deadline. Yes there is a Puzzle. Include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. And if you are the winner we will give you a call. And you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION'S puzzlemaster Will Shortz. Thank you so much Will.  Thank you Korva.   