   Just beside the high beams this side of darkness. It is all still  down by the water.  That is a song called Down By the Water by a young musician named Paul Curreri. It is on his album California which comes out this month. Now Paul Curreri is married to Devon Sproule. She is a musician too. And as it happens her new album also just came out.    Good to get out of the house. It is good to get out of the house. It feels so good.  That is a song called Good to Get Out on Devon Sproule's album Do not Hurry For Heaven. We visited the husband and wife musicians in Charlottesville Virginia where they make their home. It is also where they met when Devon was 18 years old and playing a show in town.  And I was playing my last song and it was a Johnny Cash tune and all of a sudden there was this dude on stage with me. It was kind of a high stage. You know he had to climb onto it.  I had not quite moved yet to Charlottesville and was working a catering gig that night and some people asked if I wanted to go hear Devin Sproule. And so I had investigated in the papers who was on the music scene and I saw that she was only like 18 and I said I do not want to go hear that. She is 18 years old that is her whole bag I bet.  my goodness you are kind of cute. And then the next thing I thought was hey I know that song. I do not know something propelled me onto that stage and I think it was more than whiskey.  And since then I have seen him propel himself onto many other stages with many other total strangers. So although I think it is a very romantic way to meet I know that he just happens to be that kind of dude also.  Well you both have new albums and they are being released pretty much within weeks of one another. Is this coincidence or serendipity?  It is coincidence and it is almost an unfortunate one. Devon and I have been married about five years and somehow have always just managed to not be broke at the same time. And nothing can make you broke like releasing an album. The money does come back in but that first bit so having to do it at the same exact time has not been absolutely ideal. But what can you do?  Right. Well we want to hear you play a little bit from your respective CDs and Devon I would like to start with you. You are actually going to play the title tune. Is it I Do not Hurry for Heaven or Do not Hurry for Heaven?  It is Do not Hurry for Heaven and it will kind of explain itself a little bit what that...  It is more of a command than a confession.   All right. We will hear it. This is Devon Sproule playing Do not Hurry for Heaven from her latest CD of the same name.   Tell it on the mountain. Tell it 'cross the sea. Tell them all you are coming home to me.  Your husband Paul is sitting next to you he is also a musician and I cannot help but notice the man has a Martin guitar.   Is there something autobiographical being written there?  Well let us just say that we do not - we are not always sitting next to each other when we play and certainly not when we write although you know aspects of our life are very - you know maybe inspire...  I was not offended.  No no not at all. I am - he is the much more prolific one. So I finish a song and he is happy for me no matter no matter what is on it.  No matter if it is chastising me or not.  Paul before you sing the title track to your new CD California this was a long hard road to this album with you. You could not sing for a while. What happened?  But it was like one of the best years of my life this past year with the exception of that one single enormous compromise. There was like hardly any other compromises in my daily life. I rode the motorcycle through the mountains a whole lot and produced some records for other people including Devon.  Well this is Paul Curreri with the title tune from his new album and it is called California.   To burn that bridge man and bet that farm there is a risk of loss when one wants this heart. To drift among all the untied knots to get your passport stamped where your heroes got caught out in California California California California.  That is Paul Curreri playing California the title tune from his new CD. Paul that tune you know you were talking about California in a way that is sort of - be careful what you wish for kind of mode. It is not the place you think it is.  Well maybe it is and maybe it is not but I do not want to investigate and see that it is not.  Who wants to go out to California and go broke trying to live by the beach? And we do like it here a lot you know.  Have you ever considered performing together? I mean I do not know calling yourself Sprouleri or...  I think it would be Curroule because it has to start with mine.   Now I can see why you would not form a bad.  We have done like a duet concert in our hometown every year for Valentine's Day pretty low-pressure you know thing for our families and friends. Because we both like our own music and our own songs and we like working on it by ourselves and all this stuff and we like touring by ourselves I think the only way we would do that is if somebody was like listen I am going to record you know you guys playing together and then I am going to promote it as like these two artists coming together and blah blah blah and we are going to make money I would be like Oh okay.  I think that'ill happen eventually one day.  Thank you so much for inviting us to your home to listen to you play for us.  Thank you Liane.  It was such a pleasure.  You are going to play something together for us and this is not on either one of your two albums but it is a chance for us to hear you both. Devon Sproule and Paul Curreri with I Want to Die in My Shoes.   Lord over to the great beyond. I am a half a man and I am half...  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. Happy Easter. I am Liane Hansen. 