 And on this Easter morning a Catholic Church outside Boston may be holding its final Easter mass. Nearly 10 years ago the Cardinal Sean O'Malley the archbishop of Boston told St. Frances Cabrini Catholic Church that it had to close its doors along with dozens of others in the area. At the time Boston was in the throes of the clergy sex-abuse crisis which resulted in a nearly 85 million settlement to some 550 people who said they would been abused by priests in the archdiocese. Parishioners at this church say it is being sold to help defray the cost of that settlement. The Archdiocese cites other things - falling attendance shifting demographics lack of priests and the deterioration of the buildings. I visited St. Frances Cabrini in Scituate Mass. about seven years ago. Parishioners were taking turns sleeping on the church floor in a 24-hour vigil to keep it open. There were no priests so they were holding services themselves. And that is how is it has been for years. I spoke with longtime parishioner Jon Rogers again yesterday and he told me St. Frances is now waiting for the Vatican to render a final decision on his church's future.  We are anticipating a May ruling from the Vatican's highest court. After 10 years it would be nice to basically get a resolve to this. Because we are not going to leave our church the one that we bought paid for and today work hard to maintain I think we find ourselves in a situation where the Archdiocese of Boston will have no other recourse but to come and sit down in front of us face-to-face and hammer out a resolve for this. And that is what we have been praying for from day one.  What is the importance of this building though? Because a religious community a spiritual community I think there is even Scripture that says when there are just a  few people gathered together in prayer that that is enough that there does not need to be a specific structure to hold that kind of sanctimony.  You know I could not agree with you more. But literally the facts remain that it was the people of this parish that donated the land. It was the people of this parish that came up with the funding to construct this. It was people of this parish that actually helped work on this church. And yeah I understand the Scriptures I truly do. But this is our spiritual home. It sits in the center of our community. And it is the gathering point from which we all take strength.  Can you tell us what Easter service is going to be like at your church?  It - well it is the most exciting service of the year and this will be a packed house. And it is our way to show the world that we are still a Christian community and will remain so as long as we stay together. But this is the day that the whole parish gathers as a group followed by an Easter egg hunt which is you know it is a blast. The kids have a blast and just everybody dressed up and it really is the most exciting of all the services throughout the year.  Jon Rogers. He is a parishioner of St. Frances Cabrini Catholic Church in Scituate Mass. Thanks so much for talking with us John. Happy Easter.  Happy Easter to you. 