 One year ago tonight rescuers found the remains of four coal miners in Massey Energy's Upper Big Branch Mine in West Virginia. The bodies of 25 others had been found earlier that week. All were killed by a massive explosion that has yet to be fully explained. NPR's Howard Berkes has spent much of the last year focused on this disaster - reports on some of the big questions that remain.  It is still hard to fathom 29 dead in a coal mine explosion in 2010. Here's Kevin Stricklin of the Mine Safety and Health Administration. Mr.  I have been in MSHA for 31 years and I have never seen 29 fatalities. This takes us back to the '60s or '70s this explosion.  It actually goes back to 1907 says Mark Moreland whose law firm represents the interests of coal miners in the Upper Big Branch investigation and victims' families suing Massey Energy. Mr.  If you look at what happened in this mine and what happened at Monongah the difference is a period of 100 years and the fact that we do not use mules in coal mining anymore. The extent of coal dust here is like it was a hundred years ago.  Coal dust is highly explosive and turns small ignitions of methane gas into massive firestorms. And that is what happened at Upper Big Branch according to the Mine Safety and Health Administration. Now vigorous airflow and sprayed water normally suppress such ignitions says Davitt McAteer a former federal mine safety chief conducting an independent investigation at Upper Big Branch. Mr.  If the systems were put in place you would have limited the explosion to a single area and you would have limited its spread. The fact that it spread through the mine says to you that the systems did not work.  Massey Energy has a different explanation that does not include failed safety systems or coal dust. The company calls this a natural disaster fueled by an unexpected infusion of natural gas. Here's how McAteer responds. Mr.  It is not our conclusion that it was a natural disaster - in my understanding of that term - but was a disaster which was preventable and which had human causes.  McAteer says he will elaborate in his final report which could be out in a matter of weeks. He had the same response to another lingering question Did Massey Energy put production over safety? Yes says Judy Jones Petersen whose brother Dean was a Massey foreman when he died at Upper Big Branch Ms.  There was an incidence in which my brother had his section shut down by one of the federal MSHA people. And as soon as that federal investigator left there was a call to my brother saying Put it in the coal Deano get the production going again.  Massey Energy production documents obtained by NPR closely track every foot of coal mined and every minute of time lost every hour of every shift -every day. And every two hours production reports went to former CEO Don Blankenship according to his own deposition in 2008. Blankenship wrote mine superintendents three years earlier that they need to ignore anything other than running coal. He then wrote another memo saying safety is first but some say the expectations were clear. Mr.  It makes you want to go nonstop you know what I mean? You cannot slow down. It is like you are always rushing things.  Ricky Lee Campbell hauled coal in buggies in two Massey mines including Upper Big Branch. He has a whistleblower case pending against the company. The pressure to produce was constant Campbell says and there were days every second of work was timed by a guy with a stopwatch. Workers did not have time to hang special ventilation curtains which help sweep away explosive methane gas and coal dust. Mr.  'ecause that takes up that one minute. That is another minute of you getting two buggies. So you can hang that curtain or get two extra loads or three extra loads. They want them loads.  We asked former CEO Don Blankenship about this last fall before he suddenly retired. Mr.  I do not think that timing your productive processes means that you are putting pressure on people to be unsafe 'ecause actually you are also timing how long it is taking them to do it safely. And that observation by that time-study guy if you will will include comments about things that he sees that are unsafe.  Blankenship also rejected the notion that his laser focus on productivity subverted attention to safety. Mr.  I am as involved in the level of detail that you described on productivity also in safety.  But in the months before the explosion federal mine inspectors forced more safety shutdowns at Upper Big Branch than at any other mine in the country. Yet even the regulators missed the multiple systems failures McAteer describes. Here's Assistant Labor Secretary Joe Main. Assistant Secretary  There is fundamental problems that we have got in this industry that are more serious than all of us have been taking them.  Main launched a federal crackdown on problem mines which raises this question What is the likelihood of another major disaster somewhere else? Mr.  On April 4th of last year I would say there is probably very little chance of something occurring. And after April 5th it humbled me a lot.  Kevin Stricklin of the Mine Safety and Health Administration. Mr.  I would like to think that we will not have another Upper Big Branch. But if the company's not on their guard the miners are not on their guard and MSHA's not on their guard a disaster is always a possibility if you do not take care of business every minute of every day.  The federal mine safety agency says its preliminary report on the cause of the Upper Big Branch disaster will be ready at the end of June. Howard Berkes NPR News Charleston West Virginia. 