 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Lourdes Garcia-Navarro. Scott Simon is away this week. Hopes for a resolution to the month-long conflict between Israel and Hamas are evaporating. A cease-fire ended yesterday. Since then Hamas has fired dozens of rockets into Israel which has responded with airstrikes. At least 10 people have been killed in Gaza since fighting resumed - one a 10-year-old boy. NPR's Alice Fordham reports that people who had gone home are now fleeing back to U.N. shelters.  The courtyard of this UNRWA school is full of activity kids running around. There is a woman washing dishes resting her pot on a desk. There is a baby swinging on a swing in a classroom. There is laundry hanging everywhere. But people here are saying that a couple days ago when the cease-fire was underway this place was empty.  .  But everyone came back says Mahmoud al Masharawi who is here in the Gaza Preparatory School B with more than 40 members of his extended family. When the cease-fire began Tuesday they walked back to their damaged houses an hour and a half away found shelter and began searching the rubble for photos of a brother they would lost in the month-long conflict here. But as peace talks in Cairo fell apart and Hamas vowed to resume fighting they walked right back. I ask how safe it is here.  .  Masharawi says after the Israelis hit schools in the areas of Beit Hanoun in the north of Gaza and Rafah City in the south he does not feel safe anywhere here.  .  As he speaks the boom of a distant airstrike - it is safer here he says. Israel says it targets only Hamas operatives and infrastructure and that the militants deliberately fire missiles from civilian buildings. As children kick a ball outside I meet the U.N. worker running the school while it serves as a shelter.  .  He asks to be known only as Abu Jalal because he is not officially allowed to talk to media.  .  He says people have brought back supplies from their houses - mattresses clothes. They expect to stay a while. The Israeli delegation has left the negotiations in Egypt for now although the Palestinian delegation says it is still talking to the Egyptian mediators. But no one seems to be in a hurry. U.N. figures suggest that of 10000 Gazans who left their shelters under the cease-fire most have now come back. I walk around the rest of the school past children boiling water on a makeshift fire in an old tin can and meet Nada Nassar a pretty woman in a dark red headscarf. She is 45 with eight children to worry about and an 80-year-old mother who sits at her feet wearing the only dress she has left.  .  Nada did not go home when last week's three-day cease-fire began. I had to drag my mother into a taxi to get her here she says. I am not going to do it again so we are going to wait.  .  I am waiting for a final agreement she says. When there is an agreement I will go back to my place - but just for a cease-fire? No. Alice Fordham. NPR News Gaza. 